VILLAGE CODE
OF
SAN JOSE, ILLINOIS
Code current through:
Ord. 23-004, passed 7-17-2023
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
         This code of the Village of San Jose, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 23-004, passed July 17, 2023.
Ordinances of the Village adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions
of this code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith.
Consult the Village office in order to ascertain whether any particular
provision of the code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
Ordinance 16-502
An Ordinance Adopting the San Jose, IL County of Mason and Logan, Illinois
Village Code
BE IT ORDAINED by the president and board of trustees of the village of San
Jose, county of Mason and Logan, Illinois, as follows:
   Section 1: From and after the date of passage of this ordinance, the village
code of the village of San Jose, county Mason and Logan, Illinois prepared by
Sterling Codifiers, containing the compilation of all ordinances of a general
nature together with the changes made to said ordinances, under the direction
of the governing body of the village, shall be accepted in all courts without
question as the official code and law of the village as enacted by the
president and board of trustees.
   Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the official village code is identified by the proper catchline and is
inserted in the proper place in each of the official copies, one copy of which
shall be maintained in the office of the village clerk, certified as to
correctness and available for inspection at any and all times that said office
is regularly open.
   Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this official
village code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision
and the fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the
governing body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous
effectiveness of ordinances included in said official village code. All
ordinances of a special nature, such as tax levy ordinances, franchises,
vacating ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in full force and
effect unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of the village
code. Such ordinances are not intended to be included in the official village
code.
   Section 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the village to be
misrepresented thereby.
   Section 5: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 6: This ordinance and the code adopted by the same shall be recorded
and shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage, approval and
publication in pamphlet form as provided by law.
PASSED this 18th day of April, 2016
APPROVED this 18th day of April, 2016
      President
ATTEST:
   Village Clerk
Roll Call Vote:
AYES:      
NAYS:      
ABSENT:   
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
SAN JOSE VILLAGE CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the village board of trustees, this code is hereby declared to
be and shall hereafter constitute the official village code of San Jose. This
code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the SAN JOSE VILLAGE CODE and is
hereby published by authority of the board of trustees and shall be
supplemented to incorporate the most recent legislation of the village as
provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title headings, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this code by title in any legal documents. (1982 Code §
1-1-1)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of the
state as the ordinances of the village of general and permanent effect, except
the excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (1982 Code §
1-1-2)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
numbers of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifier, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this code.
(1982 Code §
1-1-3)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
village board. The village clerk shall see that the replacement pages are
properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the clerk.
Any person having in his custody an official copy of this code shall make every
effort to maintain said code in an up to date and efficient manner. He shall
see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such are
delivered to him or made available to him through the office of the village
clerk. Said code books, while in actual possession of officials and other
interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the village and shall
be returned to the office of the clerk when directed so to do by order of the
village board. (1982 Code §
1-1-4)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Court Proceedings
1-2-3: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the village passed prior to the adoption of this code
are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed:
   A.   Tax levy ordinances;
   B.   Appropriation ordinances;
   C.   Ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations;
   D.   Franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to
persons or corporations;
   E.   Contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants;
   F.   Salary ordinances;
   G.   Ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other
public places;
   H.   Improvement ordinances;
   I.   Bond ordinances;
   J.   Ordinances relating to elections;
   K.   Ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or
from the village; and
   L.   All special ordinances. (1982 Code §
1-2-1)
1-2-2: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable, if any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Current Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the village herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provision; nor shall this chapter be deemed
as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to
accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as
waiving any right of the village under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this code. (1982 Code §
1-2-3)
1-2-3: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this code,
or any codes or portions of codes adopted herein by reference, is for any
reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or
effectiveness of the remaining portions of this code, or any codes or portions
of codes adopted herein by reference. The village board hereby declares that it
would have passed each section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause or
phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared
unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (1982 Code § 1-2-4; amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS; INTERPRETATION
SECTION:
1-3-1: General Rules Of Interpretation
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: GENERAL RULES OF INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the village president and board of trustees may
be fully carried out.
   B.   Minimum Requirements: In the interpretation and application of any
provision of this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirement adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
   C.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other village officer to do some act or perform
some duty, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department or
other officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
   D.   Gender: The use of any gender based pronoun should not be construed to
be gender biased, but is only used for grammatical simplicity.
   E.   May; Shall: The word "may" is permissive; the word "shall" is
mandatory.
   F.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
   G.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
   H.   Officers And Employees Generally: Whenever any officer or employee is
referred to by title only, such reference shall be construed as if followed by
the words "of the village of San Jose".
   I.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
   J.   Ordinance: The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the
village has been changed in the content of this code to "title", "chapter",
"section" and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to village ordinances is not meant to
amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2016 Code)
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
the meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
BOARD OR BOARD OF TRUSTEES: Unless otherwise indicated, the village board of
trustees of the village of San Jose.
CODE: This code of the village of San Jose.
COUNTY/COUNTIES: The county/counties of Mason and/or Logan, state of Illinois.
FEE: A sum of money charged for the carrying on of a business, profession or
occupation.
IN THE VILLAGE OR WITHIN THE VILLAGE: All territory over which the village now
has or shall hereafter acquire jurisdiction for the exercise of its police
powers or other regulatory powers.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MAYOR: The duly elected president of the board of trustees of the village of
San Jose.
MUNICIPAL AND FISCAL YEAR: The municipal year and the fiscal year of the
village shall commence on May 1 of each year and end on April 30 of the
following year.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the village, or any activity which, by its perpetuation, can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code, or the omission of
any act required by the provisions of this code.
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, and joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part
of such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Includes every species of property except "real property" as
defined in this section.
PRECEDING; FOLLOWING: Next before or next after, respectively.
PROPERTY: Shall include real and personal property.
REAL PROPERTY: Shall include lands, tenements, and hereditaments and shall
embrace all chattels real.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
SIDEWALK: The portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral lines
of a roadway and the adjacent property lines, intended for the use of
pedestrians.
STATE: The state of Illinois.
STREET: The entire width between property lines of every way or place of
whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the use of the public, as a
matter of right, for purposes of vehicular traffic.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
VILLAGE: The village of San Jose, counties of Mason and Logan, state of
Illinois.
WHOLESALER AND WHOLESALE DEALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall
be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things
to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law on any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person or, in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark. (1982 Code § 1-3-2; amd. 2016 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (1982
Code §
1-3-3)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers And Employees
1-4-4: Procedure For Settlement Without Formal Charge
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
   A.   General Penalty Imposed:
      1.   Fine; Imprisonment: Unless specifically provided elsewhere in this
code, any person found to have been in violation of the terms and provisions of
this code shall be fined in an amount not less than two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for said any one
violation. No imprisonment for failure to pay such fine, penalty of cost shall
exceed six (6) months for each offense. Each day that such violation continues
or exists after the expiration of the specified notice period shall be deemed
to be a separate offense. The penalty for a second or subsequent offense
committed within a twelve (12) month period beginning on the date of the first
offense shall follow the penalty schedule listed below:
1st and 2nd offense - $250.00.
3rd, 4th and 5th offense - $500.00.
6th offense and over - $750.00.
This General Penalty applies to the following penalties in the Code Book of the
Village of San Jose:
5-2B-7 
5-3-2C 
5-3A-7 
5-4-3L 1
5-4-3L 3
5-4-4F
5-4A-1C
5-4A-2D
5-4A-3 
5-5-3 
5-5B-11 B1
5-5D-2B
5-6-1 D4
6-1-7 
6-2-4D
6-4-16C
6-4-19C
6-4-20C
6-4-21C
6-5-6B
6-5-7F
6-5-12 
6-5-14C
6-7-7 B3
6-9-12 
6-10-11 
7-1-4 
7-2-8 
7-3-4 
8-1-11 
8-2-8C
9-1-8 
9-2-8 
9-3-7 
9-4-8B
10-1-5A
10-4A-6
      2.   Additional Penalties: In addition to the fine described in
subsection A1 of this section, the circuit court may impose a period of
"conditional discharge", as defined in 730 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-1-4,
or "court supervision", as defined in 730 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-1-21,
for a period of up to six (6) months, an order of restitution, an order to
perform community service, an order to complete an education program and/or any
other appropriate penalties or conditions authorized in any section of this
code or stand alone ordinance or any conditions for conditional discharge set
forth in 730 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-6-3 or for court supervision in 730
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-6-3.1, as the foregoing are amended from time to
time.
      3.   Costs And Fees: Any person violating the terms or provisions of this
code shall be subject, in addition to the penalties set out in this subsection
A, to the payment of court costs and reasonable attorney fees.
      4.   Default In Payment: A default in the payment of a fine or any
installment of a fine may be collected by any means authorized for the
collection of monetary judgments. The village attorney may retain attorneys and
private collection agents for the purpose of collecting any default in payment
of any fine or installment of that fine. Any fees or costs incurred by the
village with respect to attorneys or private collection agents retained by the
village attorney under this subsection A4 shall be charged to the offender.
   B.   Acts Consistent With Criminal Laws Of State: If, by the terms of this
code or any ordinance, an act that would be consistent with the criminal laws
of the state, is declared to be a misdemeanor, the penalty therefor shall be
for a period of incarceration in a penal institution other than a penitentiary
not to exceed six (6) months, and the matter shall be prosecuted under the
rules of criminal procedure of the state, and the village shall be required to
establish guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. This subsection shall not apply to
village code provisions adopted pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-
5-1, 5/11-5-2, 5/11-5-3, 5/11-5-4, 5/11-5-5, 5/11-5-6, 5/11-40-1, 5/11-40-2, 5/
11-40-2a, 5/11-40-3, 5/11-80-9 and 5/11-80-16.
   C.   Limitation; Compliance With Statute: The provisions of subsection A of
this section notwithstanding, no penalty shall be greater than that established
by state statute for the same offense. (2016 Code; amd. Ord. 21-562, 4-19-2021,
eff. 4-29-2021)
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty: The penalty provided in this chapter shall be
applicable to every section of this code the same as though it were a part of
each and every separate section unless otherwise indicated. Any person
convicted of a violation of any section of this code where a duty is prescribed
or obligation imposed, or where any action which is of a continuing nature is
forbidden or is declared to be unlawful, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day such
duty or obligation remains unperformed or such act continues, unless otherwise
specifically provided in this code.
   B.   Acts Punishable Under Different Sections: In all cases where the same
offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of
this code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not
more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the same
offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be
considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code and
there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply. (1982 Code § 1-4-2)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intent of
the village board of trustees to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or
employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the
duty. (1982 Code § 1-4-3)
1-4-4: PROCEDURE FOR SETTLEMENT WITHOUT FORMAL CHARGE:
   A.   A village police officer or the village attorney may, in his or her
discretion, refrain from filing formal charges of any ordinance violation under
the village ordinances or this code against a defendant under the following
circumstances:
      1.   The defendant has not been convicted of or settled without formal
charge a similar offense under the village ordinances or this code within one
year of the alleged offense; and (Ord. 413, 12-18-2006, eff. 1-2-2007; amd.
2016 Code)
      2.   The offense involved is not a traffic offense which would be
reportable to the secretary of state in the event of conviction and any other
offense that would be reportable to the state of Illinois or the federal
government; and
      3.   The offense involved is not related to a controlled substance; and
      4.   The only possible disposition or remedy for the alleged offense is a
fine.
      5.   The time for a defendant to take advantage of the alternative
disposition under this chapter has not expired. (Ord. 413, 12-18-2006, eff. 1-
2-2007)
   B.   The police officer or the village attorney may, in lieu of issuing and
filing a formal charge of a village ordinance violation or a violation of this
code, issue a notice to the potential defendant on a form approved by the chief
of police and the village attorney, that in lieu of prosecution, the potential
defendant may pay an amount to the village clerk in compromise and settlement
of the potential charge, which is equal to the minimum fine which could be
imposed if a charge were filed under the section of the village ordinance or
this code alleged to be in violation, and a conviction obtained under such
section. The compromise amount equal to the minimum fine shall be paid within
fifteen (15) days of the date of the notice of the availability of the
alternative disposition or, alternatively, a compromise amount equal to one
hundred fifty percent (150%) of the minimum fine which could be imposed if a
charge were filed under the section of the village ordinance or this code
alleged to be in violation, and a conviction obtained under the ordinance or
this code, may be paid within sixteen (16) to thirty (30) days of the date of
the notice of the availability of the alternative disposition. (Ord. 413, 12-
18-2006, eff. 1-2-2007; amd. 2016 Code)
   C.   Payment shall be by money order or cashier's check. The payment shall
be considered to have been received on the postmark date in the event the
payment is mailed or the date the payment called for under this section is hand
delivered to the village clerk or such person acting in the clerk's place.
   D.   All such amounts paid in lieu of formal prosecution and in settlement
and compromise of the alleged offense shall be paid to the village of San Jose
at the office of the village clerk, and amounts received by the clerk shall be
deposited with the village treasurer. The village clerk shall furnish a receipt
to the defendant, and keep a record of all such amounts paid in settlement and
compromise of alleged violations. (Ord. 413, 12-18-2006, eff. 1-2-2007)
   E.   The police officer or the village attorney may issue a formal charge of
an ordinance violation or a violation of this code and require appearance of
the defendant in court if a defendant does not settle and compromise the
alleged violation within thirty (30) days of the date of the notice. (Ord. 413,
12-18-2006, eff. 1-2-2007; amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 5
VILLAGE PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES
SECTION:
1-5-1: Village President
1-5-2: Qualifications Of Trustees
1-5-3: Judges Of Election And Qualifications Of Board Members
1-5-4: Meetings
1-5-5: Quorum; Compel Attendance Of Absentees
1-5-6: Rules And Order Of Business
1-5-7: Committees
1-5-8: Ordinances
1-5-1: VILLAGE PRESIDENT:
   A.   Qualifications; Term; Vacancy: The chief executive of the village shall
be the president of the board of trustees, who shall be a citizen of the United
States, a qualified elector, reside within the village limits, and hold his
office for a term of four (4) years, and until his successor is elected and
qualified. Whenever a vacancy shall occur in the office of the president, when
the unexpired term shall be one year or over from the date when the vacancy
occurs, it shall be filled by election. If the vacancy is less than one year,
the board of trustees shall elect one of its members to act as president, who
shall possess all the powers and rights of the president until the next annual
election, and until his successor is elected and qualified. If the president of
the board shall at any time during his term of office remove from the village
limits, his office shall thereby become vacant.
   B.   Presiding Officer; Voting: The village president shall preside at all
meetings of the board of trustees. The president shall not vote on any
ordinance, resolution, or motion except the following: 1) where the vote of the
trustees has resulted in a tie; 2) where one-half (1/2) of the trustees elected
have voted in favor of an ordinance, resolution, or motion even though there is
no tie vote; or 3) where a vote greater than a majority of the board of
trustees is required by this code or an ordinance to adopt an ordinance,
resolution, or motion. Nothing in this subsection shall deprive an acting
president or president pro tempore from voting in the capacity as trustee, but
he or she shall not be entitled to another vote in the capacity as acting
president or president pro tempore.
   C.   Powers And Duties:
      1.   The village president may exercise, within the village limits, the
powers conferred upon sheriffs to suppress disorder and keep peace. He shall
perform all such duties as are or may be prescribed by law or village ordinance
and shall take care that the laws and ordinances are faithfully executed.
      2.   The president shall have the power at all times to examine and
inspect the books and records and papers of any agent, employee or officer of
the village.
      3.   The president shall have power, when necessary to call on every
inhabitant of the village over the age of eighteen (18) years to aid in
enforcing the laws and ordinances.
   D.   President Pro Tempore: During the temporary absence or disability of
the president, the board of trustees shall elect one of its members to act as
president pro tempore who, during the absence or disability aforesaid, shall
possess the powers of the president but shall not be entitled to vote both as
president pro tempore and as trustee. (Ord. 277, 1988; amd. 2016 Code)
1-5-2: QUALIFICATIONS OF TRUSTEES:
No person shall be eligible to nor permitted to hold the office of trustee
unless he shall be a qualified elector and has resided in the village at least
one year next preceding the election; nor shall he be eligible if he is in
arrears in the payment of any tax or other liability due the village; nor shall
he be directly or indirectly interested in any contract whatever to which the
village is a party; nor shall he be eligible if he shall have been convicted in
any court in the United States of any infamous crime, bribery, perjury or other
felony; nor shall he be eligible to any office, the salary of which is payable
out of the village treasury, if, at the time of his appointment, he shall be a
member of the board of trustees; nor shall any member of the board of trustees
at the same time hold any other office under the village government; nor shall
he be directly or indirectly, individually or as a member of a firm, engaged in
any business transaction, other than official, with the village, through its
president or authorized committees, boards, agents or attorneys, whereby any
money is to be paid, directly or indirectly, out of the village treasury to
such members or firms. (Ord. 277, 1988; amd. 2016 Code)
1-5-3: JUDGES OF ELECTION AND QUALIFICATIONS OF BOARD MEMBERS:
The president and board of trustees shall be the judges of the election and
qualification of their own members. (Ord. 277, 1988)
1-5-4: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings:
      1.   The president and board of trustees shall hold a regular monthly
meeting on the third Monday in each month in the public room to be used
regularly for that purpose. They shall keep a journal of their proceedings.
      2.   The board of trustees shall sit with open doors. The yeas and nays
shall be taken upon the passage of all ordinances, and all propositions to
create any liability against the village, or for the expenditure or
appropriation of its funds, and in all cases at the request of any member,
which shall be entered upon the journal of their proceedings; and the
concurrence of a majority of all the members elected in the village board shall
be necessary to the passage of any such ordinance or proposition. It shall
require a three-fourths (3/4) vote of the board of trustees to sell any village
property or to pass any ordinance therefor, or to vacate or close any street or
alley or portion thereof.
   B.   Special Meetings: The president or any three (3) trustees may call a
special meeting of the village board. No vote of the board of trustees shall be
reconsidered at a special meeting unless there are present as large a number of
trustees as were present when such vote was taken; and any report of a
committee of the board of trustees shall be deferred for final action thereon,
to the next regular meeting of the board, when a request for such deferment is
made by any two (2) trustees present. (Ord. 277, 1988)
1-5-5: QUORUM; COMPEL ATTENDANCE OF ABSENTEES:
A majority of trustees elected shall constitute a quorum to do business, but a
smaller number may adjourn from time to time and compel absentees to attend any
regular or special meeting or adjourned meeting by a written citation to that
effect, stating the day and hour of such meeting, such citation to be signed by
the president or other officer issuing the same, and may be served by the
village chief of police or any police officer or any sheriff of Mason or Logan
County by reading the same to such absentee. Any trustee refusing to obey such
citation may be expelled, and his office declared vacant. (Ord. 277, 1988; amd.
2016 Code)
1-5-6: RULES AND ORDER OF BUSINESS:
The president and board of trustees shall determine their own rules of
proceedings, punish their members for disorderly conduct and, with the
concurrence of two-thirds (2/3) of the trustees, may vote to expel a member,
but not the second time for the same offense. Provided, that any trustee who
shall have been convicted of bribery shall be deemed to have vacated his
office. (Ord. 277, 1988)
   A.   Meetings:
      1.   Regular Meetings: The regular meetings of the village board shall be
held on the third Monday in each and every month at seven o'clock (7:00) P.M.,
unless otherwise ordered by the vote of the village board, at such place as may
be designated by the board.
      2.   Special Meetings: Special meetings may be held at any time on call
of the president or any three (3) trustees. Such call shall be in writing and
in which shall be fully stated the purpose of the meeting, and such call shall
be presented to the clerk who shall immediately proceed to prepare notices for
the same and shall cause them to be served by the village chief of police on
the members of the village board, by delivering to each member a copy of each
notice. At each special meeting, the call for the same shall be read and filed
by the clerk. Any special meeting of the board may be called at any hour other
than that therein specified for regular meetings, provided such time is
specified in the call.
   B.   President To Preside: The president shall preside at all meetings of
the board. He shall preserve order and see that these rules are observed. He
shall decide all questions of order, subject to an appeal to the village board,
on which appeal, no member shall speak more than once without the unanimous
vote of the board.
   C.   Recognition By Chair: Every member, previous to his speaking, shall
arise from his seat and address himself to the presiding officer and say, "Mr.
President", but shall not proceed with his remarks until recognized and named
by the chair; and at all times, the presiding officer shall have the right to
determine who is entitled to speak first when two (2) or more members rise at
the same time. During the session of the village board, no person, other than
the members, shall speak on any subject before the body, except by permission
of the president and the board of trustees.
   D.   Quorum And Order Of Business: At the hour appointed for the meeting,
the clerk shall proceed to call the roll of members, mark the absentees and
announce whether a quorum (being a majority of all members elected) be present.
Upon the appearance of a quorum, the board shall be called to order by the
president, if present, and the board appointing a temporary chair from one of
their body if he is absent. If a quorum does not appear, the board shall not
thereby stand adjourned unless by vote of the members present. When a quorum is
present, the board shall proceed to the business before it, which shall be
conducted in the following manner:
First: The reading of the minutes of the proceedings of the last meeting or
meetings, amendment or approval of same, unless dispensed with by the board.
Second: Reports of standing committees in the following order:
Committee on finance.
Committee on streets and alleys.
Committee on waterworks.
Committee on board of health.
Committee on public grounds.
Committee on police.
Third: Reports of select committees and village officers.
Fourth: New business.
Fifth: Unfinished business.
Sixth: Motions, resolutions and miscellaneous business.
   E.   Presenting Petitions, Ordinances, Etc.: When a member wishes to present
a communication, petition, order, resolution, ordinance or other original
matter, he shall rise in his place and briefly state its nature, before
presenting the same.
   F.   Voting On Questions: Every member who shall be present when a question
is stated from the chair shall vote thereon, unless excused by the members of
the board and the presiding officer.
   G.   Special Orders Of Business: Any matter before the board may be, by a
two-thirds (2/3) vote of the members present, set down as a special order of
business at a time certain, but not otherwise.
   H.   Debating Motions: No motion shall be put or debated unless it is
seconded. When a motion is seconded, it shall be stated by the presiding
officer before debate, and every such motion shall be reduced to writing if
required by a member, and the proposer of a motion shall be first entitled to
the floor.
   I.   Withdrawal Of Motions Or Resolutions: After a motion or resolution is
stated by the chair, it shall be deemed to be in possession of the board, and
may be withdrawn at any time before discussion, or amendment by consent of the
board.
   J.   Naming Persons Introducing Motions: In all cases when a motion or
resolution is entered upon the minutes of the board, the name of the member
moving the same or introducing such resolution or other matter shall be entered
also.
   K.   Voting: The "yeas" and "nays" shall be taken upon the passage of all
ordinances, and on all propositions to create any liability against the
village, or for expenditure of or appropriations of money, and in other cases
at the request of any member, which may be entered on the journal of its
proceedings, and the concurrence of the majority of all the members of any such
ordinance or proposition; provided, that the president shall give the casting
vote in case of a tie; and provided further, that it shall require three-
fourths (3/4) of all the trustees elected to sell any village property.
   L.   Announcing Votes: The result of all votes by yeas and nays shall not be
announced by the clerk, but shall be handed by him to the chair for
announcement, and no vote shall be changed after the tally list has passed from
the clerk.
   M.   Questions Under Debate: When a question is under debate, the only
question in order shall be:
      1.   To adjourn to a day certain.
      2.   To adjourn.
      3.   To lay on the table.
      4.   The previous question.
      5.   To refer.
      6.   To amend.
      7.   To substitute.
      8.   To postpone.
Numbers two, three and four above to be decided without debate.
   N.   Motion To Adjourn: A motion to adjourn the board shall always be in
order, except:
      1.   When a member is in possession of the floor.
      2.   When the yeas and nays are being called.
      3.   When the members are voting.
      4.   When adjournment was the last preceding motion.
      5.   When it shall be decided that the previous question shall be taken.
   O.   Motion To Adjourn Not To Be Amended: A motion to adjourn cannot be
amended, but a motion to adjourn to a time named may be and is open to debate.
   P.   Form For Previous Question: When the previous question is moved and
seconded, it shall be put in the following form: "Shall the main question be
put?" If this carries, all further amendments and all further motions and
debates shall be excluded and the question put without delay upon pending
amendments in proper order, and then upon the main question.
   Q.   Motion To Lay Not Debatable: A motion to lay a question or proposition
on the table is not debatable.
   R.   Motion To Refer To A Standing Committee Has Precedence: A motion to
refer to a standing committee shall take precedence of a similar motion for a
special committee.
   S.   Motion To Amend: A motion to amend an amendment shall be in order, but
one to amend an amendment to an amendment shall not be entertained.
   T.   Reading Amendments: An amendment to strike out and insert the paragraph
to be amended shall be first read as it stands, then the words to be stricken
out, and those to be inserted, and finally the paragraph as it will stand so
amended shall be read.
   U.   Substituting For An Original Proposition: A substitute for an original
proposition in debate may be entertained when further amendment is not
admissible, and if accepted by the mover of such original proposition of the
board by vote, it shall entirely supersede such original proposition, and cut
off all amendments appertaining thereto.
   V.   Reconsideration Of Vote Or Question: A vote or question may be
reconsidered at any time during the same meeting.
   W.   Motion To Reconsider: A motion to reconsider may be made and seconded
by members who voted in the majority, except when a motion is lost by reason of
not receiving a two-thirds (2/3) vote required for its passage; in which case,
a motion may be made and seconded by those voting in the majority.
   X.   Number Of Members Of Standing Committees: The standing committees of
the village board shall consist of three (3) members each.
   Y.   Acceptance Of Final Report: An acceptance of a final report from a
select committee may be by motion, without a roll call, unless otherwise
ordered.
   Z.   Streets And Sewers Matters: All matters relating exclusively to streets
and sewers in the village shall be referred to that committee.
   AA.   Referral Of Ordinances, Petitions, Etc.: All ordinances, resolutions,
orders, communications and petitions to the village board by unanimous consent
shall be referred to the appropriate committee to be decided by the chair, and
all ordinances shall be acted upon by the board at the same meeting on the
report of the proper committee, except upon suspension of the rules; but all
resolutions, petitions, orders and communications may be acted upon by the
committee and board at the same meeting when received or presented.
   BB.   Reports Of Committees: Standing and select committees to whom
references are made shall, in all cases, report once in each month, and such
report shall be in writing, except when, in the judgment of the committee, a
written report is not necessary.
   CC.   Suspension Of Rules: These rules may be temporarily suspended by the
vote of two-thirds (2/3) of the trustees present, but shall not be repealed,
altered or amended unless by concurrence of two-thirds (2/3) of all the
trustees elected.
   DD.   Governing Rules: The rules of parliamentary practice comprised in
Robert's parliamentary rules shall govern the board in all cases not
inconsistent with, and in all cases not provided for, in the foregoing rules.
   EE.   Conformance Of Committee Meetings: Any committee meeting or other
meeting held pursuant to this section or as defined by state statute shall
conform with and be in compliance with "an act in relation to meetings", 5
Illinois Compiled Statutes 120/1 et seq., popularly referred to as the "open
meetings act".
   FF.   Written Notice For Committee Meetings: In addition to any requirements
of the "open meetings act", all committee meetings shall only be conducted
after written notice has been given to the village clerk, village president and
all trustees, not later than forty eight (48) hours before such meeting is
scheduled. Such notice shall include a statement of the purpose of said
committee meeting, the place of the committee meeting, and the date and time of
such meeting. In most instances, it is expected that the committee meetings
will be held at the village hall. (Ord. 267, 10-21-1985; amd. Ord. 483, 8-19-
2013; 2016 Code)
1-5-7: COMMITTEES:
   A.   General Provisions:
      1.   Appointment: The village board shall appoint committee chairpersons
and committee members. These appointments should be made annually beginning and
ending with the fiscal year.
      2.   Removals: No committee chair or committee member may be removed from
any committee without stating cause, and there must be a majority vote of the
board for such removal.
   B.   Standing Committees: Standing committees of the village board shall be
appointed annually by the board, and the board shall be authorized to fill
vacancies occurring in any of said committees. (Ord. 483, 8-19-2013)
1-5-8: ORDINANCES:
   A.   Approval Or Veto By President: All ordinances passed by the board of
trustees before they take effect shall be deposited in the office of the
village clerk, and if the president of the board approves thereof, he shall
sign the same, and such as he shall not approve, he shall return to the board,
with his objections thereto in writing, at the next regular meeting of said
board occurring not less than five (5) days after the passage thereof. Such
veto may extend to any one or more of the items or appropriations contained in
any ordinance, and in case the veto extends to only a part of such ordinance,
the residue thereof shall take effect and be in force; but in case the
president shall fail to return any ordinance with his objections thereto by the
time aforesaid, he shall be deemed to have approved such ordinance, and the
same shall take effect accordingly.
   B.   Passage Over Veto: Upon the return of any ordinance by the president,
the vote by which the same was passed shall be reconsidered by the board of
trustees, and if, after such reconsideration, two-thirds (2/3) of all members
elected to said board of trustees shall agree by yeas and nays to pass the
same, it shall go into effect, notwithstanding the president of the board may
refuse to approve thereof; the vote to pass the same over the president's veto
shall be taken by yeas and nays and entered upon the journal. (Ord. 277, 1988)
CHAPTER 6
VILLAGE OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL
SECTION:
1-6-1: Elective And Appointive Officers
1-6-2: Qualifications
1-6-3: Commencement Of Terms
1-6-4: Oath Or Affirmation
1-6-5: Bond
1-6-6: Compensation
1-6-7: Duties
1-6-8: Vacancies
1-6-9: Removal Of Officers
1-6-1: ELECTIVE AND APPOINTIVE OFFICERS:
   A.   There shall be elected in the Village, a President of the Board of
Trustees and six (6) Trustees, and a Village Clerk.
   B.   The appointive officers of the Village shall be: the Village Chief of
Police, the Village Treasurer, the Village Clerk, the Village Attorney, and as
many police officers and other officers as the President and Board of Trustees
may deem necessary and expedient. (Ord. 18-521, 11-19-2018, eff. 11-29-2018;
amd. Ord. 22-572, 4-25-2022, eff. 5-5-2022)
1-6-2: QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   All Officers: A person is not eligible to take the oath of office for a
Village office if that person is, at the time required for taking the oath of
office, in arrears in the payment of a tax or other indebtedness due the
Village or has been convicted in any court located in the United States of any
infamous crime, bribery, perjury, or other felony. Likewise, a person is not
eligible to hold a Village office if that person is, at any time during the
term of office, in arrears in the payment of a tax or other indebtedness due
the Village or has been convicted in any court located in the United States of
any infamous crime, bribery, perjury, or other felony.
   B.   Elective Officers:
      1.   A person is not eligible for an elective Village office unless that
person is a qualified elector of the Village and has resided in the Village at
least one year next preceding the election or appointment.
      2.   If a person: a) is a resident of a municipality immediately prior to
the active duty military service of that person or that person's spouse; b)
resides anywhere outside of the Village during that active duty military
service; and c) immediately, upon completion of that active duty military
service, is again a resident of the Village, then the time during which the
person resides outside the Village during the active duty military service is
deemed to be time during which the person is a resident of the Village for
purposes of determining the residency requirement under subsection B1 of this
section. (2016 Code)
1-6-3: COMMENCEMENT OF TERMS:
The terms of elected Village officers shall commence at the first regular or
special meeting of the Corporate Authorities after receipt of the official
election results from the County Clerk of the regular Municipal election at
which the officers were elected. (2016 Code)
1-6-4: OATH OR AFFIRMATION:
Before entering upon the duties of their respective offices, all Village
officers, whether elected or appointed, shall take and subscribe the oath or
affirmation required by the Illinois Constitution. The subscribed oath or
affirmation shall be filed in the Office of the Village Clerk. (2016 Code)
1-6-5: BOND:
All such officers, except Trustees, before entering upon the duties of their
respective offices, shall have a bond approved by the President and Board of
Trustees, payable to the Village, secured in their name, in such sums as are
hereinafter provided, for the faithful performance of the duties of their
respective offices, and the payment of all monies received by such officers,
according to law and the ordinances of the Village; provided, however, that in
no case shall the bond of the President of the Board of Trustees be fixed at a
less sum than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) nor shall the Treasurer's
bond be less than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00), which bonds shall be
filed with the Village Clerk, except the bond of the Village Clerk, which shall
be filed with the Treasurer; provided further, that the bond of the Village
Clerk shall be no less than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00). The Village
Chief of Police and the bond of each police officer and other appointees of the
Village are hereby fixed at the sum of seventeen thousand dollars ($17,000.00),
unless otherwise provided by ordinance. (2016 Code)
1-6-6: COMPENSATION:
   A.   Salaries:
      1.   Established: Officers of the Village shall be paid the following
salaries:
         a.   President: One hundred seventy dollars ($170.00) per regular or
special meeting, and twenty five dollars ($25.00) per committee meeting
actually attended as defined at the end of this subsection A1.
         b.   Village Trustee: One hundred dollars ($100.00) per regular or
special meeting, and twenty five dollars ($25.00) per committee meeting
actually attended as defined at the end of this subsection A1.
When used in this subsection A1, the following words and terms shall have the
following meanings ascribed to them:
 
                  Defined by subsection
REGULAR MEETINGS: 1-5-4A of this title being held on the third Monday of each
                  month including any adjourned or continued meeting which, for
                  the purposes of salary, shall constitute one meeting.
                  Village Board meetings, other than "regular meetings", as
                  defined herein, complying with the Open Meetings Act.
SPECIAL MEETINGS: However, committee meetings shall not qualify as special
                  meetings for the purposes of salaries, with the exception of
                  the Village Clerk.
 
      2.   Changes In Salaries: The salaries of the elected Village officers
shall not be increased or diminished during the elective term of such officers.
   B.   Expenses: Each Trustee or officer may receive reimbursement from the
Village, in a sum not greater than five hundred dollars ($500.00), for expenses
incurred by the member in the course of performing official duties. Expenses
with a sum greater than five hundred dollars ($500.00) shall require a two-
thirds (2/3) majority vote of the Village Board of Trustees. (2016 Code; amd.
Ord. 18-521, 11-19-2018, eff. 11-29-2018; Ord. 22-572, 4-25-2022, eff. 5-5-
2022)
1-6-7: DUTIES:
   A.   Property To Successor: Within five (5) days after written notification
and request, a person who has been an officer of the Village shall deliver to
the successor in office all property, books, and effects in the former
officer's possession, belonging to the Village. A former officer who violates
this subsection is liable for all the damages caused by the violation and is
subject to the penalty prescribed by ordinance.
   B.   Additional Duties: Every officer shall perform duties in addition to
those which may be prescribed by law, and be subject to other rules and
regulations as the Corporate Authorities may provide by ordinance. (2016 Code)
1-6-8: VACANCIES:
   A.   Elective Officers: Events in which an elective office becomes vacant in
the Village are as follows:
      1.   Vacancy by resignation 1 : A resignation will not be effective
unless it is in writing, signed by the person holding elective office and
notarized. The types of resignations as defined in Illinois statutes are as
follows:
         a.   Unconditional resignation.
         b.   Conditional resignation.
         c.   Vacancy upon the effective date.
If a resignation is delivered to the village clerk, the clerk shall forward a
certified copy of the written resignation to the official who is authorized to
fill the vacancy within seven (7) business days after receipt of the
resignation.
      2.   Vacancy by death or disability 2 .
      3.   Vacancy by other causes 3 :
         a.   Abandonment and other causes.
         b.   Guilty of a criminal offense.
         c.   Election declared void.
         d.   Ceases to be an inhabitant of the village.
   B.   All Resignations: All resignations of village officers shall be in
writing and before they take effect shall be filed with the village clerk and
trustees. (2016 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-50a.
2 2. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-50b.
3 3. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-50c.
1-6-9: REMOVAL OF OFFICERS:
Except where otherwise provided by ordinance, the village president may remove
any officer who is appointed thereby under this code, on any written charge,
when the president is of the opinion that the interests of the village demand
removal. The president shall report the reasons for the removal to the village
board at a meeting to be held not less than five (5) nor more than ten (10)
days after the removal. If the president fails or refuses to report to the
village board the reasons for the removal, or if the village board, by a two-
thirds (2/3) vote of all members authorized by law to be elected, disapproves
of the removal, the officer thereupon shall be restored to the office from
which the officer was removed. The vote shall be by yeas and nays, which shall
be entered upon the journal of the village board. Upon restoration, the officer
shall take a new oath of office. No officer shall be removed a second time for
the same offense. (2016 Code)
ARTICLE A. VILLAGE CLERK
SECTION:
1-6A-1: Duties
1-6A-1: DUTIES:
   A.   Generally: The village clerk shall:
      1.   Attend all meetings of the board of trustees and shall keep in a
suitable book to be styled the "Journal Of The Village Board", a full and
faithful record of the proceedings of the board.
      2.   Keep the corporate seal and shall use it on all proper and legal
occasions, and copies of all papers duly filed in his office and transcripts
from the journal and other records and files of his office certified by him
under the corporate seal shall be evidence in all courts in like manner as if
the originals were produced.
      3.   Keep a list of all committees appointed by the president and board
of trustees and of the business referred to them from time to time, and note
when they report, and the dates and nature of their reports.
      4.   Issue and cause to be served upon the president and trustees notices
of all special meetings of the village board.
      5.   Promptly record in a book kept for that purpose, all official bonds,
and note upon each bond so recorded when the same was entered of record, and
the book and page where recorded.
   B.   Licenses, Permits And Other Documents: The village clerk shall prepare
all commissions, licenses, permits, and other official documents required to be
issued by him under the ordinances of the village or the laws of the state of
Illinois, and shall attest the same with the corporate seal of the village. He
shall keep a register of all licenses issued in consecutive numbers, commencing
with 1, at the beginning of each fiscal year, which register shall show the
date of the issue of the respective license, to whom, for what, when it
expires, and the number of the village treasurer's receipt in exchange for
which the same was issued. He shall notify all parties holding license not less
than ten (10) days before its expiration by written notice, and it is made his
further special duty to attend to and see that all license revenues to which
the village is entitled is collected. (Ord. 277, 1988; amd. Ord. 22-572, 4-25-
2022, eff. 5-5-2022)
ARTICLE B. VILLAGE TREASURER
SECTION:
1-6B-1: Term Of Office
1-6B-2: Duties
1-6B-1: TERM OF OFFICE:
The village treasurer shall hold his/her office for a term of one year and
until his/her successor is appointed and qualified. (Ord. 277, 1988)
1-6B-2: DUTIES:
   A.   Generally: The village treasurer shall:
      1.   Receive all monies belonging to the village and keep his/her books
and accounts in such a manner as to exhibit at all times the true financial
condition of the corporation, and such books and accounts always shall be
subject to the inspection of any member of the village board.
      2.   Keep a separate account of each fund or appropriation and the debits
and credits belonging thereto. (Ord. 277, 1988)
      3.   Give every person paying money into the treasury a duplicate receipt
specifying the date of payment and upon what account paid and shall file copies
of these receipts with the clerk, with the treasurer's monthly reports. If the
treasurer has possession of money properly appropriated to the payment of any
warrant lawfully drawn upon the treasurer, the treasurer shall pay the money
specified in the warrant to the person designated by the warrant. (Ord. 277,
1988; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Reports Required:
      1.   Monthly Reports: The treasurer shall, at the end of each month,
render an account to the president and board of trustees, showing the state of
the treasury at the date of such account and the balance of money in the
treasury. He/she shall also accompany such accounts with a statement of all
monies received into the treasury and on what account, together with all
warrants redeemed and paid thereby, which said warrants, together with any and
all vouchers held by him/her, shall be delivered to the clerk and filed with
his/her said account in the clerk's office, upon every day of such settlement.
He/she shall return all warrants paid thereby marked or stamped "Paid". He/she
shall keep a register of all warrants redeemed and paid which shall describe
such warrants, date, amount, number, the fund from which paid, and the name of
the person to who and when paid. (Ord. 277, 1988)
      2.   Annual Report: The village treasurer shall annually, between May 1
and May 10, make out and file with the village clerk a full and detailed
account of all expenditures and receipts of the village and all his/her
transactions as treasurer during the preceding fiscal year, and shall show in
his/her account the state of the treasury at the close of the fiscal year;
which account the clerk shall immediately cause to be published in a newspaper
of general circulation in the village, if there be one, and if not, then by
posting the same in three (3) prominent places in the village.
   C.   Warrants: All warrants drawn on the treasurer must be signed by the
village president or a village trustee and shall state the particular fund or
appropriation to which the same is chargeable and the person to whom payable,
and no money shall be otherwise paid upon such warrants so drawn, except as
otherwise expressly provided. (Ord. 277, 1988; amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 7
ETHICS
SECTION:
1-7-1: State Regulations Adopted
1-7-2: Definitions
1-7-3: Interpretation
1-7-4: Prohibited Acts
1-7-5: Penalties
1-7-6: Amendments
1-7-7: Unconstitutionality Of Provisions
1-7-1: STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
The regulations of section 5-15 1  and article 10 2 of the state officials and
employees ethics act, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/1-1 et seq. (hereinafter
referred to as the "act" in this chapter), are hereby adopted by reference and
made applicable to the officers and employees of the village to the extent
required by 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/70-5. (Ord. 397, 5-17-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 430/5-15.
2 2. 5 ILCS 430/10-10 - 10-40.
1-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the terms "officer" and "employee" shall be
defined as set forth in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/70-5(c). (Ord. 397, 5-
17-2004)
1-7-3: INTERPRETATION:
This chapter does not repeal or otherwise amend or modify any existing
ordinances or policies which regulate the conduct of village officers and
employees. To the extent that any such existing ordinances or policies are less
restrictive than this chapter, however, the provisions of this chapter shall
prevail in accordance with the provisions of 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/
70-5(a). (Ord. 397, 5-17-2004)
1-7-4: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Gifts:
      1.   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited
or accepted under the act by any officer or any employee of the village is
hereby prohibited.
      2.   The offering or making of gifts prohibited to be offered or made to
an officer or employee of the village under the act is hereby prohibited.
   B.   Political Activities: The participation in political activities
prohibited under the act by any officer or employee of the village is hereby
prohibited. (Ord. 397, 5-17-2004)
1-7-5: PENALTIES:
The penalties for violations of this chapter shall be the same as those
penalties set forth in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/50-5 for similar
violations of the act. (Ord. 397, 5-17-2004)
1-7-6: AMENDMENTS:
Any amendment to the act that becomes effective after the effective date hereof
shall be incorporated into this chapter by reference and shall be applicable to
the solicitation, acceptance, offering and making of gifts and to prohibited
political activities. However, any amendment that makes its provisions optional
for adoption by the village shall not be incorporated into this chapter by
reference without formal action by the corporate authorities of the village.
(Ord. 397, 5-17-2004)
1-7-7: UNCONSTITUTIONALITY OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   If the Illinois supreme court declares the act unconstitutional in its
entirety, then this chapter shall be repealed as of the date that the Illinois
supreme court's decision becomes final and not subject to any further appeals
or rehearings. This chapter shall be deemed repealed without further action by
the corporate authorities of the village if the act is found unconstitutional
by the Illinois supreme court.
   B.   If the Illinois supreme court declares part of the act unconstitutional
but upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of the act, or does not
address the remainder of the act, then the remainder of the act as adopted by
this chapter shall remain in full force and effect; however, that part of this
chapter relating to the part of the act found unconstitutional shall be deemed
repealed without further action by the corporate authorities of the village.
(Ord. 397, 5-17-2004)
CHAPTER 8
ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-8-1: State Regulations Adopted
1-8-1: STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
The village incorporates and adopts by reference hereto, the state election
laws pertaining to elected village officers, 10 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-
1 et seq., and all prospective amendments thereto, or alterations, or
substitutions. (1982 Code § 1-7; amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 9
TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
SECTION:
1-9-1: Title
1-9-2: Scope; Application Of Provisions
1-9-3: Definitions
1-9-4: Notice Requirements
1-9-5: Delinquent Notices, Payments, Remittances Or Other Filings
1-9-6: Application Of Tax Payments
1-9-7: Certain Credits And Refunds
1-9-8: Audit Procedure
1-9-9: Appeals
1-9-10: Payment Required; Interest And Penalties
1-9-11: Installment Contracts
1-9-12: Statute Of Limitations
1-9-13: Voluntary Disclosure
1-9-14: Publication Of Tax Ordinances; Copies
1-9-15: Review Of Liens
1-9-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as, and may be cited as, the LOCALLY IMPOSED AND
ADMINISTERED TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES ORDINANCE. (Ord. 372, 12-18-2000,
eff. 1-2-2001)
1-9-2: SCOPE; APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Scope: The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the village
procedures in connection with all of the village's locally imposed and
administered taxes.
   B.   Application Of Provisions; Conflicting Provisions: This chapter shall
be liberally construed and administered to supplement all of the village tax
ordinances. To the extent that any tax ordinance is in conflict with or
inconsistent with this chapter, this chapter shall be controlling. (Ord. 372,
12-18-2000, eff. 1-2-2001)
1-9-3: DEFINITIONS:
Certain words or terms used in this chapter shall have the meanings ascribed to
them as follows:
ACT: The "local government taxpayers' bill of rights act".
CORPORATE AUTHORITIES: The village president and board of trustees.
LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR: The village clerk is charged with the administration
and collection of the locally imposed and administered taxes, including staff,
employees or agents to the extent they are authorized by the local tax
administrator to act in the local tax administrator's stead. The local tax
administrator shall have the authority to implement the terms of this chapter
to give full effect to this chapter. The exercise of such authority by the
local tax administrator shall not be inconsistent with this chapter and the
act.
LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX OR TAX: Each tax imposed by village that
is collected or administered by the village and not an agency or department of
the state. The term does not include any taxes imposed upon real property under
the property tax code or fees collected by the village.
NOTICE: Each audit notice, collection notice or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the village's locally imposed and
administered taxes.
TAX ORDINANCE: Each ordinance adopted by the village that imposes any locally
imposed and administered tax.
TAXPAYER: Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered tax
and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax is
placed and, with respect to consumer taxes, includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
village.
VILLAGE: The village of San Jose, Illinois. (Ord. 372, 12-18-2000, eff. 1-2-
2001; amd. 2016 Code)
1-9-4: NOTICE REQUIREMENTS:
Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given, the notice
is to be in writing mailed not less than seven (7) calendar days prior to the
day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit or other scheduled act of the local
tax administrator. The notice shall be sent by the local tax administrator as
follows:
   A.   First class or express mail, or overnight mail, addressed to the person
concerned at the person's last known address; or
   B.   Personal service or delivery. (Ord. 372, 12-18-2000, eff. 1-2-2001)
1-9-5: DELINQUENT NOTICES, PAYMENTS, REMITTANCES OR OTHER FILINGS:
Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required to be made to the
village pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered late unless it is: a)
physically received by the village on or before the due date; or b) received in
an envelope or other container displaying a valid, readable U.S. postmark dated
on or before the due date, properly addressed to the village, with adequate
postage prepaid. (Ord. 372, 12-18-2000, eff. 1-2-2001)
1-9-6: APPLICATION OF TAX PAYMENTS:
Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be applied in the
following order: first, to the tax due for the applicable period; second, to
the interest due for the applicable period; and third, to the penalty for the
applicable period. (Ord. 372, 12-18-2000, eff. 1-2-2001)
1-9-7: CERTAIN CREDITS AND REFUNDS:
   A.   Written Protest Required: The village shall not refund or credit any
taxes voluntarily paid without written protest at the time of payment in the
event that a locally imposed and administered tax is declared invalidly enacted
or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer
shall not be deemed to have paid the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked
knowledge of the facts upon which to protest the taxes at the time of payment
or if the taxpayer paid the taxes under duress. (Ord. 372, 12-18-2000, eff. 1-
2-2001)
   B.   Statute Of Limitations: The statute of limitations on a claim for
credit or refund shall be four (4) years after the end of the calendar year in
which payment in error was made. The village shall not grant a credit or refund
of locally imposed and administered taxes, interest, or penalties to a person
who has not paid the amounts directly to the village. (Ord. 372, 12-18-2000,
eff. 1-2-2001; amd. 2016 Code)
   C.   Procedure: The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally
imposed and administered taxes, interest or penalties paid in error shall be as
follows:
      1.   The taxpayer shall submit to the local tax administrator in writing
a claim for credit or refund, together with a statement specifying:
         a.   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
         b.   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
         c.   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the canceled
check or receipt for the payment;
         d.   The taxpayer's recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
         e.   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest and penalties overpaid, and,
as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however, that
there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer owes
any monies to the village.
      2.   Within ten (10) days of the receipt by the local tax administrator
of any claim for a refund or credit, the local tax administrator shall either:
         a.   Grant the claim; or
         b.   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement as
to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
      3.   In the event the local tax administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate of five percent (5%) per annum, based on
a year of three hundred sixty five (365) days and the number of days elapsed,
from the date of the overpayment to the date of mailing of a refund check or
the grant of a credit. (Ord. 372, 12-18-2000, eff. 1-2-2001)
1-9-8: AUDIT PROCEDURE:
Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any local administered tax shall
comply with the notice requirements of this chapter.
   A.   Information Required: Each notice of audit shall contain the following
information:
      1.   The tax;
      2.   The time period of the audit; and
      3.   A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the auditor.
   B.   Time For Conducting Audit:
      1.   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours, and if
the date and time selected by the local tax administrator is not agreeable to
the taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer within
thirty (30) days after the originally designated audit and during normal
business hours.
      2.   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted not less than seven (7) days nor more
than thirty (30) days from the date the notice is given, unless the taxpayer
and the local tax administrator agreed to some other convenient time. In the
event taxpayer is unable to comply with the audit on the date in question, the
taxpayer may request another date within the thirty (30) days, approved in
writing, that is convenient to the taxpayer and the local tax administrator.
   C.   Taxpayer's Books And Records:
      1.   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the
taxpayer's business or activities, including original source documents and
books of entry denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given
rise to any tax liability, exemption or deduction. All books shall be kept in
the English language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by
the village.
      2.   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make
available its books and records for inspection by the village. If the taxpayer
or tax collector fails to provide the documents necessary for audit within the
time provided, the local tax administrator may issue a tax determination and
assessment based on the tax administrator's determination of the best estimate
of the taxpayer's tax liability.
   D.   Overpayments: If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a
locally imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice
of the amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within thirty (30)
days of the village determination of the amount of overpayment.
   E.   Payment To Improper Entity: In the event a tax payment was submitted to
the incorrect local governmental entity, the local tax administrator shall
notify the local governmental entity imposing such tax. (Ord. 372, 12-18-2000,
eff. 1-2-2001)
1-9-9: APPEALS:
   A.   Contents Of Notice Regarding Taxes Due: The local tax administrator
shall send written notice to a taxpayer upon the local tax administrator's
issuance or a protestable notice of tax due, a bill, a claim denial, or a
notice of claim reduction regarding any tax. The notice shall include the
following information:
      1.   The reason for the assessment;
      2.   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
      3.   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
      4.   The obligations of the village during the audit, appeal, refund and
collection process.
   B.   Request For Hearing: A taxpayer who receives written notice from the
local tax administrator of a determination of tax due or assessment may file
with the local tax administrator a written protest and petition for hearing,
setting forth the basis of the taxpayer's request for a hearing. The written
protest and petition for hearing must be filed with the local tax administrator
within forty five (45) days of receipt of the written notice of the tax
determination and assessment.
   C.   Hearing Scheduled; Notice: If a timely written notice and petition for
hearing is filed, the local tax administrator shall fix the time and place for
hearing and shall give written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be
scheduled for a date within fourteen (14) days of receipt of the written
protest and petition for hearing, unless the taxpayer requests a later date
convenient to all parties.
   D.   Time Limit For Filing Hearing Request: If a written protest and
petition for hearing is not filed within the forty five (45) day period, the
tax determination, audit or assessment shall become a final bill due and owing
without further notice.
   E.   Reopening, Extension Of Hearing Request: Upon the showing of reasonable
cause by the taxpayer and the full payment of the contested tax liability along
with interest accrued as of the due date of the tax, the local tax
administrator may reopen or extend the time for filing a written protest and
petition for hearing. In no event shall the time for filing a written protest
and petition for hearing be reopened or extended for more than ninety (90) days
after the expiration of the forty five (45) day period.
   F.   Conduct Of Hearing; Decision:
      1.   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under this section, the local tax
administrator shall conduct a hearing regarding any appeal.
      2.   No continuances shall be granted except in cases where a continuance
is absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of
preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted
shall not exceed fourteen (14) days.
      3.   At the hearing, the local tax administrator shall preside and shall
hear testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax determination, audit
or assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall not apply.
      4.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the local tax administrator shall
make a written determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the
hearing. The taxpayer or tax collector shall be provided with a copy of the
written decision. (Ord. 372, 12-18-2000, eff. 1-2-2001)
1-9-10: PAYMENT REQUIRED; INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Time For Payment: In the event a determination has been made that a tax
is due and owing, through audit, assessment or other bill sent, the tax must be
paid within the time frame otherwise indicated.
   B.   Interest: The village hereby provides for the amount of interest to be
assessed on a late payment, underpayment, or nonpayment of the tax, to be five
percent (5%) per annum, based on a year of three hundred sixty five (365) days
and the number of days elapsed.
   C.   Late Filing And Payment Penalties: If a tax return is not filed within
the time and manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance, a late filing
penalty of five percent (5%) of the amount of tax required to be shown as due
on a return shall be imposed; and a late payment penalty of five percent (5%)
of the tax due shall be imposed. If no return is filed within the time or
manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance and prior to the village
issuing a notice of tax delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a failure
to file penalty shall be assessed equal to twenty five percent (25%) of the
total tax due for the applicable reporting period for which the return was
required to be filed. A late filing or payment penalty shall not apply if a
failure to file penalty is imposed by the controlling ordinance.
   D.   Abatement Of Penalties: The local tax administrator shall have the
authority to waive or abate any late filing penalty, late payment penalty or
failure to file penalty if the local tax administrator shall determine
reasonable cause exists for delay or failure to make a filing. (Ord. 372, 12-
18-2000, eff. 1-2-2001)
1-9-11: INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS:
The village may enter into an installment contract with the taxpayer for the
payment of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance. The local tax
administrator may not cancel any installment contract so entered unless the
taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing. Upon written notice by the
local tax administrator that the payment is thirty (30) days delinquent, the
taxpayer shall have fourteen (14) working days to cure any delinquency. If the
taxpayer fails to cure the delinquency within the fourteen (14) day period or
fails to demonstrate good faith in restructuring the installment contract with
the local administrator, the installment contract shall be canceled without
further notice to the taxpayer. (Ord. 372, 12-18-2000, eff. 1-2-2001)
1-9-12: STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS:
   A.   The village, through the local tax administrator, shall review all tax
returns in a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due
and owing. The taxpayer shall have forty five (45) days after receiving notice
of the reviewed tax returns to make any request for refund or provide any tax
still due and owing.
   B.   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than four (4)
years maximum after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later.
   C.   If any tax return is not filed or, if during any four (4) year period
for which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the
village, the tax paid was less than seventy five percent (75%) of the tax due,
the statute of limitations shall be six (6) years maximum after the end of the
calendar year in which return for the applicable period was due or end of the
calendar year in which the return for the applicable period was filed. (Ord.
372, 12-18-2000, eff. 1-2-2001)
   D.   No statute of limitations shall apply if a fraudulent tax return was
filed by the taxpayer. (Ord. 372, 12-18-2000, eff. 1-2-2001; amd. 2016 Code)
1-9-13: VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE:
For any locally imposed and administered tax for which a taxpayer has not
received a written notice of an audit, investigation, or assessment from the
local tax administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an application with the
local tax administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the tax due. A taxpayer
filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to pay the amount of tax
due, along with interest of one percent (1%) per month, for all periods prior
to the filing of the application but not more than four (4) years before the
date of filing the application. Except for the amount of tax and interest due
under this section, a taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure application
may not be liable for any additional tax, interest, or penalty for any period
before the date the application was filed. However, if the taxpayer incorrectly
determined and underpaid the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is liable for the
underpaid tax along with applicable interest on the underpaid tax, unless the
underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the taxpayer, in which
case, the application shall be deemed invalid and void. The payment of tax and
interest must be made by no later than ninety (90) days after the filing of the
voluntary disclosure application or the date agreed to by the local tax
administrator, whichever is longer. However, any additional amounts owed as a
result of an underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under this
section must be paid within ninety (90) days after a final determination and
the exhaustion of all appeals of the additional amount owed or the date agreed
to by the local tax administrator, whichever is longer. (Ord. 372, 12-18-2000,
eff. 1-2-2001; amd. 2016 Code)
1-9-14: PUBLICATION OF TAX ORDINANCES; COPIES:
Any locally administered tax ordinance shall be published via normal or
standard publishing requirements. The posting of a tax ordinance on the
internet shall satisfy the publication requirements. Copies of all tax
ordinances shall be made available to the public upon request at the village
clerk's office. (Ord. 372, 12-18-2000, eff. 1-2-2001)
1-9-15: REVIEW OF LIENS:
The local tax administrator shall establish an internal review procedure
regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for unpaid taxes. Upon a
determination by the local tax administrator that the lien is valid, the lien
shall remain in full force and effect. If the lien is determined to be
improper, the local tax administrator shall:
   A.   Timely remove the lien at the village expense;
   B.   Correct the taxpayer's credit record; and
   C.   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien. (Ord.
372, 12-18-2000, eff. 1-2-2001)
CHAPTER 10
REVENUE AND FINANCE
SECTION:
1-10-1: Bad Checks/Insufficient Funds
1-10-1: BAD CHECKS/INSUFFICIENT FUNDS:
   A.   Definitions:
    CHECK: Any instrument signed by the maker, containing an unconditional
promise to pay a certain sum of money payable on demand and drawn on a bank or
banking institution.
   B.   Prohibition And Penalty:
      1.   Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person to deliver, give or
present as payment to the village, or to any agent thereof, any check or draft
upon any bank or banking association that the maker or drawer thereof does not
have sufficient funds in or credit with such bank or banking association for
the payment of same, or that the maker or drawer thereof does not have any
account in or with the bank or banking association subject to the check or
draft.
If at any time the village receives two (2) bad checks posting to the same
account, within a six (6) month period, the village will no longer accept
checks as a form of payment for such affected account. Only cash, money orders,
certified or cashier's checks will be accepted as payment for such affected
account.
      2.   Penalty: In addition to payment of all other amounts due and owing,
any individual who violated subsection B1 of this section shall pay to the
village clerk a service charge of thirty five dollars ($35.00). This payment
shall be made in cash, money order, certified or cashier's check form only. The
payment shall not relieve the person of any criminal charges. (Ord. 16-501, 2-
15-2016)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
SECTION:
2-1-1: Established; Membership; Appointment And Terms
2-1-2: Removals And Vacancies
2-1-3: Chair Of Board
2-1-4: Organization
2-1-5: Appeals
2-1-6: Variations
2-1-7: Board Consideration; Voting Requirements
2-1-8: Public Hearings Required; Notice
2-1-9: Authority Of Village Board
2-1-1: ESTABLISHED; MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT AND TERMS:
A zoning board of appeals is hereby authorized to be established. The word
"board", when used in this chapter, shall be construed to mean the zoning board
of appeals. The board shall consist of seven (7) members appointed by the
president, by and with the consent of the village board. The members of the
first board shall serve respectively for the following terms (or until their
respective successors are appointed and qualified): one for one year, one for
two (2) years, one for three (3) years, one for four (4) years, one for five
(5) years, one for six (6) years, and one for seven (7) years; and the
successor to each member, when appointed, shall serve for a term of five (5)
years. (1982 Code § 2-3-1)
2-1-2: REMOVALS AND VACANCIES:
The president shall have the power to remove any member of the board for due
cause and after a public hearing and by majority vote of board of trustees.
Vacancies upon said board shall be filled for the unexpired term of the member
whose place has become vacant, in the manner herein provided for the
appointment of such member. (1982 Code § 2-3-1)
2-1-3: CHAIR OF BOARD:
One of the members of the board shall be designated by the president, with the
consent of the village board, as chair of the board, and shall hold his office
as chair until his successor is appointed. The chair, or in his absence, the
acting chair, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses.
(1982 Code § 2-3-1)
2-1-4: ORGANIZATION:
All meetings of the zoning board of appeals shall be held at the call of the
chair and at such times as such board may determine. All hearings conducted by
the board shall be open to the public. The board shall keep minutes of its
proceedings showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent or
failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its hearings
and other official actions. Findings of fact shall be included in the minutes
of each case of a requested variation, and the reasons for recommending or
denying such variation shall be specified. Every rule or regulation, every
amendment or repeal thereof and every order, requirement, decision or
determination of the board shall be filed immediately in the office of the
board and shall be a public record. The board shall adopt its own rules of
procedure not in conflict with this chapter or with the Illinois statutes in
such case made and provided. The board may select or appoint such officers as
it deems necessary. (1982 Code § 2-3-2)
2-1-5: APPEALS:
   A.   Grounds: An appeal may be taken to the zoning board of appeals by any
person, or by any officer, department, board or bureau affected by a decision
of the building/zoning inspector relative to the zoning regulations of this
code.
   B.   Filing Appeal: An appeal shall be taken within forty five (45) days of
the action complained of, by filing with the village clerk and with the board
of appeals a notice of appeal, specifying the grounds thereof. The building/
zoning inspector shall forthwith transmit to the board all of the papers
constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
   C.   Stay Of Proceedings: An appeal shall stay all proceedings in
furtherance of the action appealed from, unless the building/zoning inspector
certifies to the zoning board of appeals after the notice of appeal has been
filed with him that, by reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay
would, in his opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property, in which case,
the proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order,
which may be granted by the zoning board of appeals or by a court of record on
application, on notice to the building/zoning inspector and on due cause shown.
(1982 Code § 2-3-3; amd. 2016 Code)
   D.   Hearing: The board shall select a reasonable time and place for the
hearing of the appeal and give due notice thereof to the parties and shall
render a decision on the appeal without unreasonable delay. Any person may
appear and testify at the hearing, either in person or by duly authorized agent
or attorney. (1982 Code § 2-3-3)
   E.   Decision Of Board: The zoning board of appeals may reverse or affirm,
wholly or partly, or may modify or amend the order, requirement, decision or
determination appealed from to the extent and in the manner that the board may
decide to be fitting and proper in the premises. (1982 Code § 2-3-5)
   F.   Fee: A fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) shall be paid at the time
notice of appeal is filed. (1982 Code § 2-3-4; amd. 2016 Code)
2-1-6: VARIATIONS:
When a property owner shows that a strict application of the terms of the
zoning regulations of this code relating to the use, construction or alteration
of buildings or structures, or to the use of land, imposes upon him practical
difficulties or particular hardship, then the board may make such variations of
the strict application of the terms of said zoning regulations as are in
harmony with its general purpose and intent when the board is satisfied, under
the evidence heard before it, that a granting of such variation will not merely
serve as a convenience to the applicant, but it is necessary to alleviate some
demonstrable hardship or difficulty so great as to warrant a variation. (1982
Code § 2-3-6)
2-1-7: BOARD CONSIDERATION; VOTING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   In considering all appeals and all proposed variations to the zoning
regulations, the zoning board of appeals shall, before making any variation
from the zoning regulations in a specific case, first determine that the
proposed variation will not:
      1.   Impair an adequate supply of light and air to adjacent property;
      2.   Unreasonably increase the congestion in public streets;
      3.   Increase the danger of fire or endanger the public safety;
      4.   Unreasonably diminish or impair established property values within
the surrounding area; or
      5.   In any other respect impair the public health, safety, comfort,
morals or welfare of the inhabitants of the village. (1982 Code § 2-3-7)
   B.   Variations shall be permitted by the board of appeals only when they
are in harmony with the general purpose and intent of the regulations and only
in cases where there are practical difficulties or particular hardship in the
way of carrying out the strict letter of any of those regulations relating to
the use, construction, or alteration of buildings or structures or the use of
land. In its consideration of the standards of practical difficulties or
particular hardship, the board of appeals shall require evidence that: 1) the
property in question cannot yield a reasonable return if permitted to be used
only under the conditions allowed by the regulations in that zone; and 2) the
plight of the owner is due to unique circumstances; and 3) the variation, if
granted, will not alter the essential character of the locality. A variation
shall be permitted only if the evidence, in the judgment of the board of
appeals, sustains each of the three (3) conditions enumerated. (2016 Code)
   C.   The concurring vote of four (4) members of the board shall be necessary
to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of the building/
zoning inspector, or to decide in favor of the applicant any matter upon which
it is authorized by this chapter to render a decision. (1982 Code § 2-3-7; amd.
2016 Code)
2-1-8: PUBLIC HEARINGS REQUIRED; NOTICE:
The zoning board of appeals shall make no recommendation except in a specific
case and after a public hearing conducted by the board. A notice of the time
and place of such public hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation in the village at least fifteen (15) days but not more than thirty
(30) days previous to the hearing. Such notice shall contain the address or
location of the property for which the variation or other ruling by the board
is sought and the property index number (PIN) or numbers of all the parcels of
real property contained in the area for which the variance is requested, as
well as a brief description of the nature of the appeal. (1982 Code § 2-3-8;
amd. 2016 Code)
2-1-9: AUTHORITY OF VILLAGE BOARD:
The village board hereby retains and assumes the right to pass upon, approve or
disapprove and reverse any and all findings and decisions by the zoning board
of appeals. (1982 Code § 2-3-9)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Applications
3-1-2: Persons Subject To License
3-1-3: Forms
3-1-4: Signatures
3-1-5: Inspection Or Investigation
3-1-6: Term Of License
3-1-7: Building And Premises
3-1-8: Change Of Location
3-1-9: Nuisances
3-1-10: Posting License
3-1-11: Revocation Or Suspension Of License; Hearing
3-1-12: Appeal Procedure
3-1-1: APPLICATIONS:
Applications for all licenses required by this code shall be made in writing to
the village clerk, unless otherwise specifically provided by law. Each
application shall state the name of the applicant, the license desired, the
location to be used, if any, the time covered and the fee to be paid; and each
application shall contain such additional information as may be required by the
issuing official. (2016 Code)
3-1-2: PERSONS SUBJECT TO LICENSE:
Whenever in this code a license is required for the maintenance, operation or
conduct of any business or establishment or for doing business or engaging in
any activity or occupation, any person or corporation shall be subject to the
requirement if, by himself or through an agent, employee or partner, he holds
himself forth as being engaged in the business or occupation; or solicits
patronage therefor, actively or passively; or performs or attempts to perform
any part of such business or occupation in the village. (2016 Code)
3-1-3: FORMS:
Forms for all licenses, and applications therefor, shall be prepared and kept
on file by the village clerk. (2016 Code)
3-1-4: SIGNATURES:
Each license issued shall bear the signatures of the village president and the
village clerk in the absence of any provision to the contrary. (2016 Code)
3-1-5: INSPECTION OR INVESTIGATION:
Upon the receipt of an application for a license where laws of the village
necessitate an inspection or investigation before the issuance of such license,
the village clerk shall refer such application to the proper officer for making
such investigation within forty eight (48) hours of the time of such receipt.
The officer charged with the duty of making the investigation or inspection
shall make a report thereon, favorable or otherwise, within ten (10) days after
receiving the application or a copy thereof. (2016 Code)
3-1-6: TERM OF LICENSE:
All annual licenses shall terminate on the last day of the fiscal year of the
village, where no provision to the contrary is made. (2016 Code)
3-1-7: BUILDING AND PREMISES:
No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business and no license shall
be issued for any thing or act if the premises and building to be used for the
purpose do not fully comply with the requirements of the village. (2016 Code)
3-1-8: CHANGE OF LOCATION:
In the absence of any provision to the contrary, the location of any licensed
business or occupation or of any permitted act may be changed, provided ten
(10) days' notice thereof is given to the village clerk; further provided, that
there is compliance with the village zoning regulations. (2016 Code)
3-1-9: NUISANCES:
No business, licensed or not, shall be conducted or operated as to amount to a
nuisance in fact. (2016 Code)
3-1-10: POSTING LICENSE:
It shall be the duty of any person conducting a licensed business in the
village to keep his license posted at all times in a prominent place on the
premises used for such business. (2016 Code)
3-1-11: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE; HEARING:
   A.   Authority To Revoke Or Suspend; Grounds: Any license, for a limited
time, may be revoked by the village president and board of trustees during the
life of such license for the violation by the licensee of any provision
relating to the license, the subject of the license, or the premises occupied;
such revocation may be in addition to any fine imposed. The village president
and board of trustees shall be authorized to summarily order the cessation of
business, the closing of the premises, and the suspension of any business
license for a period not to exceed fifteen (15) days.
   B.   Hearing: Within ten (10) days after the village officials have so
acted, the village president shall call a hearing for the purpose of
determining whether or not the license should be revoked.
   C.   Notice Of Hearing: Notice of hearing for revocation of a license shall
be given in writing setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and
the time and place of the hearing. Such notice shall be sent to the licensee by
certified mail at his last known address or personally served at least five (5)
days prior to the date of the hearing.
   D.   Hearing Procedures: At the hearing, the licensee shall be permitted
counsel and shall have the right to submit evidence and cross examine
witnesses. The village president shall preside and shall render the decision
and recommendation.
   E.   Causes For Revocation: Business licenses issued under the ordinances of
the village, unless otherwise provided, may be revoked by the village president
and board of trustees after notice and hearing as provided in subsections C and
D of this section for any of the following causes:
      1.   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for the license.
      2.   Any violation by the licensee of ordinance provisions or state law
relating to the license, the subject matter of the license, or the premises
occupied.
      3.   Conviction of the licensee of any felony or of a misdemeanor
involving moral turpitude.
      4.   Failure of the licensee to pay any fine or penalty owing to the
village.
      5.   Refusal to permit an inspection or investigation or any interference
with a duly authorized village officer or employee while in the performance of
his duties in making such inspection, as provided in this code. (2016 Code)
3-1-12: APPEAL PROCEDURE:
   A.   Right To Appeal: Any applicant aggrieved by the refusal of the village
to issue a license or by the revocation of a license shall have the right to
appeal the village decision to the village board of trustees. Such appeal shall
be requested by submitting a written request to the village president within
five (5) days of the action of the village which is appealed.
   B.   Village Board Of Trustees Consideration: The village board of trustees
shall consider the appeal at its next regularly scheduled meeting, at which
time, the applicant shall be entitled to present his appeal orally or in
writing. The village board of trustees shall act on the appeal within seven (7)
days of the hearing and shall either uphold the action of the village or shall
direct the issuance of a license which the village has denied or the reissuance
of a license which the village has revoked. (2016 Code)
CHAPTER 2
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
3-2-1: Definitions
3-2-2: Liquor Control Commission
3-2-3: License And Compliance Required
3-2-4: Ineligibility For License
3-2-5: Application For License
3-2-6: Character Of Applicant; Insurance Requirements
3-2-7: Examination Of Applicant
3-2-8: Approval Or Denial Of License
3-2-9: Term Of License
3-2-10: Classes Of Licenses And Fees
3-2-11: Payment And Disposition Of Fees
3-2-12: Number Of Licenses
3-2-13: Privilege Granted By License
3-2-14: Renewal Of License
3-2-15: Posting License; Duplicate Licenses
3-2-16: Sale Of Licensed Premises
3-2-17: Records And Notices
3-2-18: Location Restrictions
3-2-19: Days And Hours Of Sales
3-2-20: Sales To Certain Persons Prohibited
3-2-21: Persons Under Twenty One
3-2-22: Additional Prohibitions
3-2-23: Report Of Criminal Incidents
3-2-24: Entry Powers
3-2-25: Revocation Or Suspension Of License; Fines; Hearing; Appeal
3-2-26: Complaint Of Violation; Hearing
3-2-27: Penalty
3-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms, as used in this
chapter, shall be construed according to the definitions given below:
 
                  Any spirits, wine, beer, ale or other liquid containing more
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR: than one-half of one percent (0.5%) of alcohol by volume,
                  which is fit for beverage purposes.
                  A corporation organized under the laws of the state of
                  Illinois, not for pecuniary profit, solely for the promotion
CLUB:             of some common object other than the sale and consumption of
                  alcoholic liquors which conforms to the definition of a club
                  as provided by statute.
                  An establishment or business whose primary purpose is to
                  operate video gaming terminals, as defined under the Illinois
GAMING LOUNGE:    Video Gaming Act, and in which the sale of food or snacks and
                  alcoholic beverages are merely incidental to the operation of
                  video gaming terminals.
PERSON:           Any individual, firm, partnership, association or
                  corporation.
                  A person who sells or offers for sale alcoholic liquor for
                  use or consumption and not for resale in any form; provided,
                  however, that this definition shall not be construed to apply
RETAIL DEALER:    to any duly licensed practicing physician or dentist in the
                  strict practice of his profession, or any drugstore employing
                  a licensed pharmacist in the concoction of prescriptions of
                  duly licensed physicians.
RETAIL SALE:      The sale for use or consumption and not for resale. (2016
                  Code) (amd. Ord. 20-545, 4-20-2020)
 
3-2-2: LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSION:
   A.   The village president is hereby appointed and designated as the local
liquor control commissioner, and he may appoint a person or persons, not
exceeding two (2) in number, to assist him in the exercise of the powers and in
the performance of the duties of his office. Such person(s) so appointed shall,
with the president, constitute the local liquor control commission.
   B.   The local liquor control commission shall have the following powers:
      1.   To grant and/or suspend for not more than thirty (30) days or revoke
for cause all licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter.
      2.   To enter or to authorize any law enforcing officer to enter at any
time upon any premises licensed under the provisions of this chapter to
determine whether any of the provisions of this chapter or of the Illinois
liquor control act are being violated and at such time to examine the premises
of the licensee in connection therewith.
      3.   To receive complaint from any citizen of the village that any of the
provisions of this chapter have been or are being violated, and to act upon
such complaints.
      4.   To receive all license fees provided for herein, and pay the same
forthwith to the village clerk. (2016 Code)
3-2-3: LICENSE AND COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at retail in the village any
alcoholic liquor without having a retail liquor dealer's license or in
violation of the terms of such license. (2016 Code)
3-2-4: INELIGIBILITY FOR LICENSE:
Except as otherwise provided, no license of any kind issued by the local liquor
control commission shall be issued to:
   A.   A person who is not a resident of the village; except in case of
railroad or boat licenses.
   B.   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the community
in which he resides.
   C.   A person who is not a citizen of the United States.
   D.   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any federal or state
law, unless the commission has determined that such person has been
sufficiently rehabilitated to warrant the public trust after considering
matters set forth in such person's application and the commission's
investigation. The burden of proof of sufficient rehabilitation shall be on the
applicant.
   E.   A person who has been convicted of keeping a place of prostitution or
keeping a place of juvenile prostitution, promoting prostitution that involves
keeping a place of prostitution, or promoting juvenile prostitution that
involves keeping a place of juvenile prostitution.
   F.   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality.
   G.   A person whose license issued under this chapter has been revoked for
cause.
   H.   A person who, at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder, would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application.
   I.   A copartnership, if any general partnership thereof, or any limited
partnership thereof, owning more than five percent (5%) of the aggregate
limited partner interest in such copartnership would not be eligible to receive
a license hereunder for any reason.
   J.   A corporation or limited liability company, if any member, officer,
manager or director thereof, or any stockholder or stockholders owning in the
aggregate more than five percent (5%) of the stock of such corporation, would
not be eligible to receive a license hereunder for any reason other than
citizenship and residence within the village.
   K.   A corporation or limited liability company unless it is incorporated or
organized in Illinois, or unless it is a foreign corporation or foreign limited
liability company which is qualified under the business corporation act of 1983
or the limited liability company act to transact business in Illinois. The
commission shall permit and accept from an applicant for a license under this
chapter proof prepared from the secretary of state's website that the
corporation or limited liability company is in good standing and is qualified
under the business corporation act of 1983 or the limited liability company act
to transact business in Illinois.
   L.   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent
unless the manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required by the
licensee.
   M.   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or state
law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor,
subsequent to the effective date hereof.
   N.   A person who does not beneficially own the premises for which a license
is sought, or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for which the
license is to be issued.
   O.   Any law enforcing public official, including members of the local
liquor control commission, any president or any member of the village board of
trustees in relation to premises that is located within the territory subject
to the jurisdiction of that official if: 1) the sale of alcoholic liquor
pursuant to the license is incidental to the selling of food; 2) the issuance
of the license is approved by the state liquor control commission; 3) the
applicable local ordinances are in effect where the premises is located; and 4)
the official granted a license does not vote on alcoholic liquor issues pending
before the board to which the license holder is elected. Notwithstanding any
provision of this subsection to the contrary, a member of the village board of
trustees, other than the president of the village board of trustees, may have a
direct interest in the manufacture, sale or distribution of alcoholic liquor as
long as he or she is not a law enforcing public official or a village board
president. To prevent any conflict of interest, the elected official with the
direct interest in the manufacture, sale, or distribution of alcoholic liquor
shall not participate in any meetings, hearings, or decisions on matters
impacting the manufacture, sale or distribution of alcoholic liquor.
   P.   A person who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be operated
by the licensee.
   Q.   A person who has been convicted of a gambling offense as proscribed by
any of subsections (a)(3) through (a)(11) of section 28-1 of, or as proscribed
by section 28-1.1 or 28-3 of the criminal code of 1961 or the criminal code of
2012, or as proscribed by a statute replaced by any of the aforesaid statutory
provisions.
   R.   A person or entity to whom a federal wagering stamp has been issued by
the federal government, unless the person or entity is eligible to be issued a
license under the raffles and poker runs act or the Illinois pull tabs and jar
games act.
   S.   A person who intends to sell alcoholic liquors for use or consumption
on his or her licensed retail premises who does not have liquor liability
insurance coverage for that premises in an amount that is at least equal to the
maximum liability amounts set out in 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-21,
subsection (a). (2016 Code)
3-2-5: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Applications for licenses shall be made to the local liquor control
commissioner, in writing, signed by the applicant if an individual, or by a
duly authorized agent thereof if a club or corporation, verified by oath or
affidavit, and shall contain the following statements and information:
   A.   The name, age and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual; in the case of a copartnership, the names and addresses of the
persons entitled to share in the profits thereof; in the case of a corporation,
the name of the corporation, the name of the registered agent, the address of
the registered agent, the object for which the corporation was organized, the
names and addresses of the officers, and the names and addresses of all
stockholders owning more than five percent (5%) of the stock of the
corporation.
   B.   The citizenship of the applicant, date of birth, place of birth, and if
naturalized, the time and place of the applicant's naturalization.
   C.   The character of business of the applicant.
   D.   The length of time the applicant has been in the business of that
character, or if a corporation, the date when the charter was issued.
   E.   A statement as to whether the manager/agent or applicant has been
convicted of keeping a place of prostitution or keeping a place of juvenile
prostitution, promoting prostitution that involves keeping a place of
prostitution, or promoting juvenile prostitution that involves keeping a place
of juvenile prostitution.
   F.   The amount of goods, wares and merchandise on hand at the time the
application was made.
   G.   The location and description of the premises or place of business,
along with a detailed site plan showing a view from the street indicating
windows, doorways, bars, tables, etc., which is to be operated under the
license and the nature of applicant's ownership interest in or the nature,
extent, and duration of the applicant's leasehold interest in the premises and
name of the lessor.
   H.   Whether or not the applicant has made a similar application for a
similar other license on premises other than described in the application, and
the disposition of such application.
   I.   If applicable, the date of the filing of the "assumed name" of the
business with the county clerk.
   J.   The number, the date of issuance and the date of expiration of the
applicant's current local retail liquor license.
   K.   The date of the applicant's first request for a state or any local
liquor license and whether it was granted, denied or withdrawn.
   L.   The applicant's retailer's occupation tax (ROT) registration number.
   M.   A statement of whether the applicant is delinquent in the payment of
the retailer's occupational tax (sales tax) and if so, the reasons therefor.
   N.   Whether the applicant has made an application for a liquor license
which has been denied and, if so, the reasons therefor.
   O.   Whether the applicant has ever had any previous liquor license
suspended or revoked and, if so, the reasons therefor.
   P.   Whether the applicant, or any person, directly in his place of business
is a public official and, if so, the particulars thereof.
   Q.   The applicant's name, sex, date of birth, social security number,
position and percentage of ownership in the business of the person who signs
the application or provides the information.
   R.   1. If an individual, a statement of whether the applicant has been
convicted of any felony; or of any violation of federal or state law concerning
the manufacture, possession, or sale of alcoholic liquor; or of any gambling
offense as proscribed by any of subsections (a)(3) through (a)(11) of 720
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/28-1, or as proscribed by 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/28-1.1 or 5/28-3, as heretofore or hereafter amended, or as
proscribed by a statute replaced by any of the aforesaid statutory provisions;
and if so, the name of the offense for which the applicant was convicted, the
date of the conviction, and the jurisdiction where the conviction was entered;
and a statement whether the applicant is disqualified to receive a license by
reason of any matter or thing contained in titles 10 and 11 of this code and
laws of the state of Illinois, or the ordinances of the village and, if so, a
statement of why the applicant would be so disqualified.
      2.   If a copartnership, a statement whether any of the copartners have
been convicted of any felony; or of any violation of federal or state law
concerning the manufacture, possession, or sale of alcoholic liquor; or of any
gambling offense as proscribed by any of subsections (a)(3) through (a)(11) of
720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/28-1, or as proscribed by 720 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/28-1.1 or 5/28-3, as heretofore or hereafter amended, or as
proscribed by a statute replaced by any of the aforesaid statutory provisions;
and if so, the name of the offense for which the copartner was convicted, the
date of the conviction, and the jurisdiction where the conviction was entered;
and a statement whether the copartner is disqualified to receive a license by
reason of any matter or thing contained in titles 10 and 11 of this code and
laws of the state of Illinois, or the ordinances of the village and, if so, a
statement of why the copartner would be so disqualified.
      3.   If a partnership, owning more than five percent (5%) of the
aggregate limited partner interest in such partnership would not be eligible to
receive a license hereunder for any reason.
      4.   If a corporation, a statement of whether any officer, manager,
director, or stockholder owning in the aggregate more than five percent (5%) of
the stock has been convicted of any felony; or of any violation of federal or
state law concerning the manufacture, possession, or sale of alcoholic liquor;
or of any gambling offense as proscribed by any of subsections (a)(3) through
(a)(11) of 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/28-1, or as proscribed by 720
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/28-1.1 or 5/28-3, as heretofore or hereafter
amended, or as proscribed by a statute replaced by any of the aforesaid
statutory provisions; and if so, the name of the offense for which the officer,
manager, director or stockholder owning more than five percent (5%) of the
stock is disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing
contained in titles 10 and 11 of this code and laws of the state of Illinois,
or the ordinances of the village and if so, a statement of why the officer,
manager, director or stockholder owning more than five percent (5%) of the
stock would be so disqualified.
   S.   If a corporation, a statement as to whether it is incorporated in
Illinois, or it is a foreign corporation which is qualified under the business
corporation act of 1983 to transact business in Illinois.
   T.   A statement of whether a manager/agent of the applicant possesses the
same qualifications required by the licensee in this section.
   U.   A statement of whether a previous license by any state or subdivision
thereof, or by the federal government, and held by the applicant, has been
revoked; if so, a statement of the reasons why the license was revoked.
   V.   A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the laws of the
village or of the state of Illinois or of the United States in the conduct of
his place of business.
   W.   Consent by the applicant to sign a release of criminal information
consent form which shall allow the village police department to do a background
check for any criminal history and shall also submit to fingerprinting and
photographing.
   X.   A statement regarding if the premises is leased or owned. If leased, a
copy of a lease will be required for a term of sufficient length to encompass
the duration of the licensed period sought. If owned, a copy of the deed shall
be provided listing the name and address of the owner or owners of the premises
and all the owners of the beneficial interest of any trust if said premises is
held in trust.
   Y.   A factual statement addressing any other ground specified for
ineligibility in licensing in 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-2, as
subsequently amended. (2016 Code)
3-2-6: CHARACTER OF APPLICANT; INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Character: Each person desiring a license to operate a dramshop or
liquor store shall be required to show that he or she is of good moral
character.
   B.   Insurance: No license shall be issued hereunder unless the applicant
shall file with the application a certificate of an insurance company
authorized to do business in the state of Illinois certifying that the
applicant has in force and effect the insurance, for the entire period of the
license, required by statute. (2016 Code)
3-2-7: EXAMINATION OF APPLICANT:
The local liquor control commissioner shall have the right to examine or cause
to be examined, under oath, any applicant for a local license or for a renewal
thereof, or any licensee upon whom notice of revocation or suspension has been
served as provided by statute, and to examine or cause to be examined the books
and records of any such applicant or licensee; to hear testimony and take proof
for his information in the performance of his duties, and for such purpose to
issue subpoenas which shall be effective in any part of this state. For the
purpose of obtaining any of the information desired by the local liquor control
commissioner under this section, he may authorize his agent to act on his
behalf, as provided by statute. (2016 Code)
3-2-8: APPROVAL OR DENIAL OF LICENSE:
Within thirty (30) days after the submission of an application to the local
liquor control commission, the liquor control commission shall either approve
or deny said application; except, that if no action has been taken within said
thirty (30) day period, the application shall be deemed to have been denied and
no license shall issue. (2016 Code)
3-2-9: TERM OF LICENSE:
Each license issued hereunder shall terminate on April 30 following the
issuance thereof. (2016 Code)
3-2-10: CLASSES OF LICENSES AND FEES:
   A.   Class A: A class A license is issued in the village and permits the
retail sale of alcoholic liquor in the original package, not for consumption on
the premises or for resale. The annual fee for such license shall be five
hundred dollars ($500.00).
   B.   Class B: A class B video gaming license shall permit the licensee of a
gaming lounge to draw, pour, mix, or otherwise serve alcoholic liquor for
consumption on the gaming lounge premises where video gaming terminals are or
will be displayed for play or operation. The annual fee for such license shall
be five hundred dollars ($500.00). (2016 Code) (amd. Ord. 20-545, 4-20-2020)
3-2-11: PAYMENT AND DISPOSITION OF FEES:
All license fees shall be paid to the village clerk at the time application is
made and shall be forthwith turned over to the village treasurer. In the event
the license applied for is denied, the fee shall be returned to the applicant;
if the license is granted, the fee shall be deposited in the general corporate
fund or in such other fund as shall have been designated by the board of
trustees by proper action. (2016 Code)
3-2-12: NUMBER OF LICENSES:
The total number of all class A licenses issued and in force at any one time in
any year shall not exceed one (1). The total number of all class B licenses
issued and in force at any one time in any year shall not exceed one (1). (2016
Code) (amd. Ord. 20-546, 4-20-2020)
3-2-13: PRIVILEGE GRANTED BY LICENSE:
A license shall be purely a personal privilege, good for a period not to exceed
one year after issuance unless sooner revoked as in this chapter provided, and
shall not constitute property, nor shall it be subject to attachment,
garnishment, or execution, nor shall it alienable or transferable, voluntarily
or involuntarily, or subject to being encumbered or hypothecated. The license
shall cease upon the death of the licensee and shall not descend by the laws of
testate or intestate devolution; provided, that executors or administrators of
the estate of any deceased licensee, and the trustee of any insolvent or
bankrupt licensee, when such estate consists in part of alcoholic liquor, may
continue the business of the sale of alcoholic liquor under the order of the
appropriate court, and may exercise the privileges of the deceased or insolvent
or bankrupt licensee after the death of such decedent, or such insolvency or
bankruptcy, until the expiration of such license, but not longer than six (6)
months after the death, bankruptcy or insolvency of such licensee. A refund
shall be made of that portion of the license fee paid for any period in which
the licensee shall be prevented from operating under the license in accordance
with the provisions of this section. (2016 Code)
3-2-14: RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
   A.   Any licensee may renew his license at the expiration thereof; provided,
that he is then qualified to receive a license and the premises for which such
renewal license is sought is suitable for such purpose; provided further, that
the renewal privilege herein provided for shall not be construed as a vested
right which shall in any case prevent the village president and board of
trustees from decreasing the number of licenses to be issued within his
jurisdiction.
   B.   All applications for renewal licenses must be filed with the liquor
control commissioner or any member of the liquor control commission at least
ten (10) days prior to the date of expiration of said license and the required
fee paid.
   C.   No license shall be renewed if complaint has been received by the
liquor control commission as to the manner in which the applicant for such
renewal has carried on the business authorized by such license until a hearing
has been made upon such complaint before the liquor control commission. Such
hearing shall be held pursuant to the provisions of section
3-2-25 of this chapter. (2016 Code)
3-2-15: POSTING LICENSE; DUPLICATE LICENSES:
   A.   Every person licensed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter
shall immediately post and keep posted, while in force, in a conspicuous place
on the premises, the license so issued.
   B.   Whenever such license shall be lost or destroyed, a duplicate in lieu
thereof shall be ordered and issued by the liquor control commission.
   C.   Any person failing, neglecting or refusing to comply with this section
shall pay not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. (2016 Code)
3-2-16: SALE OF LICENSED PREMISES:
   A.   Upon application being filed with the village clerk and upon payment of
an investigation fee in the sum of fifty dollars ($50.00), the local liquor
control commissioner may issue a license to the purchaser of an established
licensed business as a going concern. Such application must be for exactly the
same class of license as that held by the seller, and such application shall be
only for the same location as the previously licensed business.
   B.   Any such purchaser shall make application for the issuance of a new
license thereto, and in such application, he shall state the actual facts in
respect to his purchase of such business. He shall also fill out an application
form and furnish the information and make the statements similar to that
required of any other licensee under section
3-2-5 of this chapter. If the application is approved, the license shall be
issued to the purchaser upon payment to the village clerk of the license fee
then due, without any credit for any unused portion of the previous license;
and there shall be no rebate to any person for any unused portion of any
license.
   C.   No license shall be issued to the purchaser of such business until the
seller of such business shall have surrendered his license to the village clerk
for cancellation. (2016 Code)
3-2-17: RECORDS AND NOTICES:
The village president shall keep or cause to be kept a complete record of all
licenses issued thereby, and shall furnish the clerk, treasurer and chief of
police each with a copy thereof. Upon the issuance of any new license or the
revocation of any old license, the president shall give written notice of such
action to each of these officers within forty eight (48) hours of such action.
(2016 Code)
3-2-18: LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
No license shall be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor
within one hundred feet (100') of any institution of higher learning, hospital,
home for aged or indigent persons or for veterans, their spouses or children or
any military or naval station; provided, that this prohibition shall not apply
to hotels offering restaurant service, regularly organized clubs, or to
restaurants, food shops or other places where the sale of alcoholic liquors is
not the principal business carried on; nor to the renewal of a license for the
sale at retail of alcoholic liquor on premises within one hundred feet (100')
of any church or school where the church or school has been established within
such one hundred feet (100') since the issuance of the original license. In the
case of a church, the distance of one hundred feet (100') shall be measured to
the nearest part of any building used for worship services or educational
programs and not to property boundaries. (2016 Code)
3-2-19: DAYS AND HOURS OF SALES:
   A.   Closing Hours: It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale or to
give away any alcoholic liquor in or upon any premises licensed for the sale of
alcoholic liquor by the village as follows: one minute after twelve o'clock
(12:01) A.M. to twelve o'clock (12:00) noon on Sunday; twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday through six
o'clock (6:00) A.M. the following day.
   B.   Election Days: A licensed person may sell at retail any alcoholic
liquor on the day any national, state, county or municipal election, including
any primary election, is held within the corporate limits of the village. (2016
Code)
3-2-20: SALES TO CERTAIN PERSONS PROHIBITED:
No licensee nor any officer, associate, member, representative, agent or
employee of such licensee shall sell, give or deliver alcoholic liquor to any
person under the age of twenty one (21) years, or to any intoxicated person,
except as provided in 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-16.1. (2016 Code)
3-2-21: PERSONS UNDER TWENTY ONE:
   A.   Violations:
      1.   Any person under twenty one (21) years of age shall not purchase or
accept a gift of alcoholic liquor or have alcoholic liquor in his possession in
any place in the village.
      2.   No person, after purchasing or otherwise obtaining alcoholic liquor,
shall sell, give or deliver such alcoholic liquor to another person under the
age of twenty one (21) years, except in the performance of a religious ceremony
or service.
      3.   a. It shall be unlawful to sell, give, or deliver alcoholic liquor
to any person under twenty one (21) years of age.
         b.   It shall be unlawful for any holder of a retail liquor dealer's
license, or his or her agent or employee, to suffer or permit any person under
the age of twenty one (21) years to be or remain in any room or compartment
adjoining or adjacent to or situated in the room or place where such licensed
premises is located; provided, that this subsection A3b shall not apply to any
person under the age of twenty one (21) years who is accompanied by his or her
parent or guardian, or any licensed premises which derives its principal
business from the sale of services or other commodities other than alcoholic
liquor.
         c.   In addition to all other fines and penalties, the village
president may suspend or revoke the retail liquor dealer's license for any
violation of this subsection A3.
      4.   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to employ any person under the
age of twenty one (21) years to sell any alcoholic beverages as an employee of
any retail licensee.
   B.   Misrepresentation Of Age:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person under twenty one (21) years of
age to misrepresent his or her age for the purpose of purchasing or obtaining
alcoholic liquor in any place in the village where alcoholic liquor is sold.
      2.   In every retail establishment in the village where alcoholic liquor
is sold, there shall be displayed at all times in a prominent place, a printed
card which shall be supplied by the village clerk and which shall read
substantially as follows:
   WARNING TO PERSONS UNDER TWENTY ONE
You are subject to a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor
more than seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) under the Village Code of
San Jose if you purchase alcoholic liquor, or misrepresent your age for the
purpose of purchasing or obtaining alcoholic liquor.
      3.   a. If a licensee or his agent or employee believes or has reason to
believe that the sale or delivery of any alcoholic liquor is prohibited because
of the nonage of the prospective recipient, he shall, before making such sale
or delivery, demand presentation of some form of positive identification
containing proof of age, issued by a public official in the performance of his
official duties.
         b.   For the purpose of preventing the violation of this subsection
B3, any licensee or his agent or employee may refuse to sell or serve alcoholic
beverages to any person who, in his opinion, is unable to produce adequate
positive identification of identity of the fact that he or she is at least the
age of twenty one (21) years.
      4.   No person shall transfer, alter, or deface such an identification
card, use the identification card of another, or carry or use a false or forged
identification card or otherwise purchase or attempt to purchase alcoholic
liquors if such person is not twenty one (21) years of age.
   C.   Responsibility Of Parent Or Guardian: It shall be unlawful for any
parent or guardian to permit any person under the age of twenty one (21) years
of whom he or she may be the parent or guardian to violate any of the
provisions of this section. (2016 Code)
3-2-22: ADDITIONAL PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Peddling Alcoholic Beverages: It shall be unlawful to peddle alcoholic
liquor in the village.
   B.   Consumption On Premises: It shall be unlawful and a violation of the
provisions of this subsection for anyone to sell or offer for sale any
alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises where sold, or to permit the
same to be consumed on the premises where sold. (2016 Code)
3-2-23: REPORT OF CRIMINAL INCIDENTS:
Each licensee and each of his agents and employees shall immediately report to
the village police department any incident occurring in or about the licensed
premises and in his knowledge or view relating to the attempt or commission of
any crime, including any violation of this chapter, and shall truthfully and
fully answer all questions and investigations of any identified police officer
who makes inquiry concerning any persons in or about the licensed premises and
any event taking place in and about the licensed premises. (2016 Code)
3-2-24: ENTRY POWERS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to refuse to grant admittance to the premises for
which a license has been issued at any time upon the verbal request of any
police officer, the health officer, or any member of the village board of
trustees, for the purpose of making an inspection of such premises, or any part
thereof.
   B.   All persons licensed to sell alcoholic liquor, as provided in this
chapter, shall be required to permit the village president or any village
police officer to enter their premises or places of business at any time the
president or police officer may deem proper in the discharge of any duty
imposed thereon by the laws of the state of Illinois or the ordinances of the
village; and if any person licensed to sell alcoholic liquor as provided in
this chapter shall refuse to permit the president or any police officer to
enter into or upon his or her place of business or premises, he or she shall,
upon conviction, forfeit and pay not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00)
nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00), and in addition thereto,
the license of such person may be suspended or revoked as herein provided.
(2016 Code)
3-2-25: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE; FINES; HEARING; APPEAL:
   A.   Revocation Or Suspension; Fine In Lieu: The local liquor control
commissioner may revoke or suspend any license issued thereby if he determines
that the licensee has violated any of the provisions of this chapter or any
applicable rule or regulation established by the local liquor control
commission or the state commission which is not inconsistent with law. In lieu
of suspension or revocation, the local liquor control commissioner may instead
levy a fine on the licensee for such violation. The fine imposed shall not
exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for the first offense; one thousand
five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) for the second offense; and two thousand five
hundred dollars ($2,500.00) for the third and any subsequent offenses. Each day
on which a violation continues shall constitute a separate violation. Not more
than fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00) in fines under this subsection may
be imposed against any licensee during the period of the license. Proceeds from
such fines shall be paid into the municipal general treasury.
   B.   Hearing:
      1.   No license shall be so revoked or suspended and no licensee shall be
fined except after a public hearing by the local liquor control commissioner
with a three (3) day written notice to the licensee affording the licensee an
opportunity to appear and defend. All such hearings shall be open to the
public, and the local liquor control commissioner shall reduce all evidence to
writing and shall maintain an official record of the proceedings. If the local
liquor control commissioner has reason to believe that any continued operation
of a particular licensed premises will immediately threaten the welfare of the
community, he may, upon the issuance of a written order stating the reason for
such conclusion and without notice or hearing, order the licensed premises
closed for not more than seven (7) days, giving the licensee an opportunity to
be heard during that period; except, that if such licensee shall also be
engaged in the conduct of another business or businesses on the licensed
premises, such order shall not be applicable to such other business or
businesses.
      2.   The local liquor control commissioner shall, within five (5) days
after such hearing, if he determines after such hearing that the license should
be revoked or suspended or that the licensee should be fined, state the reason
or reasons for such determination in a written order, and either the amount of
the fine, the period of suspension, or that the license has been revoked, and
shall serve a copy of such an order within the five (5) days upon the licensee.
   C.   Appeal: The licensee shall thereafter have the privilege of appeal to
the state liquor control commission as provided by law. (2016 Code)
3-2-26: COMPLAINT OF VIOLATION; HEARING:
Any five (5) residents of the village shall have the right to file a complaint
with the local liquor control commission stating that any retail licensee,
subject to the jurisdiction of the local commission, has been or is violating
the provisions of this chapter or the rules or regulations issued pursuant
hereto. Such complaint shall be in writing in the form prescribed by the local
commission and shall be signed and sworn to by the parties complaining. The
complaint shall state the particular provision, rule or regulation believed to
have been violated and the facts, in detail, upon which the belief is based. If
the local commission is satisfied that the complaint substantially charges a
violation and that, from the facts alleged, there is reasonable cause for such
belief, it shall set the matter for hearing and shall serve notice upon the
licensee of the time and place of such hearing and of the particular charge in
the complaint. (2016 Code)
3-2-27: PENALTY:
Whomever violates any provision of this chapter, upon conviction, shall be
punishable by a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each violation. (2016 Code)
CHAPTER 3
COIN OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICES; GAMBLING
SECTION:
3-3-1: Definitions
3-3-2: Amusement Devices
3-3-2-1: License Requirements
3-3-2-2: Hours Of Operation
3-3-2-3: Persons Under Sixteen
3-3-3: Gambling Devices And Gambling
3-3-4: Inspections
3-3-5: Penalty
3-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
COIN OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICE: Any machine which, upon the insertion of a
coin, slug, token, plate or disk, may be operated by the public generally for
use as a game or entertainment. The term includes such devices as marble
machines, pinball machines, electronic games, skill ball, mechanical grab-em
machines, and all games, operations, or transactions similar thereto under
whatever name they may be known.
GAMBLING DEVICE: Every clock, tape machine, slot machine, or other machine or
device for the reception of money, or token of value, on chance or upon the
action of which money or other valuable thing is staked, hazarded, bet, won or
lost, or upon the result of the action and operation of which, or a combination
of the action of the player and such machine, money or other valuable thing is
staked, hazarded, bet, won or lost; or any machine or device which is set into
play or operation by the payment of money or other valuable thing to the keeper
of such machine or device, or by the insertion into such machine or device of
money or other valuable thing, and upon the result of the operation of such
machine, or the result of the combination of the action of such machine and the
action of the person playing the same, prizes or rewards consisting of money,
merchandise or other valuable things, are awarded to the person playing such
machine, or held out to be awarded to such person, depending upon the result of
such operation. The fact that in the operation of any such machine or device,
amusement in the form of games or otherwise, shall be afforded to the person
playing such machine or device, or that any article or merchandise is vended by
such machine or device, shall not take such machine or device out of the class
of a gambling device if the character and operation of such machine or device
otherwise places it within this definition. (2016 Code)
3-3-2: AMUSEMENT DEVICES:
3-3-2-1: LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   License Required: No person, firm or corporation shall set up for
operation, operate or distribute for the purpose of operation, within the
corporate limits of the village, or shall keep or maintain, or permit to be
kept and maintained, for play or operation, within any room in any shed, booth,
building or enclosure, or any part thereof, occupied or tenanted by such
person, firm, or corporation, within the corporate limits of the village, any
coin operated amusement device without having a license in full force and
effect to do so as provided in this section.
   B.   Application For License: Any person, firm or corporation desiring a
license to operate, or exhibit for operation or play, a coin operated amusement
device within the corporate limits of the village shall make application in
writing therefor to the village clerk, which application shall contain the name
or names and address or addresses of the applicant or applicants, the number of
the devices and the type or types thereof for which the license is desired. The
applicant or applicants shall deposit with the application, in cash, the
license fee provided in subsection C of this section.
   C.   License Fee: The annual license fee for said coin operated amusement
devices shall be in the amount of twenty five dollars ($25.00) for each device.
   D.   Issuance Or Denial Of License: If the application is in conformity with
the provisions of this section and if it appears from such application that the
device or devices for which said application is made are coin operated
amusement devices, as defined in section
3-3-1 of this chapter, the village president shall grant such application, and
thereupon, the village president and the village clerk shall issue to such
applicant or applicants a license for the public operation of each of such
devices, which license shall describe the coin operated amusement device for
which, if is granted, shall contain the name of the licensee or licensees, and
shall specify the expiration date of such license. In the event that no license
or licenses are granted by the village president upon such application, the
deposit of the license fee accompanying said application shall forthwith be
returned to the applicant or applicants.
   E.   Display Of License: The license issued for each coin operated amusement
device shall be, at all times, affixed to the device for which it was issued in
a plainly visible and exposed place thereon, and failure of the licensee or
keeper of such device to so affix and keep affixed such license, at any time,
shall constitute a violation of this section.
   F.   Expiration Of License: All such licenses shall expire on December 31
next following the date of issuance thereof. No license other than an annual
license shall be issued.
   G.   Revocation Of License: Any license pursuant to this section may be
revoked by the village president for good cause. (2016 Code)
3-3-2-2: HOURS OF OPERATION:
Every person who shall be issued a license under the provisions of this section
3-3-2 shall be permitted to have his business open from five o'clock (5:00)
A.M. to eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M., inclusive, Monday through Saturday.
Permitted hours on Sunday are from two o'clock (2:00) P.M. to ten o'clock (10:
00) P.M., inclusive. (2016 Code)
3-3-2-3: PERSONS UNDER SIXTEEN:
   A.   Operation Restricted:
      1.   No person shall permit any person under sixteen (16) years of age to
play or operate any coin operated amusement device unless accompanied by a
parent or legal guardian.
      2.   In the event of a violation of this subsection A, no such device
shall be permitted to be located in the place of business of the person where
such violation occurred for a period of thirty (30) days; and in the event of a
second violation of this subsection A, no such device shall be permitted to be
located in the place of business of such person where such violation occurred,
and no license shall be issued thereafter to any applicant under the terms of
this section
3-3-2 for the display or operation of such machine in any place of business
operated by such person.
   B.   Misrepresentation Of Age: Any person under sixteen (16) years of age
who misrepresents his age for the purpose of playing or operating any coin
operated amusement device in any place of business in the village shall, upon
conviction thereof, be subject to a fine for each and every offense at the
amount provided in section
3-3-5 of this chapter. Each day that such a violation exists or continues shall
be deemed a distinct and separate offense. (2016 Code)
3-3-3: GAMBLING DEVICES AND GAMBLING:
Gambling Devices: Except for devices licensed by the state in the video gaming
act and those used in the administration of the Illinois lottery system, no
gambling device shall be kept, maintained or operated within the corporate
limits of the village. (2016 Code) (amd. Ord. 20-546, 4-20-2020)
3-3-4: INSPECTIONS:
The village police officers are directed to inspect, periodically, each
licensed coin operated amusement device for the purpose of determining if said
device is operated and used in violation of the provisions of this chapter.
(2016 Code)
3-3-5: PENALTY:
Any person or entity convicted of violating any provision of this chapter shall
be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for said violation, and each day that such a
violation exists or continues shall be deemed a distinct and separate offense.
(2016 Code)
CHAPTER 4
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND ITINERANT VENDORS
SECTION:
3-4-1: Definition
3-4-2: License Required
3-4-3: Conditions For Granting License
3-4-4: License Fees
3-4-5: Restrictions On License
3-4-6: Devices To Attract Attention Prohibited
3-4-7: Revocation Of License
3-4-8: Nonresident Solicitors
3-4-9: Charitable Solicitations
3-4-10: Solicitations By Telephone
3-4-11: Exemptions From Provisions
3-4-12: Penalty
3-4-1: DEFINITION:
As used in this chapter, an itinerant vendor, solicitor or peddler is any
person traveling from city to city, village to village or community to
community and in or about this village for the purpose of selling, peddling,
soliciting, bartering or exchanging, or offering so to do, any goods, wares,
magazines, articles, materials, or merchandise, or any other article except
farm products and produce, milk, cream, bakery goods, brushes and like items,
and who does not have a permanent fixed place of business in the village. A
solicitor shall also include any person who solicits funds or contributions for
any charity, community fund, state or national fund, or funds for any
organization, or any drives for funds of any kind who are nonresidents of the
village, but shall not include any persons soliciting for drives of any kind
who are residents of the village, and who represent any authorized charitable
organization or any authorized organization in behalf of an organized fund
drive of any kind. (1982 Code §
3-3-1; amd. 2016 Code)
3-4-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No itinerant vendor, solicitor or peddler shall engage in any of the businesses
referenced in section
3-4-1 of this chapter without a license being issued to him as hereinafter
provided. (1982 Code §
3-3-3)
3-4-3: CONDITIONS FOR GRANTING LICENSE:
The village clerk shall grant licenses as required in this chapter upon
compliance by the itinerant vendor, peddler or solicitor with the following:
   A.   Registration by the applicant with the chief of police.
   B.   Proof being submitted by the applicant to the chief of police that the
applicant is of good moral character.
   C.   Certification in writing by the chief of police that the applicant is
of good moral character.
   D.   The payment to the village clerk by the applicant of the license fees
hereinafter designated. (1982 Code §
3-3-4)
3-4-4: LICENSE FEES:
License fees in connection with this chapter shall be as follows:
 
For the sale of, or the solicitation for the sale of, any goods, $25.00 per day
wares or merchandise
For the sale of, or solicitation for the sale of, all other
articles referred to in section                                   
3-4-1 of this chapter:
 Resident of Mason or Logan County                              25.00 per year
 Nonresident of Mason or Logan County                           25.00 per day
 
(1982 Code §
3-3-5; amd. 2016 Code)
3-4-5: RESTRICTIONS ON LICENSE:
The license required herein shall include the right to use only one vehicle,
automobile, wagon or cart and shall apply to the named person only. Said
license shall not be transferable, and the same shall be conspicuously
displayed upon or from such wagon, automobile, vehicle or cart, and shall be
shown to the resident with whom the said vendor seeks to do business. (1982
Code § 3-3-6)
3-4-6: DEVICES TO ATTRACT ATTENTION PROHIBITED:
No person to whom a license has been issued shall use any horn, whistle or
other device to attract attention to his wares, articles, or merchandise. (1982
Code § 3-3-6)
3-4-7: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Any license issued under the provisions of this chapter may be revoked by the
president for the violation of any provisions hereof. (1982 Code § 3-3-8)
3-4-8: NONRESIDENT SOLICITORS:
No license fee shall be required from any nonresident solicitor who solicits
funds or contributions for any charity, community fund, state or national fund,
or funds for any organization or any drives for funds of any kind, but said
nonresidents shall comply with the other provisions of this chapter. (1982 Code
§ 3-3-9)
3-4-9: CHARITABLE SOLICITATIONS:
   A.   Registration Required: No person shall solicit money, services,
subscriptions or any valuable thing for any religious, charitable or
philanthropic cause, unless such person shall register with the village clerk
identifying the cause and its officers, the soliciting agents within the
village and the duration of such solicitation.
   B.   Issuance Of Certificate: The clerk shall issue a certificate of
registration, and such certificate shall contain the information required in
subsection A of this section and shall be displayed on demand by any police
officer or by anyone so solicited.
   C.   Penalty: Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be
fined as provided in section
3-4-12 of this chapter. (1982 Code § 3-3-10)
3-4-10: SOLICITATIONS BY TELEPHONE:
   A.   Registration Required: It shall be unlawful for any person, in his own
name or in the name of or for the benefit of any other person, to conduct any
sales campaign or sales promotion of any nature whatsoever by the use of the
telephone without first registering with the village clerk.
   B.   Application Requirements: Any person desiring to conduct such campaign
shall register with the clerk on a form to be provided for that purpose, giving
the name of the person or organization, the article or articles proposed to be
sold, the terms of sale, the length of time the campaign shall continue and the
names and addresses of all persons assisting in the sales campaign within the
village.
   C.   Penalty: Any person violating any provision of this section shall be
fined as provided in section
3-4-12 of this chapter. (1982 Code § 3-3-11; amd. 2016 Code)
3-4-11: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
This chapter shall not apply to any person who has a fixed and definite place
of business in the village, such as the owner, manager, operator or employee of
any established business in the village. (1982 Code §
3-3-2; amd. 2016 Code)
3-4-12: PENALTY:
Any person or entity convicted of violating any provision of this chapter shall
be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for said violation, and each day that such a
violation exists or continues shall be deemed a distinct and separate offense.
(Ord. 14-485, 1-20-2014)
TITLE 4
HEALTH, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES; PROPERTY MAINTENANCE; LITTER CONTROL
SECTION:
4-1-1: Short Title
4-1-2: Definitions
4-1-3: Nuisance Declared Generally
4-1-4: Litter, Inoperable Motor Vehicles And Other Nuisances
4-1-5: Garbage Disposal; Container Requirements
4-1-6: Handbill Distribution And Posting
4-1-7: Weeds And Other Vegetation
4-1-8: Maintenance Of Property Required
4-1-9: Animal Carcasses
4-1-10: Abatement Procedures And Costs
4-1-10A: Abatement Procedures
4-1-11: Penalty
4-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be cited and referred to as the NUISANCES; MAINTENANCE OF
PRIVATE PROPERTY; LITTER CONTROL ORDINANCE. (2016 Code)
4-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever any words or phrases used in this chapter are not defined in this
section, such words shall be given their usual, customary meanings.
AGENT: A person, firm, corporation, association or organization that acts for
or in place of another person or authority for an owner or his or her
representative or employee. The term "agent" shall also mean any person, firm,
corporation or organization that has the immediate responsibility for the
maintenance of property, but does not own the property.
AIRCRAFT: Any contrivance now known or hereby invented, used or designated for
navigation or for flight in the air. The word "aircraft" shall include
helicopters and lighter than air dirigibles and balloons.
AUTHORIZED PRIVATE RECEPTACLE: A litter storage and collection receptacle as
required and authorized by this chapter.
DUMPSTER: A metal refuse container of one cubic yard or more in volume with an
attached lid designed for handling by mechanical means.
GARBAGE: Shall include and mean all accumulation of animal, fruit or vegetable
matter that attends the preparation, use, cooking and dealing in, or storage
of, meats, fish, fowl, fruit, vegetables and any other matter, of any nature
whatsoever, which is subject to decay and which may be a food source for
rodents and putrefaction and the generation of noxious and offensive smells or
odors, or which, during and after decay, may serve as breeding or feeding
material for flies and/or other germ carrying insects; bottles, cans or other
food containers which, due to their ability to retain water, can serve as a
breeding place for mosquitoes, other water breeding insects and rodents. The
term includes rejected household food waste, offal, pet feces, swill and
carrion.
HANDBILL: Any printed or written matter, any sample or device, dodger,
circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper, booklet or any other printed or otherwise
reproduced original or copies of any matter of literature advertising for sale
any merchandise, product, commodity or thing; anything which directs attention
or promotes interest in a business, activity or the like; or anything that
directs the attention to a meeting, theatrical performance, exhibition or event
of any kind; or anything that is predominantly an advertisement and is
distributed or circulated for advertising purposes.
INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE:
   A.   Any of the following:
      1.   Any vehicle, including trailers, from which, for at least seven (7)
days, the engine, wheels or other parts have been removed or on which the
engine, wheels or other parts have been altered, damaged or otherwise so
treated that the vehicle is incapable of being driven under its own motor
power;
      2.   Any vehicle which cannot be legally operated on the streets or
highways of this State or Village because one or more of the following have
been removed or are not in proper condition, and adjustment as required by the
Illinois Compiled Statutes, as now in effect or hereinafter amended: front
bumper, rear bumper, windshield, steering wheel, door, hood or headlight; or
      3.   Any vehicle without a current registration.
   B.   An inoperable motor vehicle shall not include a motor vehicle which has
been rendered temporarily incapable of being driven under its own motor power
in order to perform ordinary service or repair operations.
LITTER: Any discarded, used or unconsumed substances or waste. "Litter" may
include, but is not limited to, any garbage; trash; refuse; debris; rubbish;
pieces of corrugated metal not attached to a building; discarded scrap metal;
motor vehicle bodies, parts, equipment, or motors; ashes; tin cans; metal ware;
crockery; stoneware; manure; metal storage tanks; unused or discarded telephone
poles; portions of buildings or sides of buildings not permanently attached to
a building; pieces of wood or lumber haphazardly strewn about; grass clippings
or other lawn or garden waste; newspaper, magazine, glass, metal, plastic or
paper containers or other packaging construction material; oil; carcasses of a
dead animal; discarded or unused objects or equipment such as stoves,
refrigerators and freezers; any nauseous or offensive matter of any kind; or
anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature which has been discarded,
abandoned or otherwise disposed of improperly.
MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING: A residence, other than a townhouse, designed for and/or
occupied by two (2) or more families, each living independently of each other
in a separate dwelling unit.
NEWSPAPER: Any newspaper of general circulation as defined by general law; in
addition thereto, any periodical or current magazine regularly published with
not less than four (4) issues per year, and sold to the public.
NUISANCE: Any condition or use of premises or of building exteriors which is
detrimental to the property of others or which causes or tends to cause
substantial diminution in the value of other property in the neighborhood in
which such premises is located. This includes, but is not limited to, the
keeping or the depositing on or the scattering over the premises of litter.
OPEN: Not completely enclosed or encased in a garage, shed or other structure
which has intact four (4) complete, not partial, walls and a roof. Such walls
and roof shall be adequate to prevent the viewing of the contents of the
structure from the outside of the structure, excepting therefrom the viewing
through windowpanes. An inoperable motor vehicle covered only by a tarpaulin or
other similar cover shall be deemed open for the purpose of this chapter.
OWNER: Any person who, alone, jointly or severally with another:
   A.   Has legal or equitable title to any premises, dwelling unit or building
(residential or nonresidential), with or without actual possession thereof; or
   B.   Has charge, care or control of any premises, dwelling, dwelling unit or
business building as agent of the owner or as executor, administrator, trustee
or guardian of the estate of the beneficial owner.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company, corporation,
association, joint stock company, trust, estate, or any other legal entity, or
its legal representative, agent or assigns, and "person" shall mean both the
lawful owner and tenant of any premises subject to this chapter.
PRIVATE PREMISES: Any dwelling, house, building or other structure designated
or used, either wholly or in part, for private residential or commercial
purposes, whether inhabited or vacant, and any yard, grounds, walk, driveway,
porch, steps, vestibule or mailbox belonging or appurtenant to such dwelling,
house, building or other structure.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys or other
public ways and any and all public spaces, grounds and buildings.
RATPROOF: A form of construction which will prevent the entrance and exit of
rats, mice and other rodents to and from a given space or building.
REFUSE: All putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes (except body wastes),
including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings and solid market and
industrial wastes.
RUBBISH: Nonputrescible solid wastes consisting of both combustible and
noncombustible wastes, such as paper, wrappings, cigarettes, cardboard, tin
cans, yard clippings, wood, glass, bedding, crockery and similar material.
STAGNANT: Not flowing or moving, and often foul-smelling or stale; showing
little or no activity or vitality; inactive or sluggish.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway. (2016 Code; amd. Ord. 17-513, 11-20-2017,
eff. 11-30-2017; Ord. 19-527, 6-17-2019, eff. 6-27-2019)
4-1-3: NUISANCE DECLARED GENERALLY:
All "litter", as defined in section
4-1-2 of this chapter, is hereby declared to be a public nuisance. (2016 Code)
4-1-4: LITTER, INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES AND OTHER NUISANCES:
   A.   The owner, occupant or lessee of any premises in the Village shall
remove from said premises or otherwise dispose of all garbage and litter and
shall keep said premises at all times free and clear of any accumulation of
garbage and litter.
   B.   No person shall throw or deposit litter in or upon any street, sidewalk
or other public place within the Village, except in public receptacles or in
authorized private receptacles for collection.
   C.   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street or other
public place within the Village the accumulation of litter from any building or
lot or from any public or private sidewalk or driveway.
   D.   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any private premises within
the Village, whether owned by such person or not, except in authorized private
receptacles for collection.
   E.   Persons owning or occupying property shall keep the sidewalk and
Village right-of-way in front of and/or surrounding their premises free of
litter.
   F.   1. It is unlawful for any person to cast, place, sweep or deposit
within the limits of the Village any garbage or litter in such a manner that it
may be carried or deposited by the action of the sun, wind, rain or snow into
or upon any street, sidewalk, alley, sewer, parkway or other public place, or
into any occupied or unoccupied premises within the limits of the Village.
      2.   Persons placing litter in public receptacles or in authorized
private receptacles shall do so in such a manner as to prevent it from being
carried or deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or other public
place.
   G.   No person in any aircraft shall throw, drop or deposit within the
Village any litter or handbills.
   H.   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant private
property within the Village, whether owned by such person or not.
   I.   No pile or deposit of manure, garbage, miscellaneous waste or refuse of
any kind whatsoever, nor accumulation of any offensive or nauseous substance,
shall be made within the limits of the Village; nor shall any person unload,
discharge or put upon the right-of-way of any street, alley or public place
within the Village any of the above listed substances; nor shall any vehicle
loaded with or having upon it any such above listed substances be allowed to
remain or stand or park on or along any street, alley or other public place
within the limits of the Village.
   J.   Inoperable motor vehicles may not be parked, stored or left in the open
on private property.
K.   The storing, placing or allowing to remain in the open on streets, alleys
or private property of motor vehicle bodies, parts, equipment, motors, or
materials for a period of more than fourteen (14) days in any one calendar year
is hereby prohibited unless necessary for the operation of a business
enterprise lawfully conducted thereon. If a lawful business enterprise involves
the storage of motor vehicle bodies, parts, equipment, motors, or materials for
a period of more than thirty (30) days in any one calendar year, then there
shall be required a commercial fence per subsection
9-4-3C of this Code to be constructed surrounding the property upon which the
motor vehicle bodies, parts, equipment, motors, or materials are stored. For
the purposes of this paragraph K, no business shall be considered “lawful”
unless such business has been awarded a special use permit for a motor vehicle
junkyard as provided for in section
10-9-1 of this Code.
   L.   It is unlawful to erect or maintain a barbed wire fence or an electric
fence along, upon or adjacent to any sidewalk, street, alley or public place
within the Village.
   M.   It is unlawful for any person to spit or expectorate upon the floor of
any public building within the Village.
   N.   It is unlawful to allow stagnant water to collect or to stand upon
premises; any foul or stagnant water of any kind.
(2016 Code; amd. Ord. 17-513, 11-20-2017, eff. 11-30-2017; amd. Ord. 20-554,
11-16-2020; Ord. 22-580, 10-17-2022; Ord. 22-586, 3-20-2023, eff. 4-1-2023)
4-1-5: GARBAGE DISPOSAL; CONTAINER REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permission To Store Or Dispose: It shall be unlawful for any person to
dispose of or to store any and all garbage, refuse, rubbish or offal in any
place within the Village limits without first having obtained the permission of
the Village Board. (1982 Code §
3-4-5; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Container Specifications And Requirements:
      1.   Requirements for single-family dwelling units and multi-family
dwellings of less than five (5) units are as follows:
         a.   Every dwelling and building, residential or otherwise, must have
a litter or garbage container of sufficient number and capacity to accommodate
and contain all litter and garbage generated and accumulated on the outside of
the dwelling or building. Owner(s)/occupant(s) shall supply and maintain, at
all times, a ratproof and watertight container for all litter or garbage being
stored or accumulated outside of said dwelling.
         b.   It shall be the responsibility of every occupant to keep
containers, whether they are garbage cans, dumpsters or other containers,
tightly covered or sealed, except when momentarily opened to receive or remove
litter.
         c.   It shall be the duty of every occupant to place litter or garbage
containers for collection either on the alley lot line or on the curb line of
the premises at such times and in such manner as the Village may direct, but
they shall not be placed in any alley or street.
      2.   Requirements for multi-family dwellings with five (5) or more
dwelling units and nonresidential buildings are as follows:
         a.   The owner(s) must provide a ratproof and watertight dumpster for
all litter. However, if this requirement cannot be met because the nature or
size of the property does not permit the placement or removal of a dumpster,
the owner(s) may petition the Village Board for an exception; provided, that
such exception can be granted without substantial detriment to the public good
and without impairing the general purpose and intent of this chapter.
         b.   The owner(s) or his agent or occupant(s) must keep containers,
whether they are garbage cans, dumpsters or other containers, tightly covered
or sealed at all times, except when momentarily opened to receive or remove
litter.
         c.   It shall be the duty of the owner(s) or his agent or occupant(s)
to place containers for litter either on the alley lot line or on the curb line
of the premises at such times and in such manner as the Village may direct.
   C.   Tampering With, Damage To Containers: It shall be unlawful for any
person, other than the owner(s) or his agent, occupant(s), tenant(s) or members
of their families, or a scavenger employed or licensed by the Village, to
deposit any article, substance or thing in any container for garbage, rubbish,
refuse, ashes or wastes, or to remove, displace, injure, deface, destroy,
uncover or in any manner disturb such container or any litter that is placed on
the alley lot line or curb line for collection. (2016 Code)
4-1-6: HANDBILL DISTRIBUTION AND POSTING:
   A.   Public Places:
      1.   No person shall paste, post, paint, nail or otherwise fasten any
handbill, sign, poster, advertisement or notice of any kind whatsoever, or
cause the same to be done, on any curb, or any portion or part of any sidewalk
or street, or upon any tree, lamppost, telephone pole, electric pole, hydrant
or any other structure within the limits of any street in the Village except
such as may be required by law and the ordinances of the Village.
      2.   No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial
handbill upon any sidewalk, street or other public place within the Village;
nor shall any person hand out, distribute or sell any commercial handbill in
any public place. Provided, however, that it shall not be unlawful on any
sidewalk, street or other public place within the Village for any person to
hand out or distribute, without charge to the receiver thereof, any
noncommercial handbill to any person willing to accept it.
   B.   Private Property:
      1.   No person shall paste, post, paint, print, nail or otherwise fasten
any handbill, sign, poster, advertisement or notice of any kind, or cause the
same to be done, upon any private wall, window, door, gate, fence, advertising
board or sign, or upon any other private structure or building, unless he is
the owner, agent or lessee thereof, without the consent, in writing, of the
owner of such wall, window, fence, gate, advertising board or sign or other
private building or structure.
      2.   No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial
handbill upon any private premises which is temporarily or continuously
uninhabited or vacant. No person shall throw, deposit or distribute any
commercial or noncommercial handbill in or upon private premises which is
inhabited, except by handing or transmitting any such handbill directly to the
owner, occupant or other person then present in or upon such private premises.
Provided, however, that in case of inhabited private premises, such person,
unless requested by anyone upon such premises not to do so, shall have the
authority to place or deposit any such handbill in or upon such inhabited
private premises if such handbill is so placed or deposited as to secure or
prevent such handbill from being blown or drifted about such premises or
sidewalks, streets or other public places; and except, that mailboxes may not
be so used when so prohibited by Federal Postal Law or regulations.
   C.   Vehicles: No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or
noncommercial handbill in or upon any vehicle. Provided, however, that it shall
not be unlawful in any public place for a person to hand out or distribute,
without charge to the receiver thereof, a noncommercial handbill to any
occupant of a vehicle who is willing to accept it. (2016 Code)
4-1-7: WEEDS AND OTHER VEGETATION:
   A.   Nuisance Weeds: Any weeds such as jimson, burdock, ragweed, thistle,
cocklebur, or other weeds of a like kind found growing in any lot or tract of
land in the Village are a nuisance, and it is unlawful to permit any such weeds
to grow or remain in any place.
   B.   Height Of Vegetation: It is unlawful for anyone to permit any weeds,
grass or plants, other than trees, bushes, flowers, or other ornamental plants,
to grow to a height exceeding eight inches (8") anywhere in the Village. Any
such plants or weeds exceeding such height are a nuisance.
   C.   Overgrown Trees Or Shrubbery: It is unlawful for any person within the
corporate limits of the Village to permit branches of trees or shrubbery
growing upon premises owned or occupied by any person to grow over or across
any public walk or street in the Village below ten feet (10'). (2016 Code)
   D.   Growth Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person owning, leasing,
occupying or controlling any plot of ground in the Village to permit the growth
of weeds thereon. No person shall permit the growth of weeds in the sidewalk
and Village right-of-way in front of and/or surrounding their premises. It
shall further be unlawful for any owner, person, association, firm or
organization owning or occupying real property bordering on any street, alley,
roadway, parkway or waterway in the Village to permit the growth of weeds on
any such street, alley or ways. (Ord. 18-520, 10-15-2018, eff. 10-25-2018)
4-1-8: MAINTENANCE OF PROPERTY REQUIRED:
   A.   The owner or person in control of any private premises or vacant
property shall at all times maintain the private premises or vacant property
free of litter, tall grass, trees, bushes, shrubs, weeds and brush on abutting
street right-of-ways and easements in order to prevent unsafe, unsightly,
offensive or nuisance conditions in the City of San Jose. Provided, however,
that this subsection shall not prohibit the storage of litter in authorized
private receptacles for collection.
   B.   No person owning, leasing, occupying or having charge of any premises
shall maintain or keep any nuisance thereon, nor shall any such person keep or
maintain such premises in a manner causing substantial diminution in the value
of other property in the neighborhood in which such premises is located.
(2016 Code; amd. Ord. 23-004, 7-17-2023)
4-1-9: ANIMAL CARCASSES:
No person shall leave or cause to be left unburied at any place in the Village,
any dead animal or fowl. (2016 Code)
4-1-10: ABATEMENT PROCEDURES AND COSTS:
   A.   Notice To Abate: It shall be the duty of the Mayor/President or Chief
of Police to serve, or cause to be served, a written notice upon the owner and/
or occupant of any premises upon which litter, inoperable motor vehicles, or
other nuisances have been allowed to exist.
   B.   Abatement By Village; Costs: If the person so served does not abate the
nuisance, inoperable vehicle or litter within seven (7) days after service of
said notice, the Village may, in addition to any fine imposed, proceed to abate
the problem by removing the litter, inoperable vehicle or nuisance, keeping an
account of the expense for the abatement, and such expense shall be charged and
paid by the owner or occupant. If the expense is not paid by the owner or
occupant within ten (10) days of the owner or occupant being informed of such
charge, then the Village shall be entitled to take legal action to recover said
expense, and in addition thereto, the Village shall be entitled to recover its
reasonable attorney fees and court costs in such legal action.
   C.   Lien Provisions:
      1.   Lien Claim: In addition to subsections A and B of this section, the
Village may place a lien upon the real estate from which litter, inoperable
motor vehicles, or other nuisances were removed. The lien shall be in the
amount of expense incurred by the Village for such abatement. To perfect such a
lien, the Village must send the owner of the real estate a notice which
includes: a) the amount of expense incurred by the Village in removing the
litter, inoperable motor vehicle, or other nuisance; and b) a statement that if
the expense remains unpaid for a period of ten (10) days beyond the date of the
notice, the charges may create a lien upon the real estate.
      2.   Notice Of Lien:
         a.   If after complying with the foregoing provisions of this section,
the expenses remain unpaid, the Village shall be entitled to file a notice of
lien in the Office of the Recorder of Deeds, Mason or Logan County, Illinois,
which notice shall consist of the following:
            (1)   A description of such real estate sufficient for the
identification thereof;
            (2)   The amount of money due for the abatement of the litter, an
inoperable motor vehicle, or other nuisance violation; and
            (3)   The date when such amount became due under the notice.
         b.   The Village shall send a copy of the notice of lien to the owner
of record of the real estate.
   C.   Penalties Are Additional: The penalties prescribed in this section are
in addition to and not in lieu of any penalties, rights, remedies, duties or
liabilities otherwise imposed or conferred by law.
(Ord. 19-526, 6-17-2019, eff. 6-27-2019; amd. Ord. 22-583, 10-17-2022; Ord. 23-
003, 6-19-2023, eff. 6-26-2023)
4-1-10A: ABATEMENT PROCEDURES:
It shall be the duty of the Mayor/President or Chief of Police to serve, or
cause to be served, a written notice upon the owner and/or occupant of any
premises upon which litter, inoperable motor vehicles, or other nuisances have
been allowed to exist. Posting on residence/location of said violation, will
serve as notice.
(Ord. 20-551, 8-17-2020; amd. Ord. 23-003, 6-19-2023, eff. 6-26-2023)
4-1-11: PENALTY:
If the person notified to abate a nuisance shall neglect or refuse to comply
with the requirements of such notice by abating such nuisance within the time
specified, such person shall be guilty of a violation of the Chapter and shall
be subject to a penalty of not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00)
nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for said violation. Where
the condition or violation is and/or repeated within the same twelve (12) month
period, the corporate authorities shall not be required to issue another formal
Notice to Abate; rather the President/Mayor or Police Chief or a designated
representative shall be authorized to proceed with a complaint for violation of
this Chapter. The penalty for a second or subsequent offense committed within a
twelve (12) month period beginning on the date of the first offense shall
follow the penalty schedule listed below:
 
1st and 2nd offense       $250.00
3rd, 4th, and 5th offense 500.00
6th offense and over      750.00
 
(Ord. 17-511, 11-20-2017, eff. 11-30-2017; amd. Ord. 19-535, 11-18-2019; Ord.
20-551, 8-17-2020; Ord. 22-583, 10-17-2022; Ord. 23-003, 6-19-2023, eff. 6-26-
2023)
CHAPTER 2
TOBACCO AND ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCTS
SECTION:
4-2-1: Definitions
4-2-2: Minors
4-2-2-1: Tobacco Products
4-2-2-2: Alternative Nicotine Products
4-2-3: Smoking And Chewing In Or Near Village Buildings Prohibited
4-2-4: Penalty
4-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words shall have the following meanings:
ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCT: A product or device not consisting of or
containing tobacco that provides for the ingestion into the body of nicotine,
whether by chewing, smoking, absorbing, dissolving, inhaling, snorting, or
sniffing, or by any other means. "Alternative nicotine product" excludes
cigarettes, "smokeless tobacco", or other "tobacco products" as these terms are
defined in this section and any product approved by the United States food and
drug administration as a nontobacco product for sale as a tobacco cessation
product, as a tobacco dependence product, or for other medical purposes, and is
being marketed and sold solely for that approved purpose.
SMOKE: To light, emit, or exhale the smoke of a pipe, cigar, cigarette, or any
other tobacco product.
SMOKELESS TOBACCO: Any tobacco product that is suitable for dipping or chewing.
TOBACCO PRODUCT: Any cigar, cigarette, smokeless tobacco, or tobacco in any of
its forms.
VILLAGE HALL OR BUILDING: Any structure built for the support, shelter or
enclosure of persons, animals, chattels or property of any kind in which is
permanently affixed to the ground and which is owned by the village of San
Jose. (Ord. 344, 12-15-1997, eff. 12-15-1997; amd. 2016 Code)
4-2-2: MINORS:
4-2-2-1: TOBACCO PRODUCTS:
   A.   Prohibitions:
      1.   Minors Under Twenty-One:
         a.   No minor under twenty-one (21) years of age shall buy any tobacco
product, and no person shall sell, buy for, distribute samples to or furnish
any tobacco product to any minor under twenty-one (21) years of age.
         b.   No minor under twenty-one (21) years of age shall possess any
cigar, cigarette, smokeless tobacco, or tobacco in any of its forms.
         c.   No minor under twenty-one (21) years of age, in the furtherance
or facilitation of obtaining any tobacco product, shall display or use a false
or forged identification card or transfer, alter, or deface an identification
card.
      2.   Minors Under Sixteen: No minor under sixteen (16) years of age may
sell any tobacco product at a retail establishment selling tobacco products.
This subsection A2 does not apply to a salesclerk in a family owned business
which can prove that the salesclerk is in fact a son or daughter of the owner.
      3.   Loose Tobacco Products: The sale or distribution by any person of a
tobacco product in this subsection including, but not limited to, a single or
loose cigarette that is not contained within a sealed container, pack, or
package as provided by the manufacturer, which container, pack or package bears
the health warning required by federal law, is prohibited.
   B.   Exemptions: It is not a violation of this section for a person under
twenty-one (21) years of age to purchase or possess a cigar, cigarette,
smokeless tobacco or tobacco in any of its forms if the person under the age of
twenty-one (21) purchases or is given the cigar, cigarette, smokeless tobacco
or tobacco in any of its forms from a retail seller of tobacco products or an
employee of the retail seller pursuant to a plan of action to investigate,
patrol, or otherwise conduct a "sting operation" or enforcement action against
a retail seller of tobacco products or a person employed by the retail seller
of tobacco products or on any premises authorized to sell tobacco products to
determine if tobacco products are being sold or given to persons under twenty-
one (21) years of age if the "sting operation" or enforcement action is
approved by the village police department or the health officer for the
village. (2016 Code) (amd. Ord. 19-530, 7-19-2019)
4-2-2-2: ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCTS:
   A.   Sales To Persons Under Eighteen Prohibited: A person, either directly
or indirectly by an agent or employee, or by a vending machine owned by the
person or located in the person's establishment, may not sell, offer for sale,
give, or furnish any alternative nicotine product, or any cartridge or
component of an alternative nicotine product, to a person under twenty-one (21)
years of age.
   B.   Identification Requirements: Before selling, offering for sale, giving,
or furnishing an alternative nicotine product, or any cartridge or component of
an alternative nicotine product, to another person, the person selling,
offering for sale, giving, or furnishing the alternative nicotine product shall
verify that the person is at least twenty-one (21) years of age by examining
from any person that appears to be under twenty seven (27) years of age a
government issued photographic identification that establishes the person is at
least twenty-one (21) years of age or older. (2016 Code) (amd. Ord. 19-530, 7-
19-2019)
4-2-3: SMOKING AND CHEWING IN OR NEAR VILLAGE BUILDINGS PROHIBITED:
No person shall smoke or chew tobacco in or within fifteen feet (15') of
entrances to village buildings. (Ord. 344, 12-15-1997, eff. 12-15-1997; amd.
2016 Code)
4-2-4: PENALTY:
Any person or entity convicted of violating any provision of this chapter shall
be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for said violation, and each day that such a
violation exists or continues shall be deemed a distinct and separate offense.
(Ord. 14-485, 1-20-2014)
TITLE 5
POLICE AND PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
5-1-1: Chief Of Police
5-1-2: Appointment Of Police Officers
5-1-3: Number Of Officers; Compensation
5-1-4: Bond And Oath
5-1-5: Term Of Office
5-1-6: Powers And Duties
5-1-7: Responsibility For Police Property
5-1-8: Special Police
5-1-9: Suspension Of Officers
5-1-1: CHIEF OF POLICE:
   A.   Office Established: There shall be established the office of chief of
police for the village, who shall be head of the department. (1982 Code §
10-1-1)
   B.   Term Of Office: The chief of police shall hold his office for a term of
not to exceed four (4) years and until his successor is appointed and
qualified. (Ord. 277, 1988; amd. 2016 Code)
   C.   Duties:
      1.   The chief of police, in subordination to the chair of the police
committee first and then the village president, shall have the full management
and control of the police department. All subordinate officers and members of
the police force shall be subject to his orders and directions. The chief of
police shall be a conservator of the peace within the corporate limits of the
village and may execute all processes issued by the proper judge for the
village, within its limits, and within such distance from the corporate limits
of the village as its jurisdiction for the violation of any ordinance extends,
over persons residing, acting or doing business without the village and in any
suit, case or action commenced for the recovery of any fine, penalty or
forfeiture for the violation of any of the ordinances of the village.
      2.   The chief of police shall devote his entire time to the duties of
his office, and shall be charged with the preservation of the peace, order,
safety and cleanliness of the village with the duty of protecting the rights of
persons and property and of a strict enforcement of all ordinances and orders
of the president and board of trustees. (Ord. 277, 1988; amd. 2016 Code)
   D.   Compensation: The compensation of the chief of police shall be set by
the board of trustees. (1982 Code § 10-1-1; amd. 2016 Code)
5-1-2: APPOINTMENT OF POLICE OFFICERS:
All police officers shall be appointed by the president, subject to the
approval of the board at a regular meeting. (1982 Code § 10-1-2)
5-1-3: NUMBER OF OFFICERS; COMPENSATION:
There shall be as many full time and part time police officers of the police
department as the village board may from time to time deem necessary. The
compensation of all full time and part time police officers shall be set by the
village board. (1982 Code § 10-1-3; amd. 2016 Code)
5-1-4: BOND AND OATH:
   A.   Bond: Each police officer, before entering upon his duties as a police
officer, shall execute a bond in the sum of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00).
Such bond will be obtained by the village clerk from the bonding agent of the
village. (1982 Code § 10-1-4; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Oath: Each police officer shall, before entering upon his duties as a
police officer, take the oath of office as by the statute in such cases made
and provided and subscribe the same, which oath shall be filed with the village
clerk. (1982 Code § 10-1-4)
5-1-5: TERM OF OFFICE:
The police chief and police committee chair determine the length of officer
employment and take decisions/recommendations to the village board as needed.
(1982 Code § 10-1-5; amd. 2016 Code)
5-1-6: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Police Powers: Each police officer shall have police powers and
authority as provided by the statutes of the state of Illinois and the
ordinances of the village. Such officers shall enforce all ordinances of the
village and laws of the state of Illinois, and shall arrest, with or without
warrant, according to the statutes of the state of Illinois and ordinances of
the village, all persons who may violate any of said laws of the state of
Illinois or ordinances of the village. They shall perform all other duties
which they shall be directed to perform by the police chief. (1982 Code § 10-1-
6; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Report Of Absence From Village: Each police officer shall report to the
chief of police any contemplated absence from the village prior to the time
thereof in order that another police officer can be designated to assume his
duties during the absence. (1982 Code § 10-1-8; amd. 2016 Code)
5-1-7: RESPONSIBILITY FOR POLICE PROPERTY:
All police officers shall be responsible for the police property which comes
under the jurisdiction of the police department. (1982 Code § 10-1-9)
5-1-8: SPECIAL POLICE:
In case of emergency, the village president, police committee chair or chief of
police shall have the right to appoint a special police officer, but the
president shall report such appointment at the next meeting of the village
board. (1982 Code § 10-1-10; amd. 2016 Code)
5-1-9: SUSPENSION OF OFFICERS:
   A.   The chief of police shall have the right to suspend any police officer
but shall confer with the chair of the police committee and the police
committee in connection with such suspension, except in case of emergency. The
chief of police shall report any such action at the next meeting of the village
board. (1982 Code § 10-1-11; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   The village board shall have the right to suspend or discharge any
police officer at a board meeting; provided, that the chair of the police
committee shall, after hearing said officer's answers to any charges against
him before the police committee, report and make a recommendation in connection
with said suspension or discharge of an officer, before the board makes a final
decision and takes action on same. (1982 Code § 10-1-11)
CHAPTER 2
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
ARTICLE A. EMERGENCY SERVICES AND DISASTER AGENCY
SECTION:
5-2A-1: Created; Purpose; Composition
5-2A-2: Coordinator
5-2A-3: Oath Of Office
5-2A-4: Functions
5-2A-5: Service As Mobile Support Team
5-2A-6: Agreements With Other Political Subdivisions
5-2A-7: Emergency Action
5-2A-8: Compensation
5-2A-9: Reimbursement By State
5-2A-10: Purchases And Expenditures
5-2A-11: Appropriation; Tax Levy
5-2A-1: CREATED; PURPOSE; COMPOSITION:
There is created the San Jose emergency services and disaster agency to
prevent, minimize, repair, and alleviate injury or damage resulting from
explosion of atomic or other means from without or by means of sabotage or
other disloyal actions within, or from fire, flood, earthquake,
telecommunications failure or other natural or technological causes, in
accordance with the Illinois emergency management agency act. The emergency
services and disaster agency shall consist of the coordinator and additional
members to be selected by the coordinator. (2016 Code)
5-2A-2: COORDINATOR:
   A.   Appointment; Term: The coordinator of the village emergency services
and disaster agency shall be appointed by the village president, with the
consent of the board of trustees, and shall serve until removed by the same.
   B.   Powers And Duties: The coordinator shall have direct responsibility for
the organization, administration, training and operation of the emergency
services and disaster agency, subject to the direction and control of the
village president as provided by statute.
   C.   Vacancy: In the event of the absence, resignation, death, or inability
to serve of the coordinator, the village president or any person designated by
him shall be and act as coordinator until a new appointment is made as provided
in this article. (2016 Code)
5-2A-3: OATH OF OFFICE:
Every person appointed to serve in any capacity in the village emergency
services and disaster agency shall, before entering upon the duties, subscribe
to the following oath, which shall be filed with the coordinator:
I,                      , do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support and
defend and bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of the United
States and the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and the territory,
institutions and facilities thereof, both public and private, against all
enemies, foreign and domestic; and I take this obligation freely, without any
mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and that I will well and faithfully
discharge the duties upon which I am about to enter. And I do further swear (or
affirm) that I do not advocate, nor am I nor have I been a member of any
political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the Government
of the United States or of the State by force or violence; and that during such
time as I am affiliated with the Village Emergency Services and Disaster
Agency, I will not advocate nor become a member of any political party or
organization that advocates the overthrow of the Government of the United
States or of this State by force or violence.
(2016 Code)
5-2A-4: FUNCTIONS:
   A.   The local emergency services and disaster agency shall perform such
emergency management functions within the village as shall be prescribed in and
by the state emergency operations plan and program prepared by the governor,
and such orders, rules, and regulations as may be promulgated by the governor,
and in addition, shall perform such duties outside the corporate limits as may
be required pursuant to any mutual aid agreement with any other municipality or
quasi- municipality entered into as provided by the Illinois emergency
management agency act.
   B.   The local emergency services and disaster agency shall also, when
called upon by the village president, take whatever steps that can be taken to
prevent, minimize, repair, and alleviate injury or damage resulting from any
explosion, accident or other event of disastrous extent in the village in
addition to rendering such service in the event of disaster due to explosion of
atomic or other means from without or by means of sabotage or other disloyal
actions within, or from fire, flood, earthquake, telecommunications failure or
other natural or technological causes. (2016 Code)
5-2A-5: SERVICE AS MOBILE SUPPORT TEAM:
   A.   Members Designated: All or any member of the village emergency services
and disaster agency may be designated as members of a mobile support team
created by the state director as provided by law.
   B.   Team Leader: The leader of such mobile support team shall be designated
by the coordinator of the village emergency services and disaster agency.
   C.   Compensation; Powers And Duties: Any member of a mobile support team
who is a municipal employee or officer while serving on call to duty by the
governor shall receive the compensation and have the powers, duties, rights,
and immunities incident to such employment or office. Any such member who is
not a paid officer or employee of the village while so serving shall receive
from the state reasonable compensation as provided by law. (2016 Code)
5-2A-6: AGREEMENTS WITH OTHER POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS:
The coordinator of the emergency services and disaster agency may negotiate
mutual aid agreements with other municipal corporations or political
subdivisions of the state, but no such agreement shall be effective until it
has been approved by the board of trustees and by the state director of
emergency management. (2016 Code)
5-2A-7: EMERGENCY ACTION:
If the governor declares that an emergency exists, it shall be the duty of the
village emergency services and disaster agency to cooperate fully with the
state emergency management agency and with the governor in the exercise of
emergency powers as provided by law. (2016 Code)
5-2A-8: COMPENSATION:
Members of the emergency services and disaster agency who are paid employees or
officers of the village, if called for training by the state director of
emergency management, shall receive for the time spent in such training the
same rate of pay as is attached to the position held; members who are not such
municipal employees or officers shall receive for such training time such
compensation as may be established by the board of trustees. (2016 Code)
5-2A-9: REIMBURSEMENT BY STATE:
The village treasurer may receive and allocate to the appropriate fund any
reimbursement by the state to the village for expenses incident to training
members of the emergency services and disaster agency as prescribed by the
state director, compensation for services and expenses of a mobile support team
while serving outside the village in response to a call by the state emergency
management agency, and any other reimbursement made by the state incident to
emergency management activities as provided by law. (2016 Code)
5-2A-10: PURCHASES AND EXPENDITURES:
   A.   The board of trustees may, on recommendation of the coordinator of the
village emergency services and disaster agency, authorize any purchases or
contracts necessary to place the village in a position to combat effectively
any disaster from natural causes, and to protect the public health and safety,
protect property and provide emergency assistance to victims in the case of
such disaster.
   B.   In the event of any disaster due to explosion of atomic or other means
from without or by means of sabotage or other disloyal actions within, or from
fire, flood, earthquake, telecommunications failure or other natural or
technological causes, where the disaster has resulted in the governor declaring
a disaster to exist in the village, or is of such proportion as to amount to
such a disaster as would warrant such declaration by the governor, the local
coordinator of the emergency services and disaster agency is authorized, on
behalf of the village, to procure such services, supplies, equipment, or
materials as may be necessary to meet the emergency, without regard to the
statutory procedures or formalities normally prescribed by law as a necessary
prerequisite to incurring any indebtedness against the village, as authorized
by the Illinois emergency management agency act; provided, that if the board of
trustees meets at such time, he shall act subject to the directions and
restrictions imposed by that body. (2016 Code)
5-2A-11: APPROPRIATION; TAX LEVY:
The board of trustees may make an appropriation for emergency services and
disaster purposes, and may levy therefor a tax not to exceed twenty five cents
($0.25) per capita in addition to all other taxes, as provided by the Illinois
emergency management agency act. (2016 Code)
ARTICLE B. CIVIL EMERGENCIES
SECTION:
5-2B-1: Definitions
5-2B-2: Declaration Of Emergency; Notice
5-2B-3: Curfew
5-2B-4: Orders
5-2B-5: Duration Of Proclamation
5-2B-6: Interpretation
5-2B-7: Penalty
5-2B-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this article, the following words and terms are defined as
provided in this section:
CIVIL EMERGENCY:
   A.   A riot or unlawful assembly characterized by the use of actual force or
violence or any threat to use force if accompanied by immediate power to
execute by three (3) or more persons acting together without authority of law;
or
   B.   Any natural disaster or manmade calamity including explosion of atomic
or other means from without or by means of sabotage or other disloyal actions
within, or from fire, flood, earthquake, telecommunications failure or other
natural or technological causes within the corporate limits of the village
resulting in the death or injury of persons or the destruction of property to
such an extent that extraordinary measures must be taken to protect the public
health, safety and welfare.
CURFEW: A prohibition against any person walking, running, loitering, standing
or motoring upon any alley, street, highway, public property or vacant premises
within the corporate limits of the village, except officials of any
governmental unit and persons officially designated to duty with references to
a civil emergency. (1982 Code §
10-2-1; amd. 2016 Code)
5-2B-2: DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY; NOTICE:
   A.   Whenever an emergency as defined in section
5-2B-1 of this article exists, the president shall declare the existence by
means of a written declaration setting forth the facts which constitute the
emergency.
   B.   Upon issuing the proclamation herein authorized, the chief of police or
officer in charge shall notify the news media situated within the village, and
shall cause three (3) copies of the proclamation declaring the existence of the
emergency to be posted at the following places within the village: the village
hall, the police station and the post office. (1982 Code § 10-2-4)
5-2B-3: CURFEW:
After proclamation of a civil emergency by the president, he may order a
general curfew, applicable to such geographical areas of the village or the
village as a whole, as he deems advisable, and applicable during such hours of
the day or night as he deems necessary in the interest of the public safety and
welfare. (1982 Code § 10-2-4)
5-2B-4: ORDERS:
After the proclamation of a civil emergency, the president may also, in the
interest of public safety and welfare, make any or all of the following orders:
   A.   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing or giving away
gasoline or other liquid flammable or combustible products in any container
other than a gasoline tank properly affixed to a motor vehicle.
   B.   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, dispensing or giving
away of any firearms or ammunition of any character whatsoever.
   C.   Issue such other orders as are imminently necessary for the protection
of life and property. (1982 Code § 10-2-4)
5-2B-5: DURATION OF PROCLAMATION:
The proclamation of state of emergency will remain in effect until such time as
the village board reaches a decision during a legally convened board meeting,
not to exceed seven (7) days after the proclamation is executed. The village
board retains the authority to extend the days for state of emergency by a
majority vote at the above stated board meeting. (1982 Code § 10-2-4; amd. 2016
Code)
5-2B-6: INTERPRETATION:
Nothing contained in this article shall be construed to impair the powers
contained in the provisions of this code giving powers to the police department
and fire protection district, but shall be construed together with existing
ordinances that are now, or shall be, in effect for the safety and welfare of
the citizens of the village. (1982 Code § 10-2-4; amd. 2016 Code)
5-2B-7: PENALTY:
Any person or entity convicted of violating any provision of this chapter shall
be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for said violation, and each day that such a
violation exists or continues shall be deemed a distinct and separate offense.
(Ord. 14-485, 1-20-2014)
CHAPTER 3
FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
SECTION:
5-3-1: Storage Of Combustibles, Refuse And Yard Waste On Public Ways And
Property
5-3-2: Open Burning
5-3-3: Outdoor Fireplaces And Recreational Fires
5-3-4: Discharge Of Explosives
5-3-5: Rental Of Equipment For Fire Use
5-3-1: STORAGE OF COMBUSTIBLES, REFUSE AND YARD WASTE ON PUBLIC WAYS AND
PROPERTY:
It shall be unlawful to permit or store any combustible refuse or materials in
such way as to create a fire hazard, or to store or throw any refuse or
materials of any kind on any street, alley or other public place. (2016 Code)
5-3-2: OPEN BURNING:
   A.   General Burning Restrictions:
      1.   No person shall burn any material other than landscape waste or
untreated solid wood upon the premises where it is produced or at sites
provided and supervised by the village.
      2.   No person shall burn landscape waste in the village after sundown of
any day without permission from the police chief, fire chief or police officer
on duty at the time of the fire. (Ord. 386, 11-18-2002, eff. 12-1-2002; amd.
2016 Code)
      3.   Any leaves or litter which are burned shall be so burned in a wire,
perforated metal or any other proper container or receptacle capable of
ensuring complete combustion, the intent being to prevent air contamination by
the smoldering resulting from incomplete combustion, and no person shall leave
any such fire or bonfire unattended, and at sundown, shall completely
extinguish the same. (Ord. 386, 11-18-2002, eff. 12-1-2002)
   B.   Burning On Public Ways And Property Prohibited: No person shall burn
anything, either in a container or otherwise, including a bonfire, in or upon
any street or public property in the village. (Ord. 371, 10-16-2000, eff. 11-1-
2000)
   C.   Penalty: Any person or entity convicted of violating any provision of
this section shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for said violation, and each
day that such a violation exists or continues shall be deemed a distinct and
separate offense. (Ord. 14-485, 1-20-2014)
5-3-3: OUTDOOR FIREPLACES AND RECREATIONAL FIRES:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning:
    OUTDOOR FIREPLACE: A unit constructed or manufactured, with all the design
components in place, that is listed by Underwriters Laboratories, or comparable
testing agency, that is designed to burn a limited quantity of wood which is
burned for recreational purposes and which is designed so as to contain the
ashes and/or embers while in use and when the user is finished.
   RECREATIONAL FIRE: A fire ignited and burned in a location outside of a
structure for the purposes of amusement and not for the destruction of refuse,
cooking or heating purposes.
   B.   Recreational Fires: Recreational fires are permitted on residential and
other properties subject to the following conditions and restrictions:
      1.   All such fires shall be contained at all times within an "outdoor
fireplace", as defined in subsection A of this section.
      2.   All such fires shall be in locations that are clear of buildings or
structures, electrical lines, and other hazards.
      3.   No such fire shall be permitted on wooden structures, balconies,
porches or other areas attached to any building.
      4.   All such fires shall be attended at all times by an adult of not
less than eighteen (18) years of age, and at all times there shall be a ready
source of water available to immediately extinguish the fire.
      5.   No person shall cause or allow the smoke or odors from a
recreational fire to go beyond the boundaries of his/her property, so as to
cause a nuisance to neighboring properties.
   C.   Outdoor Fireplaces: Outdoor fireplaces shall not be modified or
otherwise altered to create larger fires. Such fireplaces shall at all times be
operated within the manufacturer's specifications and allow for adequate
collection of ash. Outdoor fireplaces shall be limited to the burning of
firewood only. The burning of garbage, trash, refuse or similar items is
prohibited.
   D.   Authority To Require Extinguishment: The fire chief or his/her designee
shall have the authority to require the immediate extinguishment of a
recreational fire, if he/she deems it necessary, for whatever reason and at any
and all times. (2016 Code)
5-3-4: DISCHARGE OF EXPLOSIVES:
No person shall set off, discharge or explode any gunpowder, dynamite,
nitroglycerin or any other explosive on any street, avenue, alley, park or any
other place within the village or upon any property so as to endanger the life,
limb or property of any person. Any person or entity convicted of violating any
provision of this section shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for said
violation, and each day that such a violation exists or continues shall be
deemed a distinct and separate offense. (1982 Code § 7-4-2; amd. Ord. 14-485,
1-20-2014)
5-3-5: RENTAL OF EQUIPMENT FOR FIRE USE:
The owner of property on which a fire has occurred is responsible for the
actual costs incurred by the village for the use or rental of any equipment or
services not owned by the village or any fire departments providing mutual aid
used to fight a fire on the owner's land. (2016 Code)
ARTICLE A. FIREWORKS
SECTION:
5-3A-1: Definitions
5-3A-2: Permit Requirements
5-3A-3: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
5-3A-4: Age Restriction
5-3A-5: Transporting Fireworks
5-3A-6: Enforcement Officials
5-3A-7: Penalty
5-3A-1: DEFINITIONS:
FIREWORKS: Any device classified as a consumer firework, display firework,
flame effect, or special effect firework under the provisions of Illinois
fireworks laws. This does not include devices or materials that contain less
than twenty hundredths (0.20) grain of explosive mixture.
FIREWORKS DISPLAY: The use, explosion, detonation, ignition, burning, or
deflagration of fireworks to produce a visible or audible effect within the
village of San Jose, or a pyrotechnic display or display under the provisions
of Illinois fireworks laws.
ILLINOIS FIREWORKS LAWS: The Illinois pyrotechnic use act, 425 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 35/0.01 et seq., and the Illinois pyrotechnic distributor and
operator licensing act, 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 227/1 et seq., as may be
amended from time to time. (2016 Code)
5-3A-2: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to: 1) engage in distribution of fireworks; 2) possess fireworks;
or 3) engage in fireworks display within the corporate limits of the village
without first obtaining a permit under the terms of this article.
   B.   Application For Permit; Review And Issuance:
      1.   Any person who wishes to possess fireworks or to engage in display
of fireworks within the corporate limits of the village shall apply for a
permit for such action. The person with primary responsibility for the
possession or display of fireworks shall be listed on the application as the
applicant. Permits shall be filed on a form provided by the village, which
shall contain the following information:
         a.   Applicant's name. In the event the applicant is a firm,
corporation or other entity, the application shall provide the name, address
and telephone number of the entity.
         b.   Applicant's street address.
         c.   Applicant's telephone number.
         d.   A cellular telephone number at which the applicant may be reached
at any time during the fireworks related activity.
         e.   Applicant's date of birth.
         f.   Applicant's social security number.
         g.   A copy of the applicant's driver's license.
         h.   Date, time, duration and location of proposed display or
possession of fireworks.
         i.   The number and kind of fireworks to be displayed or possessed.
         j.   A diagram showing the place at which the fireworks are to be
displayed or possessed, depicting the area of such place and the distance from
such place to any structures, roadways, sidewalks, pathways, overhead wires,
trees, shrubs, towers, or other obstructions within one thousand feet (1,000')
in any direction. Such diagram shall also describe the ground covering at the
proposed place of display or possession.
         k.   A copy of any state or federal licenses held by the applicant for
the display or possession of fireworks.
         l.   A copy and certificate of any policies of insurance required to
be issued under Illinois fireworks laws or this article. For persons seeking to
engage in display of fireworks, this shall include, but not be limited to,
proof of liability insurance in a sum not less than one million dollars
($1,000,000.00). All such policies shall be subject to the following
requirements:
            (1)   Must show the village as additional primary insured for the
full value of the policy;
            (2)   Must be issued from an insurer with a Best rating of A- or
better;
            (3)   Must be primary and not excess insurance for their full
value, both for the applicant and the village;
            (4)   Must indicate that the policy cannot be canceled except after
providing not less than thirty (30) days' notice to the village. Receipt of a
notice of cancellation of a policy of insurance required under this article
shall constitute automatic grounds for revocation of a permit issued hereunder.
The village may specify additional insurance requirements or require increased
policy limits in circumstances where it is deemed such requirements or
increased limits to be necessary or advisable.
         m.   Any required authorizations, fingerprints, signatures or further
information which may be required for the village to conduct a criminal
background check on the applicant. In addition to any application or permit
fees, the applicant shall also be responsible for paying any costs or expenses
associated with the performance of the required background check.
         n.   A description of the applicant's prior experience with fireworks.
         o.   A letter from the San Jose fire protection district indicating
that a site inspection of the proposed site has been performed and the site has
been approved as being acceptable and in compliance with the applicable
standards.
      2.   The applicant must also pay a nonrefundable application fee of two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00). This fee does not include any separate fees
that may be charged by the San Jose fire protection district for site review.
      3.   All applications and fees are to be submitted to the village clerk.
In the case of displays of fireworks that are sponsored by a not for profit
entity or a unit of local government, the village board may choose to waive all
or some part of the application fee. Any such application must be submitted not
less than thirty (30) days in advance of the proposed display or possession of
fireworks.
      4.   Upon receipt of an application, the village president may consult
with any persons deemed necessary for the full review and consideration of such
application, including the village chief of police, the village superintendent
of public works, and the chief or president of the San Jose fire protection
district.
      5.   Should the village president decide, in his sole discretion, to
issue a permit under this article, attached to the permit shall be a copy of
the application. The display or possession of fireworks shall be thereafter
limited to activities within the terms of the application, and no person not
listed on the application shall be permitted to display or possess fireworks.
Permits are not transferable or assignable, and must be presented upon request
of any official, agent or employee of the village or any official, agent or
employee of the San Jose fire protection district.
      6.   Any person who applies for or receives a permit for fireworks
related activities must immediately inform the village president of any
material changes in any of the information provided on the application should
such changes occur at any time after permit application and before termination
of the fireworks related activities. Upon submission of such updates, the
village president or his designee may suspend or revoke any permit issued.
   C.   Conditions Of Permit:
      1.   No permit shall be issued for any fireworks related activities
where:
         a.   Such activity endangers persons, buildings, structures, forests
or brush;
         b.   Such activity proposes the display of fireworks within two
hundred feet (200') of the nearest permanent building, public highway, railroad
or other means of travel;
         c.   Such activity proposes the display of fireworks within fifty feet
(50') of the nearest aboveground or overhead obstruction;
         d.   Such activity proposes the display of fireworks supervised by
fewer than two (2) qualified persons. For purposes of this subsection C1d, a
qualified person shall be deemed to be a person over the age of twenty one (21)
years, capable of reading, writing, speaking and understanding the English
language, and otherwise competent for the task;
         e.   Such activity proposes the possession or display of fireworks
within the interior of any structure;
         f.   Such activity proposes the possession or display of fireworks
within five hundred feet (500') of a school, church, hospital or similar
institution; or
         g.   Such activity would violate Illinois fireworks laws or other
applicable local, state or federal laws.
      2.   Any possession or display of fireworks shall be subject to such
further conditions as shall be prescribed by the village president, in writing,
at the time of issuance of permit.
      3.   All fireworks shall be secured, maintained and utilized in such a
manner as to be free from fire, injury, accidental discharge or theft.
   D.   Responsibility For Village Costs: Any applicant who receives a permit
for the display of fireworks shall be responsible for all costs incurred by the
village and the San Jose fire protection district. Prior to the issuance of any
permit, the applicant shall be informed of the anticipated costs of such
display and shall post with the village clerk an escrow in an amount equal to
such anticipated costs. In the event the actual costs incurred exceed the
anticipated costs, the applicant shall be responsible for the actual costs,
plus any attorney fees, court costs or other expenses incurred in the recovery
of such costs. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the village board may waive the
payment of costs for displays of fireworks performed by a not for profit entity
or unit of local government.
   E.   Enforcement Of Permit Conditions; Suspension Or Revocation Of Permit;
Reinstatement: The village president, or any designee chosen thereby, may
attend any fireworks related activity that is subject to a permit issued by the
village. If the village president or his designee believes that any violation
of any provision of this article or Illinois fireworks laws is occurring, has
occurred, or is about to occur, or if such person believes that the fireworks
related activity is endangering persons or property, such person may
immediately suspend or revoke the permit issued by contacting the applicant on
the cellular telephone number provided on the permit application, or by
informing any person at the scene of the fireworks related activity who is
associated with the activity of the suspension or revocation of the permit.
Immediately upon receipt of notice of such suspension or revocation, the
applicant shall terminate all fireworks related activities and secure any and
all fireworks from further display in a safe fashion. The village president or
designee may thereafter reinstate such permit and allow such fireworks related
activities to continue if, in such person's sole judgment, it is safe and
lawful to do so. (2016 Code)
5-3A-3: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to: 1) engage in distribution of fireworks; 2)
possess fireworks; or 3) engage in fireworks display within the corporate
limits of the village when such action violates any provision of Illinois
fireworks laws or the provisions of this article.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to manufacture, build, assemble, construct or
disassemble any fireworks within the corporate limits of the village unless
such action is comprised of the assembly of premanufactured components in
conjunction with a permitted display of fireworks.
   C.   Irrespective of whether a permit has been issued, it shall be unlawful
to engage in any fireworks related activity where:
      1.   Such activity endangers persons, buildings, structures, forests or
brush;
      2.   Such activity violates Illinois fireworks laws or other applicable
local, state or federal laws;
      3.   Such activity requires licensure under Illinois fireworks laws or
any federal law and no person who is both involved in the activity and listed
on the permit possesses such current licensure; or
      4.   Such activity involves the display of fireworks at a time when the
wind speed at the location of the display exceeds twenty (20) miles per hour.
(2016 Code)
5-3A-4: AGE RESTRICTION:
It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of eighteen (18) years to
possess any fireworks or engage in fireworks displays. (2016 Code)
5-3A-5: TRANSPORTING FIREWORKS:
Any person over the age of eighteen (18) years may transport fireworks through
the village without violating this article; provided, that such person: a) is
not engaging in the distribution of fireworks within the village; b) is not
violating any provision of Illinois fireworks laws; and c) is presently
transporting fireworks in interstate commerce with a point of origin and point
of destination both outside the village. (2016 Code)
5-3A-6: ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS:
The village president may from time to time designate alternate village
officials or staff which shall have full authority under this article. (2016
Code)
5-3A-7: PENALTY:
In addition to any fees or charges established herein, any person convicted of
a violation of any provision of this article shall be subject to penalty not
less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) per violation. (2016 Code)
CHAPTER 4
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
5-4-1: Livestock And Poultry Restrictions
5-4-2: Animal Houses; Location Of Certain Animals
5-4-3: Dangerous, Vicious Animals
5-4-4: Impoundment And Redemption Provisions
5-4-5: Cruelty To Animals
5-4-1: LIVESTOCK AND POULTRY RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Running At Large: It shall be unlawful to permit any cattle, sheep,
horses, swine, goats or poultry to run at large in the village. Any such animal
running at large in any public place in the village shall be impounded in the
manner provided in section
5-4-4 of this chapter.
   B.   Tying To Graze: It shall be unlawful to picket or tie any such animal
in any of the streets, parks or any public place in the village for the purpose
of grazing or feeding. (1982 Code § 10-4-1-3)
5-4-2: ANIMAL HOUSES; LOCATION OF CERTAIN ANIMALS:
No person shall cause or allow any stable, place or premises where any animal
is or may be kept to become unclean or unwholesome, and it shall be unlawful to
keep any live swine, horses, cattle, goats or fowl anywhere in the village,
except in those areas of the village zoned for agriculture. (1982 Code § 10-4-
1-5)
5-4-3: DANGEROUS, VICIOUS ANIMALS:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following words and terms
shall have the following meanings:
    ADMINISTRATOR: A veterinarian licensed by the state of Illinois and
appointed pursuant to this section, or his duly authorized representative.
   ANIMAL: Any animal, other than man, which may be infected by rabies.
   ANIMAL CONTROL WARDEN: Any person appointed by the administrator and
approved by the board to perform duties as assigned by the administrator to
effectuate this section.
   BOARD: The village of San Jose.
   CONFINED: Restriction of an animal at all times by the owner, or his agent,
to an escapeproof building or other enclosure away from other animals and the
public.
   DANGEROUS DOG OR OTHER ANIMAL: Any individual dog or other animal which,
when either unmuzzled, unleashed, or unattended by its owner, or a member of
its owner's family, in a vicious or terrorizing manner, approaches any person
or domestic animal in an apparent attitude of attack upon streets, sidewalks,
or any public/private grounds or places.
   DEPARTMENT: Department of agriculture of the state of Illinois.
   DEPUTY ADMINISTRATOR: A veterinarian licensed by the state of Illinois,
appointed by the administrator, and approved by the board.
   DOG: All members of the family canine.
   ENCLOSURE: A fence or structure of at least six feet (6') in height, forming
or causing an enclosure suitable to prevent the entry of young children, and
suitable to confine a vicious dog or other animal in conjunction with other
measures which may be taken by the owner or keeper, such as tethering of a
vicious dog or other animal within the enclosure. Such enclosure shall be
securely enclosed and locked and designed with secure sides, top and bottom and
shall be designed to prevent the dog or other animal from escaping therefrom.
   HAS BEEN BITTEN: Has been seized with the teeth or jaws so that the person
or animal seized has been nipped, gripped, wounded, or pierced, and further
includes contact of saliva with any break or abrasion of the skin.
   IMPOUNDED: Taken into the custody of the designated public pound or official
for the village.
   INOCULATION AGAINST RABIES: The injection of an antirabies vaccine approved
by the department.
   LEASH: A cord, rope, strap, or chain which shall be securely fastened to the
collar or harness of a dog or other animal and shall be of sufficient strength
to keep such dog or other animal under control.
   LICENSED VETERINARIAN: A veterinarian licensed by the state of Illinois.
   OWNER: Any person having a right of property in a dog or other animal, or
who keeps or harbors a dog or other animal, or who has it in his care, or acts
as its custodian, or who knowingly permits a dog or other domestic animal to
remain on or about any premises occupied thereby. (Ord. 437, 6-15-2009; amd.
2016 Code)
   B.   Prohibited Generally; Exceptions; Authority To Kill:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to permit any dangerous dog or other animal or
vicious dog or other animal of any kind to run at large within the village.
Exhibitions or parades of animals which are ferae naturae in the eyes of the
law may be conducted only upon securing a permit from the chief of police.
(1982 Code § 10-4-1-2; amd. 2016 Code)
      2.   The members of the police department are authorized to kill any
dangerous dog or other animal of any kind when it is necessary for the
protection of any person or property. (1982 Code § 10-4-1-4; amd. 2016 Code)
   C.   Determination Of Dangerous Dog Or Other Animal; Appeals:
      1.   The mayor, or a village trustee, or a law enforcement officer shall
conduct an investigation and make a finding in writing that a dog or other
animal is a "dangerous dog or other animal" as defined in subsection A of this
section, and based on that finding, the board of trustees shall declare, in
writing, that the dog or other animal is a dangerous dog or other animal.
      2.   The owner, harborer, or person of a dog or other animal deemed
dangerous shall have a period of fourteen (14) days or the next village board
meeting, whichever is longer, to appeal the finding at the next village board
meeting.
   D.   Duties Of Owner Or Agent: It shall be unlawful for any person to keep
or maintain any dog or other animal which has been determined to be a dangerous
dog or other animal; except, that a dangerous dog or other animal may be kept
within the village limits subject to the requirements contained in this
subsection.
      1.   Confinement:
         a.   No person shall possess any dangerous dog or other animal unless
the dangerous dog or other animal is confined at all times in accordance with
this section.
         b.   No dangerous dog or other animal may be kept on a porch, patio,
or in any portion of a house or structure that would allow the dog or other
animal to exit the structure on its own volition. No dangerous dog or other
animal shall be kept in a house or structure when any window is open so that it
may escape, or when screen windows or screen doors are the only obstacle
preventing the dangerous dog or other animal from exiting the structure.
         c.   No person shall allow or permit a dangerous dog or other animal
to be outdoors except when such dog or other animal is confined in an
"enclosure", as defined in subsection A of this section, or under the direct
control of the owner or keeper of the dog or other animal while muzzled and on
a chain having a tensile strength of three hundred (300) pounds and not
exceeding three feet (3').
      2.   Sign Required: All persons possessing a dangerous dog or other
animal shall display in a prominent place on the premises where a dangerous dog
or other animal is to be kept a sign which is readable by the public from a
distance of one hundred feet (100') using the words "Beware Of Animal". A
similar sign shall be posted on any confinement structure.
      3.   Registration Fee: The owner of a dangerous dog or other animal shall
pay an annual registration fee of fifty dollars ($50.00).
      4.   Insurance: An owner who maintains a dangerous dog or other animal
shall obtain liability insurance coverage in an amount not less than one
hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) insuring said owner against any claim,
loss, damage or injury to persons, domestic animals, or property resulting from
acts, whether intentional or unintentional, of the dangerous dog or other
animal. The owner shall provide a copy of the certificate of insurance at the
time of registration of the dangerous dog or other animal pursuant to this
section. (Ord. 437, 6-15-2009; amd. 2016 Code)
   E.   Complaint Filed: The administrator, state's attorney, village attorney,
law enforcement officer, or any citizen of the village in which a dangerous dog
or other animal exists may file a complaint in the name of the village to
enjoin all persons from maintaining or permitting such, to abate the same, and
to enjoin the owner of such dog or other animal from permitting the same to
leave his premises when not under control by leash or other recognized control
methods. Upon the filing of a complaint in the circuit court, the court, if
satisfied that this nuisance may exist, shall grant a preliminary injunction,
with bond in such amount as the court may determine, enjoining the defendant
from maintaining such nuisance. If the existence of the nuisance is
established, the owner of such dog or other animal shall be in violation of
this section, and in addition, the court shall enter an order restraining the
owner from maintaining such nuisance and may order that such dog or other
animal be humanely dispatched. (Ord. 437, 6-15-2009)
   F.   Entry Powers For Apprehension: For the purpose of carrying out the
provisions of this section and making inspections hereunder, the administrator,
or his authorized representative, or any officer of the law may enter upon
private premises to apprehend a stray dog or other animal, a vicious or
dangerous dog or other animal, or a dog or other animal thought to be infected
with rabies. If, after request therefor, the owner of such dog or other animal
shall refuse to deliver the dog or other animal to the officer, the owner shall
be in violation of this section. (1982 Code § 10-4-5-3)
   G.   Animal Attacking Livestock Or Poultry:
      1.   Any owner, seeing his sheep, goats, cattle, horses, mules, swine,
ratites, or poultry being injured, wounded, or killed by a dog or other animal,
not accompanied by or not under the supervision of its owner, may pursue and
kill such dog or other animal. (1982 Code § 10-4-5-4; amd. 2016 Code)
      2.   The owner or keeper of a dog or other animal is liable to a person
for all damages caused by the dog or other animal pursuing, chasing, worrying,
wounding, injuring, or killing any sheep, goats, cattle, horses, mules,
poultry, ratites, or swine belonging to that person. (1982 Code § 10-4-5-5;
amd. 2016 Code)
   H.   Removal Of Offspring From Village: All offspring born of vicious dogs
or other animals registered within the village must be removed from the village
within six (6) weeks of the birth of such dog or animal. (1982 Code § 10-4-5-7;
amd. 2016 Code)
   I.   Animal Fights Prohibited: No person shall fight or bait, conspire to
fight or bait, or keep, gain or transport for the purpose of fighting or
baiting, any dog or other animal. No person shall own or harbor any dog or
other animal for the purpose of fighting or baiting any dog or other animal.
(1982 Code § 10-4-5-6; amd. 2016 Code)
   J.   Liability Of Owner: If a dog or other animal, without provocation,
attacks or injures any person or other domestic animal who is peaceably
conducting themselves in any place where he may lawfully be, the owner of such
dog or other animal is liable in damages to such person/owner of the domestic
animal for the full amount of the injuries.
   K.   Exemptions: Guide dogs for the blind or hearing impaired, support dogs
for the physically handicapped, and sentry, guard or police owned dogs are
exempt from this section, provided an attack or injury to a person occurs while
the dog is performing duties as expected. To qualify for exemption under this
subsection, each such dog shall be currently inoculated against rabies. (Ord.
437, 6-15-2009)
   L.   Enforcement And Penalties:
      1.   Any person violating or aiding in or abetting the violation of any
provision of this section or counterfeiting or forging any certificate, permit,
or tag, or making any misrepresentation in regard to any matter prescribed by
this section, or resisting, obstructing, or impeding the administrator or any
authorized officer in enforcing this section, or refusing to produce for
inoculation any dog or other animal in his possession not confined at all times
to an enclosed area, or who removes a tag from a dog or other animal for the
purpose of destroying or concealing its identity, shall be fined not less than
two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for said violation, and each day that such a violation exists or
continues shall be deemed a distinct and separate offense.
      2.   Each state's attorney to whom the administrator or law enforcement
official reports any violation of this section shall cause appropriate
proceedings to be instituted in the proper courts without delay and to be
prosecuted in the manner provided by law.
      3.   If the owner of a dog or other animal subject to enclosure: a) fails
to maintain or keep the dog or other animal in an enclosure; and b) the dog or
other animal inflicts great bodily harm, permanent disfigurement, or permanent
physical disability upon any other person or causes the death of another
person; and c) the attack is unprovoked in a place where such person is
peaceably conducting himself and where such person may lawfully be, the owner
shall be fined not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for said violation, and each day that
such a violation exists or continues shall be deemed a distinct and separate
offense. The penalty provided in this subsection L3 shall be in addition to any
other criminal or civil sanctions provided by law. (1982 Code § 10-4-5-8; amd.
Ord. 14-485, 1-20-2014; 2016 Code)
      4.   Any officer failing, refusing, or neglecting to carry out the
provisions of this section shall be fined not less than five hundred dollars
($500.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for said
violation, and each day that such a violation exists or continues shall be
deemed a distinct and separate offense. (1982 Code § 10-4-5-9; amd. Ord. 14-
485, 1-20-2014)
5-4-4: IMPOUNDMENT AND REDEMPTION PROVISIONS:
   A.   Authority To Impound; Citation:
      1.   It shall be the duty of employees and officers of the police
department or other authorized personnel to take up and impound, in such place
as may be designated and set apart for that purpose, any animal found running
at large or unlicensed in the village, contrary to any provisions of this
chapter or other ordinances of the village.
      2.   When animals are found running at large or unlicensed and their
ownership is known to the designated employees, officers or other authorized
personnel, such animals may be impounded at the discretion of the employees,
officers or authorized person, but a citation to the owner of such animal shall
be issued to answer the charges of violating the provisions of this chapter.
(1982 Code § 10-4-4-1)
   B.   Notice Of Impoundment: In case of impoundment, and where the owner or
keeper of such animal is disclosed by any license tag worn by the impounded
animal, or is otherwise known to the officer or person impounding the same, the
police department shall at once give notice by mail to such owner or keeper,
informing him of the impoundment of his animal and shall cite the owner or
keeper of such animal to answer charges of violation of this chapter. (1982
Code § 10-4-4-2)
   C.   Redemption Of Impounded Animal; Costs:
      1.   Any animal impounded under the provisions of this chapter, except
such as may have bitten any person, as specified in subsection E of this
section, shall, unless sooner redeemed, be held for a period of five (5) days
at a licensed veterinary clinic or county impoundment facility in order to
afford opportunity to the owner or keeper thereof to redeem the same. Any such
owner or keeper desiring to redeem his impounded dog shall pay an impoundment
fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) in addition to the costs of keeping such
animal while impounded at a clinic or facility.
      2.   In addition, in those cases where the animal impounded is required
to be licensed and/or inoculated against rabies, the owner of such animal must
display proof that such animal is properly licensed and/or inoculated. In the
absence of such proof, no such animal shall be released from the clinic or
facility until the proper license and inoculation have been obtained and the
costs thereof paid.
   D.   Disposition Of Unredeemed Animals: Any animal which has been impounded
and not redeemed within five (5) days shall be humanely destroyed or otherwise
disposed of by the poundkeeper or veterinarian. (1982 Code § 10-4-4-3; amd.
2016 Code)
   E.   Impoundment Of Animals Which Have Bitten Persons: Any animal which
shall have bitten or otherwise injured any person so as to cause an abrasion of
the skin shall be immediately taken, impounded and kept separated from other
animals for ten (10) days. If, during that period, such animal develops
symptoms of illness, its condition shall be diagnosed. If the symptoms
disclosed are such as to indicate the presence of rabies, such animal shall be
destroyed in such manner as to preserve intact the head, which shall thereupon
be detached and immediately sent to the diagnostic laboratory of the department
of agriculture. In case such animal cannot be safely taken up and impounded, it
may be shot, care being taken to preserve the head intact which, thereupon,
shall be immediately detached and be delivered to the diagnostic laboratory of
the department of agriculture. If, at the expiration of the period of ten (10)
days, no symptoms of rabies have developed in such animal so impounded, the
same may be redeemed by the owner upon payment of the redemption fees and
charges specified herein; provided, however, that in case any animal so
impounded for biting a person shall have previously bitten any person, the
provisions of section
5-4-3 of this chapter shall apply. (1982 Code § 10-4-4-4; amd. 2016 Code)
   F.   Penalty: Any person or entity convicted of violating any provision of
this section shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for said violation, and each
day that such a violation exists or continues shall be deemed a distinct and
separate offense. (Ord. 14-485, 1-20-2014)
5-4-5: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS:
No person shall cruelly treat any animal in the village in any way. Any person
who inhumanly beats, underfeeds, overloads or abandons any animal shall be
deemed guilty of a violation of this section. (1982 Code § 10-4-1-1)
ARTICLE A. DOGS AND CATS
SECTION:
5-4A-1: Dog Regulations
5-4A-2: Cat Regulations
5-4A-3: Number Of Dogs And Cats
5-4A-1: DOG REGULATIONS:
   A.   Definitions:
    DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE: The department of agriculture of the state of
Illinois.
   DOG: Includes a female as well as a male dog.
   INOCULATION AGAINST RABIES: The injection, subcutaneously or otherwise, as
approved by the department of agriculture of the state of Illinois, of canine
and antirabies vaccine approved by said department of agriculture.
   OWNER: A person having a right of property in a dog, or who keeps or harbors
a dog, or who has a dog in his care or who acts as its custodian, or who
knowingly permits a dog to remain on or about any premises occupied thereby.
(1982 Code § 10-4-2-1)
   B.   Rabies Inoculation Requirements:
      1.   Each calendar year, or at such intervals as may hereafter be
promulgated by the department of agriculture, every owner or keeper of a dog
four (4) months or more of age shall cause such dog to be inoculated against
rabies. Such owner or keeper of such dog shall cause a serial numbered tag
evidencing such inoculation to be attached to a collar or harness worn by the
dog. Every owner or keeper of a dog, regardless of age, shall cause said dog to
wear a collar or harness and shall affix thereto a metallic or other suitable
tag inscribed with the name, address and phone number, if any, of the owner or
keeper of said dog. (1982 Code § 10-4-2-2)
      2.   The inoculation of dogs required by subsection B1 of this section
shall be performed by a veterinarian duly licensed to practice his profession
in this state. Upon performing such inoculation, such veterinarian shall issue
to the owner or keeper a certificate showing such fact and shall also deliver
to such owner or keeper a metallic or other suitable tag to be attached to the
collar or harness of such dog, which tag shall also certify to the fact of
inoculation against rabies. (1982 Code § 10-4-2-3)
      3.   The inoculation performed under the provisions of subsection B2 of
this section shall be effective until the expiration of the calendar year in
which the vaccination was performed or the expiration of such period of time as
may be promulgated by the department of agriculture. (1982 Code § 10-4-2-4)
      4.   The tag issued under the provisions of subsection B3 of this section
shall be in such form as shall be determined by the department of agriculture.
(1982 Code § 10-4-2-5)
      5.   At any reasonable time upon request of any member of the police
department, the owner or keeper of any unmuzzled dog shall exhibit his
certificate, issued under the provisions of subsection B2 of this section,
showing the inoculation against rabies of any dog owned or controlled thereby.
(1982 Code § 10-4-2-6)
   C.   Dogs At Large:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to permit a dog to be at large, unless the dog
is under restraint, within the meaning of this subsection C1, if he is
controlled by a leash, or within an enclosed vehicle being driven or parked on
the streets, or within the property limits of his owner or keeper. If the dog
has bitten or otherwise injured any person or animal, the provisions of section
5-4-3 of this chapter shall apply. (1982 Code § 10-4-2-7(A); amd. 2016 Code)
      2.   It shall be unlawful to permit any dog to run at large within the
village. Any dog found upon any private property (other than within the
property limits of his owner or keeper) or public property, public street,
sidewalk, alley or parkway shall be deemed running at large, unless such dog is
firmly held on a leash (as defined in subsection C1 of this section) or is in
an enclosed vehicle as defined in subsection C1 of this section. (1982 Code §
10-4-2-7(B))
      3.   Any person or entity convicted of violating any provision of this
subsection C shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for said violation, and each
day that such a violation exists or continues shall be deemed a distinct and
separate offense. (Ord. 14-485, 1-20-2014)
   D.   Nuisance Dogs: Any dog which may in any manner continually disturb the
quiet of any person or neighborhood or shall destroy or in any manner injure
any animal, plant, shrub or other property not on the premises of its owner or
keeper is hereby declared to be a nuisance, and such dog shall be impounded and
may be redeemed or disposed of in the manner provided under section
5-4-4 of this chapter. (1982 Code § 10-4-2-8)
5-4A-2: CAT REGULATIONS:
   A.   Definitions:
    CAT: Any member of the feline family three (3) months or more of age.
   OWNER: Any person having the right of property in a cat, or who keeps or
harbors a cat, or who suffers or permits a cat to remain on or to be fed or
sheltered on his property. (1982 Code § 10-4-3-1)
   B.   Running At Large Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to permit any cat to
run at large within the village. Any cat found upon any public street,
sidewalk, alley or parkway shall be deemed running at large unless such cat is
firmly held on a leash or is in an enclosed vehicle. (1982 Code § 10-4-3-2)
   C.   Rabies Control:
      1.   Inoculation Required: It shall be unlawful to permit any cat in any
place in the village other than in an enclosed area, unless such cat has been
inoculated against rabies by a licensed veterinarian within the preceding year.
(1982 Code § 10-4-3-3)
      2.   Cat Bites: It shall be the duty of the owner or person having
custody of any cat which bites any human being, to keep such cat confined for a
period of two (2) weeks following the time the cat has bitten a person. Cats
which have not been inoculated for rabies shall be impounded by a licensed
veterinarian, and shall be examined by a licensed veterinarian at the
commencement and termination of the two (2) week period. If such cat, during
this period, shall die or show definite signs of illness, it shall be the duty
of the owner or person having custody of the cat to turn the cat over to the
village officer on duty so that it can be determined whether or not the cat has
rabies. (1982 Code § 10-4-3-4)
   D.   Penalty: Any person or entity convicted of violating any provision of
this section shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for said violation, and each
day that such a violation exists or continues shall be deemed a distinct and
separate offense. (Ord. 14-485, 1-20-2014)
5-4A-3: NUMBER OF DOGS AND CATS:
No person shall permit more than three (3) dogs or cats, or any combination
thereof, within the village, under his control at any one time. This section
applies only to dogs and cats over the age of five (5) months. Any person or
entity convicted of violating any provision of this section shall be fined not
less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for said violation, and each day that such a violation exists
or continues shall be deemed a distinct and separate offense. (1982 Code § 10-
4-6; amd. Ord. 14-485, 1-20-2014)
CHAPTER 5
MISDEMEANOR OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-5-1: Definitions
5-5-2: Civil Remedies Preserved
5-5-3: Penalty
5-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
ACT: A failure or omission to take action.
AIR RIFLE: Any air gun, air pistol, spring gun, spring pistol, BB gun or pellet
gun which impels a pellet constructed of hard plastic, steel, lead, stone or
other hard materials with force that reasonably is expected to cause bodily
harm or property damage.
ANOTHER: A person or persons as defined in this code other than the offender.
ASSAULT: When, without lawful authority, a person engages in conduct which
places another in reasonable apprehension of receiving a battery.
BATTERY: If a person intentionally or knowingly, without legal justification
and by any means: a) causes bodily harm to an individual; or b) makes physical
contact of an insulting or provoking nature with an individual.
POLICE OFFICER: Any person who, by virtue of his office of public employment,
is vested by law with a duty to maintain public order or to make arrests for
offenses, whether that duty extends to all offenses or is limited to specific
offenses.
PUBLIC EMPLOYEE: A person, other than a public officer, who is authorized to
perform any official function on behalf of, and is paid by the village or any
of its subdivisions or agencies.
PUBLIC OFFICER: A person who is elected to office pursuant to a statute or
ordinance, or who is appointed to an office which is established, and the
qualifications and duties of which are prescribed by statute or ordinance to
discharge a public duty for the village or any of its subdivisions or agencies.
REASONABLE BELIEF OR REASONABLY BELIEVES: The person concerned, acting as a
reasonable person, believes that the described facts exist. (1982 Code §
10-2-1)
5-5-2: CIVIL REMEDIES PRESERVED:
This chapter does not bar, suspend or otherwise affect any right or liability
to damages, penalty, forfeiture or other remedy authorized by law to be
recovered or enforced in a civil action for any conduct which this chapter
makes punishment, and the civil injury is not merged in the offense. (1982 Code
§ 10-2-2)
5-5-3: PENALTY:
Unless otherwise specifically provided in this chapter, any person or entity
convicted of violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined not less
than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for said violation, and each day that such a violation exists or
continues shall be deemed a distinct and separate offense. (1982 Code § 10-2-3;
amd. Ord. 14-485, 1-20-2014)
ARTICLE A. OFFENSES INVOLVING PROPERTY AND PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
SECTION:
5-5A-1: Malicious Damage To Property
5-5A-2: Criminal Damage To Property
5-5A-3: Obstructing Stairways And Exits
5-5A-4: Abandoned Containers
5-5A-5: Noise
5-5A-6: Injurious, Nauseous Substances
5-5A-7: Throwing Items
5-5A-8: Criminal Housing Management
5-5A-9: Trespassing
5-5A-10: Imitation Items Into Coin Operated Devices
5-5A-11: Resisting Arrest
5-5A-12: Obstructing, Refusing To Obey Village Officials
5-5A-13: False Alarms
5-5A-14: Graffiti
5-5A-1: MALICIOUS DAMAGE TO PROPERTY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully and maliciously tear up,
injure, deface or destroy the following:
   A.   Any sidewalk, curbing, street paving or crossing upon any street, alley
or public ground.
   B.   Any fire alarm, sewer drain or any other municipal improvement.
   C.   Any building, bridge or any other property, real or personal, belonging
to the village, or any property used in any business impressed with a public
interest and usually designated as a public service corporation, that is,
waterworks, gas, electric light, telephone or street companies. No person shall
maliciously and wilfully interfere or meddle in any way with the operation of
any such businesses as enumerated herein. (1982 Code § 10-2-25)
5-5A-2: CRIMINAL DAMAGE TO PROPERTY:
A person commits criminal damage to property when he or she:
   A.   Knowingly damages any property of another;
   B.   Recklessly, by means of fire or explosive, damages property of another;
   C.   Knowingly starts a fire on the land of another;
   D.   Knowingly injures a domestic animal of another without his or her
consent;
   E.   Knowingly deposits on the land or in the building of another any stink
bomb or any offensive smelling compound and thereby intends to interfere with
the use by another of the land or building;
   F.   Knowingly damages any property, other than as described in subsection B
of this section, with intent to defraud an insurer;
   G.   Knowingly shoots a firearm at any portion of a railroad train;
   H.   Knowingly, without proper authorization, cuts, injures, damages,
defaces, destroys, or tampers with any fire hydrant or any public or private
firefighting equipment, or any apparatus appertaining to firefighting
equipment; or
   I.   Intentionally, without proper authorization, opens any fire hydrant.
(1982 Code § 10-2-26; amd. 2016 Code)
5-5A-3: OBSTRUCTING STAIRWAYS AND EXITS:
It shall be unlawful to obstruct or permit the obstruction of any stairway,
aisle, corridor or exit in any office building, factory, hotel, school, place
of worship, theater, assembly hall, lodge or other public hall, or any building
used by two (2) or more tenants or families in such a manner that it interferes
with the free use of such stairway, aisle, corridor or exit. (1982 Code § 10-2-
15; amd. 2016 Code)
5-5A-4: ABANDONED CONTAINERS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to leave, or permit to be left, outside of
any dwelling, building or other structure, or within any unoccupied or
abandoned building, dwelling or any other structure under his control, in a
place accessible to children, any abandoned, unattended or discarded icebox,
refrigerator or other container which has an airtight door or lid, snap, lock
or other locking device which may not be released from the inside, without
first removing said door or lid, snap, lock or other locking device from said
icebox, refrigerator or container. (1982 Code § 10-2-19)
5-5A-5: NOISE:
   A.   Subject to the provisions of this section, the creating of any
unreasonably loud, disturbing and unnecessary noise within the limits of the
village is prohibited.
   B.   Noise of such character, intensity or duration as to be detrimental to
the life or health of any individual, or in disturbance of the public peace and
welfare is prohibited. (1982 Code § 10-2-20)
   C.   The following acts are declared to be loud, disturbing and unnecessary
noises in violation of this section, but this enumeration shall not be deemed
to be exclusive:
      1.   Horns: The sounding of any horn or signal device on any automobile,
motorcycle or bus, so as to create an unreasonably loud or harsh sound; and the
sounding of such device for an unnecessary and unreasonable period of time.
      2.   Musical Devices: The playing of any musical device or any musical
instrument with such volume, particularly between the hours of eleven o'clock
(11:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M., as to unreasonably annoy or disturb
the quiet, comfort or repose of persons in any office or other type of
residence.
      3.   Yelling And Shouting: Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling or
singing on the public streets, particularly between the hours of eleven o'clock
(11:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M., or at any time or place so as to
unreasonably annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of any persons in
the vicinity.
      4.   Animals: The keeping of any animal, bird or fowl which, by causing
frequent or long continued noise, shall disturb the comfort or repose of any
person in the vicinity.
      5.   Exhaust Discharge: To discharge into the open air the exhaust of any
stationary internal combustion engine, motor vehicle or motorboat engine,
except through a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent loud or
explosive noises therefrom.
      6.   Building Operations: The erection, including excavation, demolition,
alteration or repair, of any building in any residential section, and the
excavation of streets and highways in any residential section, other than
between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. on
weekdays and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. on
Saturdays and Sundays, except in case of urgent necessity in the interest of
public health and safety, and then only with a permit from the building/zoning
inspector.
      7.   Noise Near Schools, Places Of Worship And Courts: The creation of
any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any school, institution of
learning, place of worship or court while the same is in session, which
unreasonably interferes with the workings or sessions thereof.
      8.   Instruments To Attract Attention: The use of any drum, loudspeaker
or other instrument or device for the purpose of attracting attention by
creation of noise to any performance, show, sale or display of merchandise.
      9.   Sound Amplifying Devices: The use of amplifiers or loudspeakers in
the course of public addresses which are noncommercial in character; provided,
that said amplifiers may be permitted when permission has been first obtained
from the village board. (1982 Code § 10-2-20; amd. 2016 Code)
5-5A-6: INJURIOUS, NAUSEOUS SUBSTANCES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, drop, pour, deposit or discharge
upon the person or the property of another any liquid, gaseous or solid
substance which is injurious to person or property, or which is nauseous,
sickening, irritating or offensive to any of the senses with the intent to
unlawfully injure, molest, discomfort, discommode or cause the same to another
in the use, management, conduct or control of his personal property. No person
shall attempt, or aid in the attempt or commission, of any of these prohibited
acts. (1982 Code § 10-2-21)
5-5A-7: THROWING ITEMS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, purposely or recklessly, to cast, throw,
drop or break any stone, rock, brick, glass bottle or other missile, item or
substance onto any street, alley or other public way, or in or against any
person, residence, building, car or other property. (1982 Code § 10-2-22; amd.
2016 Code)
5-5A-8: CRIMINAL HOUSING MANAGEMENT:
A person commits criminal housing management when, having personal management
or control of residential real estate, whether as legal or equitable owner, or
as a managing agent or otherwise, he recklessly permits the physical condition
or facilities of the residential real estate to become or remain in any
condition which endangers the health or safety of a person other than the
defendant. (1982 Code § 10-2-23; amd. 2016 Code)
5-5A-9: TRESPASSING:
   A.   Land And Buildings: It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Enter upon the private premises, property or land of another, or any
part thereof, after receiving notice from the owner, occupant or person in
control of same that such entry is forbidden.
      2.   Remain upon the private premises, property or land of another after
receiving notice from the owner, occupant or person in control of same to
depart.
      3.   Enter or remain in any building or facility which is owned, operated
or within the control of the state, county or village, or any agency thereof,
except during such course as it is open to the public; provided, that this
subsection A3 shall not apply to persons entering or remaining after such hours
on lawful business or employment.
   B.   Vehicles: It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly and without
authority enter any vehicle, aircraft or watercraft, or any part thereof, of
another without his consent. (1982 Code § 10-2-24)
5-5A-10: IMITATION ITEMS INTO COIN OPERATED DEVICES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to insert or attempt to insert into any
parking meter, vending machine or other coin operated device any slug,
counterfeit coin or other foreign or metallic substance not a coin of United
States currency denomination. (1982 Code § 10-2-27)
5-5A-11: RESISTING ARREST:
It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly or wilfully resist an arrest
which he knows is being made by a police officer, or by a private person
summoned and directed by a police officer to make an arrest, even if he
believes that the arrest is unlawful, and the arrest is in fact unlawful. (1982
Code § 10-2-16)
5-5A-12: OBSTRUCTING, REFUSING TO OBEY VILLAGE OFFICIALS:
It shall be unlawful for any person:
   A.   To knowingly prevent, obstruct, harass or endanger, by any means, any
police officer, fire officer or other official or employee, or any military
personnel on emergency duty within the village, in the lawful performance of
his duties.
   B.   To knowingly or wilfully refuse or neglect to obey, without reasonable
justification therefor, any lawful order or direction of any police officer,
fire officer or other official or employee, or any military personnel on any
emergency duty within the village. (1982 Code § 10-2-17)
5-5A-13: FALSE ALARMS:
It shall be unlawful to intentionally make, turn in or give a false alarm of
fire or of need of police or ambulance assistance, or aid or abet in the
commission of such act. (1982 Code § 10-2-37)
5-5A-14: GRAFFITI:
A person commits criminal defacement of property when the person knowingly
damages the property of another by defacing, deforming, or otherwise damaging
the property by the use of paint or any other similar substance, or by the use
of a writing instrument, etching tool, or any other similar device. It is an
affirmative defense to a violation of this section that the owner of the
property damaged consented to such damage. (2016 Code)
ARTICLE B. OFFENSES INVOLVING THE PERSON
SECTION:
5-5B-1: Solicitation, Conspiracy To Commit An Offense
5-5B-2: Assault
5-5B-3: Battery
5-5B-4: Intimidation
5-5B-5: Bribery
5-5B-6: Disorderly Conduct
5-5B-7: Reckless Conduct
5-5B-8: Harassing Telephone Calls
5-5B-9: Mob Action
5-5B-10: Vagrancy
5-5B-11: Civil Rights Violations
5-5B-1: SOLICITATION, CONSPIRACY TO COMMIT AN OFFENSE:
   A.   Solicitation: A person commits solicitation when, with intent that an
offense be committed other than first degree murder, he or she commands,
encourages or requests another to commit that offense.
   B.   Conspiracy: A person commits conspiracy when, with intent that an
offense be committed, he or she agrees with another to the commission of that
offense. No person may be convicted of conspiracy to commit an offense unless
an act in furtherance of such agreement is alleged and proved to have been
committed by him or her or by a co-conspirator.
   C.   Affirmative Defense: It is a defense to a charge of solicitation or
conspiracy that if the criminal's objectives were achieved, the accused would
not be guilty of the offense. (1982 Code § 10-2-35; amd. 2016 Code)
5-5B-2: ASSAULT:
A person commits an assault when, without lawful authority, he or she knowingly
engages in conduct which places another in reasonable apprehension of receiving
a battery. (1982 Code § 10-2-10; amd. 2016 Code)
5-5B-3: BATTERY:
A person commits battery if he or she knowingly, without legal justification by
any means:
   A.   Causes bodily harm to an individual; or
   B.   Makes physical contact of an insulting or provoking nature with an
individual. (1982 Code § 10-2-11; amd. 2016 Code)
5-5B-4: INTIMIDATION:
A person commits intimidation when, with intent to cause another to perform or
to omit the performance of any act, he or she communicates to another, directly
or indirectly by any means, a threat to perform, without lawful authority, any
of the following acts:
   A.   Inflict physical harm on the person threatened or any other person or
on property; or
   B.   Subject any person to physical confinement or restraint; or
   C.   Commit a felony or class A misdemeanor; or
   D.   Accuse any person of an offense; or
   E.   Expose any person to hatred, contempt or ridicule; or
   F.   Take action as a public official against anyone or anything, or
withhold official action, or cause such action or withholding; or
   G.   Bring about or continue a strike, boycott or other collective action.
(1982 Code § 10-2-38; amd. 2016 Code)
5-5B-5: BRIBERY:
   A.   A person commits bribery when:
      1.   With intent to influence the performance of any act related to the
employment or function of any public officer, public employee, juror or
witness, he or she promises or tenders to that person any property or personal
advantage which he or she is not authorized by law to accept; or
      2.   With intent to influence the performance of any act related to the
employment or function of any public officer, public employee, juror or
witness, he or she promises or tenders to one whom he or she believes to be a
public officer, public employee, juror or witness, any property or personal
advantage which a public officer, public employee, juror or witness would not
be authorized by law to accept; or
      3.   With intent to cause any person to influence the performance of any
act related to the employment or function of any public officer, public
employee, juror or witness, he or she promises or tenders to that person any
property or personal advantage which he or she is not authorized by law to
accept; or
      4.   He or she receives, retains or agrees to accept any property or
personal advantage which he or she is not authorized by law to accept knowing
that the property or personal advantage was promised or tendered with intent to
cause him or her to influence the performance of any act related to the
employment or function of any public officer, public employee, juror or
witness; or
      5.   He or she solicits, receives, retains, or agrees to accept any
property or personal advantage pursuant to an understanding that he or she
shall improperly influence or attempt to influence the performance of any act
related to the employment or function of any public officer, public employee,
juror or witness.
   B.   As used in this section, "tenders" means any delivery or proffer made
with the requisite intent. (1982 Code § 10-2-34; amd. 2016 Code)
5-5B-6: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
A person commits disorderly conduct when he or she knowingly:
   A.   Does any act in such unreasonable manner as to alarm or disturb another
and to provoke a breach of the peace;
   B.   Transmits or causes to be transmitted in any manner to the San Jose
fire protection district a false alarm of fire, knowing at the time of the
transmission that there is no reasonable ground for believing that the fire
exists;
   C.   Transmits or causes to be transmitted in any manner to another a false
alarm to the effect that a bomb or other explosive of any nature or a container
holding poison gas, a deadly biological or chemical contaminant, or radioactive
substance is concealed in a place where its explosion or release would endanger
human life, knowing at the time of the transmission that there is no reasonable
ground for believing that the bomb or explosive or a container holding poison
gas, a deadly biological or chemical contaminant, or radioactive substance is
concealed in the place;
   D.   Transmits or causes to be transmitted in any manner to any peace
officer, public officer or public employee a report to the effect that an
offense will be committed, is being committed, or has been committed, knowing
at the time of the transmission that there is no reasonable ground for
believing that the offense will be committed, is being committed, or has been
committed;
   E.   Transmits or causes to be transmitted a false report to any public
safety agency without the reasonable grounds necessary to believe that
transmitting the report is necessary for the safety and welfare of the public;
   F.   Calls the number "911" for the purpose of making or transmitting a
false alarm or complaint and reporting information when, at the time the call
or transmission is made, the person knows there is no reasonable ground for
making the call or transmission and further knows that the call or transmission
could result in the emergency response of any public safety agency;
   G.   Transmits or causes to be transmitted a false report to the department
of children and family services under the "abused and neglected child reporting
act";
   H.   Transmits or causes to be transmitted in any manner to the village
police department or the San Jose fire protection district, or any privately
owned and operated ambulance service, a false request for an ambulance,
emergency medical technician-ambulance or emergency medical technician-
paramedic knowing at the time there is no reasonable ground for believing that
the assistance is required;
   I.   Transmits or causes to be transmitted a false report under "an act in
relation to victims of violence and abuse";
   J.   Enters upon the property of another and, for a lewd or unlawful
purpose, deliberately looks into a dwelling on the property through any window
or other opening in it. (1982 Code § 10-2-5; amd. 2016 Code)
5-5B-7: RECKLESS CONDUCT:
A person commits reckless conduct when he or she, by any means lawful or
unlawful, recklessly performs an act or acts that cause bodily harm to or
endanger the safety of another person. (1982 Code § 10-2-12; amd. 2016 Code)
5-5B-8: HARASSING TELEPHONE CALLS:
A person commits harassment by telephone when he or she uses telephone
communication for any of the following purposes:
   A.   Making any comment, request, suggestion or proposal which is obscene,
lewd, lascivious, filthy or indecent with an intent to offend;
   B.   Making a telephone call, whether or not conversation ensues, with
intent to abuse, threaten or harass any person at the called number;
   C.   Making or causing the telephone of another repeatedly to ring, with
intent to harass any person at the called number;
   D.   Making repeated telephone calls, during which conversation ensues,
solely to harass any person at the called number;
   E.   Making a telephone call or knowingly inducing a person to make a
telephone call for the purpose of harassing another person who is under
thirteen (13) years of age, regardless of whether the person under thirteen
(13) years of age consents to the harassment, if the defendant is at least
sixteen (16) years of age at the time of the commission of the offense; or
   F.   Knowingly permitting any telephone under one's control to be used for
any of the purposes mentioned herein. (2016 Code)
5-5B-9: MOB ACTION:
A person commits mob action when he or she engages in any of the following:
   A.   The knowing assembly of two (2) or more persons with the intent to
commit or facilitate the commission of a felony or misdemeanor; or
   B.   The knowing assembly of two (2) or more persons, without authority of
law, for the purpose of doing violence to the person or property of anyone
supposed to have been guilty of a violation of the law, or for the purpose of
exercising correctional powers or regulative powers over any person by
violence. (1982 Code § 10-2-14; amd. 2016 Code)
5-5B-10: VAGRANCY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to be guilty of "vagrancy" as herein
defined. The following persons shall be deemed vagrants:
   A.   Burglar's Tools: Any person in whose possession shall be found any
instrument, tool or other implement for picking locks or pockets, or any
implement that is usually employed or that reasonably may be referred to as
having been designed to be employed in the commission of any felony,
misdemeanor or the violation of any ordinance, and who shall fail to account
satisfactorily for the possession of the same. (1982 Code § 10-2-7)
   B.   Unlawful Occupancy: Any person wandering abroad and occupying, lodging
or sleeping in any vacant or unoccupied barn, garage, shed, shop or other
building or structure, or in any automobile, truck, railroad car, or other
vehicle without owning the same or without permission of the owner or person
entitled to the possession of the same, or sleeping in any vacant lot and not
giving a satisfactory account for himself. (1982 Code § 10-2-7; amd. 2016 Code)
   C.   Begging: Any person wandering abroad and begging, or any person who
goes about from door to door of private homes or commercial and business
establishments, or places himself in or upon any public way or public place to
beg or receive alms for himself.
   D.   Illegal Association: Any person who keeps, operates, frequents, lives
in or is employed in any house or other establishment of ill fame, or who
(whether married or single) engages in or commits acts of fornication or
perversion for hire.
   E.   Loitering: Any person found loitering or strolling in, about or upon
any street, alley or other public way or public place or at any public
gathering or assembly, or in or around any store, shop or business or
commercial establishment, or on any private property or place without lawful
business and conducting himself in a lewd or lascivious manner in speech or
behavior. (1982 Code § 10-2-7)
5-5B-11: CIVIL RIGHTS VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Elements: A person commits a violation of civil rights when:
      1.   He prevents, interferes with or denies to another, or conspires to
do the same, the full and equal access to, and enjoyment of the facilities and
services of any office, place, business, accommodation, amusement or conveyance
because of race, religion, color or national ancestry; or
      2.   He, as an official, denies or refuses to any person the full and
equal access, use or enjoyment of the services, facilities, accommodations,
advantages or privileges of his office, or of any property accommodations or
facilities under his care because of race, religion, color or national
ancestry. (1982 Code § 10-2-32)
   B.   Sanctions:
      1.   Criminal Penalty: Any person or entity convicted of violating any
provision of this section shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for said
violation, and each day that such a violation exists or continues shall be
deemed a distinct and separate offense. (Ord. 14-485, 1-20-2014)
      2.   Nuisance Declared: Any violation of civil rights occurring in any
public office, accommodation or amusement is declared a public nuisance and may
be abated in any manner provided by this code for the abatement of public
nuisances.
      3.   Discharge Of Public Official: When a public official shall be found
guilty of a violation of civil rights the person(s) (or village attorney, state
attorney) aggrieved may file a petition in the circuit court wherein the public
official holds office or is employed, to discharge the official complained of
from office. The court shall order that the official be immediately relieved of
his office or duties, and shall order the official to resign or be removed or
discharged. Any person violating or refusing to enforce such court order or
decree shall be deemed in contempt of court.
      4.   Penalties Not Exclusive: The penalties and remedies provided by this
subsection shall not be deemed mutually exclusive.
      5.   Necessity As Affirmative Defense: Conduct which would otherwise be
an offense is justifiable by reason of necessity if the accused was without
blame in occasioning or developing the situation, and reasonably believed such
conduct was necessary to avoid a public or private injury greater than the
injury which might reasonably result from his own conduct. (1982 Code § 10-2-
32)
ARTICLE C. OFFENSES INVOLVING MORALS AND DECENCY
SECTION:
5-5C-1: Gambling And Related Offenses
5-5C-2: Prostitution And Related Offenses
5-5C-3: Obscenity And Related Offenses
5-5C-4: Window Peeping
5-5C-1: GAMBLING AND RELATED OFFENSES:
   A.   Gambling Prohibited; Definitions: It shall be unlawful for any person
to gamble or to keep a gambling place within the corporate limits of the
village as these terms are defined as follows:
    GAMBLING: A person commits gambling when he:
      1.   Plays a game of chance or skill for money or other things of value;
or
      2.   Makes a wager upon the result of any game, contest or any political
nomination, appointment or election; or
      3.   Operates, keeps, owns, uses, purchases, exhibits, rents, sells, or
bargains for the sale or lease of any gambling device; or
      4.   Knowingly owns or possesses any books, instruments or apparatus by
means of which bets or wagers have been or are recorded or registered; or
      5.   Sells pools upon the result of any game or contest of skill or
chance, political nomination, appointment or election; or
      6.   Sets up or promotes any lottery or sells, offers to sell or offers
or transfers any ticket or share for any lottery; or
      7.   Sets up or promotes any policy game or sells, offers to sell or
knowingly possesses or transfers any policy ticket or other similar device; or
      8.   Knowingly advertises any lottery game, or drafts, prints, or
publishes any lottery ticket or share, or any policy ticket or similar device
or any advertisement of any lottery or policy game; or
      9.   Knowingly transmits information as to wagers, betting odds, or
changes in betting odds by telephone, telegraph, radio, megaphone or similar
means; or knowingly installs equipment for the transmission or receipt of such
information; except, that nothing in this subsection 9 prohibits transmission
or receipt of such information for the use of news reporting of sporting events
or contests.
   GAMBLING DEVICE: Any clock, tape machine, slot machine or other machine or
device for the reception of money or other things of value on chance or skill,
or upon the action of which, money or other things of value are staked,
hazarded, bet, won or lost; or any mechanism, furniture, fixture, equipment or
other device designed primarily for use in a gambling place. A gambling device
does not include:
      1.   A coin in the slot operated mechanical device played for amusement
which awards the player with the right to replay such mechanical device, which
device is so constructed or devised as to make such result of the operation
thereof depend in part upon the skill of the player and which returns to the
player thereof no money, property, or right to receive money or property.
      2.   Vending machines by which full and adequate return is made for the
money invested and in which there is no element of chance or hazard.
   GAMBLING PLACE: Any real estate, vehicle, boat or any other property
whatsoever used for the purpose of gambling.
   LOTTERY: A scheme or procedure whereby one or more prizes are distributed by
chance among persons who have paid or promised consideration for a chance to
win such prizes, whether such scheme or procedure is called a lottery, raffle,
gift, sale or some other name.
   POLICY GAME: Any scheme or procedure whereby a person promises or guarantees
by an instrument, bill, certificate, writing, token or other device that any
particular number, character, ticket or certificate shall, in the event of any
contingency in the nature of a lottery, entitle the purchaser or holder to
receive money, property or evidence of debt. (1982 Code § 10-2-31-1)
   B.   Places Of Gambling; Devices And Funds:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly permit any premises
or property owned or occupied by him under his control to be used as a gambling
place. When any premises is determined by a court having jurisdiction to be a
gambling place, all licenses or permits issued under the authority authorizing
the serving of food or liquor on such premises shall be void; and no license or
permit so canceled shall be reissued for such premises for a period of sixty
(60) days thereafter; nor shall any person convicted of keeping a gambling
place be reissued such a license for one year from his conviction, and after a
second conviction of keeping a gambling place, any such person shall not be
reissued such license or permit. (1982 Code § 10-2-31-2)
      2.   Every gambling device which is capable of lawful use is contraband
and shall be subject to seizure and confiscation by village police officers.
Any money or other thing of value intricately related to acts of gambling or
such gambling devices as may be seized or confiscated shall be made according
to law. (1982 Code § 10-2-31-2; amd. 2016 Code)
      3.   Any person or entity convicted of violating any provision of this
subsection B shall be fined not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) nor
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for said violation, and each
day that such a violation exists or continues shall be deemed a distinct and
separate offense. (Ord. 14-485, 1-20-2014)
5-5C-2: PROSTITUTION AND RELATED OFFENSES:
   A.   Prostitution:
      1.   Any person who performs, offers or agrees to perform any of the
following acts for money commits an act of prostitution:
         a.   Any act of sexual intercourse; or
         b.   Any act of deviate sexual conduct. (1982 Code § 10-2-28-1)
      2.   Any person or entity convicted of violating any provision of this
subsection A shall be fined not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) nor
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for said violation, and each
day that such a violation exists or continues shall be deemed a distinct and
separate offense. (Ord. 14-485, 1-20-2014)
   B.   Place Of Prostitution:
      1.   Any person who has or exercises control over the use of any place
which could offer seclusion or shelter for the practice of prostitution and who
performs any of the following acts, keeps a place of prostitution:
         a.   Knowingly grants or permits the use of such place for the purpose
of prostitution; or
         b.   Grants or permits the use of such place under circumstances from
which he could reasonably know that the place is used or is to be used for
purposes of prostitution; or
         c.   Permits the continued use of a place after becoming aware of
facts or circumstances from which he should reasonably know that the place is
being used for purposes of prostitution. (1982 Code § 10-2-28-2)
      2.   Any person or entity convicted of violating any provision of this
subsection B shall be fined not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) nor
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for said violation, and each
day that such a violation exists or continues shall be deemed a distinct and
separate offense. (Ord. 14-485, 1-20-2014)
   C.   Patronizing A Prostitute:
      1.   Any person who performs any of the following acts with a person not
his spouse commits the offense of patronizing a prostitute:
         a.   Engages in an act of sexual intercourse or deviate sexual conduct
with a prostitute; or
         b.   Enters or remains in a place of prostitution with a prostitute
with the intention to engage in an act of sexual intercourse or deviate sexual
conduct. (1982 Code § 10-2-28-3)
      2.   Any person or entity convicted of violating any provision of this
subsection C shall be fined not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) nor
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for said violation, and each
day that such a violation exists or continues shall be deemed a distinct and
separate offense. (Ord. 14-485, 1-20-2014)
   D.   Soliciting For A Prostitute:
      1.   Any person who performs any of the following acts commits soliciting
for a prostitute:
         a.   Solicit another for the purpose of prostitution; or
         b.   Arranges or offers to arrange a meeting of persons for the
purpose of prostitution; or
         c.   Directs another to the place knowing such direction is for the
purpose of prostitution. (1982 Code § 10-2-28-4)
      2.   Any person or entity convicted of violating any provision of this
subsection D shall be fined not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) nor
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for said violation, and each
day that such a violation exists or continues shall be deemed a distinct and
separate offense. (Ord. 14-485, 1-20-2014)
   E.   Pandering:
      1.   Any person who performs any of the following acts for money commits
pandering: (1982 Code § 10-2-28-5)
         a.   Compels another to become a prostitute; or
         b.   Arranges or offers to arrange a situation in which another may
practice prostitution. (1982 Code § 10-2-28-5; amd. 2016 Code)
      2.   Any person or entity convicted of violating any provision of this
subsection E shall be fined the sum of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00)
for said violation, and each day that such a violation exists or continues
shall be deemed a distinct and separate offense. (Ord. 14-485, 1-20-2014)
   F.   Pimping:
      1.   Any person who receives money or other property from a prostitute,
not for a lawful consideration, knowing it was earned in whole or in part from
the practice of prostitution, commits pimping. (1982 Code § 10-2-28-6)
      2.   Any person or entity convicted of violating any provision of this
subsection F shall be fined the sum of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00)
for said violation, and each day that such a violation exists or continues
shall be deemed a distinct and separate offense. (Ord. 14-485, 1-20-2014)
5-5C-3: OBSCENITY AND RELATED OFFENSES:
   A.   Public Indecency:
      1.   Any person of the age of seventeen (17) years and upwards who
performs any of the following acts in a public place commits a public
indecency:
         a.   An act of sexual penetration or sexual conduct; or
         b.   A lewd exposure of the body done with intent to arouse or to
satisfy the sexual desire of the person.
      2.   Breast feeding of infants is not an act of public indecency.
      3.   "Public place", for purposes of this subsection A, means any place
where the conduct may reasonably be expected to be viewed by others. (1982 Code
§ 10-2-29-1; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Obscenity:
      1.   Definition: Any material or performance is "obscene" if:
         a.   The average person, applying contemporary adult community
standards, would find that, taken as a whole, it appeals to the prurient
interest; and
         b.   The average person, applying contemporary adult community
standards, would find that it depicts or describes, in a patently offensive
way, ultimate sexual acts or sadomasochistic sexual acts, whether normal or
perverted, actual or simulated, or masturbation, excretory functions or lewd
exhibition of the genitals; and
         c.   Taken as a whole, it lacks serious literary, artistic, political
or scientific value.
      2.   Elements Of The Offense: A person commits obscenity when, with
knowledge of the nature or content thereof, or recklessly failing to exercise
reasonable inspection which would have disclosed the nature or content thereof,
he or she:
         a.   Sells, delivers or provides, or offers or agrees to sell, deliver
or provide, any obscene writing, picture, record or other representation or
embodiment of the obscene; or
         b.   Presents or directs an obscene play, dance or other performance
or participates directly in that portion thereof which makes it obscene; or
         c.   Publishes, exhibits or otherwise makes available anything
obscene; or
         d.   Performs an obscene act or otherwise presents an obscene
exhibition of his or her body for gain; or
         e.   Creates, buys, procures or possesses obscene matter or material
with intent to disseminate it in violation of this subsection B, or of the
penal laws or regulations of any other jurisdiction; or
         f.   Advertises or otherwise promotes the sale of material represented
or held out by him or her to be obscene, whether or not it is obscene. (2016
Code)
   C.   Affirmative Defense: It shall be an affirmative defense to a charge
under this section that the dissemination:
      1.   Was not for sale or gain and was made only to personal associates
other than children under eighteen (18) years of age.
      2.   Was to institutions or individuals having scientific or other
specific educational purpose for possession of such material. (1982 Code § 10-
2-29-4)
5-5C-4: WINDOW PEEPING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to enter upon the property of another and,
for a lewd or unlawful purpose, deliberately look into a dwelling on the
property through any window or opening therein. (1982 Code § 10-2-30; amd. 2016
Code)
ARTICLE D. OFFENSES INVOLVING CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES
AND ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
5-5D-1: Cannabis (rep. by Ord. 20-542, 2-17-2020)
5-5D-1-1: Cannabis Definitions
5-5D-1-2: Possession And Use Of Cannabis
5-5D-1-3: Public Display Of Cannabis And Public Intoxication
5-5D-1-4: Cultivation Of Cannabis
5-5D-1-5: Possession Of Drug Paraphernalia
5-5D-1-6: Penalty
5-5D-2: Possession Of Drug Paraphernalia (rep. by Ord. 20-542, 2-17-2020)
5-5D-3: Public Intoxication
5-5D-4: Open Consumption
5-5D-1: CANNABIS:
(Rep. by Ord. 20-542, 2-17-2020)
5-5D-1-1: CANNABIS DEFINITIONS:
As used in this section, unless the context otherwise requires, the following
words and terms shall have the following meanings:
               A person authorized by a registered qualifying patient to tend his or her
AUTHORIZED     cannabis plants, which valid authorization shall be endowed only by a Power of
AGENT:         Attorney or similar written instrument which names the agent, is signed by the
               registered qualifying patient, and has a duration of no more than two (2) weeks
               within any six (6) month period.
               Marijuana, hashish, and other substances that are identified as including any
               parts of the plant Cannabis sativa and including derivatives or subspecies,
               such as indica, of all strains of cannabis, whether growing or not; the seeds
               thereof, the resin extracted from any part of the plant; and any compound,
               manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the
               plant, its seeds, or resin, including tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and all other
               naturally produced cannabinol derivatives, whether produced directly or
CANNABIS:      indirectly by extraction; however, "cannabis" does not include the mature
               stalks of the plant, fiber produced from the stalks, oil or cake made from the
               seeds of the plant, any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture,
               or preparation of the mature stalks (except the resin extracted from it),
               fiber, oil or cake, or the sterilized seed of the plant that is incapable of
               germination. "Cannabis" does not include industrial hemp as defined and
               authorized under the Industrial Hemp Act. "Cannabis" also means concentrate and
               cannabis-infused products.
               Any equipment, products, or materials of any kind that are used, intended for
               use, or designed for use in planting, propagating, cultivating, growing,
CANNABIS       harvesting, composting, manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing,
ACCESSORIES:   processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing,
               vaporizing, or containing cannabis, or for ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise
               introducing cannabis into the human body as permitted by the Cannabis
               Regulation and Tax Act.
               A product derived from cannabis that is produced by extracting cannabinoids
CANNABIS       from the plant through the use of propylene glycol, glycerin, butter, olive oil
CONCENTRATE:   or other typical cooking fats; water, ice, or dry ice; or butane, propane, CO2,
               ethanol, or isopropanol. The use of any other solvent is expressly prohibited
               unless and until it is approved by the Department of Agriculture.
               Marijuana, hashish, and other substances that are identified as including any
               parts of the plant Cannabis sativa and including derivatives or subspecies,
CANNABIS       such as indica, of all strains of cannabis; including raw kief, leaves, and
FLOWER:        buds, but not resin that has been extracted from any part of such plant; nor
               any compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of such
               plant, its seeds, or resin.
CANNABIS-      A beverage, food, oil, ointment, tincture, topical formulation, or another
INFUSED        product containing cannabis that is not intended to be smoked.
PRODUCT:
CONTROLLED     The meanings ascribed to it in Section 102 of the Illinois Controlled
SUBSTANCE:     Substances Act as if that definition were incorporated herein.
DELIVER OR     The actual, constructive, or attempted transfer of possession, with or without
DELIVERY:      consideration, whether or not there is an agency relationship.
               All equipment, products and materials of any kind, other than methamphetamine
               manufacturing materials as defined in Section 10 of the Methamphetamine Control
               and Community Protection Act, which are intended to be used unlawfully in
               planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing,
               compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing,
               packaging, repackaging, storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting,
               inhaling or otherwise introducing into the human body cannabis or a controlled
               substance in violation of the Cannabis Control Act, the Illinois Controlled
               Substances Act, or the Methamphetamine Control and Community Protection Act or
               a synthetic drug product or misbranded drug in violation of the Illinois Food,
               Drug and Cosmetic Act. "Drug Paraphernalia" does not include cannabis
               accessories if possessed or used by any person twenty-one (21) years of age or
               older who is otherwise lawfully permitted to possess or use cannabis under the
               Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act. "Drug Paraphernalia" includes, but is not
               limited to:
               A.   Kits intended to be used unlawfully in manufacturing, compounding,
               converting, producing, processing or preparing cannabis or a controlled
               substance;
               B.   Isomerization devices intended to be used unlawfully in increasing the
               potency of any species of plant which is cannabis or a controlled substance;
               C.   Testing equipment intended to be used unlawfully in a private home for
DRUG           identifying or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of cannabis
PARAPHERNALIA: or controlled substances;
               D.   Diluents and adulterants intended to be used unlawfully for cutting
               cannabis or a controlled substance by private persons;
               E.   Objects intended to be used unlawfully in ingesting, inhaling, or
               otherwise introducing cannabis, cocaine, hashish, hashish oil, or a synthetic
               drug product or misbranded drug in violation of the Illinois Food, Drug and
               Cosmetic Act into the human body including, where applicable, the following
               items:
                  1.   Water pipes;
                  2.   Carburetion tubes and devices;
                  3.   Smoking and carburetion masks;
                  4.   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
                  5.   Carburetor pipes;
                  6.   Electric pipes;
                  7.   Air-driven pipes;
                  8.   Chillums;
                  9.   Bongs; or
                  10.   Ice pipes or chillers.
               F.   Any item whose purpose, as announced or described by the seller, is for
               use in violation of the Cannabis Control Act, the Illinois Controlled
               Substances Act, the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, or any provision of this
               chapter.
FACILITATE THE To deliver, transfer, gift, sell, or to otherwise provide cannabis or cannabis
USE OF         accessories to a person. It shall also include purchasing cannabis for a person
CANNABIS:      and careless or negligent storage of cannabis so that it may be easily
               accessible to a person.
               A vehicle driven or drawn by mechanical power and manufactured primarily for
MOTOR VEHICLE: use on public highways but does not include a vehicle operated exclusively on a
               rail or rails.
               Any place where a person could reasonably be expected to be observed by others.
               "Public place" includes all parts of buildings owned in whole or in part, or
PUBLIC PLACE:  leased, by the State or a unit of local government. "Public place" does not
               include a private residence unless the private residence is used to provide
               licensed child care, foster care, or other similar social service care on the
               premises.
               The surface of, and the space above and below, any public street, highway,
PUBLIC WAY:    freeway, bridge, land path, alley, court, boulevard, sidewalk, way, lane,
               drive, circle, or other public right-of-way, including, but not limited to,
               utility easements, dedicated utility strips, or rights-of-way.
               Out of reach of the driver and any passenger of a motor vehicle, which includes
               being in the trunk of the vehicle or the area behind the last upright seat of a
REASONABLY     motor vehicle that is not equipped with a trunk. Areas that are not reasonably
INACCESSIBLE:  inaccessible include, but are not limited to, the glove compartment, any middle
               console compartment between the driver's seat and the front passenger seat, and
               either under or directly behind the driver's seat or the front passenger's
               seat.
REASONABLY     In a sealed, odor-proof, and child-resistant container.
SECURED:
REGISTERED     The meanings ascribed to it in Section 10 of the Compassionate Use of Medical
QUALIFYING     Cannabis Program Act as if that definition were incorporated herein.
PATIENT:
               The time period when a person is working during his normal scheduled hours,
               during overtime hours when a person is working, and during any period of time
WHILE ON DUTY: in which a person is "on call" where he or she may be called upon to perform
               work duties at any time during that "on call" time period. (Ord. 20-542, 2-17-
               2020)
 
5-5D-1-2: POSSESSION AND USE OF CANNABIS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person under twenty-one (21) years of age
to use or possess cannabis at any time except as otherwise permitted under the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act, 410 ILCS 130/1, et seq.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to possess more than
thirty (30) grams of cannabis flower, more than five hundred (500) milligrams
of THC contained in cannabis-infused product, or more than five (5) grams of
cannabis concentrate.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess cannabis:
      1.   In a school bus, unless permitted for a qualifying patient or
caregiver pursuant to the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act;
      2.   On the grounds of any preschool or primary or secondary school,
unless permitted for a qualifying patient or caregiver pursuant to the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act;
      3.   In a vehicle not open to the public unless the cannabis is in a
reasonably secured, sealed container and reasonably inaccessible while the
vehicle is moving;
      4.   In a private residence that is used at any time to provide licensed
child care or other similar social service care on the premises;
      5.   In an amount greater than thirty (30) grams for Illinois residents
and more than fifteen (15) grams for out of state residents;
      6.   In any part of a building owned in whole or in part, or leased, by
the Village of San Jose;
      7.   Not produced or purchased in accordance with the Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act; or
      8.   In any other manner prohibited by state statutes, as they may be
amended from time to time.
   D.   It shall be unlawful for any person to use cannabis:
      1.   In a school bus, unless permitted for a qualifying patient or
caregiver pursuant to the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act;
      2.   On the grounds of any preschool or primary or secondary school,
unless permitted for a qualifying patient or caregiver pursuant to the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act;
      3.   In any motor vehicle;
      4.   In a private residence that is used at any time to provide licensed
childcare or other similar social service care on the premises;
      5.   In any public place; or
      6.   Knowingly in close physical proximity to anyone under twenty-one
(21) years of age who is not a registered medical cannabis patient under the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act; or
      7.   While on duty by a person who has a school bus permit or a
commercial driver's license.
   E.   It shall be unlawful for any person to smoke cannabis in any place
where smoking is prohibited under the Smoke Free Illinois Act.
   F.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate, navigate, or be in
actual physical control of any motor vehicle, aircraft, or motorboat while
using or under the influence of cannabis in violation of Section 11-501 or 11-
502.1 of the Illinois Vehicle Code.
   G.   It shall be unlawful for any person to facilitate the use of cannabis
by any person who is not allowed to use cannabis under the Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act, 410 ILCS 705/1, et seq., or the Compassionate Use of Medical
Cannabis Program Act.
   H.   It shall be unlawful for any person to transfer cannabis to any person
contrary to the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act or the Compassionate Use of
Medical Cannabis Program Act.
   I.   It shall be unlawful for any person to transport, carry, possess or
have upon any public place or public way in the Village any cannabis on or
about his person except in the original package and with the seal unbroken.
(Ord. 20-542, 2-17-2020)
5-5D-1-3: PUBLIC DISPLAY OF CANNABIS AND PUBLIC INTOXICATION:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person in the Village to display, make a
gift, make available, sell, or offer for sale any cannabis within any public
place or public way in the Village.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the influence of cannabis or
controlled substances to enter or remain within any public place or public way
within the Village. (Ord. 20-542, 2-17-2020)
5-5D-1-4: CULTIVATION OF CANNABIS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to cultivate cannabis plants within
the Village of San Jose, except for a registered qualifying patient under the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act. It shall be unlawful for any
person who is a registered qualifying patient under the Compassionate Use of
Medical Cannabis Program Act to cultivate cannabis plants:
      1.   Unless the person has been a resident of the State of Illinois for
more than thirty (30) days before cultivation;
      2.   In excess of five (5) plants that are more than five (5) inches tall
per household;
      3.   Outside of an enclosed, locked space;
      4.   Using cannabis seeds purchased from somewhere other than a
dispensary for the purpose of home cultivation, and seeds may not be given or
sold to any other person;
      5.   In a location where they are subject to ordinary public view (within
the sight line with normal visual range of a person, unassisted by visual aids,
from a public street or sidewalk adjacent to real property, or from within an
adjacent property);
      6.   Without reasonable precautions to ensure the cannabis plants are
secure from unauthorized access, including unauthorized access by a person
under twenty-one (21) years of age;
      7.   On non-residential property and property that is not lawfully in the
possession of the cultivator or without the consent of the person in lawful
possession of the property;
      8.   In a dwelling, residence, apartment, condominium unit, enclosed,
locked space, or piece of property which has not been divided into multiple
dwelling units and contains in excess of five (5) plants at any one time; or
      9.   Unless residing at the residence where the cannabis plants are
located, except that a registered qualifying patient's authorized agent may
tend to the cannabis plants if attending to the residence for brief periods,
such as when the qualifying patient is temporarily away from the residence.
(Ord. 20-542, 2-17-2020)
5-5D-1-5: POSSESSION OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA:
   A.   Any person who knowingly possesses an item of drug paraphernalia with
the intent to use it in unlawfully ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise
introducing cannabis or a controlled substance into the human body, or in
unlawfully preparing cannabis or a controlled substance for that use, commits
an offense.
   B.   In determining intent under division A. above, the trier of fact may
take into consideration the proximity of the cannabis or controlled substances
to drug paraphernalia or the presence of cannabis or a controlled substance on
the drug paraphernalia.
   C.   Any person or entity convicted of violating any provision of this
subsection shall be fined not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for said violation, and each
day that such a violation exists or continues shall be deemed a distinct and
separate offense.
   D.   Exemptions:
      1.   This section does not apply to:
         a.   Items used in the preparation, compounding, packaging, labeling,
or other use of cannabis or a controlled substance as an incident to lawful
research, teaching, or chemical analysis and not for sale;
         b.   Items historically and customarily used in connection with the
planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing,
packaging, repackaging, storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting,
or inhaling of tobacco or any other lawful substance. Items exempt under this
subsection D1b include, but are not limited to, garden hoes, rakes, sickles,
baggies, tobacco pipes, and cigarette rolling papers;
         c.   Items of drug paraphernalia which are used for decorative
purposes, when such items have been rendered completely inoperable or incapable
of being used for any illicit purpose prohibited by this section;
         d.   A person who is legally authorized to possess hypodermic syringes
or needles under the Hypodermic Syringes and Needles Act; or
         e.   Cannabis accessories lawfully possessed by a person over age
twenty-one (21) for use permitted by the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act.
      2.   In determining whether or not a particular item is exempt under this
subsection D, the trier of fact should consider, in addition to all other
logically relevant factors, the following:
         a.   The general, usual, customary, and historical use to which the
item involved has been put;
         b.   Expert evidence concerning the ordinary or customary use of the
item and the effect of any peculiarity in the design or engineering of the
device upon its functioning;
         c.   Any written instructions accompanying the delivery of the item
concerning the purposes or uses to which the item can or may be put;
         d.   Any oral instructions provided by the seller of the item at the
time and place of sale or commercial delivery;
         e.   Any national or local advertising concerning the design, purpose
or use of the item involved, and the entire context in which such advertising
occurs;
         f.   The manner, place and circumstances in which the item was
displayed for sale, as well as any item or items displayed for sale or
otherwise exhibited upon the premises where the sale was made;
         g.   Whether the owner or anyone in control of the object is a
legitimate supplier of like or related items to the community, such as a
licensed distributor or dealer of tobacco products; or
         h.   The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in the
community. (Ord. 20-542, 2-17-2020)
5-5D-1-6: PENALTY:
Unless indicated otherwise, any person or entity convicted of violating any
provision of this section shall be fined not less than five hundred dollars
($500.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for said
violation, and each day that such a violation exists or continues shall be
deemed a distinct and separate offense. (Ord. 20-542, 2-17-2020)
5-5D-2: POSSESSION OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA:
(Rep. by Ord. 20-542, 2-17-2020)
5-5D-3: PUBLIC INTOXICATION:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person, in any public place, to be in such
a state of intoxication that:
      1.   He is unreasonably loud, obscene or disorderly so as to breach the
peace; or
      2.   He is incoherent, incapacitated or asleep so as not to be able to
control, direct or protect himself.
   B.   It shall be the duty of police officers to arrest any such person when
they reasonably believe such condition exists. (1982 Code § 10-2-6)
5-5D-4: OPEN CONSUMPTION:
   A.   No person shall have in his possession, transport or carry any
alcoholic beverage, within five hundred feet (500') of public parks, on public
property, except in the original package and with the seal unbroken. (Ord. 18-
524, 5-20-2019, eff. 5-30-2019)
ARTICLE E. WEAPONS CONTROL
SECTION:
5-5E-1: Use, Possession, Etc., Of Weapons And Ammunition
5-5E-2: Discharging Weapons
5-5E-3: Carrying Loaded Weapons
5-5E-4: Unlawful Display Of Weapons
5-5E-5: Confiscation And Disposition Of Weapons
5-5E-1: USE, POSSESSION, ETC., OF WEAPONS AND AMMUNITION:
   A.   Unlawful Use, Possession, Etc.:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to sell, manufacture, purchase, possess or
carry any bludgeon, blackjack, slingshot, sandclub, sandbag, metal knuckles or
other knuckle weapon, regardless of its composition, throwing star, or any
knife, commonly referred to as a switchblade knife, which has a blade that
opens automatically by hand pressure applied to a button, spring or other
device in the handle of the knife, or a ballistic knife, which is a device that
propels a knifelike blade as a projectile by means of a coil spring, elastic
material or compressed gas.
      2.   It shall be unlawful to carry or possess with intent to use the same
unlawfully against another, a dagger, dirk, billy club, dangerous knife, razor,
stiletto, broken bottle or other piece of glass, stun gun or taser or any other
dangerous or deadly weapon or instrument of like character.
      3.   It shall be unlawful to carry or possess any pistol, revolver, stun
gun, a set spring gun, taser or other firearm unless that person possesses a
currently valid firearm owner's identification card, unless said weapon is
broken down in a nonfunctioning state.
      4.   No person may acquire or possess any firearm, stun gun, taser or any
associated ammunition within the village limits without having in his or her
possession a firearm owner's identification card previously issued in his or
her name by the department of state police under the provisions set forth in
430 Illinois Compiled Statutes 65/0.01 et seq.
      5.   It shall be unlawful to possess or carry any weapon from which more
than eight (8) shots or bullets may be discharged by a single function of the
firing device, any shotgun with a barrel less than eighteen inches (18") in
length, or any bomb, bombshell, grenade, bottle or other container containing
an explosive substance or device.
      6.   It shall be unlawful to carry or possess any firearm or other deadly
weapon at any public gathering held pursuant to a license issued by any
governmental body or any public gathering at which an admission is charged,
excluding a place where a showing, demonstration or lecture involving the
exhibition of unloaded firearms is conducted, within the limits of the village.
   B.   Exemptions: The provisions of this section do not apply to or affect
the following:
      1.   Peace officers and any person summoned by a peace officer to assist
in making arrests or preserving the peace, while actually engaged in assisting
such officer.
      2.   Wardens, superintendents and keepers of prisons, penitentiaries,
jails and other institutions for the detention of persons accused or convicted
of an offense, while in the performance of their official duty, or while
commuting between their homes and places of employment.
      3.   Members of the armed services or reserve forces of the United
States, of the Illinois national guard or the reserve officers training corps,
while in the performance of their official duty.
      4.   Any person specifically authorized by state or federal law to carry
assault weapons in the course of his or her employment or official duties.
      5.   Hunters, trappers or fishermen with a license or permit while
engaged in hunting, trapping or fishing.
      6.   The assault weapon is being transported by a person who has been
issued a current firearm owners identification card and is in a broken down or
nonfunctioning state; is not immediately accessible; or is unloaded and
enclosed in a case.
      7.   Any person carrying a concealed pistol, revolver, or handgun and the
person has been issued a currently valid license under the firearm concealed
carry act at the time of the commission of the offense. (2016 Code)
5-5E-2: DISCHARGING WEAPONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to fire or discharge any firearm, air gun,
slingshot, bow, crossbow or other device designed to fire, project or throw any
stone, bullet or other hard substance within the village; provided, however,
that this section shall not apply to any police officer discharging a firearm
in the performance of his duty nor to any citizen discharging any firearm when
lawfully defending his person or property. (1982 Code § 10-2-18-2)
5-5E-3: CARRYING LOADED WEAPONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, except persons permitted by law, to have
or carry any shotgun, rifle or air gun in or upon any vehicle, unless such
shotgun, rifle or air gun is dismantled to render it incapable of being fired
or is unloaded when enclosed in a case. The mere removal of the belt from a
belt action rifle shall not be construed as dismantled so as to render it
incapable of firing. (1982 Code § 10-2-18-3)
5-5E-4: UNLAWFUL DISPLAY OF WEAPONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person in possession of any weapon or device set
forth in this article to display or flourish any such weapon in a threatening
or boisterous manner such as might alarm a reasonable person. (1982 Code § 10-
2-18-4)
5-5E-5: CONFISCATION AND DISPOSITION OF WEAPONS:
   A.   Upon conviction of a violation of this article, any weapons seized
shall be confiscated by the village police department.
   B.   Any stolen weapon so confiscated, when no longer needed for evidence,
shall be returned to the person entitled to possession, if known. All other
confiscated weapons after the completion of a criminal case and when no longer
needed for evidence purposes, and when, in due course, no legitimate claim has
been made for such weapons to the village police department, said department
shall proceed to destroy them or the department may, in its discretion, order
such weapons preserved as property of the village police department. (1982 Code
§ 10-2-18-5; amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 6
MINORS
SECTION:
5-6-1: Curfew Regulations
5-6-2: Liquor Prohibitions
5-6-3: Sale Of Weapons To Or Possession Of Weapons By Minors
5-6-1: CURFEW REGULATIONS:
   A.   Definitions:
    CURFEW HOURS: 1. Between one minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. and
six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on Saturday and Sunday.
      2.   Between one minute after eleven o'clock (11:01) P.M. on Sunday to
Thursday, inclusive, and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on the following day.
   EMERGENCY: An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to, a
fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident, or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
   ESTABLISHMENT: Any privately owned place of business operated for a profit
to which the public is invited.
   GUARDIAN: A person, who, under court order, is the guardian of the person of
a minor or a public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by a
court.
   MINOR: Any person under seventeen (17) years of age.
   PARENT: A person who is a natural parent, adoptive parent, or stepparent of
another person; or at least eighteen (18) years of age and authorized by a
parent or guardian to have the care and custody of a minor.
   PUBLIC PLACE: Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public have access and includes, but is not limited to, parks, streets,
highways and public places.
   REMAIN: To linger, stay or fail to leave premises when requested to do so by
a police officer or the owner, operator, or other person in control of the
premises.
   SERIOUS BODILY INJURY: Any bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement, or protracted loss
or impairment of any function of any bodily member or organ.
   B.   Offenses:
      1.   A minor commits a curfew offense when he or she remains in any
public place or on the premises of any establishment during curfew hours.
      2.   A parent or guardian of a minor or other person in custody or
control of a minor commits a curfew offense when he or she knowingly permits
the minor to remain in any public place or on the premises of any establishment
during curfew hours.
   C.   Defenses: It is a defense to violation under subsection B of this
section that the minor was:
      1.   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian or other person in
custody or control of the minor.
      2.   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop.
      3.   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel.
      4.   Engaged in an employment activity or going to or returning home from
an employment activity, without any detour or stop.
      5.   Involved in an emergency.
      6.   On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence or abutting the
residence of a next door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department about the minor's presence.
      7.   Attending an official school, religious or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by a government or governmental
agency, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor, or going to or returning home from, without any
detour or stop, an official school, religious or other recreational activity
supervised by adults and sponsored by a government or governmental agency, a
civic organization, or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the
minor.
      8.   Married or had been married or is an emancipated minor under the
emancipation of minors act.
   D.   Penalties And Enforcement:
      1.   Before taking any enforcement action under this section, a law
enforcement officer shall ask the apparent offender's age and reason for being
in the public place. The officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest
under this subsection D1 unless the officer reasonably believes that an offense
has occurred and that, based on any response and other circumstances, no
defense in subsection C of this section is present.
      2.   Upon a violation of this section for the first time, the juvenile
shall be given a warning citation.
      3.   A second offense by the same juvenile shall constitute a penalty to
include, but not limited to, ten (10) hours of community service.
      4.   Any person or entity convicted of violating any provision of this
section shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for said violation, and each day
that such a violation exists or continues shall be deemed a distinct and
separate offense. (2016 Code)
5-6-2: LIQUOR PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Sales To: It shall be unlawful for any person, after purchasing or
otherwise obtaining alcoholic liquor, to sell, give or deliver such alcoholic
liquor to another person under the age of twenty one (21) years except in the
performance of a religious ceremony or service.
   B.   Possession:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to whom the sale, gift or
delivery of alcoholic liquor is prohibited by this section to purchase or
accept a gift of alcoholic liquor or to have alcoholic liquor in his
possession.
      2.   The presence in a vehicle other than a public omnibus of any
alcoholic liquor shall be prima facie evidence that it is in the possession of
and is being carried by all persons occupying such vehicle at the time at which
such alcoholic liquor is found, except under the following circumstances:
         a.   If such liquor is found on the person of one of the occupants
therein; or
         b.   If such vehicle contains at least one occupant over twenty one
(21) years of age.
   C.   Consumption: It shall be unlawful for any person under twenty one (21)
years of age to consume alcoholic liquor.
   D.   Exceptions: Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prohibit the
possession, dispensing or consumption by a minor of alcoholic liquor in the
performance of a religious service or ceremony, or the consumption by a minor
under the direct supervision and approval of the parent or legal guardian of
such minor in the privacy of a home.
   E.   Use Of Altered Or False Identification:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to display an identification
card that:
         a.   Is altered or defaced in any manner; or
         b.   Is false or forged; or
         c.   Is the identification card of another; or
         d.   Was obtained by means of false information to induce another to
sell, give or deliver alcoholic liquor to the bearer.
      2.   For purpose of this subsection, an "identification card" is defined
as any document issued by a public officer in the performance of his official
duties which, on its face, purports to identify the name and age of the bearer.
(1982 Code §
10-3-2)
   F.   Penalty: Any person or entity convicted of violating any provision of
this section shall be fined not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) nor
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for said violation, and each
day that such a violation exists or continues shall be deemed a distinct and
separate offense. (Ord. 14-485, 1-20-2014)
5-6-3: SALE OF WEAPONS TO OR POSSESSION OF WEAPONS BY MINORS:
   A.   Sales:
      1.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to sell any firearm,
air rifle 1 , bludgeon, blackjack, slingshot, sandclub, sandbag, metal
knuckles, dagger, dirk, billy, dangerous knife, stiletto, or any knife commonly
referred to as a switchblade which has a blade which opens automatically by
hand pressure applied to a button, spring or other device in the handle of the
knife, to any person under eighteen (18) years of age.
      2.   Affirmative Defense: It shall be an affirmative defense for any
person having sold such weapon that:
         a.   The minor procured the sale by use of false or forged
identification cards.
         b.   The person did not know, and could not reasonably have known, of
the falsity or forgery.
         c.   The person exercised reasonable diligence to determine the
veracity of the information (representation).
   B.   Possession:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any minor to possess any bludgeon,
blackjack, slingshot, sandclub, metal knuckles, dagger, dirk, billy, dangerous
knife, stiletto, or any knife commonly referred to as a switchblade knife which
has a blade which opens automatically by hand pressure applied to a button,
spring or other device in the handle of the knife.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any minor under the age of eighteen (18) to
possess any firearm or air rifle 2 , unless under the direct and immediate
supervision of that minor's parent, stepparent, adoptive parent, guardian or a
responsible adult.
   C.   Responsibility Of Parent Or Guardian: It shall be unlawful for any
parent of a minor, including stepparents, adoptive parents or guardians, to
knowingly allow said minor to possess any weapon in violation of either
subsection B1 or B2 of this section. (2016 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. As defined in 720 ILCS 5/24.8-0.1.
2 1. As defined in 720 ILCS 5/24.8-0.1.
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
TITLE; DEFINITIONS; ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTY
SECTION:
6-1-1: Title
6-1-2: Definitions
6-1-3: Obedience To Police Required
6-1-4: Fleeing Or Attempting To Elude Police Prohibited
6-1-5: Violations
6-1-6: Arrests And Prosecutions
6-1-7: Penalty
6-1-1: TITLE:
This title may be cited as and referred to as the TRAFFIC CODE OF THE VILLAGE
OF SAN JOSE, ILLINOIS. (1982 Code §
11-1-1)
6-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever in this title the following words and phrases are used, they shall
have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this section. Whenever any
words and phrases used in this title are not defined in this section, but are
defined in the state vehicle laws, such definitions shall be deemed to apply to
such words and phrases used herein. Whenever any words and phrases used in this
title are not defined in this section and are not defined in the state vehicle
laws, such words and phrases shall be given their usual customary meanings.
ABANDONED VEHICLE: Any vehicle in a state of disrepair rendering the vehicle
incapable of being driven in its condition or any vehicle that has not been
moved or used for seven (7) consecutive days or more and is apparently
deserted.
ALLEY: A public way within a block generally giving access to the rear of lots
or buildings and not used for general traffic circulation.
AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE: An emergency vehicle of municipal departments or
public service corporations as are designated or authorized by proper local
authorities; police vehicles; vehicles of the fire department; vehicles of a
HAZMAT or technical rescue team.
AXLE LOAD: The total load transmitted to the road by all wheels whose centers
may be included between two (2) parallel transverse vertical planes forty
inches (40") apart extending across the full width of the vehicle.
BICYCLE: Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may ride,
having tandem wheels, except scooters and similar devices.
BUMPER: Any device or system of devices protruding from and attached to the
front and rear of a motor vehicle that has been designed to be used to absorb
the impact of a collision. For the purposes of this title, a bumper also
includes a device or system of devices similar in design to those with which
new motor vehicles are equipped.
BUS: Every motor vehicle, other than a commuter van, designed for carrying more
than ten (10) persons.
BUSINESS DISTRICT: The territory contiguous to and including a highway when,
within any six hundred feet (600') along such highway, there are buildings in
use for business or industrial purposes including, but not limited to, hotels,
banks, or office buildings, railroad stations and public buildings which occupy
at least three hundred feet (300') of frontage on one side or three hundred
feet (300') collectively on both sides of the highway.
CAMPING TRAILER: A trailer, not used commercially, constructed with partial
side walls which fold for towing and unfold to provide temporary living
quarters for recreational camping or travel use and of a size or weight not
requiring an overdimension permit when towed on a highway.
COLLECTION COSTS: Consist of reasonable costs incurred in locating the owner,
lienholder, or other legally entitled persons, and demanding payment, together
with court costs and reasonable attorney fees as determined by the court.
CROSSWALK: That part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
highway measured from the curbs or, in the absence of curbs, from the edges of
the traversable roadway, and in the absence of a sidewalk on one side of the
highway, that part of the highway included within the extension of the lateral
line of the existing sidewalk to the side of the highway without the sidewalk,
with such extension forming a right angle to the centerline of the highway.
DERELICT VEHICLE: Any inoperable, unregistered, discarded motor vehicle,
regardless of title, having lost its character as a substantial property and
left unattended without justification on the owner's land.
DRIVER: Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
DRIVEWAY: A strip of land improved for the purpose of providing access from
private property to the main traveled portion of a public way.
ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE: A self-balancing, two (2)
nontandem wheeled device designed to transport only one person with an electric
propulsion system that limits the maximum speed of the device to fifteen (15)
miles per hour or less.
EXPLOSIVES: Any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that is commonly used
or intended for the purpose of producing an explosion and which contains any
oxidizing and combustive units or other ingredients in such proportions,
quantities or packing that an ignition by fire, by friction, by concussion, by
percussion or by detonator of any part of the compound or mixture may cause
such a sudden generation of highly heated gases that the resultant gaseous
pressures are capable of producing destructive effects on contiguous objects or
of destroying life or limb.
FIRE DEPARTMENT VEHICLE: Any vehicle, bicycle, or electric personal assistive
mobility device that is designated or authorized by proper local authorities
for fire department use.
FUNERAL PROCESSION: A procession consisting of motor vehicles which are
designed and used for the carrying of not more than seven (7) passengers, a
funeral hearse and floral cars, or combination thereof, with any of the
following added: Foot units and equestrian units proceeding to a place of
burial.
GROSS WEIGHT: The weight of a vehicle, whether operated singly or in
combination, without load, plus the weight of the load thereon.
HEADSET RECEIVER: Any device, other than a hearing aid, designed to be worn on
a person's head that enables the wearer to hear or receive electronic
communications.
HOLIDAYS: When used in this title or on official signs erected by authority of
this title, shall mean New Year's Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor
Day, Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day.
INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle from which, for a period of seven
(7) days, the engine, wheels or other parts have been removed, or on which the
engine, wheels or other parts have been altered, damaged or otherwise so
treated that the vehicle is incapable of being driven under its own motor
power.
INTERSECTION:
   A.   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the lateral
curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines, of the roadways of
two (2) highways which join one another at, or approximately at, right angles
or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different roadways joining at
any other angle may come in conflict.
   B.   Where a highway includes two (2) roadways forty feet (40') or more
apart, then every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an
intersecting highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection.
   C.   The junction of an alley with a street or highway does not constitute
an intersection.
JUNK VEHICLE: A vehicle which has been or is being disassembled, crushed,
compressed, flattened, destroyed or otherwise reduced to a state in which it no
longer can be returned to an operable state.
LANED ROADWAY: A roadway which is divided into two (2) or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY: Every governmental enforcement agency or officer having
authority to enforce the provisions of this title.
LICENSE TO DRIVE: Any driver's license or any other license or permit to
operate a motor vehicle issued under the laws of this state including:
   A.   Any temporary license or instruction permit.
   B.   The privilege of any person to drive a motor vehicle whether or not
such person holds a valid license or permit.
   C.   Any "nonresident's driving privilege" as defined in 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/1-150.
LICENSEE: A person licensed or required to be licensed under 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/1-101 et seq.
LOCAL AUTHORITIES: The village president and board of trustees or other body
having authority to enact laws relating to traffic under the constitution and
laws of this state.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Every vehicle which is self-propelled. For the purpose of this
title, motor vehicles are divided into two (2) divisions:
First Division: Those motor vehicles which are designed for the carrying of not
more than ten (10) persons.
Second Division: Those motor vehicles which are designed for carrying more than
ten (10) persons; those motor vehicles designed or used for living quarters;
those motor vehicles which are designed for pulling or carrying freight, cargo
or implements of husbandry; and those motor vehicles of the first division
remodeled for use and used as motor vehicles of the second division.
MOTORCYCLE: Every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of the
rider and designed to travel on not more than three (3) wheels in contact with
the ground, but excluding a tractor.
MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIR: Any self-propelled vehicle, including a three-wheeled
vehicle, designed for and used by a person with disabilities, that is incapable
of a speed in excess of eight (8) miles per hour on level ground.
MUFFLER: A device consisting of a series of chambers or baffle plates or other
mechanical design for the purpose of receiving exhaust gas from an internal
combustion engine or turbine wheels for the purpose of receiving exhaust gas
from a diesel engine, all of which are effective in reducing noise.
OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES: All signs, signals, markings, and devices
which conform with the state manual and not inconsistent with this title placed
or erected by authority of the village, for the purpose of regulating, warning,
or guiding traffic.
OPERATOR: Every person who operates or is in actual physical control of any
device or vehicle whether motorized or propelled by human power.
OWNER: Any person who holds legal title of a vehicle, or in the event a vehicle
is the subject of an agreement for the conditional sale or lease thereof with
the right of purchase upon performance of the conditions stated in the
agreement and with an immediate right of possession vested in the conditional
vendee or lessee, or in the event a mortgagor of such vehicle is entitled to
possession, then such conditional vendee or lessee or mortgagor shall be deemed
the owner for the purpose of this title.
PARK DISTRICT: Any park district formed under the park district code or any
submerged land park district as that term is defined in 70 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 1205/1-3(c).
PARK OR PARKING: The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, otherwise
than when temporarily and actually engaged in loading or unloading merchandise
or passengers.
PASSENGER CAR: A motor vehicle of the first division including a multipurpose
passenger vehicle that is designed for carrying not more than ten (10) persons.
PEACE OFFICER: Any person who, by virtue of his or her public employment, is
vested by law with a duty to maintain public order or to make arrests for
offenses, whether that duty extends to all offenses or is limited to specific
offenses.
PEDESTRIAN: Any person afoot or wearing in-line speed skates, including a
person with a physical, hearing, or visual disability.
PERSON: Every natural person, firm, copartnership, association or corporation.
PERSON WITH DISABILITIES: A natural person who, as determined by a licensed
physician, by a physician assistant who has been delegated the authority to
make this determination by his or her supervising physician, or by an advanced
practice nurse who has a written collaborative agreement with a collaborating
physician that authorizes the advanced practice nurse to make this
determination:
   A.   Cannot walk without the use of, or assistance from, a brace, cane,
crutch, another person, prosthetic device, wheelchair, or other assistive
device;
   B.   Is restricted by lung disease to such an extent that his or her forced
(respiratory) expiratory volume for one second, when measured by spirometry, is
less than one liter (1 l), or the arterial oxygen tension is less than sixty
(60) mm/hg on room air at rest;
   C.   Uses portable oxygen;
   D.   Has a cardiac condition to the extent that the person's functional
limitations are classified in severity as class III or class IV, according to
standards set by the American Heart Association;
   E.   Is severely limited in the person's ability to walk due to an
arthritic, neurological, oncological, or orthopedic condition;
   F.   Cannot walk two hundred feet (200') without stopping to rest because of
one of the conditions in subsections A through E of this definition; or
   G.   Is missing a hand or arm or has permanently lost the use of a hand or
arm.
PERSONALLY IDENTIFYING INFORMATION: Information that identifies an individual,
including his or her driver identification number, name, address (but not the 5
digit zip code), and telephone number, but "personally identifying information"
does not include information on vehicular accidents, driving violations, and
driver's status.
POLICE OFFICER: Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to
make arrests and issue citations for violations of traffic regulations.
POLICE VEHICLE: Any vehicle, bicycle, or electric personal assistive mobility
device that is designated or authorized by the village police department for
police use.
PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY: Every way or place in private ownership and used for
vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied permission
from the owner, but not by other persons.
PROPERTY: Any real property within the village which is not a street or
roadway.
PROPERTY ON LINE: The boundary line between any public way and the private
property abutting thereto.
PUBLIC BUILDING: A building used by any government agency.
PUBLIC PASSENGER VEHICLE: A "motor vehicle", as defined in this section, which
is used for the transportation of passengers for hire, excepting those devoted
exclusively for funeral use or in operation of a metropolitan transit authority
or public utility under the laws of the state of Illinois.
PUBLIC WAY: Any sidewalk, roadway, alley or other public thoroughfare open to
the use of the public, as a matter of right, for purpose of travel, except
bridle paths.
REGISTRATION: The registration certificate or certificates, registration plates
and registration stickers issued under the laws of this state pertaining to the
registration of vehicles.
REGISTRATION STICKER OR STICKERS: A device or devices to be attached to a rear
registration plate that will renew the registration and registration plate or
plates for a predetermined period not to exceed one registration year.
RESCUE SQUAD: A voluntary association of individuals or a fire department
dedicated to saving lives through the rescue of persons entrapped in wrecked
vehicles or other hazardous circumstances and associated with the San Jose fire
protection district.
RESCUE VEHICLE: Any publicly or privately owned vehicle which is specifically
designed, configured, and equipped for the performance of access and
extrication of persons from hazardous or life endangering situations, as well
as for the emergency care of persons who are sick, injured, wounded or
otherwise incapacitated or helpless.
RESIDENCE DISTRICT: The territory contiguous to and including a roadway not
comprising a business district when the property on such roadway, for a
distance of three hundred feet (300') or more, is in the main improved with
residences or residences and buildings in use for business.
RIGHT OF WAY: The right of one vehicle or pedestrian to proceed in a lawful
manner in preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching under such
circumstances of direction, speed and proximity as to give rise to danger of
collision unless one grants precedence to the other.
ROAD TRACTOR: Every motor vehicle designed and used for drawing other vehicles
and not so constructed as to carry any load thereon, either independently or
any part of the weight of a vehicle or load so drawn.
ROADWAY: That portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event a highway
includes two (2) or more separate roadways, the term "roadway" shall refer to
any such roadway separately but not to all such roadways collectively.
RURAL MAIL DELIVERY VEHICLE: Every vehicle used to deliver U.S. mail on a rural
mail delivery route.
SAFETY ZONE: The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set
apart as a safety zone.
SCHOOL BUS:
   A.   Every motor vehicle, except as provided in subsection B of this
definition, owned or operated by or for any of the following entities for the
transportation of persons regularly enrolled as students in grade 12 or below
in connection with any activity of such entity: any public or private primary
or secondary school; any primary or secondary school operated by a religious
institution; or any public, private or religious nursery school.
   B.   This definition shall not include the following:
      1. A bus operated by a public utility, municipal corporation or common
carrier authorized to conduct local or interurban transportation of passengers
when such bus is not traveling a specific school bus route but is: on a
regularly scheduled route for the transportation of other fare paying
passengers; furnishing charter service for the transportation of groups on
field trips or other special trips or in connection with other special events;
or being used for shuttle service between attendance centers or other
educational facilities.
      2. A motor vehicle of the first division.
      3. A multifunction school activity bus.
SEAT SAFETY BELTS: A set of belts or a harness meeting the specifications
established by the department of transportation and installed in such manner as
to prevent or materially reduce the movement of the person using the belts or
harness in the event of collision or upset of the vehicle.
SEMITRAILER: Every vehicle without motive power, other than a pole trailer,
designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a motor
vehicle and so constructed that some part of its weight and that of its load
rests upon or is carried by another vehicle.
SHOULDER: That portion of the highway adjacent to the roadway for accommodating
stopped vehicles or for emergency use.
SIDEWALK: That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral lines
of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for use of pedestrians.
SPECIAL MOBILE EQUIPMENT: Every vehicle not designed or used primarily for the
transportation of persons or property and only incidentally operated or moved
over a highway including, but not limited to: street sweepers, ditch digging
apparatus, well boring apparatus and road construction and maintenance
machinery such as asphalt spreaders, bituminous mixers, bucket loaders,
tractors other than truck-tractors, ditchers, leveling graders, finishing
machines, motor graders, road rollers, scarifiers, earthmoving carryalls and
scrapers, power shovels and drag lines, and self-propelled cranes and
earthmoving equipment. The term does not include house trailers, dump trucks,
truck mounted transit mixers, cranes or shovels, or other vehicles designed for
the transportation of persons or property to which machinery has been attached.
STAND OR STANDING: The halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, otherwise
than when temporarily and actually engaged in receiving or discharging
passengers.
STOP: When required, means complete cessation from movement.
STOP OR STOPPING: Any halting, even momentarily, of a vehicle, whether occupied
or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in
compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic control sign or
signal.
STREET: The entire width between boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained, when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular travel.
TANDEM AXLES: Any two (2) or more single axles whose centers are more than
forty inches (40") and not more than ninety six inches (96") apart, measured to
the nearest inch between extreme axles in the series, except as provided in 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/15-111 for special hauling vehicles.
TAXICAB STAND: A designated area in the trafficway alongside and parallel to
the curb set aside for taxicabs to stand or wait for passengers.
THROUGH ROADWAY: Every roadway or portion thereof on which vehicular traffic is
given preferential right of way, and at the entrances to which vehicular
traffic from intersecting roadways is required by law to yield the right of way
to vehicles on such through roadway in obedience to either a stop sign or a
yield sign, when signs are erected as provided in this title.
TRAFFIC: Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars and other
conveyances, either singly or together, while using any highway for purposes of
travel.
TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL: Any official traffic control device other than a
railroad sign or signal, whether manually, electrically or mechanically
operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and permitted to
proceed.
TRAILER: Every vehicle without motive power designed for carrying persons or
property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed that no part
of its weight rests upon the towing vehicle.
TRUCK: Every motor vehicle designed, used or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property.
TRUCK LOADING ZONE: A designated space adjacent to a curb for the use of
vehicles during the loading or unloading of freight.
URBAN DISTRICT: The territory contiguous to and including any street upon which
is built structures devoted to business, industry or dwellings situated at
intervals of less than one hundred feet (100') for a distance of one-fourth (1/
4) mile or more.
VEHICLE: A. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved by human power,
devices used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks and snowmobiles as
defined in the snowmobile registration and safety act.
   B.   For the purposes of this title, unless otherwise prescribed, a device
shall be considered to be a vehicle until such time it either comes within the
definition of a "junk vehicle", as defined in this section, or a junking
certificate is issued therefor.
   C.   For this title, vehicles are divided into two (2) divisions:
      1. First Division: Those motor vehicles which are designed for the
carrying of not more than ten (10) persons.
      2. Second Division: Those vehicles which are designed for carrying more
than ten (10) persons, those designed or used for living quarters and those
vehicles which are designed for pulling or carrying property, freight or cargo,
those motor vehicles of the first division remodeled for use and used as motor
vehicles of the second division, and those motor vehicles of the first division
used and registered as school buses.
YIELD RIGHT OF WAY: When required by an official sign, means the act of
granting the privilege of the immediate use of the intersecting roadway to
traffic within the intersection and to vehicles approaching from the right or
left but when the roadway is clear, may proceed into the intersection. (1982
Code §
11-1-2; amd. 2016 Code)
6-1-3: OBEDIENCE TO POLICE REQUIRED:
No person shall wilfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of a police officer, firefighter or any person authorized by one of
these with authority to direct, control or regulate traffic. (1982 Code § 11-1-
14-3; amd. 2016 Code)
6-1-4: FLEEING OR ATTEMPTING TO ELUDE POLICE PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any driver or operator of a motor vehicle who, having
been given a visual or audible signal by a peace officer directing such driver
or operator to bring his vehicle to a stop, to wilfully fail or refuse to obey
such direction, to increase his speed, to extinguish his lights, or to
otherwise flee or attempt to elude the officer. The signal given by the peace
officer may be by hand, voice, siren, or red or blue light. Provided, the
officer giving such signal shall be in police uniform, and if driving a
vehicle, such vehicle shall be marked showing it to be an official police
vehicle. (1982 Code § 11-1-14-4)
6-1-5: VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Every person who commits, attempts to commit, conspires to commit, or
aids or abets in the commission of any act declared in this title to be
unlawful or which is prohibited by this title, whether individually or in
connection with one or more other persons or as principal, agent or accessory,
shall be guilty of such offense, and every person who falsely, fraudulently,
forcibly or wilfully induces, causes, coerces, requires, permits or directs
another to violate any provision of this title is likewise guilty of such
offense.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for the owner or any other person employing or
otherwise directing the driver of any vehicle to require or knowingly permit
the operation of such vehicle upon the streets and highways of the village in
any manner contrary to the provisions of this title. (1982 Code § 11-1-16)
6-1-6: ARRESTS AND PROSECUTIONS:
The police department shall patrol the public roadways and streets of the
village and make arrests for violations of this title. The village attorney, or
any attorney at law duly appointed by the village board to assist him, shall
prosecute the violators of this title. (1982 Code § 11-1-17)
6-1-7: PENALTY:
Every person convicted of a violation of any provision of this title for which
another penalty is not provided shall be fined not less than one hundred
dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for said
violation, and each day that such a violation exists or continues shall be
deemed a distinct and separate offense. (1982 Code § 11-1-17; amd. Ord. 14-485,
1-20-2014)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Compliance Required
6-2-2: Application Of Provisions
6-2-3: Exemptions For Authorized Emergency Vehicles
6-2-4: Transporting Alcoholic Beverages
6-2-5: Placing Injurious Materials On Roadways Prohibited
6-2-1: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to perform
any act required in this title. (1982 Code § 11-1-14-1)
6-2-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Public Officers And Employees: The provisions of this title applicable
to the drivers of vehicles upon the roadways shall apply to the drivers of all
vehicles owned or operated by the village or other government subdivisions
except as provided in this title and subject to such specific exceptions as set
forth in this chapter with reference to authorized emergency vehicles. (1982
Code § 11-1-14-2; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Public Works Employees: Unless specifically made applicable, the
provisions of this title and the state traffic code, except those contained in
625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-204 and 5/11 articles IV and V, shall not
apply to persons, motor vehicles and equipment while actually engaged in work
upon a roadway but shall apply to such persons and vehicles when traveling to
or from such work. (2016 Code)
   C.   Pushcarts And Animals: Every person propelling any pushcart or riding
an animal upon a roadway, and every person driving any animal drawn vehicle,
shall be subject to the provisions of this title applicable to the driver of
any vehicle, except those provisions of this title which, by their very nature,
can have no application. (1982 Code § 11-1-14-6)
6-2-3: EXEMPTIONS FOR AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
   A.   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call, or when in pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the
law, or when responding to but not upon returning from a fire alarm, may
exercise the privileges set forth in this title, but subject to the conditions
herein stated.
   B.   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
      1.   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this title.
      2.   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be required and necessary for safe operation.
      3.   Exceed the speed limits so long as life or property is not
endangered.
      4.   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specified directions.
   C.   The exceptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle, other
than a police vehicle, shall apply only when the vehicle is making use of
either an audible signal when in motion or visual signals meeting the
requirements of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-215.
   D.   This section shall not relieve the driver of an authorized emergency
vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons,
nor does this section protect the driver from the consequences of his reckless
disregard for the safety of others. (1982 Code § 11-1-14-5; amd. 2016 Code)
6-2-4: TRANSPORTING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES:
   A.   Except as provided in subsection C of this section, no driver may
transport, carry, possess or have any alcoholic liquor within the passenger
area of any motor vehicle upon a roadway in the village except in the original
container and with the seal unbroken.
   B.   Except as provided in subsection C of this section, no passenger may
carry, possess or have any alcoholic liquor within any passenger area of any
motor vehicle upon a roadway in the village except in the original container
and with the seal unbroken.
   C.   This section shall not apply to the passengers in a limousine when it
is being used for purposes for which a limousine is ordinarily used, the
passengers on a chartered bus when it is being used for purposes for which
chartered buses are ordinarily used or on a motor home or mini-motor home as
defined in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-145.01. However, the driver of
any such vehicle is prohibited from consuming or having any alcoholic liquor in
or about the driver's area. Any evidence of alcoholic consumption by the driver
shall be prima facie evidence of such driver's failure to obey this section.
For the purposes of this section, a limousine is a motor vehicle of the first
division with the passenger compartment enclosed by a partition or dividing
window used in the for hire transportation of passengers and operated by an
individual in possession of a valid Illinois driver's license of the
appropriate classification pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-104.
   D.   Any person or entity convicted of violating any provision of this
section shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for said violation, and each day
that such a violation exists or continues shall be deemed a distinct and
separate offense. (1982 Code § 11-2-37; amd. Ord. 14-485, 1-20-2014; 2016 Code)
6-2-5: PLACING INJURIOUS MATERIALS ON ROADWAYS PROHIBITED:
   A.   No person shall throw or deposit upon any highway any glass bottles,
glass, nails, tacks, wire, cans or any other substance defined as litter in 415
Illinois Compiled Statutes 105/3 likely to injure any person, animal or vehicle
upon such roadway. (1982 Code §
11-1-4; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Any person who drops or permits to be dropped or thrown upon any
roadway any destructive or injurious material shall immediately remove the same
or cause it to be removed. (1982 Code §
11-1-4)
   C.   Any person removing a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a roadway shall
remove any glass or other injurious substance dropped upon the roadway from
such vehicle, except hazardous materials. (1982 Code §
11-1-4; amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 3
TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNS, SIGNALS AND MARKINGS
SECTION:
6-3-1: Specifications
6-3-2: Obedience Required
6-3-3: Damage To, Interference With Signs Or Signals Prohibited
6-3-4: Unauthorized Signs, Signals And Markings
6-3-5: Effect Of Installed Signs, Signals And Markings
6-3-1: SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   The village police department shall place and maintain such traffic
control devices upon highways under their maintenance as are required to
indicate and carry out the provisions of this chapter and local traffic
ordinances or to regulate, warn, or guide traffic. All such traffic control
devices shall conform to the "Illinois State Manual Of Uniform Traffic Control
Devices For Streets And Alleys" and shall be justified by traffic warrants
stated in the manual.
   B.   The village police department shall have the authority to install
signs, in conformance with the state manual and specifications, alerting
motorists of the tourist oriented businesses available on roads under the
jurisdiction of the village in rural areas as may be required to guide
motorists to the businesses. The village police department shall also have the
authority to sell or lease space on these signs to the owners or operators of
the businesses. (2016 Code)
6-3-2: OBEDIENCE REQUIRED:
   A.   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic control device applicable thereto placed or held in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter and this title, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer, subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle in this title.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to leave the roadway and travel across
private property to avoid an official traffic control device.
   C.   No provision of this chapter, for which official traffic control
devices are required, shall be enforced against an alleged violator if, at the
time and place of the alleged violation, an official device is not in proper
position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person.
   D.   Whenever any official traffic control device is placed or held in
position approximately conforming to the requirements of this chapter and
purports to conform to the lawful requirements pertaining to such device, such
device shall be presumed to have been so placed or held by the official act or
direction of lawful authority, and be in compliance with the requirements of
this chapter, unless the contrary shall be established by competent evidence.
(2016 Code)
6-3-3: DAMAGE TO, INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNS OR SIGNALS PROHIBITED:
No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down, or remove any official traffic control device, or any
railroad sign or signal or any inscription, shield, or insignia thereon, or any
other part thereof. (2016 Code)
6-3-4: UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS AND MARKINGS:
   A.   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of any
highway, any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device which purports to be
or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic control device or
railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic,
or which hides from view or interferes with the movement of traffic or the
effectiveness of an official traffic control device or any railroad sign or
signal.
   B.   No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit upon any highway, any traffic sign or signal bearing thereon any
commercial advertising.
   C.   Every such prohibited sign, signal or marking is hereby declared to be
a public nuisance, and the village is hereby empowered to remove the same or
cause it to be removed without notice. (2016 Code)
6-3-5: EFFECT OF INSTALLED SIGNS, SIGNALS AND MARKINGS:
All signs, signals, devices and markings installed or placed upon any street by
direction of the village board or any officer of the state having authority to
do so, shall be taken and deemed to be notice to all persons using such streets
of the regulations applicable thereto, and failure to conform to such
regulations shall be deemed to be a violation of this title. (2016 Code)
CHAPTER 4
DRIVING RULES
SECTION:
6-4-1: Driver's License Required
6-4-2: Traffic Not To Be Obstructed
6-4-3: Operation Of Vehicle On Approach Of Authorized Emergency Vehicle
6-4-4: Fire Vehicles And Apparatus
6-4-5: Speed Restrictions
6-4-6: Driving On Right; Exceptions
6-4-7: Passing, Overtaking Vehicles
6-4-8: Stop Or Yield Intersections
6-4-9: Turning Movements
6-4-10: Driver's Signals
6-4-11: Following Too Closely
6-4-12: Driving Prohibited In Certain Areas
6-4-13: School Buses
6-4-14: Restrictions On Driving
6-4-15: Parades And Processions
6-4-16: Truck Traffic
6-4-17: Motorcycles And Motor Scooters
6-4-18: Toy Vehicles
6-4-19: Miscellaneous Prohibitions
6-4-20: Reckless, Careless Driving
6-4-21: Street Racing
6-4-22: Driving Under Influence Of Intoxicants
6-4-1: DRIVER'S LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person, except those persons exempted by 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-
102, shall operate a motor vehicle in the village without first securing a
state driver's license or motorcycle driver's license which shall be carried on
or about the person so operating the motor vehicle and shall be available for
inspection by any authorized person as herein provided. However, no person
charged with violating this section shall be convicted if he produces in court
or the office of the arresting officer satisfactory evidence that a driver's
license was theretofore issued to him and was valid at the time of arrest.
(1982 Code § 11-2-1; amd. 2016 Code)
6-4-2: TRAFFIC NOT TO BE OBSTRUCTED:
No operator of a vehicle shall enter an intersection or crosswalk unless there
is sufficient space beyond such intersection or crosswalk in the direction in
which such vehicle is proceeding to accommodate the vehicle without obstructing
the passage of other vehicular traffic or pedestrians. (1982 Code § 11-2-16)
6-4-3: OPERATION OF VEHICLE ON APPROACH OF AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE:
Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle making use of
audible and visual signals meeting the requirements of this title or a police
vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an audible or visual signal, the
driver of every other vehicle on the same roadway shall yield the right of way
and shall immediately drive to a position parallel to and as close as possible
to the right hand edge or curb of the highway clear of any intersection and
shall stop if possible and remain in such position until the authorized
emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a police
officer. This section shall not operate to relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons using the highway. (1982 Code § 11-2-30)
6-4-4: FIRE VEHICLES AND APPARATUS:
   A.   Duty Of Drivers: Upon the approach of a fire vehicle, drivers of
vehicles shall comply with the provisions of section
6-4-3 of this chapter relating to the approach of authorized emergency
vehicles. (1982 Code § 11-2-31; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Following Fire Apparatus: It shall be unlawful for the driver of any
vehicle, other than one on official business, to follow any fire apparatus in
response to a fire alarm closer than five hundred feet (500'), or to drive into
or park such vehicle within the block where fire vehicles have stopped in
answer to a fire alarm. (1982 Code § 11-2-31)
   C.   Crossing Fire Hose: No vehicle shall be driven over an unprotected hose
of the fire protection district when laid down on any street or private
driveway to be used at any fire or alarm of fire, without the consent of the
fire protection district official in command. (1982 Code § 11-2-31; amd. 2016
Code)
6-4-5: SPEED RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Due Regard For Traffic Conditions: No person shall drive any vehicle
upon any street in the village at a speed which is more than is reasonable and
proper with regard to traffic conditions and the use of the street which
endangers the safety of any person or property, or is more than the applicable
maximum speed limit established by this section. The fact that the speed of a
vehicle does not exceed the applicable maximum speed limit does not relieve the
driver from the duty to decrease speed when approaching and crossing an
intersection, when approaching and going around a curve, when approaching a
hillcrest, when traveling upon any narrow or winding roadway, or when special
hazards exist with respect to pedestrians or traffic or by reason of weather or
roadway conditions; and the driver of every vehicle shall decrease his speed to
such extent as may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person or vehicle
on or entering a street in compliance with the legal requirements and the duty
of all persons to use due care. (1982 Code § 11-2-23)
   B.   Speed Limits Designated: The provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-601 et seq., shall be applicable on all streets within and under
the jurisdiction of the village. The absolute statutory urban speed limit shall
be twenty five (25) miles per hour in streets and fifteen (15) miles per hour
in alleys. The absolute statutory nonurban speed limit shall be fifty five (55)
miles per hour. Where it has been determined, on the basis of an engineering or
traffic investigation, that the said speed limits are greater or less than is
reasonable or safe with respect to the conditions found to exist at any place
or along any part or zone of any street or highway, but not of any alley, the
said urban speed limits may be increased but not in excess of fifty five (55)
miles per hour and may be diminished but not to less than twenty (20) miles per
hour, and said nonurban speed limits may be diminished but not to less than
thirty five (35) miles per hour, when such determination is approved by an
ordinance of the village board. Such village ordinances altering said speed
limits shall be enforceable when appropriate signs giving notice of the limits
are erected at the proper places or along the proper part or zone of the street
or highway. Such village ordinances shall be considered amendments to this
subsection, and the alterations in speed limits resulting therefrom are on file
in the office of the village clerk.
   C.   Minimum Speed: No person shall drive a motor vehicle at such a slow
speed as to impede or block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic
except when reduced speed is necessary for safe operation of his vehicle or in
compliance with the law. (1982 Code § 11-2-23; amd. 2016 Code)
6-4-6: DRIVING ON RIGHT; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      1.   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movement. (1982 Code § 11-2-3)
      2.   When the right half of a roadway is obstructed. (1982 Code § 11-2-3;
amd. 2016 Code)
      3.   On a one-way street.
   B.   Upon all roadways, any vehicle proceeding at less than the normal speed
of traffic at the time and the place and under the conditions then existing
shall be driven in the right hand lane available for traffic, or as close as
practicable to the right hand curb or edge of the roadway, except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction or when
preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private road or
driveway. (1982 Code § 11-2-3)
6-4-7: PASSING, OVERTAKING VEHICLES:
   A.   Passing Vehicles:
      1.   The following rules shall govern the overtaking and passing of
vehicles proceeding in the same direction, subject to those limitations,
exceptions and special rules hereinafter stated: (1982 Code § 11-2-4)
         a.   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in
the same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe distance and shall
not again drive to the right side of the roadway until safely clear of the
overtaken vehicle. In no event shall such movement be made by driving off the
pavement or the main traveled portion of the roadway. (1982 Code § 11-2-4; amd.
2016 Code)
         b.   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle on audible signal and shall not increase the speed of his
vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle. (1982 Code § 11-2-4)
      2.   No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of the
roadway in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction unless such left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming
traffic for a sufficient distance ahead to permit such overtaking and passing
to be completely made without interfering with the safe operation of any
vehicle approaching from the opposite direction of any vehicle overtaken. (1982
Code § 11-2-4; amd. 2016 Code)
      3.   No vehicle shall, in overtaking and passing another vehicle or at
any other time, be driven to the left side of the roadway under the following
conditions:
         a.   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the
highway where the driver's view is obstructed within such distance as to create
a hazard in the event another vehicle might approach from the opposite
direction.
         b.   When approaching within one hundred feet (100') of or traversing
any intersection.
The limitations in subsections A3a and A3b of this section shall not apply upon
a one-way roadway or upon a roadway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient
width for two (2) or more lanes of moving traffic in each direction when such
movement can be made with safety. (1982 Code § 11-2-4)
   B.   Overtaking Vehicle On Right:
      1.   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the right of
another vehicle which is making or about to make a left turn, provided there is
sufficient safe clearance distance between the turning vehicle and the right
edge of the roadway.
      2.   No person shall drive off the pavement or roadway in overtaking or
passing on the right. (1982 Code § 11-2-5)
   C.   Overtaking At Intersections Prohibited: Whenever any vehicle is stopped
at a marked crosswalk or at any unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit
a pedestrian to cross the roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching
from the rear shall not overtake or pass such stopped vehicle until the
pedestrian has cleared such overtaking driver's traffic lane. (1982 Code § 11-
2-6)
6-4-8: STOP OR YIELD INTERSECTIONS:
   A.   Yield At Unmarked Intersections: When two (2) vehicles approach or
enter an intersection from different roadways at approximately the same time,
the driver of the vehicle on the left must yield the right of way to the
vehicle on the right.
   B.   Marked Intersections: Preferential right of way at an intersection may
be indicated by stop or yield signs as authorized by the village board.
   C.   Method Of Stopping: Except when directed to proceed by a police officer
or traffic control signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop
intersection indicated by a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop line,
but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection, or if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway
before entering the intersection. After having stopped, the driver shall yield
the right of way to any vehicle which has entered the intersection from another
roadway or which is approaching so closely on the roadway as to constitute an
immediate hazard during the time when the driver is moving across or within the
intersection, but said driver having so yielded may proceed at such time as a
safe interval occurs.
   D.   Method Of Yielding:
      1.   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall, in obedience
to such sign, slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing conditions and,
if required for safety to stop, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but
if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or
if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver
has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway. After slowing or
stopping, the driver shall yield the right of way to any vehicle in the
intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard during the time such driver is moving across or within the
intersection.
      2.   If a driver is involved in a collision at an intersection or
interferes with the movement of other vehicles after driving past a yield
right-of-way sign, such collision or interference shall be deemed prima facie
evidence of the driver’s failure to yield right-of-way.
   E.   Stop Intersections Designated: In accordance with the provisions of
this section and when signs and signal lights are erected giving notice
thereof, all vehicular traffic shall come to a stop on the following streets:
      1.   One-way stop streets:
         On Elm Street at First Street.
         On Fifth Street at Main Street.
         On Fourth Street at Locust Street.
         On Furlane Drive at First Street.
         On Locust Street at First Street.
         On Logan Street at Main Street.
         On Logan Street at Vine Street.
         On Payne Street at Vine Street.
         On Salem Court at First Street.
         On Walnut Street at First Street.
      2.   Two-way stop streets:
         On Arch Street at Fourth Street.
         On Race Street at Second Street.
         On Race Street at Fourth Street.
         On First Street at Main Street.
         On First Street at Vine Street.
         On Second Street at Main Street.
         On Third Street at Main Street.
         On Third Street at Vine Street.
         On Fourth Street at Main Street.
         On Linden at Third Street
      3.   Three-way stop streets:
         On Vine Street and Logan Street.
      4.   Four-way stop streets:
         At First Street and Locust Street.
         At Second Street and Vine Street.
         At Second Street and Walnut Street.
         At Fourth Street and Vine Street.
      5.   Stop ahead signs:
         Northbound on First Street distance to be determined.
         Southbound on First Street five hundred feet (500') from intersection.
   F.   Yield Right-Of-Way Streets Designated: In accordance with the
provisions of this section and when yield right-of-way signs are erected giving
notice thereof, all vehicles traveling on the following streets shall yield
right-of-way at the designated intersections:
      1.   One-way yield right-of-way streets:
      On Linden Street at First Street.
      On Linden Street at Fourth Street.
      On Mulberry Street at First Street.
      On Mulberry Street at Second Street.
      On Mulberry Street at Fourth Street.
      On Second Street at Locust Street.
      On Third Street at Locust Street.
      On Fourth Street at Locust Street.
      2.   Two-way yield right of way streets:
      On Arch Street at Logan Street.
      On Arch Street at First Street.
      On Arch Street at Second Street.
      On Arch Street at Third Street.
      On Mulberry Street at Third Street.
      On Race Street at First Street.
      On Race Street at Third Street.
      On Walnut Street at Third Street.
      On Walnut Street at Fifth Street.
      On Second Street at Linden Street.
      On Second Street at Walnut Street.
      On Third Street at Linden Street.
      On Fourth Street and Walnut Street.
(Ord. 377, 10-15-2001, eff. 11-15-2001; amd. 2016 Code; Ord. 17-508, 6-19-2017,
eff. 6-19-2017; Ord. 19-539, 12-16-2019; Ord. 22-577, 8-15-2022)
6-4-9: TURNING MOVEMENTS:
   A.   Required Position And Method Of Turning At Intersections: The driver of
a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do as follows:
      1.   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as
close as practical to the right hand curb or edge of the roadway.
      2.   At any intersection where traffic is permitted to move in both
directions on each roadway entering the intersection, an approach for a left
turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the
centerline thereof and by passing to the right of such centerline where it
enters the intersection, and after entering the intersection, the left turn
shall be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the centerline of
the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable, the left turn shall be made in
that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the intersection.
      3.   At any intersection where traffic is restricted to one direction on
one or more of the roadways, the driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at
any such intersection shall approach the intersection in the extreme left hand
lane lawfully available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of such
vehicle, and after entering the intersection, the left turn shall be made so as
to leave the intersection, as nearly as practicable, in the left hand lane
lawfully available to traffic moving in such direction upon the roadway being
entered. (1982 Code § 11-2-20)
      4.   The municipal highway authority or the corporate authorities of the
village may cause markers, buttons, signs or signals to be placed within or
adjacent to intersections and thereby require and direct that a different
course from that specified in this subsection A be traveled by vehicles at an
intersection, and when markers, buttons, signs or signals are so placed, no
driver of a vehicle shall turn a vehicle at an intersection other than as
directed and required by such markers, buttons, signs or signals. (1982 Code §
11-2-20; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   U-Turns Prohibited: The driver of any vehicle shall not turn such
vehicle so as to proceed in the opposite direction:
      1.   Upon any street or part of any street where such turns are
prohibited by a traffic signal or sign so posted.
      2.   At any point closer than one hundred feet (100') to any street
intersection.
      3.   Upon any curve.
      4.   Upon the approach to a grade or near the crest of a grade.
      5.   Where such vehicle cannot be seen by the driver of any other vehicle
approaching from either direction within five hundred feet (500').
      6.   When such turn cannot be made in safety and without interfering with
other traffic. (1982 Code § 11-2-21)
   C.   Obedience To No Turn Signs Required: In accordance with the provisions
of subsections A4 and B of this section and whenever authorized markers,
buttons, signs or signals are erected indicating that no right or left turn or
turn in the opposite direction is permitted, or indications that only a left
turn or only a right turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey
the direction of any such marker, button, sign or signal at such designated
places. (1982 Code § 11-2-22)
6-4-10: DRIVER'S SIGNALS:
   A.   Signaling Required:
      1.   No person may turn a vehicle at an intersection unless the vehicle
is in proper position upon the roadway as required in subection
6-4-9A of this chapter, or turn a vehicle to enter a private road or driveway,
or otherwise turn a vehicle from a direct course or move right or left upon a
roadway unless and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety. No
person may so turn any vehicle without giving an appropriate signal in the
manner hereinafter provided.
      2.   A signal of intention to turn right or left when required must be
given continuously during not less than the last one hundred feet (100')
traveled by the vehicle before turning within a business or residence district,
and such signal must be given continuously during not less than the last two
hundred feet (200') traveled by the vehicle before turning outside a business
or residence district.
      3.   No person may stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided in this
section to the driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is
opportunity to give such a signal.
      4.   An electric turn signal device must be used to indicate an intention
to turn, change lanes or start from a parallel parked position but must not be
flashed on one side only on a parked or disabled vehicle or flashed as a
courtesy or "do pass" signal to the operators of other vehicles approaching
from the rear.
      5.   Any stop or turn signal, when required herein, shall be given either
by means of the hand and arm or by an electric turn signal device.
   B.   Method Of Giving Hand And Arm Signals: All signals herein required to
be given by hand and arm shall be given from the left side of the vehicle in
the following manner, and such signals shall indicate as follows:
      1.   Left turn: Hand and arm extended horizontally.
      2.   Right turn: Hand and arm extended upward.
      3.   Stop or decrease of speed: Hand and arm extended downward. (1982
Code § 11-2-18)
6-4-11: FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY:
The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely
than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of such
vehicles and the traffic upon and the condition of the highway. (1982 Code §
11-2-25)
6-4-12: DRIVING PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN AREAS:
   A.   Processions: No operator of a vehicle shall drive between the vehicles,
persons or animals comprising a funeral or other authorized procession except
when otherwise directed by a police officer. This subsection shall not apply to
authorized emergency vehicles.
   B.   Play Streets: Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating any
street or part thereof as a play street, no person shall drive a vehicle upon
such street or portion thereof except drivers of vehicles having business or
whose residences are within such closed areas, and then any such driver shall
exercise the greatest care in driving upon any such street or portion thereof.
   C.   Sidewalks: No driver of a vehicle shall drive within any sidewalk or
sidewalk area, except at a permanent or temporary driveway, with the exception
of motorized devices used for personal mobility.
   D.   Safety Zones: No vehicle shall at any time be driven through or within
a safety zone. (1982 Code § 11-2-28; amd. 2016 Code)
6-4-13: SCHOOL BUSES:
   A.   Approaching And Overtaking School Buses: The driver of a vehicle, upon
a street or highway within the village, upon meeting or overtaking, from either
direction, any school bus which has stopped for the purpose of receiving or
discharging schoolchildren, shall stop the vehicle before reaching the school
bus where there is in operation on the school bus a visual signal, and said
driver shall not proceed until the school bus resumes motion or is signaled by
the school bus driver to proceed, or the visual signals are no longer actuated.
(1982 Code § 11-2-7; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Signs And Signals Required: Every bus used for the transportation of
schoolchildren shall bear upon the front and rear thereof plainly visible signs
containing the words "school bus" in letters not less than eight inches (8") in
height and, in addition, shall be equipped with visual signals meeting the
requirements of state law which shall be actuated by the driver of said school
bus whenever the brakes are applied. (1982 Code § 11-2-7)
6-4-14: RESTRICTIONS ON DRIVING:
   A.   Avoiding Traffic At Stop Sign: It shall be unlawful for any person to
drive a motor vehicle upon or across any private drive for the purpose of
evading the provisions of this title in regard to stop signs erected along
through streets. (1982 Code § 11-2-10)
   B.   Emerging From Driveway Or Building: The driver of a vehicle emerging
from a driveway or building shall stop such vehicle immediately prior to
driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area, yielding the right of way to
any pedestrian as may be necessary to avoid collision and, upon entering the
roadway, shall yield the right of way to all vehicles approaching on said
roadway. (1982 Code § 11-2-15)
   C.   Limitations On Backing: The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same
unless such movement can be made with safety and without interfering with other
traffic. (1982 Code § 11-2-29; amd. 2016 Code)
6-4-15: PARADES AND PROCESSIONS:
   A.   Permit Required; Exemptions: No procession or parade containing fifty
(50) or more persons or ten (10) or more vehicles, excepting the forces of the
United States army or navy, the military forces of this state, the forces of
the police department and fire protection district and any funeral processions,
shall occupy, march or proceed along any street except in accordance with a
permit issued by the village board and such other regulations that are set
forth in this title which may apply. (1982 Code §
11-1-6; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Funeral Processions:
      1.   Designation And Right Of Way:
         a.   All motor vehicles participating in a funeral procession, when
proceeding to any place of burial, shall display illuminated headlamps. They
may carry on the right hand side of the windshield thereof a printed sign, flag
or card on which is imprinted the word "funeral".
         b.   It shall be the duty of the undertaker having charge of a funeral
procession to provide a card, flag or sign as described herein. (1982 Code §
11-1-7; amd. 2016 Code)
         c.   All motor vehicles so designated shall have the right of way over
all other vehicles, except fire apparatus, police vehicles and ambulances, at
any roadway intersection within the village and may proceed through stop street
or signalized intersections with proper caution and safety.
      2.   Duties Of Drivers: Each driver in a funeral procession shall drive
as near to the right hand edge of the roadway as practicable and safe. (1982
Code §
11-1-7)
6-4-16: TRUCK TRAFFIC:
   A.   All trucks traveling within the village shall confine their movement
within the village, except as hereinafter provided. This restriction shall not
apply to trucks having an eight thousand (8,000) pound total weight and under,
and having not more than two (2) axles.
   B.   All other trucks larger than those specified (over 8,000 pounds or
having more than 2 axles) in subsection A of this section may be permitted
within the village only for the purpose of making local delivery or loading,
and where such delivery or loading is required, said trucks are to use the
"truck route" as described by the village; except, that said trucks may be
driven upon another street for not more than the minimum distance necessary to
reach the point of delivery or loading utilizing the shortest and most direct
route to or from the truck route.
   C.   Any person or entity convicted of violating any provision of this
section shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for said violation, and each day
that such a violation exists or continues shall be deemed a distinct and
separate offense. The police may, upon stopping said truck or vehicle, halt the
same until the load is removed to reduce the said gross weight to less than
sixteen thousand (16,000) pounds before such vehicle is authorized to proceed.
(2016 Code)
6-4-17: MOTORCYCLES AND MOTOR SCOOTERS:
   A.   Motorcycle Riding And Equipment Requirements:
      1.   The operator of a motorcycle shall ride only astride the permanent
and regular seat or saddle attached thereto, and the operator shall not permit
more than one other person to ride thereon nor shall such other person ride on
the motorcycle unless it is designed to carry two (2) people, in which event,
the passenger shall also ride astride the permanent and regular seat or saddle
if it is designed for two (2) persons, or astride another seat or saddle firmly
attached to the rear of the operator; however, any seat or saddle designed for
a passenger must be equipped with permanent handgrips, and in addition, the
motorcycle must be equipped with footrests adjusted to fit such passenger. A
sidecar may be attached to a motorcycle in which additional persons may ride.
(1982 Code §
11-1-9)
      2.   The operator of a motorcycle and every passenger shall be protected
by glasses, goggles or a transparent shield. (1982 Code §
11-1-9; amd. 2016 Code)
      3.   No motorcycle may be operated with handlebars rising more than
fifteen inches (15") in height above the level of the seat or saddle.
   B.   Riding Motor Scooters: No person other than the driver thereof shall
ride upon a motor scooter. (1982 Code §
11-1-9)
6-4-18: TOY VEHICLES:
No person upon roller skates or riding in or by means of any coaster, toy
vehicle or similar device shall go upon any roadway except while crossing a
street on a crosswalk, and when so crossing, such person shall be granted all
the rights and shall be subject to the duties applicable to pedestrians. (This
section shall not apply upon any street set aside as a play street as
authorized by subection
6-4-12B of this chapter.) (1982 Code § 11-1-14-7)
6-4-19: MISCELLANEOUS PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Coasting:
      1.   The driver of any motor vehicle, when traveling upon a downgrade,
shall not coast with the gears of such vehicle in neutral.
      2.   The driver of a motor vehicle designed to carry either freight or
more than seven (7) passengers, when traveling upon a downgrade, shall not
coast with the clutch disengaged. (1982 Code § 11-2-24)
   B.   Cruising Of Public Passenger Vehicles: No operator of a public
passenger vehicle shall solicit business in such manner as to interfere with
the lawful movement of traffic. (1982 Code § 11-2-39)
   C.   Damage To Public Property While Driving: No person shall damage or
destroy any public property of the village while driving or operating a vehicle
within the village nor in any manner cause the same to be done. Any person or
entity convicted of violating any provision of this subsection shall be fined
not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for said violation, and each day that such a violation exists
or continues shall be deemed a distinct and separate offense. (1982 Code § 11-
2-38; amd. Ord. 14-485, 1-20-2014)
   D.   Boarding Or Alighting From Vehicles: No person shall board or alight
from any vehicle while such vehicle is in motion. (1982 Code § 11-1-11)
   E.   Riding In House Trailers: No person shall occupy a house trailer while
it is being moved upon a public roadway or street within the corporate limits
of the village. (1982 Code § 11-1-13)
6-4-20: RECKLESS, CARELESS DRIVING:
   A.   Reckless Driving: Any person who drives any vehicle with a wilful or
wanton disregard for the safety of persons or property is guilty of reckless
driving. (1982 Code § 11-2-34)
   B.   Careless Driving: It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle in the
village in a careless, reckless, or wanton manner, or so as to unnecessarily
endanger life or property. (1982 Code § 11-2-41)
   C.   Penalty: Any person or entity convicted of violating any provision of
this section shall be fined not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00)
nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for said violation, and
each day that such a violation exists or continues shall be deemed a distinct
and separate offense. (Ord. 14-485, 1-20-2014)
6-4-21: STREET RACING:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following words
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
    ACQUIESCE OR PERMIT: Actual knowledge that the motor vehicle was to be used
for the purpose of street racing.
   STREET RACING: 1. The operation of two (2) or more vehicles from a point
side by side at accelerating speeds in a competitive attempt to outdistance
each other; or
      2.   The operation of one or more vehicles over a common selected course,
each starting at the same point, for the purpose of comparing the relative
speeds or power of acceleration of such vehicle or vehicles within a certain
distance or time limit; or
      3.   The use of one or more vehicles in an attempt to outgain or
outdistance another vehicle; or
      4.   The use of one or more vehicles to prevent another vehicle from
passing; or
      5.   The use of one or more vehicles to arrive at a given destination
ahead of another vehicle or vehicles; or
      6.   The use of one or more vehicles to test the physical stamina or
endurance of drivers over long distance driving routes.
   B.   Prohibitions:
      1.   No person shall engage in street racing on any street or highway of
the village.
      2.   No owner of any vehicle shall acquiesce in or permit his or her
vehicle to be used by another for the purpose of street racing. (2016 Code)
   C.   Penalty: Any person who, as an operator of a motor vehicle, is
convicted of being a participant in street racing shall be fined not less than
two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for said violation, and each day that such a violation exists or
continues shall be deemed a distinct and separate offense. (1982 Code § 11-2-
35; amd. Ord. 14-485, 1-20-2014; 2016 Code)
6-4-22: DRIVING UNDER INFLUENCE OF INTOXICANTS:
   A.   No person who is under the influence of intoxicating liquor may drive
or be in actual physical control of any vehicle within the village.
   B.   No person who is a habitual user of or under the influence of any
narcotic drug or who is under the influence of any other drug to a degree which
renders him incapable of safely driving a vehicle may drive or be in actual
physical control of any vehicle within the village. The fact that a person
charged with a violation of this subsection is or has been entitled to use such
drug under the laws of this state does not constitute a defense against any
charge of violation of this subsection. (1982 Code § 11-2-36; amd. 2016 Code)
   C.   Any person or entity convicted of violating any provision of this
section shall be fined not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) nor more
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for said violation, and each day
that such a violation exists or continues shall be deemed a distinct and
separate offense. (Ord. 14-485, 1-20-2014)
CHAPTER 5
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-5-1: Method Of Parking
6-5-2: Opening Vehicle Doors
6-5-3: Starting Parked Vehicle
6-5-4: Unattended Vehicles
6-5-5: General Parking Restrictions
6-5-6: Parking Prohibited In Specified Places
6-5-7: Parking For Persons With Disabilities
6-5-8: Parking On Village Property
6-5-9: Parking During Snow Season
6-5-10: Truck Parking
6-5-11: Moving Vehicles
6-5-12: Loading Zones
6-5-13: Signs Posted
6-5-14: Violations; Penalty
6-5-1: METHOD OF PARKING:
No vehicle shall be parked with the left side of such vehicle next to the curb,
except on one-way streets, and it shall be unlawful to stand or park any
vehicle in a street other than parallel with the curb and with the two (2)
right wheels of the vehicle within twelve inches (12") of the regularly
established curb line; except, that upon those streets that have been marked
for angle parking, vehicles shall be parked at the angle to the curb indicated
by such marks. (2016 Code)
6-5-2: OPENING VEHICLE DOORS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any occupant of a motor vehicle stopped on any
public street within the village to open any door of such vehicle in such a
manner as to create a hazard to approaching traffic or any person.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to allow any door of
such vehicle to remain open in such a manner as to create a hazard to
approaching traffic or any person. (1982 Code § 11-1-10)
6-5-3: STARTING PARKED VEHICLE:
No person shall move a vehicle which is stopped, standing or parked on any
trafficway unless and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety.
(1982 Code § 11-2-27)
6-5-4: UNATTENDED VEHICLES:
No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit it to stand
unattended without first stopping the engine, locking the ignition and removing
the key or, when standing upon any perceptible grade, without effectively
setting the brake thereon and turning the front wheels to the curb or side of
the highway. (2016 Code)
6-5-5: GENERAL PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Alleys: It shall be unlawful for an operator of any motor vehicle to
park within a public alley in such a manner or under such conditions as to
leave available less than eight feet (8') of the width of the roadway for the
free movement of vehicular traffic.
   B.   Vehicles For Sale; Sale Of Merchandise: It shall be unlawful to park
any vehicle upon any street for the purpose of displaying it for sale, or to
park any vehicle upon any business street from which vehicle merchandise is
peddled.
   C.   Obstructing Traffic: No person shall park any vehicle upon a street in
such a manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than fifteen
feet (15') of the width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic
on a two-way street or less than ten feet (10') of the width of the roadway for
free movement of vehicular traffic on a one-way street. Any police officer is
hereby authorized to move any vehicle parked or left standing so as to obstruct
traffic.
   D.   Private Property Or Parking Lots: It shall be unlawful for any person
not authorized or invited to do so to park a vehicle on private property or in
a private parking lot which has been established voluntarily or pursuant to the
zoning regulations of this code to provide for off street parking facilities
for tenants or employees of the owner of said lot.
   E.   Near Schools And Playgrounds:
      1.   The village board of trustees is hereby authorized to erect signs
indicating no parking upon that side of any street adjacent to any school
property or playground when such parking interferes with traffic or creates a
hazardous situation.
      2.   When official signs are erected indicating no parking upon that side
of a street adjacent to any school property or playground, no person shall park
a vehicle in any such designated place.
   F.   Street Cleaning: It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle on any public
street or portion thereof in the village any time when such street is being
cleaned. Signs indicating that a street or portion thereof is being cleaned
shall be posted before the cleaning of the street and shall be removed after
the cleaning of the street is finished. (2016 Code)
6-5-6: PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES:
   A.   1. Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in
compliance with law or the directions of a police officer or official traffic
control device, no person shall:
         a.   Stop, stand or park a vehicle:
            (1)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the
edge or curb of a street.
            (2)   On a sidewalk.
            (3)   Within an intersection.
            (4)   On a crosswalk.
            (5)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty
feet (30') of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety
zone, unless a different length is indicated by signs or markings.
            (6)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction
when stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic.
            (7)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
            (8)   On any controlled access highway.
            (9)   In the area between roadways of a divided highway, including
crossovers.
            (10)   In a public parking area if the vehicle does not display a
current annual registration sticker or current temporary permit pending
registration.
         b.   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except
momentarily to pick up or discharge passengers:
            (1)   In front of a public or private driveway.
            (2)   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant.
            (3)   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at an intersection.
            (4)   Within thirty feet (30') upon the approach to any flashing
signal, stop sign, yield sign, or traffic control signal located at the side of
a roadway.
            (5)   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire
station and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station
within seventy five feet (75') of such entrance (when properly signposted).
            (6)   Within twenty feet (20') of any alley entrance or exit.
            (7)   At any place where official signs prohibit standing.
         c.   Park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for
the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading property or
passengers, at any place where official signs prohibit parking.
      2.   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his control into
any such prohibited area or away from a curb such distance as is unlawful.
(2016 Code)
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to park any
motor vehicle within the following areas:
U.S. 136, except where parallel parking is permitted between First Street and
Fourth Street, on the north side of the highway, within the limits of this
project.
(Ord., 5-20-2013)
Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of this subsection
shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. (Ord., 5-20-2013; amd. 2016
Code)
6-5-7: PARKING FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES:
   A.   Permitted Parking For Persons With Disabilities: Motor vehicles
displaying identification devices for persons with disabilities as issued by
the Secretary of State (including parking permits for persons with
disabilities, transporter of parking permits for persons with disabilities,
vehicle registration plates for persons with disabilities and disabled veteran
vehicle registration plates) and all vehicles displaying parking permits for
persons with disabilities as issued by any municipal corporation of the State
of Illinois may be parked at specially designated parking spaces for persons
with disabilities within the Village and may further park in conformity with
625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-1301.1. Nothing herein, however, shall be
interpreted as permitting any vehicle to be parked at any metered parking space
without paying the required fee.
   B.   Designation Of Parking Areas: The Village Streets and Alleys Committee
is hereby authorized to determine and designate, upon public property, by
proper signs, places which shall be reserved for the parking of vehicles
displaying parking devices for persons with disabilities as set forth in
subsection A of this section, and the owners or lessees of private property
within the Village are hereby authorized to determine and designate, by proper
signs, places which shall be reserved for the parking of vehicles displaying
parking devices for persons with disabilities as set forth in subsection A of
this section. (Ord. 326, 1-15-1996, eff. 2-19-1996; amd. 2016 Code)
   C.   Authority To Contract: The Village Board of Trustees may, by contract,
empower the Village to regulate parking and traffic of motor vehicles in
accordance with the provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-209.
(Ord. 326, 1-15-1996, eff. 2-19-1996)
   D.   Prohibited Parking In Designated Areas: No vehicle shall be parked in a
space designated for vehicles for persons with disabilities unless such vehicle
shall have displayed thereon a parking device for persons with disabilities as
set forth in subsection A of this section. (Ord. 326, 1-15-1996, eff. 2-19-
1996; amd. 2016 Code)
   E.   Prima Facie Proof: Whenever any vehicle shall have been parked in
violation of the provisions prohibiting or restricting parking, the person in
whose name such vehicle is registered shall be prima facie responsible for such
violation and subject to the penalty therefor. (Ord. 326, 1-15-1996, eff. 2-19-
1996)
   F.   Penalty: Any person or entity convicted of violating any provision of
this section shall be fined not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00)
nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for said violation, and
each day that such a violation exists or continues shall be deemed a distinct
and separate offense. (Ord. 14-485, 1-20-2014)
6-5-8: PARKING ON VILLAGE PROPERTY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle upon any property owned
by the Village and used for the transaction of public business where such
parking is prohibited by order of the custodian of said property. This section
shall not apply to Village owned vehicles or to other vehicles whose operation
is useful or essential to the proper functioning of the department, board or
commission occupying the property. The custodian of the property shall post "No
Parking" signs indicating this prohibition. (2016 Code)
6-5-9: PARKING DURING SNOW SEASON:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or remain parked on any
Village street after a snowfall or ice of sufficient length and accumulation of
two inches (2") and additional one inch (1") or more is predicted, to
reasonably give notice of the necessity for removal of snow from the Village
streets.
   B.   For purposes of this section, an accumulation of snow/ice exceeding two
inches (2") in depth and additional one inch (1") or more is predicted, shall
be prima facie evidence of a sufficient accumulation to necessitate snow
removal.
   C.   The prohibition on parking under this section shall remain in effect
for a twelve (12) hour period commencing at the end of the snowfall/ice or
until the streets are cleared, whichever occurs first.
   D.   The snow parking ban shall be enforced whenever any accumulating snow/
ice is predicted.
   E.   Discretionary parking bans take effect for all Village streets anytime
the Chief of Police or his designee declare so. (Ord. 19-528, 1-21-2019, eff.
1-31-2019)
6-5-10: TRUCK PARKING:
Truck parking is prohibited in the Village with the exception of areas adjacent
to the truck route. (2016 Code)
6-5-11: MOVING VEHICLES:
   A.   No person, other than a police officer, shall move a vehicle not
lawfully under his control into any area where stopping, standing or parking is
prohibited or away from a curb or edge of a roadway such distance as is
unlawful, or start or cause to be started the motor of any motor vehicle or
shift, change or move the levers, brake, starting device, gears or other
mechanism of a parked motor vehicle, to a position other than that in which it
was left by the owner or driver thereof, or attempt to do so. (1982 Code §
11-1-3)
   B.   When any emergency arises necessitating the removal of any vehicle upon
any public way, members of the Police Department are hereby authorized to
remove or have removed any such vehicle from one location to any other
location. (2016 Code)
6-5-12: LOADING ZONES:
It shall be unlawful for the driver of a vehicle to stand a commercial vehicle
for a period of time longer than is necessary for the loading or unloading of
cargo or passengers not to exceed forty five (45) minutes. Any person or entity
convicted of violating any provision of this section shall be fined not less
than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for said violation, and each day that such a violation exists or
continues shall be deemed a distinct and separate offense. (2016 Code)
6-5-13: SIGNS POSTED:
Appropriate signs may be posted in areas where parking is limited or
prohibited, indicating such limitations or prohibitions. (2016 Code)
6-5-14: VIOLATIONS; PENALTY:
   A.   Notice Of Violation:
      1.   Whenever any vehicle is parked in violation of the provisions of any
ordinance prohibiting or restricting parking and there is no person in
attendance upon such parked vehicle to be arrested or served immediately with a
traffic violation notice to appear in court to answer the charge of such
violation, any police officer observing such violation may attach to the
vehicle used in such violation, a traffic violation notice requiring that
person in whose name such vehicle is registered to appear in court on a day
certain named in such notice and answer to the charge of such violation.
      2.   When any vehicle is parked in a private parking lot in violation of
subection
6-5-5D of this chapter and there is no person in attendance upon such parked
vehicle to be arrested or served immediately with a traffic violation notice to
appear in court to answer the charge of such violation, any police officer,
upon a written complaint signed by the owner or proprietor of the lot, or by
his authorized agent, that the vehicle is not entitled to the privileges of the
parking lot, may attach to the vehicle a traffic violation notice as provided
herein.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than the driver of the
vehicle to which said notice is attached, to remove the same from said vehicle.
   B.   Prima Facie Proof: Whenever any vehicle shall have been parked in
violation of any provisions prohibiting or restricting parking, the person in
whose name such vehicle is registered shall be prima facie responsible for such
violation and subject to the penalty therefor. (2016 Code)
   C.   Penalty: Unless otherwise provided herein, any person or entity
convicted of violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined not less
than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for said violation, and each day that such a violation exists or
continues shall be deemed a distinct and separate offense. (Ord. 14-485, 1-20-
2014; amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 6
PEDESTRIANS
SECTION:
6-6-1: Pedestrians Subject To Traffic Control Signals
6-6-2: Right Of Way Of Pedestrians
6-6-3: Exercising Due Care
6-6-4: Crossing Roadways
6-6-5: Pedestrians With Disabilities
6-6-1: PEDESTRIANS SUBJECT TO TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNALS:
Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic control signals at intersections as
provided by law, but at all other places, pedestrians shall be accorded the
privileges and shall be subject to the restrictions as stated in this chapter.
(1982 Code § 11-5-1)
6-6-2: RIGHT OF WAY OF PEDESTRIANS:
   A.   When traffic control signals are not in place or not in operation, the
driver of a vehicle shall stop and yield the right of way to a pedestrian
crossing the roadway within a crosswalk when the pedestrian is upon the half of
the roadway upon which the vehicle is traveling, or when the pedestrian is
approaching so closely from the opposite half of the roadway as to be in
danger; except, that between adjacent intersections at which traffic control
signals are in operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a
marked crosswalk.
   B.   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety and
walk or run into the path of a moving vehicle which is so close as to
constitute an immediate hazard.
   C.   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass such stopped vehicle.
   D.   Whenever stop signs or flashing red or yellow signals are in place at
an intersection or at a plainly marked crosswalk between intersections, drivers
shall yield right of way to pedestrians. (2016 Code)
6-6-3: EXERCISING DUE CARE:
Notwithstanding other provisions of this title or the provisions of any village
ordinance, every driver of a vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding
with any pedestrian or any person operating a bicycle or other device propelled
by human power and shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary and
shall exercise proper precaution upon observing any child or any obviously
confused, incapacitated or intoxicated person. (2016 Code)
6-6-4: CROSSING ROADWAYS:
   A.   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right of way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   B.   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway intersection diagonally unless
authorized by official traffic control devices, and when authorized to cross
diagonally, pedestrians shall cross only in accordance with the official
traffic control devices pertaining to such crossing movements.
   C.   Pedestrians with disabilities may cross a roadway at any point other
than within a marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk where the
intersection is physically inaccessible to them, but they shall yield the right
of way to all vehicles upon the roadway. (2016 Code)
6-6-5: PEDESTRIANS WITH DISABILITIES:
The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right of way to any pedestrian with
clearly visible disabilities. (2016 Code)
CHAPTER 7
VEHICLE EQUIPMENT AND CONDITION
SECTION:
6-7-1: Driving Unsafe Vehicles Prohibited
6-7-2: Obstruction To Driver's View Or Driving Mechanism
6-7-3: Lights
6-7-4: Signal Lights And Devices
6-7-5: Horn
6-7-6: Brakes
6-7-7: Noise Control
6-7-8: Nonskid Devices
6-7-9: Projecting Loads
6-7-10: Weight Limits
6-7-11: Towing Or Pushing Vehicles
6-7-12: Spilling Loads
6-7-13: Vehicle Emissions
6-7-14: Inspection Of Vehicles
6-7-1: DRIVING UNSAFE VEHICLES PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to drive or move, or for the owner to cause or
knowingly permit to be driven or moved, on any highway any vehicle or
combination of vehicles which is in such unsafe condition as to endanger any
person or property, or which does not contain those parts or is not at all
times equipped with such lamps and other equipment in proper condition and
adjustment as required by this chapter, or which is equipped in any manner in
violation hereof. (1982 Code § 11-4-1)
6-7-2: OBSTRUCTION TO DRIVER'S VIEW OR DRIVING MECHANISM:
   A.   No person may drive a vehicle when it is so loaded or when there are in
the front seat such number of persons as to obstruct the view of the driver to
the front or sides of the vehicle or as to interfere with the driver's control
over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   B.   No passenger in a vehicle may ride in such position as to interfere
with the driver's view ahead or to the sides or to interfere with his control
over the driving mechanism of the vehicle. (1982 Code § 11-1-12)
6-7-3: LIGHTS:
   A.   Required Generally: During the period from sunset to sunrise, or at any
other time when visibility is so limited as to require the use of lights for
safety, every motorcycle operated on any street or other public place in the
village shall carry and exhibit one lighted lamp commonly known as a driving
light, and every motor vehicle shall exhibit two (2) such lighted lamps showing
white lights, or lights of a yellow or amber tint; and each motor vehicle,
trailer or semitrailer shall also exhibit at least two (2) lighted lamps which
shall be so situated as to throw a red light visible for at least five hundred
feet (500') in the reverse direction; provided, that every trailer having a
gross weight of three thousand (3,000) pounds or less shall be equipped with
two (2) lighted lamps, one on each side of the rear of such trailer which shall
be so situated as to throw a red light visible for at least five hundred feet
(500') in the reverse direction.
   B.   Vehicles Owned By Firefighters: Any motor vehicle owned or fully
operated by any firefighter may be equipped with lamps which shall emit a blue
light without glare. (1982 Code § 11-4-6; amd. 2016 Code)
   C.   Parked Vehicles: It shall be unlawful to operate or park on any street
any vehicle not equipped with adequate lights conforming to the requirements of
this section; provided, that vehicles may be parked at nighttime without lights
on any street or portion thereof designated by village ordinance as a place
where vehicles may be so parked at nighttime. (1982 Code § 11-4-6)
   D.   Use Of Headlights:
      1.   Whenever the driver of any vehicle equipped with an electric driving
headlamp or headlamps is within five hundred feet (500') of another vehicle
approaching from the opposite direction, the driver shall dim or drop such
headlamp or headlamps.
      2.   The driver of any vehicle equipped with an electric driving headlamp
or headlamps shall dim or drop such headlamp or headlamps when there is another
vehicle traveling in the same direction less than three hundred feet (300') to
the front thereof. (1982 Code § 11-2-26)
6-7-4: SIGNAL LIGHTS AND DEVICES:
   A.   Every vehicle, other than an antique vehicle displaying an antique
plate or an expanded use antique vehicle displaying expanded use antique
vehicle plates, operated in the village shall be equipped with a stop lamp or
lamps on the rear of the vehicle which shall display a red or amber light
visible from a distance of not less than five hundred feet (500') to the rear
in normal sunlight and which shall be actuated upon application of the service
(foot) brake, and which may, but need not be, incorporated with other rear
lamps. During times when lighted lamps are not required, an antique vehicle or
an expanded use antique vehicle may be equipped with a stop lamp or lamps on
the rear of such vehicle of the same type originally installed by the
manufacturer as original equipment and in working order.
   B.   Every trailer and semitrailer shall be equipped with an electric turn
signal device which indicates the intention of the driver in the power unit to
turn to the right or to the left in the form of flashing red or amber lights
located at the rear of the vehicle on the side toward which the turn is to be
made and mounted on the same level and as widely spaced laterally as
practicable.
   C.   Turn signal lamps must be visible from a distance of not less than
three hundred feet (300') in normal sunlight.
   D.   Motorcycles and motor driven cycles need not be equipped with electric
turn signals. Antique vehicles and expanded use antique vehicles need not be
equipped with turn signals unless such were installed by the manufacturer as
original equipment.
   E.   Motorcycles and motor driven cycles may be equipped with a stop lamp or
lamps on the rear of the vehicle that display a red or amber light, visible
from a distance of not less than five hundred feet (500') to the rear in normal
sunlight, that flashes and becomes steady only when the brake is actuated.
(2016 Code)
6-7-5: HORN:
   A.   Every motor vehicle, when operated upon a highway, shall be equipped
with a horn in good working order and capable of emitting sound audible under
normal conditions from a distance of not less than two hundred feet (200'), but
no horn or other warning device shall emit an unreasonable loud or harsh sound
or a whistle. (1982 Code §§ 11-2-19, 11-4-5; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   The driver of a motor vehicle shall, when reasonably necessary to
ensure safe operation, give audible warning with a horn but shall not otherwise
use the horn when upon the highway. (1982 Code § 11-2-19)
   C.   No vehicle shall be equipped with nor shall any person use upon a
vehicle any siren, whistle or bell, except as otherwise permitted by this
section. (1982 Code § 11-4-5)
6-7-6: BRAKES:
It shall be unlawful to drive any motor vehicle upon a village street unless
such vehicle is equipped with brakes in good working condition, or to operate
any vehicle which is so loaded that the operator does not have ready access to
the mechanics operating the brakes of such vehicle. (1982 Code § 11-4-4)
6-7-7: NOISE CONTROL:
   A.   Muffler Requirements:
      1.   Every motor vehicle driven or operated upon the streets and highways
of the village shall at all times be equipped with an adequate muffler or
exhaust system in constant operation and properly maintained to prevent any
excessive or unusual noise.
      2.   No such muffler or exhaust system shall be equipped with a cutoff,
bypass or similar device.
      3.   No person shall modify the exhaust system of a motor vehicle in a
manner which will amplify or increase the noise of such vehicle above that
emitted by the muffler originally installed on the vehicle, and such original
muffler shall comply with all the requirements of this subsection A.
      4.   As used in this subsection A, "muffler" means a device consisting of
a series of chambers or baffle plates or other mechanical design for the
purpose of receiving exhaust gas from an internal combustion engine and
effective in reducing noise. (1982 Code § 11-4-2)
   B.   Jake Brakes:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any driver of a truck or truck- tractor to
activate or use the unit's engine ("jake") brake within the village limits
except in an emergency situation.
      2.   The term "emergency situation", for the purposes of this subsection
B, shall mean one in which there is imminent danger of collision with property,
persons or animals. (Ord. 436, 6-15-2009)
      3.   Any person violating or failing to comply with any provision of this
subsection B shall be fined, upon conviction, not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) for each offense nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00),
and each day any violation or noncompliance continues shall constitute a
separate offense. (Ord. 436, 6-15-2009; amd. 2016 Code)
   C.   Squealing Tires: It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle
which is in motion, moving and being driven, or stopped, standing or parked, to
so quickly accelerate such vehicle as to cause the tires of such vehicle to
emit screeching, squealing or otherwise offensive sounds due to the spin of
accelerated tires on the roadway. (1982 Code § 11-2-27)
6-7-8: NONSKID DEVICES:
It shall be unlawful to operate upon any village street any motor vehicle
equipped with any nonskid device so constructed that any rigid or nonflexible
portion thereof comes into contact with the pavement or roadway. (1982 Code §
11-4-8)
6-7-9: PROJECTING LOADS:
No passenger type vehicle shall be operated on the streets of the village with
a load extending beyond the line of the fenders on the left side of the vehicle
nor extending beyond the line of the fenders on the right side thereof. (1982
Code § 11-4-9)
6-7-10: WEIGHT LIMITS:
It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle on any street in the village when
the gross weight on the surface of the road exceeds eight thousand (8,000)
pounds. Where lower limits are imposed by ordinance and signs indicating such
limitations are posted, it shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle in excess of
such weight on such street, except for the purpose of making delivery or
picking up a load, in which case, such vehicle may be driven on such street for
not more than the minimum distance necessary for the purpose. (1982 Code § 11-
2-40; amd. 2016 Code)
6-7-11: TOWING OR PUSHING VEHICLES:
   A.   When one vehicle is towing another, the drawbar or other connection
shall be of sufficient strength to pull all the weight towed thereby, and the
drawbar or other connection shall not exceed fifteen feet (15') from one
vehicle to the other, except for the connection between any two (2) vehicles
transporting poles, pipes, machinery or other objects of structural nature
which cannot readily be dismembered.
   B.   Outside a business, residential or suburban district or on any
controlled access highway, no vehicle other than a pole trailer or a
semitrailer which is being towed by a truck- trailer and is connected by the
means of a fifth wheel shall be towed on a roadway except by a drawbar, and
such vehicle so towed shall, in addition, be coupled with two (2) safety chains
or cables to the towing vehicle. Such chains or cables shall be of sufficient
size and strength to prevent the towed vehicle from parting from the drawing
vehicle in case the drawbar should break or become disengaged.
   C.   No person shall drive any vehicle pushing or towing a disabled vehicle
at a rate of speed greater than is reasonable and proper having regard to the
traffic and the use of the way or so as to endanger life or limb or injure the
property of any person. (1982 Code § 11-2-32; amd. 2016 Code)
6-7-12: SPILLING LOADS:
   A.   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any village street unless such
vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of its load from
dropping, shifting, leaking or otherwise escaping therefrom; except, that sand
may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or water or other
substance may be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or maintaining such
roadway.
   B.   No person shall operate on any village street any vehicle with any load
unless said load and any covering thereon are fastened so as to prevent said
covering or load from becoming loose, detached or in any manner a hazard to
other users of the streets.
   C.   No person shall operate on any public street within the village any
truck or other vehicle when mud, sand or other like substance is likely to be
thrown off the tires or treads of such vehicle and deposited on the streets in
noticeable quantities. (1982 Code § 11-4-10)
6-7-13: VEHICLE EMISSIONS:
It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle which emits dense smoke or such an
amount of smoke or fumes as to be dangerous to the health of persons or as to
endanger the drivers of other vehicles. (1982 Code § 11-4-3)
6-7-14: INSPECTION OF VEHICLES:
All police officers are hereby empowered at all times to inspect any vehicle to
determine its compliance with the equipment and other provisions of this title.
(1982 Code § 11-4-11)
CHAPTER 8
BICYCLES
SECTION:
6-8-1: Scope
6-8-2: Applicability Of Traffic Laws
6-8-3: Rules Of Operation
6-8-4: Equipment Required
6-8-5: Inspections
6-8-1: SCOPE:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to
perform any act required in this chapter. (1982 Code § 11-6-1)
   B.   The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward, which child or
ward is under seventeen (17) years of age, shall not authorize or knowingly
permit any such child or ward to violate any of the provisions of this chapter.
(1982 Code § 11-6-1; amd. 2016 Code)
   C.   The regulations applicable to bicycles shall apply whenever any bicycle
is operated upon any highway or upon any path set aside for the exclusive use
of bicycles subject to those exceptions stated herein. (1982 Code § 11-6-1)
6-8-2: APPLICABILITY OF TRAFFIC LAWS:
Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be subject to the provisions
of the traffic and vehicle ordinances of the village, except as changed by
special regulations contained in this chapter and except as to those provisions
of the traffic ordinances which, by their nature, can have no application.
(1982 Code § 11-6-2)
6-8-3: RULES OF OPERATION:
   A.   Riding On Bicycles:
      1.   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than upon the
permanent and regular seat attached thereto, nor carry any other person upon
such bicycle other than upon a firmly attached and regular seat thereon, nor
shall any person ride upon a bicycle other than as herein authorized.
      2.   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped. (1982 Code § 11-6-5)
   B.   Right Of Way On Sidewalks: A person riding a bicycle on a sidewalk
shall yield the right of way to every pedestrian and, when approaching a
pedestrian from the rear, shall give audible warning signal when at least
twenty five feet (25') distant from the pedestrian. (1982 Code § 11-6-5; amd.
2016 Code)
   C.   Speed Restrictions: No person riding a bicycle shall ride faster than
is reasonable and proper in regard to the safety of the rider and others.
   D.   Clinging To Vehicles Prohibited: No person riding upon any bicycle
shall hold on or cling to another vehicle powered by a motor.
   E.   Carrying Articles: No person riding a bicycle shall carry any package,
bundle or article which prevents the rider from keeping at least one hand upon
the handlebars. (1982 Code § 11-6-5)
   F.   Trick Riding; Racing: No rider of a bicycle shall remove both hands
from the handlebars, or feet from the pedals, or practice any acrobatic or
fancy riding on any street, public property, or private property without first
obtaining permission from the owner of said property; nor shall any person
operating a bicycle upon a public highway participate in any race for speed or
endurance contest with any other vehicle, except under permit from and under
the supervision of the police department. (1982 Code § 11-6-5; amd. 2016 Code)
   G.   Parking Bicycles: No person shall park a bicycle in such a manner as to
interfere with pedestrians or persons getting into or out of vehicles. (1982
Code § 11-6-5)
6-8-4: EQUIPMENT REQUIRED:
   A.   Brake: Every bicycle when operated upon a highway shall be equipped
with a brake adequate to control the movement of and to stop such bicycle
whenever necessary. (1982 Code § 11-6-4)
   B.   Lamps And Reflector: Every bicycle operated after sunset shall be
equipped with a lamp on the front exhibiting a white light visible from a
distance of at least five hundred feet (500') to the front and with a red
reflector on the rear. Every such reflector shall be so designed and maintained
as to be visible at night from all distances within one hundred feet (100') to
six hundred feet (600') from such bicycle when directly in front of a motor
vehicle displaying lawfully lighted headlamps. A lamp exhibiting a red light
visible from a distance of five hundred feet (500') to the rear may be used in
addition to the rear reflector.
   C.   Siren Or Whistle Prohibited: No bicycle shall be equipped with nor
shall any person use upon a bicycle any siren or whistle. (1982 Code § 11-6-4;
amd. 2016 Code)
6-8-5: INSPECTIONS:
All police officers shall have authority to inspect all bicycles for mechanical
fitness. (1982 Code § 11-6-3)
CHAPTER 9
ABANDONED, WRECKED VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-9-1: Abandoned, Wrecked, Unlicensed Vehicles Prohibited
6-9-2: Nuisance Declared
6-9-3: Disposal Of Inoperable Vehicles Required
6-9-4: Notice To Police Of Abandoned, Stolen, Unclaimed Vehicle; Tow Authorized
6-9-5: Towing Abandoned Vehicle From Highway
6-9-6: Record Of Tows
6-9-7: Reclamation Of Vehicle
6-9-8: Sale Of Vehicle
6-9-9: Record Of Vehicle Disposition
6-9-10: Disposition Of Proceeds
6-9-11: Nonliability Of Police And Towing Service
6-9-12: Penalty
6-9-1: ABANDONED, WRECKED, UNLICENSED VEHICLES PROHIBITED:
   A.   Abandoned Vehicles: No person shall abandon any vehicle within the
village, and no person shall leave any vehicle at any place within the village
for such time and under such circumstances as to cause such vehicle reasonably
to appear to have been abandoned.
   B.   Wrecked, Nonoperating Vehicles: No person shall leave any partially
dismantled, nonoperating, wrecked or junked vehicle on any street or highway in
the village.
   C.   Unlicensed Vehicles: No person shall leave any unlicensed vehicle on
any street or highway in the village. (2016 Code)
6-9-2: NUISANCE DECLARED:
"Inoperable motor vehicles", as defined in section
4-1-2 of this code, whether on public or private property, are hereby declared
to be a nuisance. (2016 Code)
6-9-3: DISPOSAL OF INOPERABLE VEHICLES REQUIRED:
All persons are required to dispose of any inoperable motor vehicle under their
control upon written notice received from the village board of trustees or from
the chief of police or any member of the police department designated by him
commanding such disposition of said inoperable motor vehicle. (2016 Code)
6-9-4: NOTICE TO POLICE OF ABANDONED, STOLEN, UNCLAIMED VEHICLE; TOW
AUTHORIZED:
   A.   When an abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or other
vehicle comes into the temporary possession or custody of a person in this
state, not the owner of the vehicle, such person shall immediately notify the
police department when the vehicle is within the corporate limits of the
village.
   B.   Upon the receipt of such notification, the chief of police shall
authorize a towing service to remove and take possession of the abandoned,
lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or other vehicle. The towing service
will safely keep the towed vehicle and its contents and maintain a record of
the tow until the vehicle is claimed by the owner or any other person legally
entitled to possession thereof, or until it is disposed of as provided in this
chapter. (2016 Code)
6-9-5: TOWING ABANDONED VEHICLE FROM HIGHWAY:
   A.   When a motor vehicle or other vehicle is abandoned on a roadway in the
village ten (10) hours or more, its removal by a towing service may be
authorized by order of the village chief of police.
   B.   When an abandoned, unlicensed, unattended, wrecked, burned or partially
dismantled motor vehicle or other vehicle is creating a traffic hazard because
of its position in relation to the highway or its physical appearance is
causing the impeding of traffic, its immediate removal from the highway by a
towing service may be authorized by order of the village chief of police.
   C.   When a vehicle removed from either public or private property is
authorized by order of the village chief of police, the owner of the vehicle
will be responsible for all towing costs and any storage fees incurred. (2016
Code)
6-9-6: RECORD OF TOWS:
When a motor vehicle or other vehicle is authorized to be towed, the police
department shall keep and maintain a record of the vehicle towed, listing the
color, year of manufacture, manufacturer's trade name, manufacturer's series
name, body style, vehicle identification number and license plate year and
number displayed on the vehicle. The record shall also include the date and
hour of tow, location towed from, location towed to, reason for towing and the
name of the officer authorizing the tow. (2016 Code)
6-9-7: RECLAMATION OF VEHICLE:
Any time before a motor vehicle or other vehicle is sold at public sale or
disposed of as provided herein, the owner or other person legally entitled to
its possession may reclaim the vehicle by presenting to the police department
proof of ownership or proof of the right to possession of the vehicle. No
vehicle shall be released to the owner or other person under this chapter until
all towing and storage charges have been paid. (2016 Code)
6-9-8: SALE OF VEHICLE:
   A.   Whenever an abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or other
vehicle remains unclaimed by the registered owner or other person legally
entitled to its possession, for a period of thirty (30) days after notice has
been given as provided herein, the police department shall cause the vehicle to
be sold at public sale to the highest bidder. Notice of the time and place of
the sale shall be posted in a conspicuous place for at least ten (10) days
prior to the sale on the premises where the vehicle has been impounded. At
least ten (10) days prior to the sale, the police department shall cause a
notice of the time and place of the sale to be sent by certified mail to the
registered owner or other person known by the police department or towing
service to be legally entitled to the possession of the vehicle. Such notice
shall contain a complete description of the vehicle to be sold and what steps
must be taken by any legally entitled person to reclaim the vehicle. In those
instances where the certified notification specified herein has been returned
by the postal authorities to the police department due to the addressee having
moved, or being unknown at the address obtained from the registration records
of this state, the sending of a second certified notice will not be required.
   B.   When the identity of the registered owner or other person legally
entitled to the possession of an abandoned, lost, or stolen vehicle cannot be
determined by any means provided in this chapter, the vehicle may be sold as
provided herein or disposed of in the manner authorized by this chapter without
notice to the registered owner or other person legally entitled to the
possession of the vehicle. (2016 Code)
6-9-9: RECORD OF VEHICLE DISPOSITION:
When a motor vehicle or other vehicle in the custody of the police department
is reclaimed by the registered owner or other legally entitled person, or when
the vehicle is sold at public sale or otherwise disposed of as provided in this
chapter, a report of the transaction will be maintained by the police
department for a period of one year from the date of the sale or disposal.
(2016 Code)
6-9-10: DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS:
When a vehicle located within the corporate limits of the village is authorized
to be towed away by the chief of police and disposed of as set forth in this
chapter, the proceeds of the public sale or disposition, after the deduction of
towing, storage and processing charges, shall be deposited in the village
treasury. (2016 Code)
6-9-11: NONLIABILITY OF POLICE AND TOWING SERVICE:
Any police officer or towing service owner, operator or employee shall not be
held to answer or be liable for damages in any action brought by the registered
owner, former registered owner or his legal representative, or any other person
legally entitled to the possession of a motor vehicle or other vehicle when the
vehicle was processed and sold or disposed of as provided by this chapter.
(2016 Code)
6-9-12: PENALTY:
Any person or entity convicted of violating any provision of this chapter shall
be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for said violation, and each day that such a
violation exists or continues shall be deemed a distinct and separate offense.
(Ord. 14-485, 1-20-2014)
CHAPTER 10
RECREATIONAL AND NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-10-01: Short Title
6-10-02: Intent
6-10-03: Definitions
6-10-04: Registration Requirements
6-10-05: Restricted And Illegal Operations
6-10-06: Operation Of Vehicles
6-10-07: Territorial Limitations
6-10-08: Equipment
6-10-09: Noise And Dust Nuisances
6-10-10: Snowmobiles
6-10-11: Penalties
6-10-01: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter may be cited as and referred to as the NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLE CODE
FOR THE VILLAGE OF SAN JOSE. (Ord. 21-557, 1-18-2021)
6-10-02: INTENT:
The intent of this chapter is to allow increased mobility of the community
without a dramatic increased use of fossil fuels. It is not the intent to
create a public nuisance such as ATVs, ROVs or off highway motorcycles being
run up and down the block to create a noise nuisance, safety hazard or
destroying public or private property. However, after considering the volume,
speed and character of traffic on Village roadways, the Village has determined
that, in compliance with this chapter, nonhighway vehicles may safely operate
upon Village roadways. (Ord. 21-557, 1-18-2021)
6-10-03: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section, unless the context clearly requires a
different meaning:
                                  Any motorized off highway device designed
                                  to travel primarily off highway, fifty
                                  inches (50") or less in width, having a
                                  manufacturer's dry weight of one thousand
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE ("ATV"):      five hundred (1,500) pounds or less,
                                  traveling on three (3) or more low
                                  pressure tires, designed with a seat or
                                  saddle for operator use, and handlebars
                                  or steering wheel for steering control,
                                  except equipment such as lawn mowers.
                                  A vehicle specifically designed and
                                  intended for the purposes of transporting
                                  one or more persons and their golf clubs
GOLF CART:                        or maintenance equipment while engaged in
                                  the playing of golf, supervising the play
                                  of golf or maintaining the condition of
                                  the grounds on a public or private golf
                                  course.
                                  The entire width between boundary lines
HIGHWAY:                          of any highway as defined by Illinois
                                  Department of Transportation.
LOCAL AUTHORITY:                  The Village Board of Trustees.
                                  A motor vehicle not specifically designed
                                  to be used on a public highway,
NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLE:              including: (1) an all-terrain vehicle,
                                  (2) a golf cart, (3) an off-highway
                                  motorcycle, (4) a recreational off-
                                  highway vehicle.
                                  Any motorized device designed to travel
                                  primarily off highway on two (2) wheels,
OFF HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLE:           having a seat or saddle for the use of
                                  the operator, upon or by which any
                                  person, persons or property may be
                                  transported or drawn.
                                  To ride in or on, other than as a
                                  passenger, use or control the operation
OPERATE:                          of a non-highway vehicle in any manner,
                                  whether or not the non-highway vehicle is
                                  underway.
                                  Every person who operates or is in
OPERATOR:                         physical control of a non-highway
                                  vehicle.
                                  Any person authorized under the statutes
                                  of the State of Illinois to make an
PEACE OFFICER:                    arrest for the violation of any statute
                                  or ordinance, whether it is a total
                                  arrest power of all statutes or a portion
                                  of any statute.
                                  Any motorized off highway device designed
                                  to travel primarily off highway, sixty
                                  four inches (64") or less in width,
                                  having a manufacturer's dry weight of two
RECREATIONAL OFF HIGHWAY VEHICLE  thousand (2,000) pounds or less,
("ROV"):                          traveling on four (4) or more nonhighway
                                  tires, designed with a non-straddle seat
                                  and a steering wheel for steering
                                  control, except equipment such as lawn
                                  mowers.
                                  Every camping trailer, motor home, mini
                                  motor home, travel trailer, truck camper
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE:             or van camper used primarily for
                                  recreational purposes and not used
                                  commercially nor owned by a commercial
                                  business.
                                  That portion of a highway, improved,
ROADWAY:                          designed or ordinarily used for vehicular
                                  travel, exclusive of the berm or
                                  shoulder.
                                  A self-propelled device designed for
                                  travel on snow or ice or natural terrain
SNOWMOBILE:                       steered by skis or runners, and supported
                                  in part by skis, belts, or cleats. (Ord.
                                  21-557, 1-18-2021)
 
6-10-04: REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Registration Required: All persons owning or operating a golf cart,
ATV, ROV, or off highway motorcycle within the corporate limits of the Village
shall not permit such golf cart, ATV, ROV or off-highway motorcycles to be
operated on any Village roadway unless the owner first purchases from the
Village and display prominently upon each vehicle a municipal registration
decal. Registration of a non-highway vehicle under this chapter shall be on a
calendar year basis with no proration for partial calendar years. The
registration fee shall be thirty dollars ($30.00) for the first year of
registration and ten dollars ($10.00) for every year thereafter.
   B.   Purchase Of Decal: The owner of any golf cart, ATV, ROV, or off highway
motorcycle shall obtain an application for municipal registration from the
village police chief, complete the same, and deliver the application to the
village clerk who, upon receipt of payment of the required fee, shall provide
the decal to the owner or operator for each golf cart, ATV, ROV, or off highway
motorcycle to be used in the village limits.
   C.   Loss Of Decal: Should a decal become lost, destroyed or mutilated
beyond legibility, the owner of the vehicle shall make application to the
village clerk for the replacement of the decal and shall at the same time pay
to the village clerk a fee of ten dollars ($10.00).
   D.   Inspection of all recreational vehicles to be performed by police
department, to meet all requirements stated in Section
6-10-08: Equipment. (Ord. 21-557, 1-18-2021)
6-10-05: RESTRICTED AND ILLEGAL OPERATIONS:
   A.   Careless Operation: No person shall operate any non-highway vehicle in
a careless or heedless manner so as to be grossly indifferent to the person or
property of other persons, or at a rate of speed greater than will permit him,
in the exercise of reasonable care, to bring the vehicle to a stop within the
assured clear distance ahead.
   B.   Reckless Operation: No person shall operate any non-highway vehicle in
such a manner as to endanger the life, limb or property of any person.
   C.   On Private Property: No person shall operate a non-highway vehicle on
private property without the written or verbal consent of the owner or lessee
thereof. Any person operating a non-highway vehicle upon lands of another shall
stop and identify himself upon the request of the landowner or his duly
authorized representative, and, if requested to do so by the landowner, shall
promptly remove the non-highway vehicle from the premises.
   D.   Possession Of Firearms: No person, except persons permitted by law,
shall operate or ride any non-highway vehicle with any firearm in his
possession unless he is in compliance with Section 2.33 of the Wildlife Code.
(520 ILCS 5/2.33)
   E.   Limited To Certain Streets; Exceptions: A non-highway vehicle may only
be operated on streets where the posted speed limit is thirty (30) miles per
hour or less. A non-highway vehicle may make a direct crossing at a highway
where the posted speed limit is thirty-five (35) miles per hour or more at
Village road intersections only after coming to a complete stop.
   F.   Driver's License Required: A person may not operate a non-highway
vehicle, other than a riding lawn mower, on a street, highway, or roadway
unless he or she has a valid driver's license issued in his or her name by the
Secretary of State or by a foreign jurisdiction.
   G.   Insurance Required: Any person who operates a non-highway vehicle,
other than a riding lawn mower, on a street, highway, or roadway shall be
subject to the mandatory insurance requirements under 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/7-601 et seq.
   H.   Driving Under The Influence: A person who drives or is in actual
physical control of a non-highway vehicle on a roadway while under the
influence is subject to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-500 through 5/11-
502.
   I.   Recreational Vehicles Parked On Private Property:
      1.   Recreational vehicles must have a valid license plate and current
registration sticker affixed to vehicle.
      2.   Recreational vehicles may not be occupied unless a special use
permit has been applied for and approved by the Board of Trustees.
         a.   Special use permits will be granted for emergency situations on a
case by case basis. Special use permit applications can be obtained at the
Village Hall.
      3.   Recreational vehicles cannot be used for storage purposes only.
(Ord. 21-557, 1-18-2021)
6-10-06: OPERATION OF VEHICLES:
   A.   Obedience To Traffic Control Devices: The operator of any non-highway
vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official traffic control device
applicable thereto placed in accordance with the provisions of 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-301 et seq. It shall be unlawful for any non-highway
vehicle operator to leave the roadway and travel across private property to
avoid an official traffic control device.
   B.   Obstructing Roadways Prohibited: No operator shall willfully or
unnecessarily hinder, obstruct, or delay, or attempt to delay, hinder or
obstruct, any other person lawfully driving or traveling along or upon any
roadway within the corporate limits of the Village.
   C.   Speed Restrictions:
      1.   General Speed Restrictions: No non-highway vehicle may be driven
upon any roadway within the corporate limits of the Village at a speed which is
greater than is reasonable and proper with regard to traffic conditions and the
use of the highway, or which endangers the safety of any person or property.
The fact that the speed of the non-highway vehicle does not exceed the
applicable maximum speed limit does not relieve the driver of the non-highway
vehicle from the duty to decrease speed when approaching and crossing an
intersection, when approaching a hillcrest, when traveling upon any narrow or
winding roadway, or where special hazards exist with respect to pedestrians or
other traffic or by reason of weather or highway in compliance with legal
requirements and a duty of all persons to use due care.
      2.   Specific Speed Limits: Unless some other speed restriction is
established by the posting of speed limit signs under the authority of the
Village Board, the maximum speed limits for non-highway vehicles within the
corporate limits are as follows: a) twenty (20) miles per hour in any
residential or business district; and b) ten (10) miles per hour in any alley.
      3.   Minimum Speed: No person shall drive a non-highway vehicle at such a
slow speed as to impede or block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic,
except when reduced speed is necessary for safe operation of the non-highway
vehicle or in compliance with the direction of a peace officer.
   D.   Drive On Right; Passing Vehicles:
      1.   Non-highway vehicles shall be operated on all roadways as close to
the right-hand side of the roadway as possible.
      2.   Non-highway vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass
each other to the right and upon roadways having width for not more than one
(1) lane of traffic in each direction, and each driver shall give to the other
at least one-half (½) of the main traveled portion of the roadway as nearly as
possible.
   E.   Overtaking On Left:
      1.   No non-highway vehicles shall be driven on the left side of the
center of the roadway in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in
the same direction unless such left side is clearly visible and is free of
oncoming traffic for a sufficient distance without interfering with the safe
operation of any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction of any vehicle
overtaken.
      2.   No non-highway vehicle shall be driven on the left side of the
roadway when approaching or upon the crest of a grade or curve in the highway
where the driver's view is obstructed, when approaching within one hundred feet
(100').
   F.   Signaling:
      1.   A signal of intention to turn right or left, when required, must be
given continuously during not less than the last one hundred feet (100')
traveled by the non-highway vehicle before turning within a business or
residence district.
      2.   Any stop or turn signal, when required, shall be given either by
means of a hand and arm or by electric turn signal device.
      3.   All hand and arm signals required by this subsection F. shall be
given from the left side of the vehicle in the following manner:
         a.   Left Turn: Hand and arm extended horizontally.
         b.   Right Turn: Hand and arm extended upward.
         c.   Stop Or Decrease Of Speed: Hand and arm extended downward.
   G.   Following Too Closely: The operator of a non-highway vehicle shall not
follow another vehicle more closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due
regard for the speed of such vehicle and the traffic upon and condition of the
highway.
   H.   Yield Right Of Way:
      1.   Any non-highway vehicle approaching or entering an intersection from
a different roadway shall yield the right-of-way to a vehicle on the opposite
roadway which is entering from the right at approximately the same time. The
driver of the vehicle on the left must yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on
the right.
      2.   The operator of a non-highway vehicle intending to turn to the left
within an intersection or into an alley, private road, or driveway shall yield
the right-of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which
is so close as to constitute an immediate hazard, but said non-highway vehicle
operator having so yielded may proceed at such time as a safe interval occurs.
   I.   Entering Stop Intersection: Except when directed to proceed by a peace
officer, every operator of a non-highway vehicle approaching a stop
intersection indicated by a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop line,
but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection, or if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway
before entering the intersection. After having stopped, the operator of the
non-highway vehicle shall yield the right-of- way to any vehicle which has
entered the intersection from another roadway or which is approaching so
closely on the roadway as to constitute an immediate hazard during the time
when the operator is moving across or within the intersection, but said
operator having so yielded may proceed at such time as a safe interval occurs.
   J.   Entering Yield Intersection: The operator of a non-highway vehicle
approaching a yield sign shall, in obedience to such signs, slow down to a
speed reasonable for the existing conditions and, if required for safety, shall
stop at a clearly marked line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk on
the near side of the intersection, or if none, then at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the operator has a view of approaching traffic on
the intersecting roadway. After slowing or stopping, the operator shall yield
the right-of-way to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another
roadway so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the time such
operator is moving across or within the intersection. If a non-highway vehicle
is involved in a collision at any intersection or interferes with the movement
of other vehicles after driving past the yield right of way sign, such
collision or interference shall be deemed prima facie evidence of the non-
highway vehicle driver's failure to yield the right-of-way.
   K.   Starting Parked Vehicle: No operator shall start a non-highway vehicle
which is stopped, standing or parked unless and until such movement can be made
with reasonable safety.
   L.   Reckless Driving: Any person who drives any non-highway vehicle with a
willful or wanton disregard for the safety of persons or property is guilty of
reckless driving.
   M.   Racing: No person shall engage in any race within the corporate limits,
including private property. "Race" is defined as the act of two (2) or more
individuals competing or racing in a situation in which one of the non-highway
vehicles is beside or to the rear of the non-highway vehicle operated by a
competing driver and the one driver attempts to prevent the competing driver
from passing or overtaking him, either by acceleration or maneuver, or one or
more individuals competing in a race against time in the Village.
   N.   Pedestrian Right-Of-Way: The operator of all non-highway vehicles shall
yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping if need be to so yield, to a
pedestrian crossing a roadway within a crosswalk, but in any case, every driver
of a non-highway vehicle shall exercise due caution to avoid colliding with any
pedestrian and shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary and shall
exercise proper precaution upon observing any child or any obviously confused,
incapacitated, or intoxicated person.
   O.   Obstruction Of Operator: No person shall operate a non-highway vehicle
when it is carrying more passengers than is recommended by the manufacturer.
   P.   Accidents: Operators of snowmobiles involved in any accident with
another snowmobile or any other motor vehicle or pedestrian shall make accident
reports in accordance with the provisions of the Illinois Snowmobile
Registration and Safety Act. All other non-highway vehicles shall report all
accidents to the Village police chief as soon as conceivably possible.
   Q.   Prohibited Hours Of Operation: No person shall operate a non-highway
vehicle from the hours of dusk to dawn the following day, other than in the
case of extreme emergency or when authorized by the Village board.
   R.   No non-highway vehicle may be operated on Village roadways or alleyways
without minimum insurance in compliance with the requirements of 625 ILCS 5/7-
601 et seq. (Ord. 21-557, 1-18-2021)
6-10-07: TERRITORIAL LIMITATIONS:
It is unlawful for any person to operate a non-highway vehicle on any park
property, or any other property owned by the Village without the permission of
the Village board of trustees. The Village board, however, by giving such
permission, does not thereby extend any assurance that the premises are safe
for such purposes or assume any responsibility for or incur any liability for
any injury to persons or property caused by any act of the persons to whom the
permission is granted. (Ord. 21-557, 1-18-2021)
6-10-08: EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Lights:
      1.   Headlamp: All non-highway vehicles while in operation on Village
roadways, at all times shall display at least one (1) lighted headlamp, white
in color, having a minimum candlepower of sufficient intensity to exhibit a
white light plainly visible from a distance of at least five hundred feet
(500') ahead during hours of darkness under normal atmospheric conditions in
good working order.
      2.   Taillight: All non-highway vehicles while in operation on Village
roadways, at all times shall display at least one (1) red taillight having a
minimum candlepower of sufficient intensity to exhibit a red light plainly
visible from a distance of five hundred feet (500') to the rear during hours of
darkness under normal atmospheric conditions in good working order.
      3.   Brake Light: All non-highway vehicles while in operation on Village
roadways, at all times shall have an operational brake light in good working
order and having a minimum candlepower with sufficient intensity to exhibit a
red light plainly visible from a distance of five hundred feet (500') to the
rear during hours of darkness under normal atmospheric conditions.
   B.   Brakes: All non-highway vehicles shall have an operating brake system
in good mechanical condition.
   C.   Muffler: No non-highway vehicle shall be sold or offered for sale or
operated unless it is equipped with a sound muffling device installed by the
manufacturer in good operating condition, and under no circumstances shall this
muffler device be modified or removed by the owner or operator.
   D.   Horn And Warning Devices:
      1.   All non-highway vehicles when operated upon a roadway in the
Village, shall be equipped with a horn in good working order and capable of
emitting sound audible under normal conditions from a distance of not less than
two hundred feet (200'), but no horn or other warning device shall emit an
unreasonably loud or harsh sound or a whistle.
      2.   No non-highway vehicle shall be equipped with any siren, whistle, or
bell.
   E.   Other Equipment: All non-highway vehicles shall have all equipment,
other than already stated, as indicated below:
      1.   No non-highway vehicle may be operated on a roadway unless, at a
minimum, it has the following: a steering apparatus, tires (or treads or like
devise for a snowmobile), a rearview mirror, red reflectorized warning devices
in the front and rear, a slow moving emblem on the rear of the non-highway
vehicle, and turn signals.
      2.   No non-highway vehicle may be operated on a roadway without its
headlight and tail lamps lighted. (Ord. 21-557, 1-18-2021)
6-10-09: NOISE AND DUST NUISANCES:
   A.   Non-highway vehicles shall not be used in such a manner as to create
noise, dust, or other similar nuisances, regardless of their location on public
right-of-way or private property within the Village of San Jose.
   B.   A noise nuisance shall be found to exist if the non-highway vehicle is
generating noise in excess of its audible volume under normal operating
conditions, or creating loud and unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling, or
other noises.
   C.   A dust nuisance shall be found if the non-highway vehicle creates a
dust cloud that is capable of obstructing a passerby's or passing driver's
vision, or capable of creating a breathing obstruction for a passerby. To
prevent the creation and existence of a dust nuisance, non-highway vehicle
owners shall spray the area with water in which they will operate the non-
highway vehicle before they operate the vehicle in that area.
   D.   This chapter shall not be construed as operating to prevent the safe
and responsible use of non-highway vehicles as a mode of transportation within
the Village of San Jose. Its purpose and effect are to reasonably limit visual,
aural, and breathing irritations for those near the operation of non-highway
vehicles within the Village of San Jose. (Ord. 21-557, 1-18-2021)
6-10-10: SNOWMOBILES:
The provisions of the Snowmobile Registration and Safety Act, 625 ILCS 40/1 et.
seq. are hereby incorporated herein by reference. The violation of any
provision of the Snowmobile Registration and Safety Act as now in effect or as
hereafter amended shall be considered a violation of this Section
6-10-10 of the Village Code. (Ord. 21-557, 1-18-2021)
6-10-11: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
   B.   The Village trustees may, upon conviction of any person violating any
provision of this chapter, revoke the privilege to operate a non-highway
vehicle as conferred by this chapter. (Ord. 21-557, 1-18-2021)
CHAPTER 11
SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES USED IN
COMMISSION OF OFFENSES
SECTION:
6-11-1: Definitions
6-11-2: Offenses Subjecting Vehicles To Seizure And Impoundment
6-11-3: Seizure And Impoundment Of Vehicles
6-11-4: Posting Bond
6-11-5: Hearings
6-11-6: Unclaimed Vehicles
6-11-7: Liability For Penalty And Costs
6-11-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE: Any substance as defined and included in the schedule
contained in article II of the Illinois Controlled Substances Act 1 and
cannabis as defined in the Cannabis Control Act 2 .
DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE: Any violation as defined in section 11-501 of the
Illinois Vehicle Code 3 .
DRIVING WHILE LICENSE, PERMIT OR PRIVILEGE TO OPERATE A MOTOR VEHICLE IS
SUSPENDED OR REVOKED: Any violation as defined in section 6-303 of the Illinois
Vehicle Code 4 .
HEARING OFFICER: A licensed attorney who is not an officer or employee of the
Village.
OPERATION OF A MOTOR VEHICLE WITHOUT A VALID DRIVER'S LICENSE: A violation of
section 6-101 of the Illinois Vehicle Code 5 , as amended from time to time.
OWNER OF RECORD: The record titleholder to a motor vehicle as registered with
the Secretary of State, State of Illinois.
UNLAWFUL USE OF WEAPONS: A violation of section 24-1 of the Criminal Code of
1961 6 . (Ord. 14-486, 4-21-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 50/1201.
2 2. 720 ILCS 550/3.
3 3. 625 ILCS 5/11-501.
4 4. 625 ILCS 5/6-303.
5 5. 625 ILCS 5/6-101.
6 6. 720 ILCS 5/24-1.
6-11-2: OFFENSES SUBJECTING VEHICLES TO SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in connection with the commission
or attempted commission of any felony offense defined under chapter 720
Illinois Compiled Statutes when such offense is also prohibited by the Code; or
   B.   Driving under the influence of alcohol, other drug or drugs, or
intoxicating compounds, in violation of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-501
or similar provision of this Code; or
   C.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in connection with the commission
or attempted commission of any offense in violation of the provisions of the
Illinois Cannabis Control Act, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 550/1 et seq.
when the person driving or in control of such vehicle as provided in 625 ILCS
5/11-1302(c)3; provided, however, that no vehicle shall be subject to impound
or forfeiture solely for the possession of medical cannabis by a registered
qualifying patient or registered designated caregiver, as those terms are
defined in the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act3, where such
possession is in compliance with the provisions of that Act7; or
   D.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in connection with the commission
or attempted commission of any offense in violation of the Illinois Controlled
Substances Act, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 570/100, et seq. when the person
driving or in control of such vehicle as provided in 625 ILCS 5/11-1302(c)3; or
   E.   Unlawful use of a weapon in violation of 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/24-1; aggravated discharge of a firearm in violation of 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/24-1.5; and, when the person driving or in control of such vehicle
as provided in 625 ILCS 5/11-1302(c)3, unlawful possession of a firearm and
firearm ammunition in violation of 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/24-3.1; or
   F.   Driving while driver’s license, permit or privilege to operate a motor
vehicle is suspended or revoked, the violation of 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/6-303; except that vehicles shall not be subject to seizure
impoundment if the suspension is for an unpaid citation (parking or moving), or
due to failure to comply with emission testing; or
   G.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle with an expired driver’s license in
violation of section 6-101 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/6-101, where the period of expiration is greater than one year when
the person driving or in control of such vehicle as provided in 625 ILCS 5/11-
1302(c)3; or
   H.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle without ever having been issued a
driver’s license or permit in violation of section 6-101 of the Illinois
Vehicle Code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-101, or operating a motor
vehicle without ever having been issued a driver’s license or permit due to a
person’s age when the person driving or in control, as provided in 625 ILCS 5/
11-1302(c)3; or
   I.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle by a person against whom a warrant
has been issued by a Circuit Clerk in Illinois for failing to answer charges
that the driver violated the offenses or; driving while license is revoked or
suspended, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-303; operating a motor vehicle
without a valid driver’s license, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-101; and/
or driving under the influence of alcohol, other drugs, intoxicating compound
(s), or a combination thereof, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-501; or
   J.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in connection with the commission
or attempted commission of any felony offense defined under chapter 720
Illinois Compiled Statutes when such offense is also prohibited by this Code.
(Ord. 22-578, 9-19-2022)
6-11-3: SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES:
   A.   Whenever a police officer has probable cause to believe that a vehicle
is subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to this chapter, the police
officer shall cause the motor vehicle to be towed to an authorized towing
facility. When the vehicle is towed, the police officer shall notify, or make a
reasonable attempt to notify, the owner, lessee, or person identifying himself
or herself as the owner or lessee of the vehicle, or any person who is found to
be in control of the vehicle at the time of the alleged offense of the
following:
      1.   To the fact of the seizure and of the vehicle owner's or lessee's
right to an administrative hearing.
      2.   That the motor vehicle will remain impounded pending the completion
of an administrative hearing as provided in this chapter, unless the owner or
lessee posts a bond as provided in this chapter.
   B.   The provisions of this section shall not apply if, at the time of the
offense, the vehicle was found to have been stolen and the theft was reported
to the appropriate police authority within twenty four (24) hours after the
theft was, or reasonably should have been, discovered, or if the vehicle is a
common carrier, i.e., a taxi carrying paying passengers or a bus. (Ord. 14-486,
4-21-2014)
6-11-4: POSTING BOND:
If a bond in the amount of five hundred dollars ($500.00) is posted with the
village, the impounded vehicle will be released to the owner of record upon the
payment by the owner of record of the towing and storage costs. If a penalty is
imposed for a violation of this chapter, the bond will be forfeited to the
village; provided, in the event that a violation of this chapter is not proven,
the bond will be returned to the person posting the bond. All bond money posted
pursuant to this chapter will be held by the village until the hearing officer
issues a decision or, if there is a judicial review, until the court issues its
final decision. (Ord. 14-486, 4-21-2014)
6-11-5: HEARINGS:
   A.   Hearing Officer: The hearing officer shall be appointed by the village.
The hearing officer shall be an attorney licensed to practice law in the state
of Illinois for a minimum of three (3) years next preceding the date of his
appointment.
   B.   Preliminary Hearing: Where the owner of a motor vehicle seized under
the provisions of this chapter requests a preliminary hearing within twelve
(12) hours after the seizure of the motor vehicle, a hearing officer of the
village must conduct a preliminary hearing within seventy two (72) business
hours after the request for preliminary hearing is received by the village; not
including Saturdays, Sundays, or legal holidays. For purposes of this
subsection, the following shall apply:
      1.   All interested persons will be given a reasonable opportunity to be
heard at the preliminary hearing.
      2.   The formal rules of evidence will not apply at the hearing, and
hearsay testimony will be allowed and will be admissible.
      3.   If, after the conclusion of the hearing, the hearing officer
determines that there is probable cause to believe that the vehicle was used as
provided in section
6-11-2 of this chapter, the hearing officer shall order the continued
impoundment of the vehicle, unless the owner of the vehicle posts a cash bond
with the village in the amount of five hundred dollars ($500.00), plus the
towing and storage costs.
      4.   If the hearing officer determines that there is not probable cause
to believe that the vehicle was used as provided in section
6-11-2 of this chapter, the motor vehicle will be returned to the owner of
record of the vehicle without any penalty or other costs, other than the towing
and storage fees.
   C.   Owner's Hearing:
      1.   Notice: Within ten (10) days of the vehicle's impoundment, the
village shall notify the owner of record of the motor vehicle by certified
mail, return receipt requested, and first class mail, postage prepaid, of his/
her right to a full hearing before the hearing officer to determine whether the
subject vehicle is eligible for impoundment; and that, in the event that the
owner of record would like a hearing, he/she must file a request for such
hearing in writing with the village police department at 311 S. 2nd Street, San
Jose, Illinois, within fifteen (15) days of the posted date of the notice. If a
written request is not received within fifteen (15) days of mailing the notice,
then the owner is defaulted and the impoundment fee will be kept by the village
or if no fee is posted, then the vehicle can be sold as abandoned thirty (30)
days after the default.
      2.   Hearing Procedure And Decisions: For purposes of this subsection C,
the following shall apply to the owner's hearing:
         a.   Unless continued by order of the hearing officer, the hearing
shall be held within thirty (30) days after a request for hearing is received
by the village police department.
         b.   All interested persons will be given a reasonable opportunity to
be heard at the preliminary hearing.
         c.   If, after the conclusion of the hearing, the hearing officer
determines by a preponderance of the evidence that the vehicle was used as
provided in section
6-11-2 of this chapter, the hearing officer shall order the continued
impoundment of the vehicle until the owner of the vehicle pays to the village a
penalty in the amount of five hundred dollars ($500.00), plus the towing and
storage costs. The penalty shall be a debt due the village.
         d.   If the owner of record fails to appear at the hearing, the
hearing officer shall enter an order of default in favor of the village, which
order shall require the payment to the village of an administrative penalty of
five hundred dollars ($500.00).
         e.   If the hearing officer determines that the vehicle was not used
as provided in section
6-11-2 of this chapter, the motor vehicle will be returned to the owner of
record of the vehicle without any penalty or other costs, other than the costs
of towing and storage, and if a cash bond had previously been posted, the cash
bond shall be returned. (Ord. 14-486, 4-21-2014)
   D.   Appeal: Any party aggrieved by a final decision of the hearing officer
may appeal that decision pursuant to the provision of the Illinois
administrative review law 1 . (Ord. 14-486, 4-21-2014; amd. 2016 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.
6-11-6: UNCLAIMED VEHICLES:
If the administrative penalty and applicable towing and storage fees are not
paid within thirty five (35) days after the expiration of time in which
administrative review of the hearing officer's determination may be sought, or
within thirty five (35) days after an action seeking administrative review has
been resolved in favor of the village, whichever is applicable, the vehicle
shall be deemed unclaimed and shall be disposed of in the manner provided by
law for the disposition of unclaimed vehicles under the Illinois vehicle code.
(Ord. 14-486, 4-21-2014)
6-11-7: LIABILITY FOR PENALTY AND COSTS:
   A.   The owner of record of a motor vehicle that is seized or impounded
shall be liable to the village for a penalty of five hundred dollars ($500.00)
in addition to any fees for the towing and storage of the motor vehicle. Fees
for towing and storage are established by the towing company, not by the
village.
   B.   A vehicle impounded pursuant to this chapter shall remain impounded
until the earlier of the following to occur:
      1.   The penalty is paid to the village, and all towing and storage costs
are paid to the towing company; and
      2.   A bond in an amount equal to the liability of the owner as provided
in subsection A of this section is posted with the village, and all applicable
towing and storage costs are paid to the towing company; and
      3.   The vehicle is deemed abandoned, in which case, the vehicle shall be
disposed of in the manner provided by law for the disposition of abandoned or
unclaimed vehicles.
   C.   Except as otherwise specifically provided by law, no owner, lienholder,
or any other person shall be legally entitled to take possession of a motor
vehicle impounded under this chapter until the penalty and all towing and
storage costs applicable under this chapter have been paid in full.
   D.   Whenever a person or other entity with a lien of record against an
impounded vehicle has proof of commenced foreclosure or repossession
proceedings, and also provides the village with a hold harmless letter,
possession of the vehicle shall be given to that lienholder upon payment of
bond and all towing and storage costs. (Ord. 14-486, 4-21-2014)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Building Operations
7-1-2: Obstructing Public Ways
7-1-3: Removing Barricades
7-1-4: Penalty
7-1-1: BUILDING OPERATIONS:
   A.   Use Of Streets For Storage Of Materials:
      1.   Permission for the use of streets for the storage of materials in
the process of construction or alteration of a building or structure may be
granted where the same will not unduly interfere with traffic and will not
reduce the usable width of the roadway to less than eighteen feet (18').
      2.   No portion of the street, other than that directly abutting on the
premises on which work is being done, shall be used except with the consent of
the owner or occupant of the premises abutting on such portion.
      3.   Any person seeking to make such use of the street shall file an
application for a permit therefor with the village clerk, together with a bond,
with sureties to be approved by the clerk, to indemnify the village for any
loss or damage which may be incurred by such operation.
   B.   Sidewalks: No sidewalk shall be obstructed in the course of building
construction or alteration without a special permit from the village clerk; and
whenever removal of a sidewalk is required in such work, a special permit from
the clerk shall be obtained.
   C.   Safeguards: It shall be the duty of the person doing any construction,
altering or wrecking work in the village to do the same with proper care for
the safety of persons and property. Warning barricades and lights shall be
maintained whenever necessary for the protection of pedestrians or traffic; and
temporary roofs over sidewalks shall be constructed whenever there is danger to
pedestrians from falling articles or materials.
   D.   Nighttime Operations: No construction or altering operations shall be
carried on in the nighttime if the same are accompanied by loud noises. (1982
Code §
9-1-1)
7-1-2: OBSTRUCTING PUBLIC WAYS:
No person, not authorized by the president or village board, shall make any
excavations, place any obstructions upon, or deposit any material or debris in
any street or public grounds in the village. (1982 Code §
9-1-2)
7-1-3: REMOVING BARRICADES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to remove any barricade which any officer
or employee of the village has placed upon a public street or public place in
the village, or to drive any motor vehicle of any kind or pass over any street
or public place which has been closed from traffic by any village officer or
employee. (1982 Code §
9-1-3; amd. 2016 Code)
7-1-4: PENALTY:
Any person or entity convicted of violating any provision of this chapter shall
be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for said violation, and each day that such a
violation exists or continues shall be deemed a distinct and separate offense.
(Ord. 14-485, 1-20-2014)
ARTICLE A. EXCAVATIONS
SECTION:
7-1A-1: Permit Required
7-1A-2: Application For Permit; Bond Requirements
7-1A-3: Safeguards
7-1A-4: Completion Of Work
7-1A-5: Liability Of Permittee
7-1A-6: Emergency Excavations
7-1A-7: Penalty
7-1A-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person shall make any openings or do any digging or excavation in any street
or other public property in the village without first having obtained a permit
therefor from the village clerk. (1982 Code §
9-2-1)
7-1A-2: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; BOND REQUIREMENTS:
In order to obtain said permit, such person shall file with the village clerk a
written application therefor, which application shall set forth the type of
digging or excavating proposed to be done, giving the approximate length and
depth thereof, and when same shall be done. Whereupon, the village clerk shall
refer said application to the board of trustees, and if the board approves said
application, the village clerk shall thereupon issue the permit. Provided,
however, that before the permit is issued, the applicant shall file with the
village clerk a cash bond in the sum of five hundred dollars ($500.00), which
bond shall be for the purpose of guaranteeing to the village that said
applicant replace, cover and surface said digging or excavating in the same
manner and in as good a condition as said street or public property was in
before the work was done, and further, that the applicant will do all of the
digging, excavating and work in conformity with directions and orders of the
board of trustees. In the event that the applicant does so comply with the
directions and orders of the board and replaces the street in same manner as it
formerly was, and to the satisfaction and approval of the board, then the five
hundred dollar ($500.00) cash bond shall be returned to the applicant, but in
the event that he does not comply with the orders and directions and does not
replace the street or public property as it formerly was and with the approval
of the board, then, in that event, the five hundred dollar ($500.00) cash bond
shall be forfeited by the applicant and shall be retained by the village as
damages and also for the purpose of paying for the replacement of said work in
a proper manner. It is further provided, that the village shall have sixty (60)
days from the completion of the work before the village shall be required to
approve or disapprove same. (1982 Code §
9-2-2; amd. 2016 Code)
7-1A-3: SAFEGUARDS:
The applicant shall provide good and sufficient barriers, caution signs and
warning lights, if required by the board of trustees, and shall not allow the
excavation to remain in a hazardous condition, but shall provide full
protection to the public. (1982 Code §
9-2-3; amd. 2016 Code)
7-1A-4: COMPLETION OF WORK:
The applicant shall diligently complete the work as promptly as possible and
shall not delay the closing of the excavation longer than is necessary to
complete the work. (1982 Code §
9-2-3)
7-1A-5: LIABILITY OF PERMITTEE:
   A.   The applicant shall save and keep harmless the village from any and all
liability of any kind and character in connection with the work, including
damages or suits for damage in connection therewith. (1982 Code §
9-2-4)
   B.   In the event that the applicant does not replace the street or public
property in the manner as hereinbefore provided, and that the cost to the
village for so doing exceeds the amount of the five hundred dollar ($500.00)
bond, the applicant shall be liable to the village for the excess amount. (1982
Code §
9-2-5; amd. 2016 Code)
7-1A-6: EMERGENCY EXCAVATIONS:
In the event of an emergency which requires immediate excavating or digging,
the chair of the streets and alleys committee or the village president shall
have the right to authorize immediate digging and excavating, in which event,
the applicant shall comply with all of the provisions of this article as soon
as possible. (1982 Code §
9-2-6; amd. 2016 Code)
7-1A-7: PENALTY:
Any person or entity convicted of violating any provision of this article shall
be fined not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for said violation, and each day that such a
violation exists or continues shall be deemed a distinct and separate offense.
(Ord. 14-485, 1-20-2014; amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 2
MOVING BUILDINGS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Permit Required
7-2-2: Application For Permit
7-2-3: Bond Requirements
7-2-4: Fees
7-2-5: Warning And Safety Devices
7-2-6: Utility And Fire Alarm Devices
7-2-7: Sewer Lines Of Vacated Premises To Be Capped
7-2-8: Penalty
7-2-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person shall move any buildings over one hundred (100) square feet (or
greater than 18 feet wide on the forward motion side) on, through or over any
street, alley, sidewalk or other public place in the village without having
obtained a permit therefor from the village board. (1982 Code §
9-3-1; amd. 2016 Code)
7-2-2: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
Application for such permit shall be made in writing to the village clerk and
shall state thereon the proposed route and the number of days it is intended
that the building shall occupy any portion of any street, alley, sidewalk or
other public place. (1982 Code §
9-3-1)
7-2-3: BOND REQUIREMENTS:
Every person applying for a permit under this chapter shall submit with his
application a cash bond with a lawful corporate surety to be approved by the
village board, conditioned on his compliance with all the provisions of this
chapter and agreeing to pay and holding the village harmless from any claim
which may be made against it by reason of the occupation of any street, alley,
sidewalk or other public place by the building or structure moved. (1982 Code §
9-3-3)
7-2-4: FEES:
Upon approval of the intended route by the village board, a fee of fifty
dollars ($50.00) for each day or fraction thereof that is intended that the
building shall occupy any such portion of any such public place shall be paid
to the village clerk and the permit issued. An additional payment of one
hundred dollars ($100.00) for each day or fraction thereof over and above the
time stated on the permit during which any building shall occupy any such
public place shall be paid. (1982 Code §
9-3-2; amd. 2016 Code)
7-2-5: WARNING AND SAFETY DEVICES:
   A.   Whenever a street or alley is blocked by a house or structure which is
being moved, warnings to that effect shall be placed by the police department
so as to warn vehicles and persons from entering that portion of the street so
blocked.
   B.   The person moving a building through the streets shall keep warning
signs and lanterns or lights at night on the building so as to guard against
any person or vehicle from colliding with same. (1982 Code §
9-3-4)
7-2-6: UTILITY AND FIRE ALARM DEVICES:
   A.   Utility Wires: Whenever it shall be necessary to interfere with wires
or cables of a public utility in moving a building, the terms of any special or
franchise village ordinance governing the same shall apply, and the bond
therein specified shall be given. If no such terms apply, the president shall
estimate the expenses of fixing the wires and the bond to be given to cover
such expenses. (1982 Code §
9-3-5)
   B.   Fire Alarm Wires And Poles: When any such moving building shall
approach any fire alarm wire or pole which shall be endangered by the removal
of such building or structure, it shall be the duty of the mover to notify the
chief of the fire protection district at least forty eight (48) hours before
reaching such wire or pole so that said wire or pole may be removed or cared
for by the village authorities. (1982 Code §
9-3-5; amd. 2016 Code)
7-2-7: SEWER LINES OF VACATED PREMISES TO BE CAPPED:
The person moving any structure, building, or mobile home shall cap, seal or
plug the sewer line. (1982 Code §
9-3-6)
7-2-8: PENALTY:
Any person or entity convicted of violating any provision of this chapter shall
be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for said violation, and each day that such a
violation exists or continues shall be deemed a distinct and separate offense.
(Ord. 14-485, 1-20-2014)
CHAPTER 3
VILLAGE PARKS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Park Boundaries
7-3-2: Closing Hours
7-3-3: Alcoholic Beverage Prohibitions
7-3-4: Penalty
7-3-1: PARK BOUNDARIES:
The village park is the property of the village bounded by Second and Race
Streets, and Arch and Third Streets, or such other place as designated or
posted from time to time as a village park by the village trustees. (1982 Code
§
9-4-1)
7-3-2: CLOSING HOURS:
No person shall enter or remain upon any village park between dusk and dawn,
except when authorized to do so by written consent of the village board or its
president. (Ord. 351, 10-19-1998, eff. 10-30-1998)
7-3-3: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   No person shall sell, give away or consume alcoholic beverages at any
time within the village parks, nor shall any person be under the influence of
intoxicating liquors while in the parks.
   B.   No person shall bring within, have in his possession or transport,
carry or have any alcoholic beverage in, upon or about any motor vehicle in the
village parks, except in the original package and with the seal unbroken. (1982
Code §
9-4-1; amd. 2016 Code)
7-3-4: PENALTY:
Any person or entity convicted of violating any provision of this chapter shall
be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for said violation, and each day that such a
violation exists or continues shall be deemed a distinct and separate offense.
(Ord. 14-485, 1-20-2014)
TITLE 8
WATER AND SEWER
CHAPTER 1
WATER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
8-1-1: Application And Agreement For Service; Deposit And Tap-On Fee Required
8-1-2: Initial And Minimum Rates And Charges
8-1-3: Village Powers, Responsibilities And Nonliability
8-1-4: User Responsibilities; Connection To System; Damage To Village Property
8-1-5: Extension Of Mains
8-1-6: Change In Occupancy
8-1-7: Turn Off And Turn On Of Service
8-1-8: No Free Service
8-1-9: Issuance Of Permits
8-1-10: Failure To Comply With Provisions
8-1-11: Penalty
8-1-12:    Private Wells
8-1-1: APPLICATION AND AGREEMENT FOR SERVICE; DEPOSIT AND TAP- ON FEE REQUIRED:
Water service shall be furnished only to village users upon filing an
application and water user's agreement with the water superintendent or village
clerk, or designated agent, upon a form to be supplied by the village. Such
application shall be accompanied by payment of a water deposit and any required
tap-on fees as specified in section
8-1-2 of this chapter. Applications made and accepted prior to the effective
date hereof under prior ordinance provisions shall be valid, and the water
deposit hereinafter provided in this chapter applies as to applications made
after the effective date hereof. Users shall include on the application the
social security number and valid driver's license or state identification of
the individual responsible for payment of water usage. (Ord. 14-494, 12-15-
2014, eff. 1-1-2015; amd. 2016 Code)
8-1-2: INITIAL AND MINIMUM RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   User Rates: The rates as shown in the rate schedule of section
8-3-1 of this title shall be paid by each customer, beginning at the time the
village makes the service available to the customer. (Ord. 346, 4-20-1998, eff.
5-1-1998; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Tap-On Fees: There shall be a tap-on fee for service to each property
of three hundred dollars ($300.00) for each five-eighths inch (5/8") or three-
fourths inch (3/4") meter, and six hundred dollars ($600.00) for meters larger
than three-fourths inch (3/4").
   C.   Additional Costs: In addition to the tap-on fee set out in subsection B
of this section, the property owner shall be required to pay, after completion
of the work, the following:
      1.   Cost of pipe and other materials required to install water service
from a meter main to the owner's property line.
      2.   Forty dollars ($40.00) per hour for excavating and backfilling work
required if the village installs water service from the owner's property line
into a residence or building and an additional twenty dollars ($20.00) per hour
for any work performed by a second village employee in connection with such
installation. No charge will be made for excavating and backfilling from the
main to the owner's property as long as the distance does not exceed seventy
five feet (75'). In any case, where the water main is farther than seventy five
feet (75') from the owner's property line, the owner shall pay the additional
cost for excavating and backfilling beyond seventy five feet (75'), and such
cost shall include charges for the work of village employees and for the use of
village equipment and shall be as determined in each such instance by the
village board of trustees. In any instance where the water main is farther than
seventy five feet (75') from the owner's property line, the owner or his
representative shall appear before the board of trustees to discuss the
charges. (Ord. 346, 4-20-1998, eff. 5-1-1998)
   D.   Deposit: In addition to the above charges, there shall be a water
deposit as to service to the premises involved in the amount of one hundred
fifty dollars ($150.00). Such water deposit shall be in addition to all charges
for water service. Upon the termination of the water service made upon request
of the person in whose name said water is billed, such water deposit shall be
applied first on any unpaid water bill, and any balance remaining shall be then
refunded to the person making the deposit. No interest shall be paid by the
village on any such deposit. After twelve (12) months of no late fees, deposit
will be credited into the account of homeowners (no renters), effective
December 1, 2021. (Ord. 14-494, 12-15-2014, eff. 1-1-2015)
   E.   Turn On Fee: No water shall be turned on for service to any premises,
by any person except the village superintendent of water or anyone appointed by
him as provided in Section
8-1-7 of this chapter. The fee for turning on service shall be sixty dollars
($60.00), however there will be no fee for turning on service which has been
temporarily turned off for repair or maintenance purposes at the insistence of
the village. There shall be no fee for turning service off. (Ord. 362A, 1-17-
2000, eff. 1-31-2000)
   F.   Existing Unpaid Charges: Any application for water service by a former
user of water service of the village who has an unpaid charge for water service
or by a person with whom such former user resides shall be rejected unless such
unpaid charge and any penalties thereon are paid at the time of such
application. (Ord. 346, 4-20-1998, eff. 5-1-1998; amd. Ord. 21-560, 3-15-2021,
eff. 7-1-2021)
8-1-3: VILLAGE POWERS, RESPONSIBILITIES AND NONLIABILITY:
   A.   Ownership, Installation And Maintenance:
      1.   The village shall install, own and maintain the complete water
system water mains and service lines to the property line or a mutually agreed
upon point subject to the board of trustees' determination that a particular
service is economically feasible to install.
      2.   The village shall furnish, install and maintain a meter and
appurtenances including a shutoff valve. The shutoff valve shall be installed
on the user's property line or such other point determined by a duly authorized
representative of the village. The meter may be located near the shutoff valve
or within the user's premises as determined by the village representative. The
meter and shutoff valve must be located at a point where it is readily
accessible.
   B.   Refusal Of Service: The village may, at any time, refuse additional
service(s) to any applicant if, in the judgment of the board of trustees, the
capacity of the system will not permit such use.
   C.   Temporary Shut Down Of Use:
      1.   The water superintendent shall be authorized to direct commercial
and industrial users of water to shut down use, either totally or partially, on
a temporary basis, or to shut off the water service to commercial and
industrial users, on a temporary basis, where he determines there is inadequate
water available for residential use or for fire protection purposes. The term
"temporary basis" means a period of time until there is adequate water
available for residential use or for fire protection purposes.
      2.   The water superintendent is further authorized to cause water
service to any premises to be shut off where an emergency reasonably calls for
such action or when such action is for purposes of repair or improvement to the
water system or parts thereof.
      3.   No person shall fail to comply with the directions of the water
superintendent in carrying out the provisions of this section. Any person, firm
or corporation violating the provisions of this section shall be penalized as
provided in this chapter. Any person, firm or corporation aggrieved by any such
direction or action by the water superintendent may appeal such direction or
action to the board of trustees or, where time is of the essence, to the
village president.
   D.   Nonliability: All water service supplied by the village shall be upon
the express condition that the village or its officers, agents, representatives
or employees shall not be liable nor shall any claim be made against it or its
officers, agents, representatives or employees for damages or injury caused by
reason of shutting off of water for repair, relocation, or expansion of any
part of the system, or failure of any part of the system, or for concentration
of water for such purposes as firefighting or restricted use of water, or for
emergency purposes.
   E.   Village Use Of User's Water: The village reserves the right for itself
and for the San Jose fire protection district to use the water from user's
facilities at any time deemed necessary. No person, firm or corporation shall
interfere with the right to such use by the village or fire protection
district; and any person, firm, or corporation violating this provision shall
be subject to the penalties provided in this chapter. No charge shall be made
by the user for the use of his facilities, and no charge shall be made by the
village for the water used by the village or said fire protection district.
(Ord. 346, 4-20-1998, eff. 5-1-1998)
8-1-4: USER RESPONSIBILITIES; CONNECTION TO SYSTEM; DAMAGE TO VILLAGE PROPERTY:
   A.   Installing And Maintaining Service Lines: Except as otherwise provided
by this chapter, the user shall be responsible for installation and maintenance
of service lines between the curb stop and the residence or business. Such
service lines must be at least three-fourths inch (3/4") in diameter, and must
be installed at a minimum depth of five feet (5'). Service lines must have a
minimum working pressure rating of one hundred sixty (160) psi at 73.4 degrees
Fahrenheit and must be constructed of one of the following types of materials:
copper (type K), polyvinyl chloride (PVC), polyethylene or polybutylene.
Service lines must not be covered until they are inspected and approved by a
duly authorized village representative. The user will not connect any service
lines or any plumbing connected with the service line to any other water
source. The service line must meet any requirements of the state of Illinois
environmental protection agency.
   B.   Connection To System: No connection shall be made with the waterworks
system by any person, firm or corporation, unless the required application has
been made and granted and the necessary deposit and tap-on fees paid and the
permission of the water superintendent for such connection obtained. Any
connection or opening made with said waterworks system without compliance with
the foregoing provisions or in any manner different from the mode prescribed by
the village for such opening or connection shall subject the maker to a penalty
as provided in this chapter.
   C.   Authorize Location Of Meter: The user shall permit the meter to be
located upon his property.
   D.   Easements: The user shall give such easements and rights of way as
necessary to the village and allow access for the purposes of construction,
repair, maintenance, meter reading, relocation or expansion of the water
system. The necessity shall be determined by the board of trustees.
   E.   Damage To Village Property: No person, firm or corporation, other than
the authorized representative of the village, shall tamper, adjust, damage, or
in any manner interfere with the components or operation of the water system
owned by the village. The shutoff valve shall be opened only by a duly
authorized representative of the village. Penalties for tampering, damaging,
adjusting, or in any manner interfering with the components or operation of the
system shall be as provided in this chapter. In addition to the penalty, the
firm, corporation or person responsible shall reimburse the village for the
actual cost of repairing any damage arising from the act of such person, firm
or corporation. Users shall report any known evidence of tampering, adjusting,
damaging, or interference with operation of the system, owned by the village,
to the president of the board of trustees. Nothing herein contained shall
prohibit or prevent the prosecution and punishment for malicious act or damage
to the system under the criminal laws of the state of Illinois or under other
ordinances of the village.
   F.   Specified Uses Of Water: Water purchased from the village may be used
for ordinary domestic, industrial, commercial or farm use upon the premises of
the user, provided:
      1.   No user shall resell or permit the resale of water purchased from
the village. (Ord. 346, 4-20-1998, eff. 5-1-1998)
      2.   If more than one family unit is located upon the premises, then the
user shall make application for each family unit. A separate shutoff valve,
meter and service line shall be installed for each family unit. For instance, a
trailer park, duplex or apartment house shall have separate service line for
each family unit. If there is a separate use or uses upon the premises, then
the user shall make application for each separate use. A separate shutoff
valve, meter and service line shall be installed for such separate use. For
instance, a commercial building containing several business establishments
would involve having more than one separate use on the premises. A "family
unit" or "unit" is defined as separate living quarters on any premises for one
or more individuals having some separate water facilities used primarily by
such individual or individuals having such separate use or in connection with
such separate use and is a use not normally contemplated as being one service
in the furnishing of water services to a particular user. In situations where
the board of trustees determines that it would be impractical to install or
require the installation of a water meter for an additional family unit or
separate use, then more than one family unit or separate use may use the same
or a single water meter; but before more than one family unit or more than one
separate use shall be supplied by use of the same or a single water meter,
approval by the board of trustees must first be obtained. However, where such
approval is obtained, the basic rate for water service as otherwise provided in
section
8-3-1 of this title for up to the first two thousand (2,000) gallons per each
one month period shall be assessed for each such unit or separate use, and the
next rate for additional gallons shall go into effect for water usage above the
number of units multiplied by two thousand (2,000) gallons per each one month
period. (Ord. 346, 4-20-1998, eff. 5-1-1998; amd. 2016 Code)
8-1-5: EXTENSION OF MAINS:
   A.   Determination Of Necessity Of Extension; Responsibility For Costs: The
board of trustees shall first determine if an extension of a water main is
economically feasible based on the estimated cost of the extension and the
number of existing potential users that will use water along the extension. If
the extension is economically feasible, then the village may install and pay
the cost of the extension at the discretion of the board of trustees. If the
village elects not to pay the cost of extending the water main, then the person
or persons desiring water service shall install the extension at their own
expense, in accordance with specifications approved by the village board of
trustees, and upon such installation, any such extension shall become the
property of the village. The village shall not pay for any extensions to an
undeveloped area, such as a subdivision being developed, unless there are
sufficient existing residents or businesses to make the extension economically
feasible.
   B.   Extension Installed By Other Than Village:
      1.   The village must approve all plans and specifications for any
extensions.
      2.   Before any extensions are installed, the plans and the
specifications must be reviewed and approved by the state of Illinois
environmental protection agency.
      3.   Ownership, rights of way, and title must be conveyed to the village
for all extensions installed by anyone other than the village. Upon proper
installation in accordance with such plans and specifications and acceptance by
the village, the village will maintain the mains thereafter.
      4.   No extension will be permitted if, in the opinion of the board of
trustees, the system does not have the necessary capacity to serve the proposed
extension. (Ord. 346, 4-20-1998, eff. 5-1-1998)
8-1-6: CHANGE IN OCCUPANCY:
   A.   Notice To Village: Any user requesting a termination of service shall
give written notice to the village ten (10) days prior to the time of such
termination of service specifying the date upon which such termination of
service is desired to be effective. The meter shall be read by the village and
the user will be billed.
   B.   Payment For Consumed Water Required: Responsibility for payment for
water consumed prior to the date of termination shall be with the property
owners as well as the user. The village shall have the right to decline to
furnish water to the subsequent occupant of the premises until the charges for
water service to the previous occupant have been paid.
   C.   No Charge For Change: Except for the water deposit heretofore
specified, there shall be no charge for transferring the water service to the
subsequent user. (Ord. 346, 4-20-1998, eff. 5-1-1998)
8-1-7: TURN OFF AND TURN ON OF SERVICE:
No person, firm or corporation shall turn off or cause to be turned off or
shall turn on or cause to be turned on the water service to any premises except
the duly appointed water superintendent of the village or those acting as his
agent or with his authority. Any person, firm or corporation violating the
provisions of this section shall be penalized as provided in this chapter. The
provisions of this section shall not apply to any member of the village police
department or to any member of the fire department of a fire protection
district while acting in the course of his duties as such member of such police
department or fire department. The provisions of this section shall not apply
to a person who takes such otherwise prohibited action in an emergency in the
interest of protecting persons or property, but any person taking such action
otherwise prohibited shall, at the earliest possible time, notify the water
superintendent or village clerk of such action. (Ord. 346, 4-20-1998, eff. 5-1-
1998; amd. 2016 Code)
8-1-8: NO FREE SERVICE:
No free service of the village waterworks system shall be furnished to any
person, firm, organization or corporation, public or private. Every user of the
village waterworks system, except the fire protection district, the park
district and tank wagon users paying for water at the time of obtaining same,
shall have a metered water connection to said system, and every such water
meter shall be sealed and read by the village. (Ord. 346, 4-20-1998, eff. 5-1-
1998; amd. 2016 Code)
8-1-9: ISSUANCE OF PERMITS:
After the filing of an application and water user's agreement and payment as
provided herein, the village water superintendent is hereby authorized to grant
such permits as he may deem proper allowing persons to connect to the
waterworks system after having made a determination that the installation
complies with the plans and specifications and rules as required by the
village. (Ord. 346, 4-20-1998, eff. 5-1-1998)
8-1-10: FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH PROVISIONS:
   A.   Any person, firm, or corporation wilfully not complying with the
specifications and rules for connection to the waterworks system shall be
subject to a penalty as provided in this chapter. (Ord. 346, 4-20-1998, eff. 5-
1-1998)
   B.   Any person denying to an authorized employee or agent of the village
the right of access at a reasonable time to premises for the purposes set forth
in subection
8-1-4D of this chapter shall be subject to a penalty as provided in this
chapter. In addition, if there is a denial of such access to such premises for
such purposes, the water superintendent or his designated agent is authorized
to disconnect or terminate service to such premises, and such service shall not
be reinstated without payment of the reinstatement charge of forty dollars
($40.00) and adequate assurance that such access to such premises for such
purposes will not be denied. (Ord. 346, 4-20-1998, eff. 5-1-1998; amd. Ord.
391, 5-19-2003, eff. 6-1-2003; 2016 Code)
8-1-11: PENALTY:
Any person or entity convicted of violating any provision of this chapter shall
be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for said violation. (Ord. 14-494, 12-15-2014,
eff. 1-1-2015)
8-1-12: PRIVATE WELLS:
   A.   Construction of Private Well in Lieu of Connecting to Waterworks
System, Eligibility and Procedure.
      1.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Chapter, the Board of
Trustees shall have the discretion to permit a property owner to construct a
private well in lieu of obtaining water service from the Village’s waterworks
system when, in the discretion of the Board of Trustees, it is determined that
connection to the Village’s waterworks system is impossible or impractical.
      2.   Consideration shall be primarily given to the distance between the
property at issue and the Village water mains. Property within six hundred
linear feet of a Village of San Jose, Illinois water main shall not be eligible
for relief from the obligation to connect to the Village’s waterworks system
under this Chapter in any circumstance.
      3.   No well shall be constructed within the Village of San Jose except
after having first obtained written approval from the Village of San Jose Board
of Trustees at an open public meeting. Approval shall require the affirmative
vote of 4 trustees.
   B.   Additional Permits Required. Following approval from the Board of
Trustees of the Village of San Jose, the person seeking to construct the well
shall be obligated to obtain a permit from Imperial Valley Water Authority, if
such a permit is required by the aforesaid water authority.
   C.   Maintenance and Repair of Well. In the event a private well is
constructed pursuant to the provisions of this Section, the property owner
shall be responsible at all times for maintenance and repair of the well and
its appurtenances.
   D.   Cross Connection Prohibited, Disconnection from Waterworks System.
      1.   No cross connection shall be permitted between a private well and
the Village waterworks system.
      2.   If a property owner obtains permission pursuant to the provisions of
this Section to construct a private well, the property owner shall be
responsible at his or her sole and exclusive expense to disconnect the premises
from the Village’s waterworks system.
(Ord. 22-581, 1-1-2022)
CHAPTER 2
SEWER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
8-2-1: Definitions
8-2-2: Use Of Public Sewers Required
8-2-3: Private Sewage Disposal Systems
8-2-4: Building Sewers And Connections
8-2-5: Use Of The Sanitary Sewer System
8-2-5-1: Discharges Into System
8-2-5-2: Interceptors
8-2-5-3: Preliminary Treatment Or Flow Equalization
8-2-5-4: Control Manhole
8-2-5-5: Measurements, Tests And Analyses
8-2-5-6: Special Agreements
8-2-6: Damage To, Tampering With System
8-2-7: Powers And Authority Of Inspectors
8-2-8: Violations; Penalties
8-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of terms used
in this chapter shall be as follows:
CLARIFICATION OF WORD USAGE: "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissible.
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT:
Administrator: The administrator of the U.S. environmental protection agency.
Federal Act: The federal clean water act (33 USC 466 et seq.) as amended
(Pub.L. 95-217).
Federal Grant: The U.S. government participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided by "Title II - Grants For
Construction Of Treatment Works" of the act and implementing regulations.
LOCAL GOVERNMENT:
Approving Authority: The sanitation district/village of San Jose.
Village: The village of San Jose.
NPDES PERMIT: Any permit or equivalent document or requirements issued by the
administrator or, where appropriate, by the director, after enactment of the
federal clean water act to regulate the discharge of pollutants pursuant to
section 402 of the federal act.
PERSON: Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any individual,
firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association, society,
institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
SEWER TYPES AND APPURTENANCES:
Building Drain: That part of the lowest piping of a drainage system which
receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes inside the
walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer or other approved
point of discharge, beginning five feet (5') (1.5 m) outside the inner face of
the building wall.
Building Sewer: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
Combined Sewer: A sewer which is designed and intended to receive wastewater,
stormwater, surface water and groundwater drainage.
Director: The director of the Illinois environmental protection agency.
Easement: An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by others.
Public Sewer: A sewer provided by or subject to the jurisdiction of the
village. The term shall also include sewers within or outside the village
boundaries that serve one or more persons and ultimately discharge into the
village sanitary (or combined) sewer system, even though those sewers may not
have been constructed with village funds.
Sanitary Sewer: A sewer that conveys sewage or industrial wastes, or a
combination of both, and into which stormwater, surface water and groundwater
or polluted industrial wastes are not intentionally admitted.
Sewer: A pipe or conduit for conveying sewage or any other waste liquids,
including stormwater, surface water and groundwater drainage.
Sewerage: The system of sewers and appurtenances for the collection,
transportation and pumping of sewage.
Storm Sewer: A sewer that carries stormwater, surface water and groundwater
drainage but excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted
cooling water.
Stormwater Runoff: That portion of the precipitation that is drained into the
sewers.
STATE GOVERNMENT:
State Act: The Illinois anti-pollution bond act of 1970.
State Grant: The state of Illinois participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided by the Illinois anti-pollution bond
act and for making such grants as filed with the secretary of state of the
state of Illinois.
TREATMENT:
Pretreatment: The treatment of wastewaters from sources before introduction
into the wastewater treatment works.
Wastewater Treatment Works: An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes, and sludge; sometimes used as
synonymous with "waste treatment plant" or "wastewater treatment plant" or
"pollution control plant".
TYPES OF CHARGES:
Basic User Charge: The basic assessment levied on all users of the public sewer
system.
Capital Improvement Charge: A charge levied on users to improve, extend or
reconstruct the sewage treatment works.
Debt Service Charge: The amount to be paid each billing period for payment of
interest, principal and coverage of bonds outstanding.
Local Capital Cost Charge: Charge for costs other than the operation,
maintenance and replacement costs, i.e., debt service and capital improvement
costs.
Replacement: Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment, accessories,
or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the treatment
works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works were
designed and constructed. The term "operation and maintenance" includes
replacement.
Sewerage Fund: The principal accounting designation for all revenues received
in the operation of the sewerage system.
Surcharge: The assessment in addition to the basic user charge and debt service
charge which is levied on those persons whose wastes are greater in strength
than the concentration values established as allowed.
Useful Life: The estimated period during which the collection system and/or
treatment works will be operated.
User Charge: A charge levied on users of treatment works for the cost of
operation, maintenance and replacement.
Wastewater Service Charge: The monthly charge levied on all users of the
wastewater facilities.
USER TYPES:
Commercial User: Shall include transient lodging, retail and wholesale
establishments or places engaged in selling merchandise, or rendering services.
Control Manhole: A structure located on a site from which industrial wastes are
discharged. Where feasible, the manhole shall have an interior drop. The
purpose of a "control manhole" is to provide access for the village
representative to sample and/or measure discharges.
Industrial Users: Shall include establishments engaged in manufacturing
activities involving the mechanical or chemical transformation of materials of
substance into products.
Institutional/Governmental User: Shall include schools, places of worship,
penal institutions, and users associated with federal, state, and local
governments.
Residential User: All dwelling units such as houses, mobile homes, apartments,
and permanent multi-family dwellings.
User Class: The type of user, either "residential", "institutional/
governmental", "commercial", or "industrial" as defined herein.
WASTEWATER AND ITS CHARACTERISTICS:
BOD (Denoting BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND): The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five (5) days at twenty degrees Celsius (20°C), expressed in milligrams per
liter.
Effluent Criteria: Are defined in any applicable "NPDES permit".
Floatable Oil: Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable oil if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
Garbage: Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking,
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of food.
Industrial Waste: Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance discharged, permitted
to flow or escaping from any industrial, manufacturing, commercial or business
establishment or process or from the development, recovery or processing of any
natural resource as distinct from sanitary sewage.
Major Contributing Industry: An industrial user of the publicly owned treatment
works that: a) has a flow of fifty thousand (50,000) gallons or more per
average workday; or b) has a flow greater than ten percent (10%) of the flow
carried by the municipal system receiving the waste; or c) has in its waste a
toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in standards issued under section
307(a) of the federal act; or d) is found by the permit issuing authority, in
connection with the issuance of the NPDES permit to the publicly owned
treatment works receiving the waste, to have significant impact, either singly
or in combination with other contributing industries, on that treatment works
or upon the quality of effluent from that treatment works.
Milligrams Per Liter: A unit of the concentration of water or wastewater
constituent. It is 0.001 gram of the constituent in one thousand milliliters
(1,000 ml) of water. It has replaced the unit formerly used commonly, "parts
per million", to which it is approximately equivalent, in reporting the results
of water and wastewater analysis.
ppm: Parts per million by weight.
pH: The logarithm (base-10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration
expressed by one of the procedures outlined in the IEPA division of
laboratories "Manual Of Laboratory Methods".
Population Equivalent: A term used to evaluate the impact of industrial or
other waste on a treatment works or stream. One population equivalent is one
hundred (100) gallons of sewage per day, containing 0.17 pound of BOD and 0.20
pound of suspended solids.
Properly Shredded Garbage: The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") (1.27 cm) in any
dimension.
Sewage: Is used interchangeably with "wastewater".
Slug: Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which, in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds, for any
period of duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes, more than five (5) times
the average twenty four (24) hour concentration of flows during normal
operation.
Suspended Solids (SS): Solids that either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or industrial waste, and which are removable by a
laboratory filtration device. Quantitative determination of suspended solids
shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in the IEPA division of
laboratories "Manual Of Laboratory Methods".
Unpolluted Water: Water quality equal to or better than the effluent criteria
in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water quality
standards and would not be benefited by discharge to the sanitary sewers and
wastewater treatment facilities provided.
Wastewater: The spent water of a community. From this standpoint of course, it
may be a combination of the liquid and water carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions, together with any
groundwater, surface water, and stormwater that may be present.
Water Quality Standards: Are defined in the water pollution regulations of
Illinois.
WASTEWATER FACILITIES: The structures, equipment, and processes required to
collect, carry away, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and transport
effluent to a watercourse.
WATERCOURSE AND CONNECTIONS:
Natural Outlet: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other body
of surface water or groundwater.
Watercourse: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or
intermittently. (Ord. 318, 2-20-1995; amd. 2016 Code)
8-2-2: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED:
   A.   Discharge Of Human And Animal Wastes: It shall be unlawful for any
person to place, deposit, or permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner on
public or private property within the village, or in any area under the
jurisdiction of the village, any human or animal excrement, garbage or other
objectionable waste.
   B.   Discharge To Natural Outlets: It shall be unlawful to discharge to any
natural outlet within the village, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the
village, any sewage or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Private Systems: Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful
to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or
other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage. (Ord. 318, 2-20-
1995)
   D.   Connection To Sewer System Required: The owners of all dwellings,
buildings, or properties used for human occupancy, employment, recreation, or
other purposes situated within the village and abutting on any street, alley,
or right of way in which there is now located or may in the future be located
any public sanitary (or combined) sewer of the village are hereby required at
their expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect
such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, within ninety (90) days after date of official
notice to do so; provided, that said public sewer is within two hundred feet
(200') (60 m) of the property line. (Ord. 318, 2-20-1995; amd. 2016 Code)
8-2-3: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS:
   A.   Private Systems Permitted: Where a public sanitary (or combined) sewer
is not available under the provisions of subection
8-2-2D of this chapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this section.
   B.   Permit Requirements:
      1.   Permit Required: Before commencement of construction of a private
sewage disposal system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by
the sanitation district/village.
      2.   Application For Permit: The application for such permit shall be
made on a form furnished by the village which the applicant shall supplement by
any plans, specifications and other information as deemed necessary by the
sanitation district/village.
      3.   Inspections: A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not
become effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
sanitation district/village, which shall be allowed to inspect the work at any
stage of construction, and in any event, the applicant for the permit shall
notify the sanitation district/village when the work is ready for final
inspection and before any underground portions are covered. The inspection
shall be made within twenty four (24) hours of the receipt of written notice by
the sanitation district/village.
      4.   Fee: A permit and inspection fee of two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) shall be paid to the village at the time the application is filed.
   C.   Specifications: The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private
sewage disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the state of
Illinois private sewage disposal licensing act and code and with the state of
Illinois environmental protection agency. No permit shall be issued for any
private sewage disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities
where the area of the lot is less than forty three thousand five hundred sixty
(43,560) square feet (3,920 square meters). No septic tank or cesspool shall be
permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
   D.   Maintenance: The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage
disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times and at no expense to the
village.
   E.   Availability Of Public Sewer; Connection Required:
      1.   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property
served by a private sewage disposal system, as provided in subection
8-2-2D of this chapter, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer
in compliance with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar
private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable
material. (Ord. 318, 2-20-1995)
      2.   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to said sewer within ninety (90) days and the private sewage disposal
system shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank run gravel or
dirt. (Ord. 318, 2-20-1995; amd. 2016 Code)
   F.   Additional Regulations: No statement contained in this section shall be
construed to interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by
the wastewater treatment plant operator. (Ord. 318, 2-20-1995)
8-2-4: BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Permit To Connect:
      1.   Permit Required: No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any
connections with, or opening into; use; alter; or disturb any public sewer or
appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the
sanitation district/village.
      2.   Classes Of Permits; Applications: There shall be two (2) classes of
building sewer permits: a) for residential wastewater service; and b) for
commercial, institutional/governmental or industrial wastewater service. In
either case, the owner or his agent shall make application on a special form
furnished by the village. The permit application shall be supplemented by any
plans, specifications, or other information considered pertinent in the
judgment of the sanitation district/village.
      3.   Permit And Inspection Fee: A permit and inspection fee of two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for a residential or commercial building sewer
permit shall be paid to the village at the time the application is filed. The
industry, as a condition of permit authorization, must provide information
describing its wastewater constituents, characteristics, and type of activity.
      4.   Conditions Of Permit: A building sewer permit will only be issued
and a sewer connection shall only be allowed if it can be demonstrated that the
downstream sewerage facilities, including sewers, pump stations and wastewater
treatment facilities, have sufficient reserve capacity to adequately and
efficiently handle the additional anticipated waste load.
   B.   Separate Building Sewers: A separate and independent building sewer
shall be provided for every building; except, that where one building stands at
the rear of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can
be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or
driveway, the building sewer from the front building may be extended to the
rear building and the whole considered as one building sewer.
   C.   Use Of Existing Building Sewers: Old building sewers may be used in
connection with new buildings only when they are found, on examination and test
by the sanitation district/village, to meet all requirements of this chapter.
   D.   Installation And Connection Requirements:
      1.   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the building and plumbing codes or other applicable rules and regulations of
the village. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
American Society Of Testing Materials "Water Pollution Control Federation
Manual Of Practice No. 9", and "Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer
Main Construction In Illinois" shall apply. (Ord. 318, 2-20-1995)
      2.   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which
any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer,
sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by a means which
is approved in accordance with the Illinois plumbing code, and discharged to
the building sewer. (Ord. 318, 2-20-1995; amd. 2016 Code)
      3.   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing codes or other
applicable rules and regulations of the village or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the American Society Of Testing Materials "Water
Pollution Control Federation Manual Of Practice No. 9", and "Standard
Specifications For Water And Sewer Main Construction In Illinois". All such
connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any deviation from the
prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the sanitation
district/village before installation.
      4.   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the village.
   E.   Prohibited Discharges:
      1.   No person(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
      2.   All disposal by any person into the sewer system is unlawful except
those discharges in compliance with federal standards promulgated pursuant to
the federal act and more stringent state and local standards. (Ord. 318, 2-20-
1995)
   F.   Inspections: The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify
the sanitation district/village when the building sewer is ready for inspection
and connection to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the
supervision of the sanitation district/village. (Ord. 318, 2-20-1995; amd. 2016
Code)
   G.   Liability For Costs And Expenses; Indemnification: All costs and
expenses incident to the installation and connection of the building sewer
shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the village from any
loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation of the building sewer. (Ord. 318, 2-20-1995)
8-2-5: USE OF THE SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM:
8-2-5-1: DISCHARGES INTO SYSTEM:
   A.   Stormwater And Surface Waters:
      1.   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any
stormwater, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage,
uncontaminated cooling water, or unpolluted industrial process waters to any
sanitary sewer.
      2.   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the sanitation district/village. Industrial
cooling water or unpolluted process waters may be discharged, on approval of
the sanitation district/village, to a storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural
outlet.
   B.   Prohibited Discharges: No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any of the following described waters or wastes to any public
sewers:
      1.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas.
      2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids,
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant.
      3.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the sewage works.
      4.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole
or ground by garbage grinders.
   C.   Restricted Discharges:
      1.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely, in the
opinion of the sanitation district/village, that such wastes can harm either
the sewers, sewage treatment process or equipment; have an adverse effect on
the receiving stream; or can otherwise endanger life, limb, or public property,
or constitute a nuisance. In forming an opinion as to the acceptability of
these wastes, the sanitation district/village will give consideration to such
factors as the quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities
in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage
treatment process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of
treatability of wastes in the sewage treatment plant, and maximum limits
established by regulatory agencies. The substances prohibited are:
         a.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (65°C).
         b.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous materials; or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred milligrams per liter
(100 mg/l) or containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at
temperatures between thirty two degrees (32°) and one hundred fifty degrees
Fahrenheit (150°F) (0° and 65°C).
         c.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths (3/
4) horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the sanitation district/village.
         d.   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling
wastes, or concentrated plating solution, whether neutralized or not.
         e.   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, or
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the sanitation district/village for such materials.
         f.   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the sanitation district/village as necessary after treatment of
the composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal, or other
public agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
         g.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the sanitation district/
village in compliance with applicable state or federal regulations.
         h.   Any wastes or waters having a pH in excess of 9.5.
         i.   Any mercury or any of its compounds in excess of 0.0005 milligram
per liter as Hg at any time except as permitted by the sanitation district/
village in compliance with applicable state and federal regulations.
         j.   Any cyanide in excess of 0.1 milligram per liter at any time
except as permitted by the sanitation district/village in compliance with
applicable state and federal regulations.
         k.   Materials which exert or cause:
            (1)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as,
but not limited to, fuller's earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate).
            (2)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye
wastes and vegetable tanning solutions).
            (3)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements
in such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works.
            (4)   Unusual volume of flow or concentrations of wastes
constituting "slugs" as defined in section
8-2-1 of this chapter.
         l.   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters.
      2.   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in subsection C1 of this section, and/or which
are in violation of the standards for pretreatment provided in 40 CFR 403, June
26, 1978, and any amendments thereto, and which, in the judgment of the
sanitation district/village, may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage
works, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a
hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the sanitation district/village
may:
         a.   Reject the wastes;
         b.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
         c.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         d.   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges, under the provisions
of section
8-2-5-6 of this chapter.
      3.   If the sanitation district/village permits the pretreatment or
equalization of waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and
equipment shall be subject to the review and approve of the sanitation
district/village, and subject to the requirements of all applicable codes,
ordinances, and laws. (Ord. 318, 2-20-1995)
8-2-5-2: INTERCEPTORS:
Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the sanitation district/village, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes,
sand, or other harmful ingredients; except, that such interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be of a type and capacity approved by the sanitation district/village and shall
be located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
(Ord. 318, 2-20-1995)
8-2-5-3: PRELIMINARY TREATMENT OR FLOW EQUALIZATION:
Where preliminary treatment or flow equalizing facilities are provided, they
shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the
owner at his expense. (Ord. 318, 2-20-1995)
8-2-5-4: CONTROL MANHOLE:
Each industry shall be required to install a control manhole, and when required
by the sanitation district/village, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole, together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the sanitation
district/village. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his expense
and shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
(Ord. 318, 2-20-1995)
8-2-5-5: MEASUREMENTS, TESTS AND ANALYSES:
   A.   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall provide laboratory measurements, tests, and analyses of
waters and wastes to illustrate compliance with this chapter and any special
conditions for discharge established by the village or regulatory agencies
having jurisdiction over the discharge.
   B.   The number, type, and frequency of laboratory analyses to be performed
by the owner shall be as stipulated by the village, but no less than once per
year, the industry must supply a complete analysis of the constituents of the
wastewater discharge to assure that compliance with the federal, state, and
local standards are being met.
   C.   The owner shall report the results of measurements and laboratory
analyses to the village at such times and in such a manner prescribed by the
village. The owner shall bear the expense of all measurements, analyses, and
reporting required by the village. At such times as deemed necessary, the
village reserves the right to take measurements and samples for analysis by an
outside laboratory service.
   D.   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of IEPA division of laboratories "Manual Of
Laboratory Methods", and shall be determined at the control manhole provided,
or upon suitable samples taken at said control manhole. In the event that no
special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be considered to
be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the
building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily
accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works
and to determine the existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. The
particular analysis involved will determine whether a twenty four (24) hour
composite of all outfalls of a premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample
or samples should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids
analyses are obtained from twenty four (24) hour composites of all outfalls,
whereas pHs are determined from periodic grab samples. (Ord. 318, 2-20-1995)
8-2-5-6: SPECIAL AGREEMENTS:
No statement contained in this section
8-2-5 shall be construed as preventing any special agreement or arrangement
between the village and any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of
unusual strength or character may be accepted by the village for treatment,
subject to payment therefor by the industrial concern, provided such payments
are in accordance with federal and state guidelines for user charge system.
(Ord. 318, 2-20-1995; amd. 2016 Code)
8-2-6: DAMAGE TO, TAMPERING WITH SYSTEM:
No unauthorized person shall maliciously, wilfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or equipment which
is a part of the sewage works. Any person violating this section shall be
subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct. (Ord. 318, 2-
20-1995)
8-2-7: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS:
   A.   1. The sanitation district/village, the Illinois environmental
protection agency, and the U.S. environmental protection agency, bearing proper
credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all properties for
the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, and testing in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The sanitation district/village
shall have no authority to inquire into any processes, including metallurgical,
chemical, oil refining, ceramic, paper, or other industries beyond that point
having a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or
waterway or facilities for waste treatment.
      2.   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred
to in subsection A1 of this section, the sanitation district/village, the
Illinois environmental protection agency, and the U.S. environmental protection
agency shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by
the company, and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the
village employees and the village shall indemnify the company against liability
claims and demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the
company and growing out of the gauging and sampling operating, except as such
may be caused by negligence or failure of the company to maintain conditions as
required in section
8-2-5-4 of this chapter.
   B.   The sanitation district/village, bearing proper credentials and
identification, shall be permitted to enter all private properties through
which the village holds a duly negotiated easement for the purposes of, but not
limited to, inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, repair, and
maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying within said easement. All
entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement shall be done in full
accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement pertaining to the
private property involved. (Ord. 318, 2-20-1995; amd. 2016 Code)
8-2-8: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Notice Of Violation: Any person found to be violating any provision of
this chapter, except section
8-2-6 of this chapter, shall be served by the village with written notice
stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for
the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of
time stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   B.   Revocation Of Permit: The village may revoke any permit for sewage
disposal as a result of any violation of any provision of this chapter. (Ord.
318, 2-20-1995)
   C.   Misdemeanor Violation: Any person who shall continue any violation
beyond the time limit provided in subsection A of this section shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00)
for said violation, and each day that such a violation exists or continues
shall be deemed a distinct and separate offense. (Ord. 318, 2-20-1995; amd.
Ord. 14-485, 1-20-2014)
   D.   Liability For Violations: Any person violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall become liable to the village by reasons of such violation.
(Ord. 318, 2-20-1995)
CHAPTER 3
WATER AND SEWER RATES
SECTION:
8-3-1: Rates Established
8-3-2: Annual Increase In Rates
8-3-3: Bills For Service; Delinquencies
8-3-4: Contracts And Agreements For Water Service
8-3-1: RATES ESTABLISHED:
   A.   The rates and charges to be charged for the use of the village's
combined waterworks and sewerage system, and the delinquent penalties,
collection fees, etc., shall be as established by ordinance.
   B.   Each user within the village shall pay an amount equal to the following
rate(s) for each hundred gallons (or any part thereof) of water supplied to
said user.
      1.   The basic user charge shall be forty-two dollars seven cents
($42.07) for the first two thousand (2,000) gallons, or any part thereof, of
water and sewerage, ($33.46 for water and $8.61 for sewer), effective July 2,
2021. Sewerage portion will increase by one dollar ($1.00) for the next three
(3) years on July 1st, rate schedule to be: $9.61 effective July 1, 2022;
$10.61 effective July 1, 2023; $11.61 effective July 1, 2024.
      2.   In addition to the basic user charge, there shall be established a
capital improvement charge of seventeen dollars and fifty cents ($17.50) per
separately metered location per month, to be used for future capital repairs,
improvements, or expansion of the system, beginning July 1, 2021. Capital
improvement charge will increase by two dollars and fifty cents ($2.50) for the
next three (3) years on July 1st, capital improvement charge schedule to be:
$20.00 effective July 1, 2022; $22.50 effective July 1, 2023; $25.00 effective
July 1, 2024.
      3.   In addition to the basic user charge, there shall be a charge of one
dollar nine cents ($1.09) ($0.39 for water and $0.70 for sewerage) per one
hundred (100) gallons, or any part thereof, for usage above two thousand
(2,000) gallons. Sewerage portion will increase by $0.10 for the next three (3)
years on July 1st, sewerage rate schedule to be: $0.80 effective July 1, 2022;
$0.90 effective July 1, 2023; $1.00 effective July 1, 2024.
   C.   The rates for water service that does not require sewerage service
shall be thirty-three dollars forty-six cents ($33.46) for the first two
thousand (2,000) gallons, or any part thereof, and thirty-nine cents ($0.39)
per one hundred (100) gallons, or any part thereof, for usage above two
thousand (2,000) gallons, or part thereof. (Ord. 16-503, 4-18-2016; amd. Ord.
20-540, 1-20-2020; Ord. 20-544, 3-17-2020; Ord. 21-560, 3-15-2021, eff. 7-1-
2021)
8-3-2: ANNUAL INCREASE IN RATES:
The village board of trustees has the option in May of each year to raise the
water rate schedule by one and one-half percent (11/2%) if needed to cover the
costs of chemicals, maintenance and repairs. (Ord. 441, 1-18-2010, eff. 5-1-
2010; amd. 2016 Code)
8-3-3: BILLS FOR SERVICE; DELINQUENCIES:
   A.   Rendition Of Bills; Due Date: The meters will be read by the village
maintenance on the first day of every month, excluding weekend days. If weather
conditions or other circumstances prevent the reading of meters, then each
water bill will be estimated by the village. Bills will be mailed as promptly
after the date on which the meters were read as feasible and will be delinquent
on the first business day (Monday through Friday) of the next calendar month,
excluding holidays. Bills will be paid to the village clerk/water billing clerk
or designated representative.
   B.   Late And Delinquent Payments:
      1.   There will be a twenty percent (20%) penalty added to each bill that
is unpaid by the first business day (Monday through Friday) of the next
calendar month, excluding holidays.
      2.   If any bills remain unpaid fifteen (15) days into the next calendar
month, after billing, the village clerk/water billing clerk or the water
superintendent, or authorized representative, shall cause notification to be
given to the owner of the premises, if known, and the user of the service that
the service shall be discontinued within forty eight (48) hours after such
notice is given, and such notice may be given either personally or by telephone
call. Delivery to an occupant of the premises above the age of sixteen (16)
years shall be deemed delivery to the owner or user.
      3.   After such notice, if given, the village clerk/water billing clerk
or the water superintendent, or authorized agent, shall cause such service to
be discontinued, and the service will not be restored until the delinquency and
penalty are paid in full. In addition, a forty dollar ($40.00) service fee will
be added to cover the cost of restoring service.
      4.   Bills remaining unpaid sixty (60) days after rendition shall
constitute a lien upon the real estate to which the service has been rendered.
The village clerk, for and on behalf of the village, is hereby authorized and
directed to file a notice of such lien in the office of the recorder, Mason
and/or Logan County, Illinois, and to pursue such legal action as is necessary
to collect the delinquent charges. Any legal fees or expenses incurred in
preparing the filing of any such notice of lien shall be added to the bill and
become a part thereof. Any fees charged by the recorder, Mason and/or Logan
County, for the filing of such notice of lien shall be added to the bill and
become a part thereof. Such lien may be foreclosed by the village in the same
manner as mortgages are foreclosed under the statutes of the state of Illinois,
and the costs, attorney fees, and expenses of such foreclosure and of any sale
of real estate shall be first paid out of any sale of the premises pursuant to
such foreclosure. (2016 Code)
      5.   Failure by the village or a representative thereof to discontinue or
terminate water service after delinquency shall not relieve the user or the
owner from the obligation to pay for water service, penalties and charges with
reference thereto up to the date of termination.
      6.   The fact that there has been a water deposit made under subection
8-1-2D of this title shall not relieve payment as in this section provided, and
the existence of such deposit shall not be a defense to any claim or lien of
the village.
   C.   Civil Liability For Nonpayment Of Water Charges: Any person, firm or
corporation failing to make payment for any water bill or charges in connection
with water service furnished such person, firm or corporation by the due date
thereof shall be liable in a civil action to the village for such unpaid water
bill and water charges and any penalties thereon provided by this section and
for interest thereon from the due date thereof at the rate of twenty percent
(20%) per annum until paid and for the reasonable attorney fees to be fixed by
the court and for any court costs connected with such civil action. The village
reserves the right to pursue any legal measures available and necessary to
secure the payment of said fees and amounts owed by the person, firm or
corporation that is responsible for the payment of such water bill. (Ord. 14-
494, 12-15-2014, eff. 1-1-2015)
8-3-4: CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS FOR WATER SERVICE:
Nothing herein contained shall be interpreted as modifying, repealing, or in
any way changing any contract or agreement heretofore made with any corporation
for the supply of water or service to such corporation. The village president
and board of trustees reserves the right to enter into separate contract or
contracts with users outside the village limits for the supply of water and/or
sewer service and to therein set the rates for such service and the terms
thereof where the circumstances, in the opinion of the village president and
board of trustees, would warrant different charges and rates and terms than in
this title specified. Charges for water service to the San Jose fire protection
district shall be as provided by agreement made from time to time between the
village president and board of trustees and the president and board of trustees
of the San Jose fire protection district, and nothing herein contained shall
change any such agreement. (Ord. 346, 4-20-1998, eff. 5-1-1998)
CHAPTER 4
GARBAGE DISPOSAL
SECTION:
8-4-1: Rates Established
8-4-2: Bills For Service; Delinquencies
8-4-3: Guidelines
8-4-1: RATES ESTABLISHED:
   A.   The rates and charges to be charged for the use of the village's Waste
Services, and the delinquent penalties, collection fees, etc., shall be as
established by ordinance.
   B.   Each user within the village shall pay an amount equal to the following
rate(s).
      1.   The fee for garbage disposal will be twenty dollars and twenty
sixty- five cents ($20.65) per month effective August 1,2022, with a 3.5%
increase for years 2023 thru and including 2025.
         a.   2023 rate will be $21.37.
         b.   2024 rate will be $22.12.
         c.   2025 rate will be $22.89.
      2.   Senior citizens sixty-five (65) years and older will pay nineteen
dollars and sixty-five cents ($19.15) per month effective August 1,2022, with a
3.5 % increase for years 2023 thru and including 2025. Senior citizens will be
required to show proof of age, in July of each year.
         a.   2023 rate will be $19.82.
         b.   2024 rate will be $20.51.
         c.   2025 rate will be $21.23.
      3.   Households within one and one-half (1.5) miles of Village limits,
may opt-in for garbage disposal services, paying above rates.
(Ord. 21-564, 4-19- 2021, eff. 7-1-2021; amd. Ord. 22-575, 8-15-2022)
8-4-2: BILLS FOR SERVICE; DELINQUENCIES:
   A.   Rendition of Bills: Monthly fee will be a separate line item on the
Water and Sewer bill. Bill must be paid in full, or all services (Water, Sewer
and Garbage Disposal) will be turned off.
   B.   Late and Delinquent Payments: See Sections
8-3-3B-1 and
8-3-3B-2. (Ord. 21-564, 4-19-2021, eff. 7-1-2021)
8-4-3: GUIDELINES:
   A.   Only commercial properties are exempt, all residential households must
have garbage disposal through the village.
   B.   Each household will receive one (1) waste receptacle at no cost.
   C.   All waste must be placed in a provided receptacle.
   D.   Trash cans may be placed out for pick up the evening prior and may
remain for twenty four (24) hours after pick up.
   E.   Any large items that will not fit into provided receptacle, maybe
disposed at yearly town-wide cleanup.
   F.   Recycling receptacle is located at the corner of W. Linden and S. 2nd
St., recyclable items accepted are glass, cardboard, and plastic. (Ord. 21-564,
4-19- 2021, eff. 7-1-2021)
TITLE 9
BUILDING AND DEVELOPMENT
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Short Title
9-1-2: Administration And Enforcement Officials
9-1-3: Codes Adopted
9-1-4: Permit Requirements
9-1-5: Fire Limits
9-1-6: Manufactured Homes
9-1-7: Inspections And Stop Work Orders
9-1-8: Penalty
9-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the VILLAGE OF SAN JOSE
BUILDING CODE AND REGULATIONS. (2016 Code)
9-1-2: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS:
   A.   Building Inspector:
      1.   Qualifications:
         a.   The person holding the title of "building inspector" shall be an
insured contractor in the state of Illinois with a minimum of ten (10) years'
experience in all aspects of construction.
         b.   The person shall be educated in all zoning regulations and
building codes set forth in this code.
         c.   Candidates shall present their qualifications to the village
board of trustees and shall be approved by a two- thirds (2/3) majority vote of
the board.
      2.   May Serve As Zoning Inspector: The building inspector may serve as
the zoning inspector when needed.
   B.   Zoning Inspector:
      1.   Qualifications: The person holding the title of "zoning inspector"
shall be educated in all zoning regulations set forth in this code to include
easements and setback requirements. (Ord. 14-492, 2-16-2015)
      2.   Duties: The zoning inspector shall be responsible for the issuance
of fence permits and any permit required for a premanufactured structure that
is affixed to "skids", i.e., portable storage units or garden type sheds. Any
structure in question shall be taken to the building and grounds committee or
village president for final determination. (Ord. 14-492, 2-16-2015; amd. 2016
Code)
      3.   Restrictions: The zoning inspector may not serve as the building
inspector. (Ord. 14-492, 2-16-2015)
9-1-3: CODES ADOPTED:
The village hereby adopts the following codes and standards as the building
codes of the village:
2015 International building code.
2015 International fire code.
2015 International residential code.
2015 International mechanical code.
2004 Illinois plumbing code.
2015 International private sewage disposal code.
2015 International fuel gas code.
2015 International energy conservation code.
2015 International property maintenance code.
2014 National electrical code.
2015 International existing building code.
Three (3) copies of the codes adopted in this section are on file in the office
of the village clerk for public use and inspection. (Ord. 14-492, 2-16-2015;
amd. 2016 Code)
9-1-4: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful to construct any building or
structure in the village where the value of such construction exceeds two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) or to alter or remodel any building or
structure so as to change the bearing walls, beams, supports or roof thereof
without having first secured a permit therefor. In the event any person
commences construction of any structure without obtaining a permit, the
application fee is increased to twice the fee charged for application made
prior to construction. Further, by accepting such fee, the village does not
waive any requirements or violations of this chapter and enforcement of same as
the case may be.
   B.   Application For Permit: Applications for permits shall be made to the
village clerk and shall be accompanied by plans and specifications, in
duplicate, showing the work to be done. Such plans shall be verified by the
signature either of the owner of the premises or by the architect or contractor
in charge of operations. Every such application for a permit shall describe the
land upon which the proposed building or work is to be done, by house number,
lot, block or tract, or similar general description that will readily identify
and definitely locate the proposed building or work. Copies of drawings and
specifications for the proposed improvement and a plot diagram showing the
location of the proposed improvement and of every existing building thereon
shall accompany every application for a permit required by this section and
shall be filed in duplicate with the building/zoning inspector; provided,
however, that the building/zoning inspector may authorize issuance of a permit
without drawings or specifications for minor work not involving structural
alterations. Complete drawings or facsimile of same showing all important
dimensions shall be drawn to scale, and the specifications shall be of
sufficient clarity to indicate the nature and character of the work proposed
and to show that there will be compliance with the same according to law.
Computations, strain sheets, stress diagrams and other data which are necessary
to show the correctness of the drawings shall accompany the drawings and
specifications when required by the building/zoning inspector. Any
specifications in which general expressions are used to effect that work shall
be done in accordance with the building code or to the satisfaction of the
president and village board shall be deemed imperfect and incomplete, and every
reference to such code shall be to the section or subsection applicable to the
material to be used or to the method of the construction proposed. All
drawings, specifications and other instruments of service filed with an
application for a building permit shall bear the signature and seal of a
registered architect of the state or a registered engineer of the state.
   C.   Approval Of Plans: Applications with plans shall be referred to the
building/zoning inspector, who shall examine the same to determine whether the
proposed operations will comply with the provisions of this chapter relating
thereto. Upon approval, one set of plans shall be returned by the building/
zoning inspector. No permit shall be issued except after approval of the plans
and payment of the fee herein provided. The issuance or granting of a permit or
approval of the plans and specifications referred to in this section shall not
be deemed or construed to be a permit for, or an approval of, any violation of
any of the provisions of this chapter. No permit presuming to give authority to
violate or cancel the provisions of this chapter shall be valid, except insofar
as the work or use which it authorized is lawful. The issuance of a permit upon
plans and specifications shall not prevent the president and village board from
thereafter requiring the correction of errors in such plans and specifications,
or from preventing building operation from being carried on thereunder when in
violation of this chapter or any other ordinance of the village.
   D.   Notice Of Permit; Issuance; Posting Required: Upon issuance of a
building permit to the applicant, the building/zoning inspector shall also
issue the applicant a placard which shall be a notice that a valid permit has
been obtained. Each placard or notice shall identify the type of construction
being initiated and the site on which it is to be initiated. The placard or
notice is to be erected and maintained at the construction site at all times
during construction in such a manner which will allow it to be clearly visible
from the street on which the site is located. It shall be unlawful to fail to
display said notice on the construction site in the manner indicated prior to
initiating any construction work.
   E.   Permit And Inspection Fees:
      1.   Fees Established:
         a.   Permits: The fees for permits shall be as follows:
            (1)   Fence permit: Sixty dollars ($60.00).
            (2)   Any structure inspected by the zoning/building inspector:
Sixty dollars ($60.00).
Cost of Construction Permit Fee
Cost of Construction     Permit Fee
$1.00 to $5,000.00       $60.00
$5,001.00 to $10,000.00  $70.00
$10,001.00 to $15,000.00 $80.00
$15,001.00 to $20,000.00 $90.00
$20,001.00 to $25,000.00 $100.00
$25,001.00 to $30,000.00 $110.00
$30,001.00 to $35,000.00 $120.00
$35,001.00 to $40,000.00 $130.00
$40,001.00 to $45,000.00 $140.00
$45,001.00 to $50,000.00 $150.00
$2.00 per $1,000.00 Construction cost after $50,000.00
 
         b.   Inspections:
            (1)   The building inspector shall review all permit applications
submitted and shall determine the number of inspections needed to properly
ensure the safety of the structure throughout the building process of the
project. The fee for each inspection shall be fifty dollars ($50.00) and shall
be payable prior to issuance of the permit.
            (2)   Each permit application shall state the estimated cost of
construction, alterations or remodeling.
      2.   Waiver Of Permit Fees: The permit fees for not for profit
corporations are hereby waived. A "not for profit corporation" means a
corporation subject to the Illinois general not for profit corporation act of
1986 and organized solely for one or more of the purposes authorized by section
103.05 of the act, which is incorporated herein by reference.
   F.   Time Limits For Construction And Completion:
      1.   An applicant receiving a building permit shall have ninety (90) days
from its date of issuance in which to start the construction authorized under
the permit. If no work has been initiated within the ninety (90) day period,
the permit shall expire and the applicant will be required to obtain another
building permit in the required manner before construction will be authorized
by the building/zoning inspector.
      2.   The applicant shall have one year in which to complete the work
authorized by the building permit.
   G.   Variations: It shall be unlawful to vary from the approved plans and
specifications deposited with and approved by the building/zoning inspector
unless amended plans and specifications showing such proposed alteration or
variation are first filed with the building/zoning inspector and approved
thereby. If such variation involves an increase in the total cost of the work,
a statement to that effect shall be made and the necessary additional fee shall
be paid. (1982 Code §§ 4-1-1-3, 4-1-1-4, 4-1-1-5, 4-1-1-7; amd. Ord. 363, 4-17-
2000, eff. 5-5- 2000; Ord. 385, 11-18-2002, eff. 12-1-2002; Ord. 14-492, 2-16-
2015; 2016 Code; Ord. 21-566, 11-15-2021, eff. 11-25-2021)
9-1-5: FIRE LIMITS:
All that part of the village which is zoned for business, commercial or
industrial purposes is hereby designated as the fire limits of the village.
(1982 Code § 4-1-2-1)
9-1-6: MANUFACTURED HOMES:
   A.   Village Requirements: All the following apply to manufactured homes
within the village:
      1.   The land and the manufactured home must be owned by the same person.
      2.   All manufactured homes must be permanently secured to their
foundation-footings or poured concrete walls. The foundation must be of solid
construction, not mounted panels like underpinning.
      3.   All manufactured homes must be manufactured in accordance with the
national manufactured home construction and safety standards act.
      4.   All manufactured homes must meet snow loads and wind ratings
established for central Illinois.
      5.   The roof pitch for all manufactured homes must be at least five to
twelve (5:12). If the roof pitch is less than five to twelve (5:12), the owner
of the manufactured home must receive approval from the village zoning board of
appeals.
      6.   All manufactured homes must have interior walls of not less than two
inch by four inch (2" x 4") construction.
      7.   All manufactured homes must contain at least one thousand one
hundred sixty (1,160) square feet of living space, not including the garage.
      8.   All wheels and tongues must be removed from the manufactured home
and must be removed completely from the property.
      9.   All manufactured homes must be titled as real estate and recorded as
such at the county recorder's office.
   B.   Federal Regulations Adopted: The village hereby adopts part 3280,
manufactured homes construction and safety standards, of the code of federal
regulations, housing and urban development. (2016 Code)
9-1-7: INSPECTIONS AND STOP WORK ORDERS:
   A.   Inspections: The building/zoning inspector is hereby empowered to make
such inspections as may be necessary to see to the enforcement of this chapter,
and to make any tests or examinations of materials or methods to be used for
the purpose of seeing if they comply with the requirements of this chapter.
(1982 Code § 4-1-1-8; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Stop Work Orders: The building inspector, or such other person as may
be authorized by the president or village board of trustees, may order work
stopped whenever any construction, alteration or repair work is being done in
violation of any provisions of this chapter. Such stop order, when oral, shall
be followed by a written stop order within twenty four (24) hours. It shall be
unlawful to continue with any such work in violation of a stop order until such
order has been revoked by the person issuing it or by the president or village
board of trustees. (1982 Code § 4-1-1-10; amd. 2016 Code)
9-1-8: PENALTY:
Any person or entity convicted of violating any provision of this chapter shall
be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for said violation, and each day that such a
violation exists or continues shall be deemed a distinct and separate offense.
(Ord. 14-485, 1-20-2014)
CHAPTER 2
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Definition
9-2-2: Nuisance Declared
9-2-3: Dangerous Buildings Prohibited
9-2-4: Abandoned Buildings
9-2-5: Abatement Procedures
9-2-6: Damaged Buildings Within Fire Limits
9-2-7: Administration And Enforcement
9-2-8: Penalty
9-2-1: DEFINITION:
The term "dangerous building", as used in this chapter, is hereby defined to
mean and include:
   A.   Any building, shed, fence or other manmade structure which is dangerous
to the public health because of its condition, and which may cause or aid in
the spread of disease, injury to the health of the occupants or its neighboring
structures, or be deemed a public nuisance.
   B.   Any building, shed, fence or other manmade structure which, because of
faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair or any other cause, is
especially liable to fire and constitutes or creates a fire hazard.
   C.   Any building, shed, fence or other manmade structure which, by reason
of faulty construction or any other cause, is liable to cause injury or damage
by collapsing or by a collapse or fall of any part of such structure.
   D.   Any building, fence, shed or other manmade structure which, because of
its condition or because of lack of doors or windows, is available to and
frequented by malefactors or disorderly persons who are not lawful occupants of
such structure.
   E.   Any building, shed, fence or other manmade structure that is so
damaged, decayed, dilapidated, unsanitary, unsafe or vermin infested that it
creates a serious hazard to the health and safety of the occupants or the
public. (2016 Code)
9-2-2: NUISANCE DECLARED:
Any "dangerous building" in the village, as defined in section
9-2-1 of this chapter, is hereby declared to be a nuisance. (2016 Code)
9-2-3: DANGEROUS BUILDINGS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any dangerous
building in the village, and it shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant or
any other interested party of any dangerous building to permit the same to
remain in a dangerous condition, or to occupy such building or permit it to be
occupied while it is or remains in a dangerous condition. (2016 Code)
9-2-4: ABANDONED BUILDINGS:
   A.   The village board of trustees may petition to have property declared
abandoned if:
      1.   The property has been tax delinquent for two (2) or more years or
bills for water service for the property have been outstanding for two (2) or
more years;
      2.   The property is unoccupied by persons legally in possession; and
      3.   The property contains a dangerous or unsafe building for reasons
specified in the petition.
   B.   If the village proves that the conditions described in this section
exist, the court may declare the property abandoned. (2016 Code)
9-2-5: ABATEMENT PROCEDURES:
Whenever the building/zoning inspector, chief of the fire protection district
or the health officer shall be of the opinion that any building or structure in
the village is a dangerous or abandoned building, he shall file a written
statement to this effect with the village clerk. The clerk shall:
   A.   Dangerous Buildings:
      1.   Cause written notice to be served upon the owner(s) of the building,
including the lienholders of record or any occupant, by registered mail or by
personal service. Such notice shall state the building has been identified as
dangerous, abandoned or in need for removal of garbage, debris or other
hazardous, noxious or unhealthy substances and remedies must be taken care of
at once.
      2.   If the person receiving such notice has not complied therewith or
taken an appeal from the determination of the official finding that the
dangerous building exists, within fifteen (15) days from the time when the
notice is served upon such person by personal service or by registered mail,
the clerk, upon orders of the board, shall apply in the county in which the
building is located: a) for an order authorizing action to be taken with
respect to a building if the owner or owners of the building, including the
lienholders of record, after at least fifteen (15) days' written notice by
personal service or registered mail so to do, have failed to put the building
in a safe condition or to demolish it; or b) for an order requiring the owner
or owners of record to demolish, repair, or enclose the building or to remove
garbage, debris, and other hazardous, noxious, or unhealthy substances or
materials from the building.
      3.   The village board of trustees may demolish, repair, or enclose or
cause the demolition, repair, or enclosure of dangerous and unsafe buildings or
uncompleted and abandoned buildings within the territory of the village and may
remove or cause the removal of garbage, debris, and other hazardous, noxious,
or unhealthy substances or materials from those buildings.
      4.   The cost of the demolition, repair, enclosure, or removal incurred
by the village, including court costs, attorney fees, and other costs related
to the enforcement of this chapter, is recoverable from the owner or owners of
the real estate or the previous owner, or both, if the property was transferred
during the fifteen (15) day notice period and is a lien on the real estate.
Within one hundred eighty (180) days after the repair, demolition, enclosure,
or removal, the village, shall file a notice of lien for the cost and expense
incurred in the office of the recorder, in the county in which the real estate
is located.
   B.   Abandoned Buildings:
      1.   Cause notice to be sent in person or by certified or registered mail
to all persons having an interest of record in the property, stating that title
to the property will be transferred to the village unless, within thirty (30)
days of the notice, the owner of record or any other person having an interest
in the property files with the court a request to demolish the dangerous or
unsafe building or to put the building in safe condition, or unless the owner
of record enters an appearance and proves that the owner does not intend to
abandon the property.
      2.   Following any demolition, repair, or enclosure of a building, or the
removal of garbage, debris, or other hazardous, noxious, or unhealthy
substances or materials under this subsection, the village may file a notice of
lien against the real estate for the cost of the demolition, repair, enclosure,
or removal within one hundred eighty (180) days after the repair, demolition,
enclosure, or removal occurred, for the cost and expense incurred, in the
office of the recorder in the county in which the real estate is located. (2016
Code)
9-2-6: DAMAGED BUILDINGS WITHIN FIRE LIMITS:
   A.   Removal Required: Any frame building or structure in the village fire
limits as described by section
9-1-5 of this title which has or may be damaged by fire, decay or other cause
to the extent of fifty percent (50%) of its value shall be torn down and
removed.
   B.   Notice Requirements; Determination Of Damaged Building:
      1.   Upon written notice by the building/zoning inspector, health officer
or the chief of the fire protection district, to the effect that such building
has been so damaged, filed with the village clerk, the clerk shall notify the
village board of the receipt of such notice.
      2.   The board shall then appoint three (3) persons to determine whether
or not such building or structure has been damaged to the extent of fifty
percent (50%) of its value. A copy of the notice of the appointment of this
board of three (3) persons to determine the damage shall be served upon the
owner of the premises by personal service or by registered mail at his last
known address.
      3.   If the board of three (3) members determines that the building in
question has been damaged to the extent of fifty percent (50%) of its value, it
shall be the duty of the owner to tear down or remove the building within
thirty (30) days after the finding of the board, and it shall be unlawful to
occupy or permit such building to be occupied after such finding. (2016 Code)
9-2-7: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Administrative And Enforcement Officer: The health officer or certified
designee is hereby designated an administrative and enforcing officer.
   B.   Inspections; Entry Powers: The health officer or certified designee is
authorized and directed to make inspections to determine the condition of any
building and premises located within the village in order that he may perform
the duty of safeguarding the health and safety of the occupants of said
building and of the general public. For the purpose of making such inspections,
the health officer or certified designee is authorized to either examine or
survey, at all reasonable times, all buildings and premises. The owner or
occupant of every building, or the person in charge thereof, shall give the
health officer or certified designee free access to such building or premises
at all reasonable times for the purpose of such inspection, examination and
survey. Every occupant of a building shall give the owner thereof, or his agent
or employee, access to any part of such building or its premises at all
reasonable times for the purpose of making such repairs or alterations as are
necessary to effect compliance with the provisions of this chapter, or with any
lawful rule or regulation adopted or any lawful order issued pursuant of the
provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Notice Of Violation: Whenever the health officer or certified designee
determines that there are reasonable grounds to believe that there has been a
violation of any provision of this chapter or of any rules or regulations
adopted pursuant hereto, he shall give notice of such alleged violation in the
form of a complaint to the person or persons responsible therefor. Such notice
shall be served upon the person(s) responsible by the health officer or
certified designee. (2016 Code)
9-2-8: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter, or permitting any dangerous
building or any building or structure to remain in a dangerous condition, or to
remain in the fire limits after it has been damaged to the extent of fifty
percent (50%) of its value, shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for said
violation, and each day that such a violation exists or continues shall be
deemed a distinct and separate offense. (2016 Code)
CHAPTER 3
BILLBOARDS
SECTION:
9-3-1: Definition
9-3-2: Permit Requirements
9-3-3: Construction Specifications And Requirements
9-3-4: Location Restrictions; Frontage Consents Required
9-3-5: Dangerous Billboards Declared A Nuisance
9-3-6: Enforcement Official
9-3-7: Penalty
9-3-1: DEFINITION:
The term "billboard", as used in this chapter, is hereby defined to mean, and
for the purpose of this chapter shall be construed to mean, any signboard or
similar structure, the sole or primary purpose of which is to be used for the
display of advertisements or notices. (1982 Code § 4-5-1)
9-3-2: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful to construct a billboard within
the village without having first secured a permit therefor from the village
board; provided, that no permit issued hereunder shall be construed to
authorize the construction or maintenance of a billboard which extends over any
public street, alley or sidewalk or other public place. (1982 Code § 4-5-2;
amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Application For Permit: Application for such permit shall be made in
writing to the village clerk. Each application shall state thereon the name of
the owner of the premises, the name of the person or corporation constructing
the billboard and specifications showing the size, material and manner of
construction of the billboard. (1982 Code § 4-5-3)
   C.   Permit Fee: The fee for a permit to construct any billboard shall be
one hundred dollars ($100.00). (1982 Code § 4-5-2)
9-3-3: CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Wind Pressure: Every billboard shall be firmly and solidly constructed
so as to be able to bear a wind pressure of at least thirty (30) pounds per
square foot of area; provided, that billboards which are placed upon roofs must
be so constructed as to be able to withstand a lateral wind pressure of forty
(40) pounds per square inch of area.
   B.   Obstructing Fire Escapes: It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain any
billboard in such a position as to obstruct any fire escape or any window or
door leading thereto, and no billboard shall be fastened to any fire escape.
   C.   Height Above Ground: Every billboard must be so constructed as to leave
an open space of at least two and one-half feet (21/2') between the bottom of
the display area and the ground. This open area may be filled with latticework
or other ornamental design which does not close off more than two- thirds (2/3)
of any square foot of such open area. Billboards constructed on property on
which there is a properly established building line must be built entirely in
back of this building line, and no permit shall be issued for the construction
of any billboard on any lot which is subject to a proper building line
restriction if the billboard is to be constructed in violation of the building
line restriction.
   D.   Fireproof Construction: It shall be unlawful to construct any billboard
of over fifteen (15) square feet in area anywhere in the fire limits unless the
face of such billboard is constructed of noncombustible material.
   E.   Roof Signs: It shall be unlawful to construct any billboards on the
roof of any building or structure of any but incombustible materials. All such
roof signs or billboards must be so constructed that there is at least four
feet (4') of space between the billboard or signboard and the edge of the roof
at all sides and ends. It shall be unlawful to construct any roof sign or
billboard on the roof of any building which is unable to stand the additional
weight and wind pressure imposed by such construction. All roof signs and
billboards which are constructed on buildings which are not entirely of
fireproof materials shall be so constructed and braced that the supports of
such signs or billboards shall bear directly on the masonry walls of such
buildings or upon the steel girders which are supported by the masonry walls.
The metal supports and parts of every roof sign shall be thoroughly and
properly painted at least once each two (2) years, unless these are galvanized
or otherwise adequately protected against rust and corrosion.
   F.   Billboards Against Buildings: It shall be unlawful to construct any
billboard, a majority of the display area of which is within four feet (4') of
any building, unless such billboard is constructed of noncombustible material.
   G.   Illuminated Billboards: The wiring of illuminated billboards and
signboards must comply with the provisions of this code relating to electrical
wiring. (1982 Code § 4-5-5)
9-3-4: LOCATION RESTRICTIONS; FRONTAGE CONSENTS REQUIRED:
No person shall locate, build, construct, operate or maintain any billboard in
any block in the village where a majority of the houses abutting on both sides
of the street in the block are used exclusively for residence purposes without
having first secured the written consent of the owners of a majority of the
frontage abutting on such street on both sides within such block. The term
"block", as used in this section, shall be construed to mean and include that
portion of the street between the two (2) intersections with other public
streets nearest the specified location on each side; provided, that if, on
either or both sides of such location, there is no such intersection within
four hundred feet (400') of the center of the specified location, the block
shall be considered as terminating at a point four hundred feet (400') from
such center. (1982 Code § 4-5-6)
9-3-5: DANGEROUS BILLBOARDS DECLARED A NUISANCE:
Any billboard or signboard which is dangerous because of insecure construction
or fastenings with resultant danger of falling or because it is an extreme fire
hazard and, in fact a nuisance, is hereby declared to be a nuisance and may be
abated as such. (1982 Code § 4-5-7)
9-3-6: ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL:
It shall be the duty of the building/zoning inspector to enforce the provisions
of this chapter, and he is hereby authorized to do so. (1982 Code § 4-5-4; amd.
2016 Code)
9-3-7: PENALTY:
Any person or entity convicted of violating any provision of this chapter shall
be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for said violation, and each day that such a
violation exists or continues shall be deemed a distinct and separate offense.
(Ord. 14-485, 1-20-2014)
CHAPTER 4
FENCES, TREES, HEDGES AND ANIMAL RUNS
SECTION:
9-4-1: Definitions
9-4-2: Prohibited Fences
9-4-3: Construction Of Fences
9-4-4: Design, Location And Height Requirements For Fences, Trees And Shrubs
9-4-5: Animal Runs
9-4-6: Gates Obstructing Public Ways Prohibited
9-4-7: Variances
9-4-8: Violation; Penalty
9-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
ANIMAL RUN: Any confined area without a roof, not a regular part of any other
structure on the same premises (but which may be attached thereto), designed
and maintained for domesticated pets or animals.
BUILDING LINE: That line created by the front or side of any building
foundation, as the case may be, as extended to the property line of the
property on which building is located.
FENCE: A permanent, living or nonliving structure forming a barrier which is
not otherwise a part of any building or structure and used to delineate a
boundary line as a means of confinement or for the purpose of privacy. A hedge
of any natural or planted flora used for any of the foregoing purposes shall be
considered to be a fence for the purpose of this chapter.
HEIGHT OF A FENCE: The height as measured from the existing grade level of the
property on which the fence is installed to the highest most point located on
the fence.
OPEN FENCE: A fence, including gates, with open spaces which afford direct
views through the fence comprising at least seventy percent (70%) of each one
foot (1') wide segment extending over the entire length and height of the
fence.
PERIMETER FENCE: A fence which, to the extent permitted by this code, runs
generally parallel to and in close proximity to the lot lines of any given lot
or tract of land.
SCREENING FENCE: A solid fence which totally obscures vision from one side to
the other, including any gate or entryway thereon or which is a part thereof.
(Ord. 384, 11-18-2002, eff. 12-1-2002; amd. 2016 Code)
9-4-2: PROHIBITED FENCES:
   A.   No dangerous or hazardous type fence such as barbed wire fences,
electrical fences, fences with spikes, broken glass or other sharp points or
materials imbedded in them or any other type fence likely to result in injuries
to persons climbing on or over such fence shall be permitted to be erected or
maintained within the village.
   B.   No fence that is leaning in such a manner that an angle of fifteen
degrees (15°) or more is produced when measured from the vertical shall be
permitted to be maintained within the village. (Ord. 384, 11-18-2002, eff. 12-
1-2002)
9-4-3: CONSTRUCTION OF FENCES:
   A.   Permit Requirements:
      1.   Permit Required; Fee: No person shall erect a fence in the village
without first having applied for and received a fence permit from the zoning
inspector. The permit fee shall be sixty dollars ($60.00). All work outlined in
the building permit shall be completed within thirty (30) days or a renewal
permit with an additional permit fee shall be required.
      2.   Application For Permit: Application for a fence permit shall be
submitted to the village clerk on forms provided by the clerk. An application
for a fence permit shall be accompanied by a sketch of the proposed fence
indicating the design of the fence, the material to be used and the dimensions
of the proposed fence. The application shall also be accompanied by a sketch or
diagram, drawn substantially to scale, of the lot on which the proposed fence
is to be constructed. This sketch or diagram shall also include all other
structures existing on the property.
      3.   Failure To Obtain Permit: In the event any person commences
construction of any fence without obtaining a permit, the application fee is
increased to twice the fee charged for application made prior to construction.
Further, by accepting such fee, the village does not waive any requirements or
violations of this chapter and enforcement of same as the case may be.
   B.   General Construction Requirements:
      1.   A perimeter fence shall not exceed six feet (6') in height.
      2.   On all screening fences, fenceposts and other bracing members shall
be so situated as to face the interior of the property being fenced. This
requirement shall not apply to a basket weave or other types of fences where
approximately one-half (1/2) of the screening material is located on either
side of the fenceposts and other bracing members.
   C.   Commercial Fences: Commercial building permits shall be issued for
fences in commercial and industrial zones and for special uses. The Village
shall grant commercial building permits for commercial fences if the fence
proposed in the permit application meets the requirements of this Section. Any
replacement, repair or relocation of any fence already in existence at the
effective date hereof shall comply in all respects with the requirements of
this chapter.
      1.   Commercial fences shall be no less than six feet (6') in height and
no more than eight feet (8') in height.
      2.   Commercial fences shall comply in all other respects with the
requirements of Section
9-4-2 and Section
9-4-4.
(Ord. 384, 11-18-2002, eff. 12-1-2002; amd. Ord. 450, 1-17-2011; 2016 Code;
Ord. 20-554, 11-16-2020; Ord. 23-002, 5-15-2023, eff. 5-22-2023)
9-4-4: DESIGN, LOCATION AND HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS FOR FENCES, TREES AND SHRUBS:
   A.   Height: The height of any fence shall not exceed six feet (6') and may
be required to be less if otherwise stated.
   B.   Interior Lot:
      1.   Side Yard: A fence may be located up to and at the property line but
not to encroach onto the neighboring property, and the vertical support posts
must be on the owner's side of the property and the horizontal fencing material
to the neighboring side.
      2.   Rear Yard: If an alley borders the property, the setback shall be at
least thirteen feet (13') from the center of the alley. If no alley exists, a
five foot (5') setback is required to accommodate easements.
      3.   Placement On Easement Prohibited: In any event, no "fence", as
defined in section
9-4-1 of this chapter, shall be placed on an easement.
   C.   Front Yard:
      1.   Fences not exceeding six feet (6') in height shall not be
constructed closer to the front property line than five feet (5') back from the
front building line of the main residential building. From such point two feet
(2') inside the front property line, a fence may not exceed forty two inches
(42") and shall not be a "screening fence" as defined in section
9-4-1 of this chapter.
      2.   A front yard fence or hedge or any other structure may not be
constructed closer to the front property line than two feet (2') inside the
front property line. As a general rule only, the front property line of
residential property is often eight inches (8") from the inside or property
side of the sidewalk.
   D.   Corner Lot: On corner lots, the same height and construction
requirements as the side yard requirements herein shall apply; except, on the
side yard nearest the street, there shall be at least a two foot (2') setback
from the side property line.
   E.   View At Intersections: No hedge, tree, fence or other obstruction shall
be permitted to be within thirty feet (30') from any curb or edge of a street
intersection so as to obstruct the vision of motorists. Other obstructions
shall not include a fence of open wire or wirelike material or split rail and
horizontal board fences limited to two (2) horizontal members, each member not
to exceed five and three-fourths inches (53/4") in width with the top of the
uppermost horizontal member being located not over forty two inches (42") high
and the vertical members limited to forty eight inches (48") in height. (Ord.
465, 2-20-2012)
   F.   Variances: Should any change or variation from the regulations of this
section be requested on the permit, the permit shall be denied by the zoning
inspector and returned to the village clerk who will notify the zoning board of
the need for a zoning board meeting to consider the variation, and they will
make a recommendation to the village board who will determine the final
decision as provided by this code. (Ord. 465, 2-20-2012; amd. 2016 Code)
9-4-5: ANIMAL RUNS:
   A.   Animal runs shall not be larger than one hundred (100) square feet in
size and shall be enclosed by a fence not less than four feet (4') nor more
than six feet (6') in height.
   B.   All animal runs shall be constructed behind the rear building line of
the main structure on the premises, and no animal run shall be located closer
than five feet (5') to the property line of any given tract of land.
   C.   Nothing herein contained shall be construed as superseding or lessening
the requirements of this code regulating the keeping and confinement of certain
dogs and the keeping of multiple pets at a given premises. (Ord. 384, 11-18-
2002, eff. 12-1-2002)
9-4-6: GATES OBSTRUCTING PUBLIC WAYS PROHIBITED:
No gate on any fence shall be left open so as to obstruct or impede the free
flow of pedestrian or vehicular traffic on any sidewalk, street, alley or other
public way in the village. (Ord. 384, 11-18-2002, eff. 12-1-2002)
9-4-7: VARIANCES:
   A.   Variances Authorized: Whenever, in specific circumstances due to
exceptional or special conditions which apply to any particular premises, lot
or tract of land, whereat the strict application of the regulations of this
chapter would result in practical difficulties or the imposition of a
particular hardship on the property owner, a variance may be granted subject to
the conditions hereinafter set forth.
   B.   Application For Variance; Grant Or Denial: Application for a variance
shall be made to the zoning board, which shall grant or deny the variance
request within thirty (30) days from the submission of the request, and if the
zoning board does not take any action thereon within thirty (30) days, the
request shall be deemed denied.
   C.   Appeal Of Denial: The denial of a variance by the zoning board may be
appealed to the village board which may, by a majority vote, grant the
variance.
   D.   Conditions Of Variance: A variance may be granted only when the
following conditions exist:
      1.   That special conditions and circumstances exist which are peculiar
to the land or structure involved which are not applicable to other lands or
structures in the same zoning district;
      2.   That literal interpretation of the provisions of this chapter would
deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other lands or structures
in the same zoning district under the terms of this chapter;
      3.   That the special conditions and circumstances do not result from the
actions of the applicant;
      4.   That the granting of the variance requested will not confer on the
applicant any special privilege that is denied by this chapter to other lands
or structures in the same zoning district;
      5.   That the reasons set forth in the application justify the granting
of the variance and that the variance is the minimum variance that will make
possible the reasonable use of the property;
      6.   That congestion on the public streets will not be increased
unreasonably or that the property will be relieved of unreasonable parking
requirements;
      7.   That the values or character of property within the surrounding area
will not be diminished or impaired thereby, nor nearby property adversely
affected; and
      8.   That in all other respects, the public health, safety, comfort, and
welfare will not be impaired. (Ord. 384, 11-18-2002, eff. 12-1-2002)
9-4-8: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Violation: It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or cause to be
erected a fence or animal run on any property within the village except as
provided in this chapter. (Ord. 384, 11-18-2002, eff. 12-1-2002; amd. 2016
Code)
   B.   Penalty: Any person or entity convicted of violating any provision of
this chapter shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for said violation, and each
day that such a violation exists or continues shall be deemed a distinct and
separate offense. (Ord. 14-485, 1-20-2014)
TITLE 10
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL ZONING PROVISIONS; ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
10-1-1: Territorial Jurisdiction
10-1-2: General Requirements
10-1-3: Certificate Of Occupancy
10-1-4: Enforcement
10-1-5: Penalties
10-1-1: TERRITORIAL JURISDICTION:
The village hereby retains and assumes the right to zone, control and provide
proper restrictions and zoning provisions in the territory one and one-half
(11/2) miles adjacent to and surrounding the village limits. (1982 Code § 5-2-
6)
10-1-2: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
Except as hereinafter provided:
   A.   No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed or
structurally altered, nor shall any building or land be used except for the
purpose permitted in the district in which the building or land is located.
   B.   No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed or
structurally altered to exceed the height limit herein established for the
district in which the building is located.
   C.   No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed or
structurally altered except in conformity with the area regulations of the
district in which the building is located.
   D.   The minimum yards and other open spaces, including lot area per family,
required by this title for each and every building existing at the effective
date hereof, or for any building hereafter erected, shall not be encroached
upon or considered as yard or open space requirements for any other building.
   E.   Every building hereafter erected or structurally altered shall be
located on a "lot", as defined in section
10-2-1 of this title, and in no case shall there be more than one main building
on one lot unless otherwise provided in this title.
   F.   The front yard requirements on both streets of a corner lot shall be
observed for all buildings and structures, including accessory buildings. (1982
Code § 5-2-5)
10-1-3: CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
   A.   Required:
      1.   Generally:
         a.   Subsequent to the effective date hereof, no change in the use or
occupancy of land, nor any change of use or occupancy in an existing building
shall be made, nor shall any new building be occupied for any purpose, until a
certificate of occupancy shall state that the new occupancy complies with all
provisions of this title. (1982 Code § 5-10-1)
         b.   No permit for excavation for, or the erection, construction or
alteration of, any building shall be issued before an application has been made
and approved for a certificate of occupancy and compliance, but no occupancy
permit shall be issued until the erection, construction or alteration has been
completed, inspected and approved by the building/zoning inspector, as
established in subection
9-1-2A of this code, and no building or premises shall be occupied until that
certificate and permit is issued. (1982 Code § 5-10-1; amd. 2016 Code)
      2.   Nonconforming Uses:
         a.   A certificate of occupancy shall be required of all nonconforming
uses of land or buildings created by the adoption of these regulations. (1982
Code § 5-10-2)
         b.   Application for such certificate of occupancy for a nonconforming
use shall be filed with the building/zoning inspector by the owner or lessee of
the land or building occupied by such nonconforming use within two (2) years
from the effective date hereof. It shall be the duty of the building/zoning
inspector to issue a certificate of occupancy for nonconforming use. (1982 Code
§ 5-10-2; amd. 2016 Code)
         c.   Any nonconforming use for which an occupancy permit has not been
obtained in conformity with the requirements of subsection A1 of this section
shall be presumed to be operating in violation of this title, and such use
shall thereupon be abated. (1982 Code § 5-10-2)
   B.   Records Of Certificates: A record of all certificates of occupancy
shall be kept on file in the office of the building/zoning inspector, and
copies shall be furnished on request to any person having a proprietary or
tenancy interest in the land or in a building affected by such certificate of
occupancy. (1982 Code § 5-10-1; amd. 2016 Code)
10-1-4: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Enforcement Officials: It shall be the duty of the building/zoning
inspector to enforce this title. It shall also be the duty of all officers and
employees of the village and especially of all members of the police department
to assist the building/zoning inspector by reporting to him upon any new
construction, reconstruction or land uses, or upon any seemingly violation.
   B.   Report Of Violations: The building/zoning inspector shall send a
description of any violations of these regulations to the zoning board of
appeals within fifteen (15) days after he discovers such violation.
   C.   Appeals: Appeals from the decision of the building/zoning inspector may
be made to the zoning board of appeals as provided in title 2, chapter 1 of
this code. (1982 Code § 5-2-7; amd. 2016 Code)
10-1-5: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply
with, or who resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of this title
shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00)
nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for said violation, and
each day that such a violation exists or continues shall be deemed a distinct
and separate offense. (1982 Code § 5-2-8; amd. Ord. 14-485, 1-20-2014)
   B.   In case any building or structure is erected, constructed,
reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted or maintained, or any building,
structure or land is used in violation of this title, the village attorney, in
addition to other remedies, may institute any proper action or proceedings in
the name of the village to prevent such unlawful erection, construction,
repair, reconstruction, alteration, conversion, maintenance or use; to
restrain, correct or abate such violation; to prevent the occupancy of said
building, structure or land; or to prevent any illegal act, conduct, business
or use in or about said premises. (1982 Code § 5-2-8)
CHAPTER 2
RULES AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Rules And Definitions Established
10-2-1: RULES AND DEFINITIONS ESTABLISHED:
For the purpose of this title, certain terms and words are hereby defined.
Words used in the present tense shall include the future; the singular shall
include the plural and the plural the singular; the word "building" shall
include the word "structure"; and the word "shall" is mandatory and not
directory.
ACCESSORY BUILDING: A subordinate building or a portion of the main building,
the use of which is incidental to that of the main building or to the main use
of the premises.
ACCESSORY USE: A use that is incidental to the main use of the premises.
ALLEY: A public or private thoroughfare which affords only a secondary means of
access to the property abutting thereon.
APARTMENT: A room or suite of rooms in a multiple- or two- family dwelling, or
where more than one unit is established above nonresidential uses, intended or
designed for use as a residence by a single family.
APARTMENT HOUSE: A building with a room or suite of rooms in a multiple
dwelling intended or designed for use as residences for multiple families or
persons.
BASEMENT: A story of a building or structure having one-half (1/2) or more of
its clear height below grade. A basement shall not be considered a story for
the purpose of height regulation.
BOARDING HOUSE: A building other than a hotel where, for compensation, meals or
lodging and meals are provided for three (3) but not more than twelve (12)
persons.
BUILDING: Any structure designed or intended for the support, enclosure,
shelter or protection of persons, animals, chattels or property. When a
structure is divided into separate parts by unpierced walls extending from the
ground, each part is deemed a separate building.
BUILDING, HEIGHT OF: The vertical distance from the grade to the highest point
of the coping of a flat roof, or to the deck line of a mansard roof, or to the
mean height level between eaves and ridge for gable, hip and gambrel roofs.
DISTRICT: A section or sections of the village for which the regulations
governing the use of buildings and premises, the height of buildings, the size
of yards, and intensity of use are uniform.
DWELLING: Any building or portion thereof, but not a trailer, which is designed
and used exclusively for residential purposes.
DWELLING DISTRICT: Every district specified in this title, except the C
business and commercial district and the D industrial district, is designated
as a dwelling district.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A building or portion thereof designed or altered
for residential occupancy by two (2) or more families living independently of
each other in their own dwelling unit.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A building designed for or occupied exclusively by one
family.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A building designed for or occupied exclusively by two
(2) families.
FAMILY: One or more persons occupying a premises and living as a single
housekeeping unit, whether or not related to each other by birth, adoption or
marriage, but no unrelated group shall consist of more than five (5) persons,
as distinguished from a group occupying a "boarding house", "lodging house" or
"hotel", as herein defined.
FARM: An area which is used for the growing of the usual farm products such as
vegetables, fruit, trees and grain, and their storage on the area, as well as
for the raising thereon of the usual farm poultry and farm animals for the use
or consumption of the person operating the farm. The term "farming" includes
the operating of such an area for one or more of the above uses, including the
necessary accessory uses for treating or storing the produce; provided,
however, that the operation of any such accessory uses shall be secondary to
that of the normal farming activities; and provided further, that farming does
not include the feeding of garbage or offal to swine or other animals.
FILLING STATION: Any building or premises used for the dispensing, sale or
offering for sale at retail of any automobile fuels or oils. When the
dispensing, sale or offering for sale is incidental to the conduct of a public
garage, the premises is classified as class III or class IV.
FRONTAGE: All property on one side of a street between two (2) intersecting
streets (crossing or terminating), measured along the line of the street, or if
the street is dead ended, then all of the property abutting on one side between
an intersecting street and the dead end of the street.
GARAGE, CLASS I: An accessory building housing motor driven vehicles which are
the property of and for the private use of the occupants of the lot on which
the private garage is located. Not more than one of the vehicles may be a
commercial vehicle of not more than three (3) tons' capacity.
GARAGE, CLASS II: Any building or premises used for housing only motor driven
vehicles, other than trucks and commercial vehicles, pursuant to previous
arrangements and not to transients, and at which automobile fuels and oils are
not sold, and motor driven vehicles are not equipped, repaired, hired or sold.
GARAGE, CLASS III: Any building or premises used for the housing, hiring,
storing, equipping or repairing of motor driven trucks, commercial or other
vehicles owned, leased or operated by the occupant of the premises in the
conduct of or as accessory to a business or occupation.
GARAGE, CLASS IV: Any building or premises, except those used as a private or
storage garage or motor vehicle junkyard, used for equipping, repairing,
hiring, selling or storing motor driven vehicles.
GRADE: A. For buildings having walls adjoining more than one street, the
average of the established elevation of the sidewalk at the centers of all
walls adjoining the street.
   B.   For buildings having walls adjoining more than one street, the average
of the established elevation of the sidewalk at the centers of all walls
adjoining the streets.
   C.   For buildings having no wall adjoining the street, the average level of
the finished surface of the ground adjacent to the exterior walls of the
building.
   D.   Any wall approximately parallel to and not more than twenty feet (20')
from the street is to be considered as adjoining the street.
HOME OCCUPATION: Any occupation or profession carried on by a member of the
immediate family, residing on the premises, in connection with which the
following restrictions shall apply:
   A.   No sign shall be used other than a nameplate not more than one square
foot in area except as provided in chapter 4, article A and chapter 5 of this
title, nor any display that will indicate from the exterior that the building
is being utilized, in whole or in part, for any purpose other than that of a
dwelling.
   B.   There is no commodity sold upon the premises.
   C.   No person is employed therein other than a member of the immediate
family residing on the premises.
   D.   No mechanical equipment is used except such as is permissible for
purely domestic or household purposes.
   E.   No excessive pedestrian or vehicular traffic is generated.
HOTEL: A building in which lodging is provided and offered to the public for
compensation, and which is open to transient guests, in contradistinction to a
boarding house or lodging house.
INSTITUTION: A building occupied by a nonprofit corporation or a nonprofit
establishment for public use.
LIVING AREA: Structurally enclosed floor space, based on exterior measurements
(excepting open porches and garages), on which all construction and
installation on inside walls, floors, ceilings, fixtures and other interior
building surfaces have been completed and finished to meet conventionally
agreed standards accommodating human habitation and convenience, and which
shall constitute not less than a story.
LODGING HOUSE: A building or place where lodging is provided (or which is
equipped regularly to provide lodging) by prearrangement for a definite period,
for compensation, for three (3) or more but not exceeding twelve (12)
individuals, not open to transient guests, in contradistinction to hotels open
to transients.
LOT: A parcel of land occupied or intended for occupancy by a use permitted in
this title, including one main building, together with its accessory buildings,
the open spaces and parking spaces required by this title, and having its
principal frontage upon a street or upon an officially approved place.
LOT, CORNER: A lot abutting upon two (2) or more streets at their intersection.
LOT, DEPTH OF: The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot
lines.
LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE: A lot having a frontage on two (2) nonintersecting
streets, as distinguished from a corner lot.
LOT OF RECORD: A lot which is a part of a subdivision, the map of which has
been recorded in the office of the recorder of deeds, or a parcel of land, the
deed to which was recorded in the office of the recorder of deeds prior to the
effective date hereof.
MANUFACTURING OR INDUSTRY: Any use in which the major activity is the
treatment, processing, rebuilding, repairing or wholesale storage of material,
products or items, and where the finished product is not acquired by the
ultimate user on the premises, as distinguished from a retail use where the
treatment, processing, repairing of storage is secondary to the sale, exchange
or repairing of materials or products on the premises.
MOBILE HOME: A mobile or portable unit designed and constructed to be
transported, comprised of a frame and/or wheels, and so designed to be
connected to utilities for year round occupancy and provide complete,
independent living facilities including provisions for cooking, sleeping and
sanitation. The term includes units containing parts that may be collapsed or
telescoped when being transported and then expanded to provide additional cubic
capacity and units composed of two (2) or more separately transportable
components designed to be joined into an integral unit capable of being
separated again into components for repeated transporting.
MOTOR VEHICLE JUNKYARD: An establishment or place of business which is
maintained, operated or used for storing, keeping, buying or selling junk, or
for storing, keeping, buying, salvaging or selling of wrecked, scraped, ruined,
unlicensed or dismantled motor vehicles or motor vehicle parts. As a condition
for the issuance of a special use permit for any motor vehicle junkyard, a
commercial fence must fully enclose the perimeter of the motor vehicle
junkyard.
MULTILEVEL: In contemporary terms, trilevel or quadlevel or split level or
split foyer.
MULTIPLE STORY BUILDING OR STRUCTURE: In contemporary terms, means a two-story
building or structure.
NONCONFORMING USE: Any building or land lawfully occupied by the use at the
time of passage of the original zoning ordinance or any amendment thereto,
which does not conform after the passage of the zoning ordinance or amendment
thereto with the use regulations of the district in which it is situated.
PARKING SPACE: A durably surfaced area, enclosed in the main building, in an
accessory building, or unenclosed, and if the space is unenclosed, comprising
an area of not less than one hundred forty (140) square feet, exclusive of a
durable surfaced driveway (concrete, blacktop, crushed rock or washed gravel)
connecting the parking space with a street or alley and permitting satisfactory
ingress and egress of an automobile.
PLACE: An open unoccupied space other than a street or alley permanently
reserved as the principal means of access to abutting property.
PRIVACY FENCE: A fence of such nature and/or material constructed in such a way
as to totally obscure visibility of the area beyond or enclosed by such fence.
ROOMING HOUSE: See definition of Lodging House.
ROW HOUSE: A group of two (2) or more but not exceeding four (4) single-family
dwellings separated by walls without openings not more than two (2) rooms deep.
SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS: Shops wherein the major activities are the repair and
maintenance of wearing apparel, sporting goods and articles for the use in the
home including household appliances.
SIDEWALKS: Shall be located with the back side of the sidewalk on the front
property line. They shall be concrete sidewalks and shall be built at the time
that the house located on said premises is constructed, and shall be a
thickness of four inches (4") and of a width of four feet (4').
STABLE: A building accommodating one or more horses.
STORY: That portion of a building, other than a basement, included between the
surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next above it, or if there be
no floor above it, then the space between the floor and the ceiling next above
it.
STORY, HALF: A space under a sloping roof which has the line of intersection of
roof decking and wall space not more than three feet (3') above the top floor
level, and in which space not more than sixty percent (60%) of the floor area
is finished for use.
STREET: All property dedicated or intended for public or private street,
highway, freeway or roadway purposes or subject to easements therefor.
STREET LINE: A dividing line between a lot, tract or parcel of land and a
contiguous street.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS: Any change in the supporting members of a building,
such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams or girders, or any
substantial change in the roof or in the exterior walls.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires permanent
location on the ground or attached to something having a permanent location on
the ground, including, but without limiting the generality of the foregoing,
advertising signs, billboards, backstops and pergolas.
TOURIST OR TRAILER CAMP: An area containing one or more structures, designed or
intended to be used as temporary living facilities of two (2) or more families,
and intended primarily for automobile transients or providing spaces where two
(2) or more tents or auto trailers can be or are intended to be parked. (Where
desired, these can be separately defined and regulated.)
YARD: An open space on the same lot with a building, unoccupied and
unobstructed by any portion of a structure from the ground upward, except as
otherwise provided herein.
In measuring a yard for the purpose of determining the width of a side yard, or
the depth of a rear yard, the mean horizontal distance between the lot line and
the main building shall be used.
YARD, FRONT: A yard extending across the front of a lot between the side yard
lines, and being the minimum horizontal distance between the street line and
the main building or any projection thereto other than the projection of the
usual steps.
YARD, REAR: A yard extending across the rear of a lot, measured between the
side lot lines, and being the minimum horizontal distance between the rear lot
line and the rear of the main building or any projections other than steps. On
corner lots, the rear yard shall be considered as parallel to the street upon
which the lot has its least dimension. On both corner lots and interior lots,
the rear yard shall, in all cases, be at the opposite end of the lot from the
front yard.
YARD, SIDE: A yard between the main building and the side line of the lot, and
extending from the front line to the rear yard line. (1982 Code § 5-1-1; amd.
Ord. 319, 3-20-1995; 2016 Code; Ord. 20-555, 11-16-2020)
CHAPTER 3
ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
SECTION:
10-3-1: Districts Established
10-3-2: Zoning Map
10-3-3: Determination Of District Boundaries
10-3-4: Zoning Of Annexed Property
10-3-5: Zoning Of Vacated Public Ways
10-3-1: DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
In order to classify, regulate and restrict the locations of trades, industries
and buildings designed for specific uses, to regulate and limit the height and
bulk of buildings hereafter erected or structurally altered, to regulate and
determine the intensity of use of the lot areas, and to regulate and determine
the areas of yards, courts and other open spaces within and surrounding such
buildings, the village is hereby divided into districts, of which there shall
be five (5) in number, known as:
A Single-family dwelling district
E Multi-family residential district
B Country district
C Business and commercial district
D Industrial district
(1982 Code § 5-2-1; amd. Ord. 319, 3-20-1995)
10-3-2: ZONING MAP:
The boundaries of the districts are shown upon the map designated as the
"district map", which is made a part of this title by reference. Said district
map and all notations, references and other information shown thereon are
considered a part of this title and have the same force and effect as if the
district map and all the notations, references and other information shown
thereon were all fully set forth or described herein, the original of which
district map is properly attested and is on file with the village clerk. (1982
Code § 5-2-2)
10-3-3: DETERMINATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
Where uncertainty may exist with respect to the boundaries of the various
districts as shown on the district map, the following rules shall apply:
   A.   The district boundaries are either streets or alleys unless otherwise
shown, and where the districts designated on the district map are bounded
approximately by the street or alley lines, the street or alley shall be
construed to be the boundary of the district.
   B.   Where district boundaries are not otherwise indicated, and where the
property has been or may hereafter be divided into blocks and lots, the
district boundaries shall be construed to be the lot lines; and where the
districts designated on said district map are bounded approximately by lot
lines, the lot lines shall be construed to be the boundary of the districts
unless the boundaries are otherwise indicated on the map.
   C.   In unsubdivided property, the district boundary lines on the map shall
be determined by use of the scale appearing on the map. (1982 Code § 5-2-2)
10-3-4: ZONING OF ANNEXED PROPERTY:
Any and all property which may hereafter be annexed to the village shall, prior
to the election at which the question of such annexation is to be submitted to
the citizens of the village, be studied by the zoning board of appeals and
tentatively classified into one or more of the several districts. Such
property, when such annexation shall become final, shall be in the district as
designated by the zoning board of appeals. Within six (6) months of the date of
such annexation, the zoning board of appeals shall call a public hearing for
the purpose of zoning such annexed property and, within thirty (30) days after
such hearing, shall recommend to the village board that the annexation
ordinance be amended so as to classify such property in accordance with such
recommendations. (Note: All property annexed to the village shall be classified
as a class A district until this classification is changed by amendment to this
title.) (1982 Code § 5-2-3; amd. 2016 Code)
10-3-5: ZONING OF VACATED PUBLIC WAYS:
Whenever any street, alley or other public way is vacated, the zoning district
adjoining each side of such street, alley or public way shall be automatically
extended to the center of such a vacation, and all areas included in the
vacation shall then and henceforth be subject to all appropriate regulations of
the extended districts. (1982 Code § 5-2-4)
CHAPTER 4
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. A SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-4A-1: Scope
10-4A-2: Permitted Uses; Floor Area And Size
10-4A-3: Lot And Area Regulations
10-4A-4: Building Height
10-4A-5: Parking Regulations
10-4A-6: Penalty
10-4A-1: SCOPE:
The regulations set forth in this article, or set forth elsewhere in this title
when referred to in this article, are the district regulations in a single-
family dwelling district. (See section
10-2-1 of this title for the definition of single-family dwelling.) (Ord. 383,
11-18-2002, eff. 12-1-2002)
10-4A-2: PERMITTED USES; FLOOR AREA AND SIZE:
A building or premises shall be used only for the following purposes:
Single-family dwellings of a minimum of one thousand (1,000) square feet of
floor area for the main structure, exclusive of one story open porches and
garages or eight hundred fifty (850) square feet with full basement or multiple
story structure.
Accessory buildings including a class I garage and accessory uses customarily
incidental to the above uses, not involving the conduct of a business.
Accessory buildings shall also include places of worship but only when off
street parking is provided upon the lot or within two hundred feet (200')
thereof, which space is adequate to accommodate one car for every eight (8)
persons for which seating is provided in the main auditorium of the place of
worship. Also public schools, elementary, high, colleges or private schools,
having no rooms used for housing or sleeping purposes.
Signs appertaining to the lease, hire or sale of a building or premises, not
exceeding ten (10) square feet in area are acceptable. (Ord. 383, 11-18-2002,
eff. 12-1-2002; amd. 2016 Code)
10-4A-3: LOT AND AREA REGULATIONS:
   A.   Building Setback; Permitted Encroachments:
      1.   No building, except garages and other buildings incidental to home
occupancy, whether stationary or portable, shall be erected closer than twenty
five feet (25') to the property line nor more than fifty six feet (56') from
the property line where a street exists, this measurement being to the front
foundation line of the building.
      2.   Unenclosed covered porches, the floors of which are not higher than
the level of the first floor may encroach on such restricted areas by
projection thereon not more than five feet (5') and not exceeding fifty (50)
square feet in area. Uncovered porches and terraces may encroach on such areas
by projecting thereon not more than fifteen feet (15').
   B.   Yards:
      1.   Front Yard: The front yard shall be determined by the twenty five
foot (25') setback.
      2.   Side Yards:
         a.   Interior lots (other than corner lots): Except as may be
hereinafter provided, there shall be a side yard on each side of the building
having a width of not less than five feet (5') measured from the foundation of
the major structure; except, that a detached garage or other outbuilding,
whether stationary or portable, located fifty six feet (56') or more from the
front property line, may be located within three feet (3') of the property
line.
         b.   Corner lots:
            (1)   The measurement on the lot division line side shall apply as
stated in subsection B2a of this section.
            (2)   To the street side, subsection B2a of this section shall
apply; with the exception, that a detached garage or other outbuilding located
fifty six feet (56') from the front property line shall have at least the same
setback from the street side property line as the existing main structure.
      3.   Rear Yard:
         a.   The rear yard shall consist of twenty percent (20%) of the area
of the lot.
         b.   No building shall be built closer than thirteen feet (13') to the
rear property line; the "rear property line" being defined as the center of the
alley if such exists. If no alley exists, it shall be five feet (5') from the
rear of the property line.
   C.   One Building Per Lot: Not more than one dwelling shall be occupied or
constructed on any one lot in the village within the A district.
   D.   Permitted Encroachments: Uncovered porches or terraces may be built and
maintained within any part of the free and open spaces as long as they do not
encroach within five feet (5') of a lot division line.
   E.   Variations: Should any change or variation from the regulation of this
section be requested on the building permit, the building permit shall be
denied by the building/zoning inspector and returned to the village clerk who
will notify the zoning board of a need for a meeting of said board to consider
the variation and then they will make a recommendation to the village board who
will determine the final decision. (Ord. 383, 11-18-2002, eff. 12-1-2002; amd.
2016 Code)
10-4A-4: BUILDING HEIGHT:
No building shall exceed forty feet (40') in height, measured from the ground
level, excluding basement, to the highest point on the roof. (Ord. 383, 11-18-
2002, eff. 12-1-2002; amd. Ord. 22-571, 4-25-2022, eff. 5-5-2022)
10-4A-5: PARKING REGULATIONS:
Off street parking shall be provided for a minimum of two (2) vehicles. A
suitably surfaced driveway will satisfy this requirement. (Ord. 383, 11-18-
2002, eff. 12-1-2002)
10-4A-6: PENALTY:
Any person or entity convicted of violating any provision of this article shall
be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for said violation, and each day that such a
violation exists or continues shall be deemed a distinct and separate offense.
(Ord. 14-485, 1-20-2014)
ARTICLE B. E MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-4B-1: Scope
10-4B-2: Purpose
10-4B-3: Definitions
10-4B-4: Permitted Use; Floor Area
10-4B-5: Lot And Area Regulations
10-4B-6: Building Height
10-4B-7: Parking Regulations
10-4B-8: Sewer And Water Requirements
10-4B-9: Compliance With Local, State And Federal Regulations
10-4B-1: SCOPE:
The regulations set forth in this article, or set forth elsewhere in this title
when referred to in this article, are the district regulations in the E multi-
family residential district. (Ord. 319, 3-20-1995)
10-4B-2: PURPOSE:
The E multi-family residential district is designed to provide sites for
multiple dwelling structures on land previously used for public school
purposes. The multiple dwelling is further provided to serve the limited needs
for the apartment type of unit in an otherwise single-family residential
community. (Ord. 319, 3-20-1995)
10-4B-3: DEFINITIONS:
DWELLING: A building or portion thereof, but not including a house trailer or
mobile home, designed or used exclusively for residential occupancy, but not
including trailers, hotels, motels, boarding houses or lodging houses.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A building or portion thereof designed or altered
for residential occupancy by two (2) or more families living independently of
each other in their own dwelling unit.
DWELLING UNIT: One or more rooms that are: a) located in a dwelling and that
are b) arranged, designed or used as living quarters for one family only as
defined herein. Each dwelling unit shall contain a complete set of kitchen and
bathroom facilities permanently installed.
FAMILY: One or more persons related by blood, marriage or adoption, or a group
of not more than five (5) persons who need not be related by blood, marriage or
adoption, living together and maintaining a common household, but not including
sororities, fraternities, or other similar organizations.
FLOOR AREA: The total horizontal area of living space enclosed by the exterior
walls of a building measured at the outside of such exterior walls including
partitions, closets, bath and utility rooms but not including cellars,
basements, unfinished attics, garages, breezeways, porches and patios and other
spaces not used ordinarily for living, eating and sleeping purposes. Unfinished
areas above the ground floor living spaces may be included; provided, that
subflooring is laid and windows and stairways are installed as required by
village ordinances. (Ord. 319, 3-20-1995)
10-4B-4: PERMITTED USE; FLOOR AREA:
A building or premises shall be used only for multiple-family dwellings with a
minimum of six hundred (600) square feet per dwelling unit, exclusive of one
story open porches and garages, with a variance allowance of two percent (2%)
thereof. (Ord. 319, 3-20-1995)
10-4B-5: LOT AND AREA REGULATIONS:
   A.   Yards:
      1.   Front Yard: No building shall be erected or extended to a point
closer than twenty five feet (25') from any street. When the setback of the
houses on the street are uniformly in line, the new construction or any
addition must be built to maintain continuity of the prevailing setback of the
existing dwellings.
      2.   Side Yards:
         a.   There shall be a side yard on each side of a building having a
width of not less than ten percent (10%) of the lot width.
         b.   In no case shall a side yard be less than five feet (5'); except,
that a detached garage or other accessory building located sixty feet (60') or
more from the front property line and having a wall roughly parallel to the
side lot line twenty four feet (24') or less in length may be located within
two feet (2') of the side lot line.
         c.   A side yard need not exceed twenty feet (20') in width.
      3.   Rear Yard: The rear yard shall have a depth of at least twenty
percent (20%) of the lot depth, but in no case less than twenty feet (20').
Rear yard depth need not exceed forty feet (40').
   B.   Lot Coverage: The total lot area covered by all buildings on a lot
shall not exceed eighty percent (80%).
   C.   Space Between Buildings: When more than one building containing
dwelling units is located on a lot, the distance between opposing walls of any
two (2) buildings containing dwelling units shall be at least thirty feet (30')
if either wall contains windows within the portions where the walls overlap, or
fifteen feet (15') if neither wall contains windows within the portions where
they overlap. (Ord. 319, 3-20-1995)
10-4B-6: BUILDING HEIGHT:
No new building shall exceed three (3) stories or forty five feet (45') in
height. (Ord. 319, 3-20-1995)
10-4B-7: PARKING REGULATIONS:
Off street vehicle parking shall be provided at the rate of two (2) spaces for
each dwelling unit. For new construction, such space shall not be located
within twenty five feet (25') of any street, nor less than five feet (5') of
any side or rear lot line, unless located within a detached garage or carport
which is located sixty feet (60') or more from the property line, and such
garage or carport has a wall roughly parallel to the adjoining lot line twenty
four feet (24') or less in length, in which case, it may be located not less
than two feet (2') from that lot line or lines. (Ord. 319, 3-20-1995)
10-4B-8: SEWER AND WATER REQUIREMENTS:
All dwelling units shall have sufficient water and sewer capacity. (Ord. 319,
3-20-1995)
10-4B-9: COMPLIANCE WITH LOCAL, STATE AND FEDERAL REGULATIONS:
All dwellings and dwelling units shall strictly conform to all applicable
federal and state regulations and local ordinances, and all applicable
building, electrical and fire codes. (Ord. 319, 3-20-1995)
CHAPTER 5
B COUNTRY DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5-1: Scope
10-5-2: Permitted Uses
10-5-3: Lot Requirements
10-5-4: Building Height
10-5-5: Parking Regulations
10-5-1: SCOPE:
The regulations set forth in this chapter, or set forth elsewhere in this title
when referred to in this chapter, are the district regulations in the B country
district. (1982 Code §
5-4-1)
10-5-2: PERMITTED USES:
A building or premises shall be used only for the following purposes:
Farms, as defined in section
10-2-1 of this chapter, excluding the raising of livestock except on adequately
fenced tracts, but in no event shall such livestock or poultry be housed or
confined within two hundred feet (200') of a tract of one acre or less
containing a single-family residence.
Golf courses and private clubs, except miniature golf courses and practice
driving tees and similar commercial enterprises.
Parks and playgrounds owned by public agencies.
Places of worship, but only when off street parking space is provided upon the
lot or within two hundred feet (200') thereof, which space is adequate to
accommodate one car for every eight (8) persons for which seating is provided
in the main auditorium of the place of worship and exclusive of the seating
capacity of Sunday school and other special rooms.
Private clubs, except skeet and gun clubs and other clubs, the chief activity
of which is a service customarily carried on as a business.
Public and private forests, nurseries and wildlife reservations or similar
conservation projects.
Public schools, elementary and high, and private schools having a curriculum
the same as ordinarily given in public schools, and having no rooms regularly
used for housing or sleeping purposes.
Riding academies operated on a commercial basis.
Single-family dwellings.
Truck and flower gardening, nurseries, orchards, and greenhouses.
Accessory buildings and accessory uses customarily incidental to the above
uses, not involving the conduct of a business, including home occupations where
no nameplate is used in connection with said use which exceeds two (2) square
feet in area, farm buildings and one class I garage and one private stable. Any
accessory building that is not a part of the main structure shall be located
not less than sixty feet (60') from the front lot line. Accessory buildings
shall also include place of worship or similar bulletin boards, and signs not
exceeding twelve (12) square feet in area appertaining to the lease, hire or
sale of a building or premises, which boards or signs shall be removed as soon
as the premises is leased, hired, or sold; and provided further, that not more
than one sign of the above character shall be permitted upon any lot. (1982
Code § 5-4-2; amd. 2016 Code)
10-5-3: LOT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Yards: No building shall be erected within fifty feet (50') of any
property or street line.
   B.   Lot Area And Width: Every lot or tract of land upon which a building is
erected shall have an area of not less than three (3) acres and an average
width of not less than two hundred fifty feet (250'); except, that any of the
uses permitted in this district may be erected or constructed on a smaller lot
of record. (1982 Code § 5-4-5)
10-5-4: BUILDING HEIGHT:
No building hereafter erected or altered shall exceed two and one-half (21/2)
stories or forty feet (40') in height. (1982 Code § 5-4-4)
10-5-5: PARKING REGULATIONS:
Any use that is constructed or reconstructed in the B country district shall
provide and maintain adequate parking space upon the lot or tract. (1982 Code §
5-4-3)
CHAPTER 6
C BUSINESS AND COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-6-1: Scope
10-6-2: Permitted Uses
10-6-3: Yards
10-6-4: Building Height
10-6-5: Parking Regulations
10-6-6: Performance Standards
10-6-1: SCOPE:
The regulations set forth in this chapter, or set forth elsewhere in this title
when referred to in this chapter, are the regulations of the C business and
commercial district. (1982 Code § 5-5-1)
10-6-2: PERMITTED USES:
A building or premises in the commercial district may be used for the following
purposes:
Bakery.
Bank.
Barbershop or beauty shop.
Business or commercial school, or dancing academy.
Catering establishment.
Class III and IV garages.
Clinics (medical-dental).
Communications towers.
Dyeing and cleaning works using a fluid which base is of a material other than
petroleum or any one of its derivatives.
Electric shop.
Filling stations.
Grain elevators.
Hospitals and clinics for animals but not open kennels.
Hotel.
Laundry.
Lumberyard (with solid enclosure).
Messenger and telegraph service station.
Office.
Painting and decorating shop.
Photograph gallery.
Plumbing shop.
Recreation or amusement center.
Restaurant.
Sales or showroom.
Shoe repair shop.
Store for the collection and distribution of laundry and dry cleaning.
Store or shop for the conduct of retail business.
Tailor shop.
Theater, except open air drive-in theaters; provided, however, that no theater
shall be erected or reconstructed unless there is provided on the lot, or
within three hundred feet (300') thereof, parking space to accommodate one
automobile for every five (5) seats in the theater.
Tinsmithing shop.
Tire repair shop.
Undertaking establishment.
Used car sales or storage lots but excluding the salvage of automobiles or of
parts thereof.
Utility towers and similar structures.
Woodworking shop. (1982 Code § 5-5-2; amd. Ord. 442, 2-15-2010)
10-6-3: YARDS:
   A.   Front Yard: The front yard shall be determined by the setback which
shall be thirty five feet (35') from the street to provide a parking area.
   B.   Side Yards: The side yard requirements are the same as the front yard
when the building abuts a street on two (2) sides; that is, on the front and on
one side, otherwise there are no side yard requirements.
   C.   Rear Yard: The rear yard will be ten feet (10') from the lot line and
will be left open. (1982 Code § 5-5-5)
10-6-4: BUILDING HEIGHT:
   A.   No building shall exceed two and one-half (21/2) stories or thirty feet
(30') in height, except as otherwise provided by subsection B of this section
or chapter 11 of this title.
   B.   No tower located in Tower Park (as defined in this subsection) shall
exceed the height of two hundred thirty feet (230'). For the purposes of this
subsection, "Tower Park" is defined as the parcel of property bordered by Vine
Street on the north, First Street on the east, Mulberry Street on the south and
Second Street on the west. (Ord. 442, 2-15-2010)
10-6-5: PARKING REGULATIONS:
Off street parking spaces shall be provided at the rate of one space for each
three hundred (300) square feet of floor area in the building which is used for
commercial purposes. (1982 Code § 5-5-3)
10-6-6: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
It is understood that the business establishments designated herein or any
other establishments approved for commercial operation within the village
limits shall in no manner be of such nature to be noxious or offensive to the
residents of the adjacent areas. Complaints of such nature may be made either
to the building/zoning inspector or directly to the zoning board of appeals.
(1982 Code § 5-5-2; amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 7
D INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-7-1: Scope
10-7-2: Permitted Uses
10-7-3: Yards
10-7-4: Building Height
10-7-5: Parking Regulations
10-7-1: SCOPE:
The regulations set forth in this chapter, or set forth elsewhere in this title
when referred to in this chapter, are the district regulations in the D
industrial district. (1982 Code § 5-6-1)
10-7-2: PERMITTED USES:
A building or premises shall be used only for the following purposes:
Any use permitted in the C business and commercial district pursuant to section
10-6-2 of this title.
Blacksmith shop.
Bottling works.
Coal yards.
Dyeing and cleaning establishments.
Fertilizer plants.
Grain elevators.
Industrial and manufacturing plants where the operations are conducted in one
or more buildings and not more than ten percent (10%) of the tract is used for
open storage of products, equipment or materials.
Lumberyard or building materials yard.
Milk distribution station.
Printing plants.
Public utility substations and facilities.
Warehouses and storage plants.
Wholesale establishments.
Wholesale storage of oil, gasoline or other petroleum products. (1982 Code § 5-
6-2) (amd. Ord. 20-555, 11-16-2020)
10-7-3: YARDS:
   A.   Front Yard: There are no front yard requirements except, where a
building abuts a street, and the building will then be set back ten feet (10')
from the curb line.
   B.   Side Yards: There are no side yard requirements except where a building
abuts a street, and such side yards then will be ten feet (10') from the curb
line.
   C.   Rear Yard: There are no rear yard requirements except where a building
abuts a street, and the setback will then be ten feet (10') from the curb line.
(1982 Code § 5-6-5)
10-7-4: BUILDING HEIGHT:
No building shall exceed three (3) stories or forty five feet (45') in height.
(1982 Code § 5-6-4)
10-7-5: PARKING REGULATIONS:
Off street parking spaces shall be provided on the lot or in a building on the
lot adequate to accommodate the vehicles of the employees of any of the uses
permitted in this district as well as the trucks and other vehicles owned by or
in custody of the establishment. (1982 Code § 5-6-3; amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 8
NONCONFORMITIES
SECTION:
10-8-1: Continuance Of Nonconforming Use
10-8-2: Damaged Structures
10-8-3: Discontinuance Of Nonconforming Use
10-8-4: Previously Unlawful Nonconforming Structures
10-8-5: Nonconforming Commercial Or Industrial Buildings
10-8-6: Existing Mobile Homes
10-8-1: CONTINUANCE OF NONCONFORMING USE:
   A.   The lawful uses of land for storage purposes (where such use is not an
adjunct of any structure) and for advertising signs and billboards which do not
conform to the provisions of this title shall be discontinued within five (5)
years from the effective date hereof, and the same uses of land which become
nonconforming by reason of a subsequent change by amending this title shall
also be discontinued within five (5) years from the date of the change.
   B.   The lawful use of a building or mobile home existing at the effective
date hereof may be continued, subject to the provisions of this title, although
such use does not conform with the provisions hereof. If no structural
alterations are made, a nonconforming use may be changed to another
nonconforming use of the same or more restricted classification. The foregoing
provisions shall also apply to nonconforming uses in districts hereafter
changed. Whenever a nonconforming use of a building has been changed to a more
restricted use or to a conforming use, such use shall not hereafter be changed
to a less restricted use. (1982 Code § 5-7-1)
10-8-2: DAMAGED STRUCTURES:
No building or mobile home which has been damaged by fire, explosion, act of
God or the public enemy to the extent of more than fifty percent (50%) of its
value shall be restored except in conformity with the regulations of this
title. (1982 Code § 5-7-1)
10-8-3: DISCONTINUANCE OF NONCONFORMING USE:
In the event that a nonconforming use of any building or premises is
discontinued or its normal operation stopped for a period of two (2) years, the
use of the same shall thereafter conform to the regulations of the district in
which it is located. (1982 Code § 5-7-1) (amd. Ord. 20-548, 6-15-2020)
10-8-4: PREVIOUSLY UNLAWFUL NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES:
The nonconforming structure that was erected, converted or structurally altered
in violation of the provisions of this title shall not be validated by the
adoption of these regulations or amendments hereto, and the same may be ordered
removed or corrected by the proper officials at any time. (1982 Code § 5-7-1)
10-8-5: NONCONFORMING COMMERCIAL OR INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS:
Except as hereafter provided, all nonconforming commercial or industrial
buildings located within any dwelling district shall be removed or converted,
and the building thereafter devoted to a use permitted in the district in
accordance with the following schedule:
   A.   In case of buildings erected before January 1, 1925, on or before
January 1, 1984.
   B.   In the case of buildings erected between January 1, 1925, and January
1, 1940, on or before January 1, 1984.
   C.   In the case of buildings erected between January 1, 1940, and January
1, 1945, on or before January 1, 1989.
   D.   In the case of buildings erected since January 1, 1945, within forty
(40) years from the date of issue of a building permit therefor. (1982 Code §
5-7-1)
10-8-6: EXISTING MOBILE HOMES:
Except as hereinafter provided, all mobile homes located within any dwelling
district shall be removed or converted and the use of the same shall conform to
regulations of the district in which it is located, upon the occurrence of any
of the following events:
   A.   The use of the mobile home as a dwelling is discontinued for a period
of sixty (60) days.
   B.   The mobile home is removed and not replaced from its existing location
as of the effective date hereof for a period of ten (10) days. (1982 Code § 5-
7-1)
CHAPTER 9
SPECIAL USES
SECTION:
10-9-1: Permitted Special Uses
10-9-2: Board Of Appeals Report And Recommendation
10-9-1: PERMITTED SPECIAL USES:
The village board may, by special permit, after public hearing held by the
board of appeals and advertised as provided in title 2, chapter 1 of this code,
and subject to such protective restrictions as it may deem necessary, authorize
the location, extension or structural alteration of any of the following
buildings or uses, or an increase in their height, in any district from which
they are prohibited or limited by this title; provided, that such buildings or
uses will not have any serious and depreciating effect upon the value of
surrounding property:
   Airport, landing field or landing strip.
   Any public building erected and used by any department of a municipal,
county, state or federal government.
   Any use which is generally similar to the uses permitted in the district in
which such proposed use is sought to be located by special permit which
conforms to the regulations for such district.
   Areas for the dumping or disposal of trash and garbage.
   Cemetery or mausoleum.
   Extraction of sand, gravel or other raw materials.
   Greenhouses.
   Hospitals, clinics and institutions, except institutions for criminals and
those for persons who are mentally ill or have contagious diseases; provided,
however, that such buildings may occupy not over fifty percent (50%) of the
total area of the lot or tract; and provided further, that the buildings shall
be set back from all yard lines heretofore established an additional distance
of not less than two feet (2') for each foot of building height, and that
adequate off street parking space will be provided.
   Hotels where the primary purpose is to provide seasonal or year round living
facilities, but only when they are located on large tracts and would not
adversely affect surrounding residential development.
   Motor vehicle junkyard.
   Nurseries and truck gardens.
   Parking lots on land not more than three hundred feet (300') from the
boundary of any commercial, business or industrial district under such
conditions as will protect the character of surrounding property.
   Radio towers and radio broadcasting stations.
   Riding stables.
   Roadside stands, commercial amusement or recreational development for
temporary or seasonal periods.
   Solar panel(s).
(1982 Code § 5-7-2) (amd. Ord. 20-555, 11-16-2020; Ord. 22-576, 8-18-2022)
10-9-2: BOARD OF APPEALS REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION:
Before the issuance of any special permit for any of the buildings or uses
enumerated in section
10-9-1 of this chapter, the board of appeals shall report to the village board
of trustees regarding the public hearing thereon and also upon the effect of
such proposed building or use upon the character of the neighborhood, traffic
conditions, public utility facilities, and other matters pertaining to the
public health, public safety or general welfare. No action shall be taken upon
any application for a proposed building or use above referred to until and
unless the report of the board of appeals has been filed, but such report shall
be made within sixty (60) days after the matter has been referred to the board
of appeals by the village board. If the board of appeals recommends against the
issuance of the special permit, then said permit may be issued only by an
affirmative two-thirds (2/3) vote of the voting members of the village board of
trustees. (1982 Code § 5-7-2)
CHAPTER 10
COMMUNITY UNIT PLAN
SECTION:
10-10-1: Approval Procedures And Conditions
10-10-2: Issuance Of Building Permit And Certificate Of Occupancy
10-10-1: APPROVAL PROCEDURES AND CONDITIONS:
The owner of any tract of land may submit to the village board a plan for the
use and development of all of a tract of land for residential and allied
purposes. The development plan shall be referred to the zoning board of appeals
for study and report and for a public hearing. If the zoning board of appeals
approves the plans, they shall then be submitted to the village board for
consideration and approval. The approval and recommendations of the zoning
board of appeals shall be accompanied by a report stating the reasons for
approval or disapproval of the application and specific evidence that the
proposed community unit plan meets or does not meet the following conditions:
(1982 Code § 5-8-1; amd. 2016 Code)
   A.   That the property adjacent to the area included in the plan will not be
adversely affected.
   B.   That the plan is consistent with the intent and purposes of this title
to promote public health, safety, morals and general welfare. (1982 Code § 5-8-
1)
   C.   That the buildings shall be used only for single-family dwellings and
the usual accessory uses such as garages, storage spaces or community
activities, including places of worship. (1982 Code § 5-8-1; amd. 2016 Code)
   D.   That the average lot area per family contained in the site, exclusive
of the area occupied by streets, will not be less than the lot area per family
required in the district in which the development is located. (1982 Code § 5-8-
1)
10-10-2: ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMIT AND CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
If the village board approves the plan, a building permit and certificate of
occupancy may be issued even though the use of land and the location of the
buildings to be erected in the area, and the yards and open spaces contemplated
by the plan, do not conform in all respects to the district regulations for the
district in which it is located. (1982 Code § 5-8-2)
CHAPTER 11
SUPPLEMENTARY ZONING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-11-1: Scope
10-11-2: Height Of Structures
10-11-3: Accessory Buildings
10-11-4: Temporary Buildings
10-11-5: More Than One Commercial, Industrial Or Institutional Building Per Lot
10-11-6: Yards, Open Space And Projections
10-11-7: Fences, Hedges And Trees
10-11-8: Lots Abutting Alleys
10-11-9: Resubdivision Of Lots
10-11-10: Solar Energy Systems
10-11-1: SCOPE:
The district regulations hereinafter set forth in this chapter qualify or
supplement, as the case may be, the district regulations appearing elsewhere in
this title. (1982 Code § 5-9-1)
10-11-2: HEIGHT OF STRUCTURES:
   A.   Public, semipublic or public service buildings, hospitals, institutions
or schools, when permitted in a district, may be erected to a height not
exceeding sixty feet (60'), and churches and temples may be erected to a height
not exceeding seventy five feet (75') if the building is set back from each
yard line at least one foot (1') for each foot of additional building height
above the height limit otherwise provided in the district in which the building
is located.
   B.   Single-family dwellings may be increased in height by not more than ten
feet (10') when the side and rear yards are increased over the yard
requirements of the district in which they are located by not less than ten
feet (10') but the dwellings shall not exceed three (3) stories in height.
(1982 Code § 5-9-1)
   C.   No building exceeding two and one-half (21/2) stories or thirty feet
(30') in height shall be erected within seven hundred fifty feet (750') of any
airport, landing strip or landing field.
   D.   Buildings that are to be used for storage purposes may exceed the
maximum number of stories that are permitted in the district in which they are
located, but such buildings shall not exceed the number of feet of building
height permitted in such districts. (1982 Code § 5-9-5)
   E.   Chimneys, cooling towers, elevator bulkheads, fire towers, monuments,
stocks, stage towers or scenery lofts, tanks, water towers, ornamental towers
and spires, church steeples, radio towers or necessary mechanical appurtenances
may be erected to a height in accordance with existing or hereafter adopted
ordinances of the village. (1982 Code § 5-9-1)
10-11-3: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:
   A.   No accessory building shall be constructed upon a lot until the
construction of the main building has been actually commenced, and no accessory
building shall be used for dwelling purposes.
   B.   Accessory buildings shall have a height limitation of fifteen feet
(15') and not more than one hundred (100) square feet in area. (1982 Code § 5-
9-2)
   C.   Accessory buildings may be built in a required rear yard, but such
accessory buildings shall not occupy more than thirty percent (30%) of the
required rear yard. (1982 Code § 5-9-1)
10-11-4: TEMPORARY BUILDINGS:
Temporary buildings that are used in conjunction with construction work only
may be permitted in any district during the period that such construction work
is in progress, but such temporary buildings shall be removed upon completion
of the construction. (1982 Code § 5-9-5)
10-11-5: MORE THAN ONE COMMERCIAL, INDUSTRIAL OR INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING PER
LOT:
More than one industrial, commercial or institutional building may be erected
upon a single lot or tract; provided, that such buildings are developed as a
unit, but the yards and open spaces required around the boundaries of the lot
or tract shall not be encroached upon by any such building, nor shall there be
any change in the intensity of use regulations. (1982 Code § 5-9-5)
10-11-6: YARDS, OPEN SPACE AND PROJECTIONS:
   A.   Every part of a required yard shall be open to the sky, unobstructed,
except for accessory buildings in a rear yard, and except for the ordinary
projections of sills, belt courses, cornices and ornamental features projecting
not to exceed twelve inches (12"). (1982 Code § 5-9-3)
   B.   Open or lattice enclosed fire escapes, fireproof outside stairways, and
balconies opening upon fire towers projecting into a rear yard not more than
five feet (5'), and the ordinary projections of chimneys and flues into the
rear yard, may be permitted by the building/zoning inspector. (1982 Code § 5-9-
3; amd. 2016 Code)
10-11-7: FENCES, HEDGES AND TREES:
   A.   1. Fences in which the opening between the materials of which the fence
is constructed represents less than seventy percent (70%) of the total fence
may be erected to a height not exceeding six feet (6') along the boundaries of
a lot; except, that no such fence shall be erected within thirty feet (30')
from any curb or edge of a street intersection. (1982 Code § 5-9-4; amd. 2016
Code)
      2.   Wire fences and other fences in which the openings between the
materials of which the fence is constructed represent more than seventy percent
(70%) of the total fence area may be erected to a height of six feet (6').
   B.   No privacy fence shall be constructed to reach closer to the front
property line than five feet (5') back from the front structural line of the
main residential building.
   C.   No hedge, trees or other obstruction shall be permitted to be within
thirty feet (30') from any curb or edge of a street intersection so as to
obstruct the vision of motorists. (1982 Code § 5-9-4)
10-11-8: LOTS ABUTTING ALLEYS:
Whenever a lot abuts upon an alley, one-half (1/2) of the width of the alley
may be considered as a portion of the required rear yard. (1982 Code § 5-9-1)
10-11-9: RESUBDIVISION OF LOTS:
Two (2) or more contiguous nonconforming lots of record may be resubdivided
into the same or lesser numbers of lots; provided, that none of such lots,
after such resubdivision, will have an area less than that which any of said
lots so resubdivided had prior to such resubdivision. (1982 Code § 5-9-6)
10-11-10: SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS:
   A   Definitions: The following terms and phrases shall have the definitions
set forth below, except where context clearly requires otherwise:
   DISTRIBUTED GENERATION INSTALLER: A person who has completed all
requirements to be certified by the State of Illinois and the Illinois Commerce
Commission in order to install renewable energy appliances and equipment.
   GROUND MOUNT SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM: A solar energy system that is directly
installed into the ground is not attached or affixed to an existing structure.
   PERSONAL SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM (PSES): Any device or combination of devices or
elements which rely upon direct sunlight as an energy source including but not
limited to any substance or device which collects sunlight for generating
electricity for use on-site. However, the energy output may be delivered to a
power grid to offset the cost of energy on-site.
   PERSONAL SOLAR WATER SYSTEM: Solar water systems may be allowed as roof or
wall mounts as long as they are not on the side of the structure facing the
street. If it is a room mount, it cannot project above the ridge height or be
visible from the street facing side.
   SOLAR ENERGY: Radiant energy received from the sun that can be collected in
the form of heat or light by a solar collector.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM (SES): The components and subsystems required to convert
solar energy into electric or thermal energy suitable for use. The area of the
system includes all the land inside the perimeter of the system, which extends
to any fencing.
   SOLAR FARM ENERGY SYSTEM (SFES): A commercial facility that converts
sunlight to electricity, whether by photovoltaics, concentrating solar thermal
devices, or various experimental technologies for on-site or off-site use with
the primary purpose of selling wholesale or retail generated electricity in
excess of one (1) acre.
   SOLAR PANEL: A device for the direct conversion of solar energy into
electricity or heat.
   STRUCTURE MOUNT SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM: A solar energy system in which solar
panels are mounted on a structure.
   B.   Personal Solar Energy System (PSES):
      1.   The purpose of these regulations is to provide a uniform and
comprehensive set of standards for the installation and use of PSESs designed
for on-site home and small commercial use that are used primarily to reduce on-
site consumption of utility power. The intent of these regulations is to
protect the public health, safety, and community welfare without unduly
restricting the development of PSESs. The provisions of this section shall not
be deemed to nullify any provisions of state or federal law.
      2.   Personal Solar Energy Systems shall be subject to the requirements
included in the Village Zoning Code unless otherwise stated herein:
         a.   All applicable laws, statutes, regulations and ordinances shall
be followed.
         b.   Use: The PSES shall provide electricity or heat for on-site use
by the owner. This does not prohibit an owner from making excess power
available for net metering.
         c.   Approved Solar Components: Electric solar system components must
have an Underwriters Laboratory (UL) listing or approved equivalent.
         d.   Reflection: PSES systems must have reflective/anti-glare coating
that was part of manufacturing process.
         e.   Utility Notification: All grid-integrated solar energy systems
shall comply with the interconnection requirements of the electric utility.
Off-grid systems are exempt from this requirement.
         f.   Placement: No building of any structure will be allowed over a
utility or within a utility easement.
         g.   All PSES systems must follow manufacturers installation
instructions.
         h.   Framework for PSES shall not extend more than six inches (6")
beyond the width of the installed solar panels.
         i.   Prior Existing PSES: Any nonconforming building, structure, or
use which exists lawfully at the effective date hereof may be continued in
accordance with the grandfathering regulations of this Code.
   C.   Ground Mounted PSES: Ground mounted PSES shall be subject to the
following requirements:
      1.   Ground Mount Personal Solar Energy Systems shall be considered an
accessory structure and require a permit. All requirements imposed by this Code
upon accessory structures shall apply to ground mount personal solar energy
systems to the extent those requirements do not conflict with the provisions of
this Section, except however the ground mount personal solar energy system
shall not be required to be of a color which matches the primary structure.
      2.   Height: Shall not be greater than twelve feet (12') at maximum tilt
of the solar panel(s) in any zoning district.
      3.   Setbacks: No PSES shall be permitted to be in the required front or
side yard.
      4.   Coverage: Ground mount systems shall not exceed seven hundred (700)
square feet of solar panel surface area.
      5.   Prohibited: There shall not be more than one PSES per lot.
      6.   Measurement: Measurements for setbacks are to be based on the
maximum vertical dimensions of the PSES (full horizontal tilt).
      7.   Screening: Ground mount PSES shall be screened from view from
existing dwellings with decorative landscaping or fencing. Landscaping or
fencing must be six feet (6') tall and be installed within thirty (30) days
after ground mounted solar panels are complete.
   D.   Roof Mounted PSES: Roof mounted PSES shall be subject to the following
requirements:
      1.   Roof Mount Personal Solar Energy Systems shall be considered a
building Improvement and requires a permit.
      2.   Height:
         a.   Shall not project more than twelve inches (12") above the roof;
and
         b.   Shall not be greater than the allowable height of any structure
within the zoning district in which the PSES is to be installed, except that if
an existing roof is within twelve inches (12") of the maximum allowable height,
then the PSES may project no more than twelve inches (12") above the roof, even
if it exceeds the maximum allowable height.
      3.   In addition to building setbacks the mounting devises for roof
mounted systems shall not extend beyond the exterior perimeter of the building
on which the systems is mounted or built, unless the collector or mounting
system has been engineered to safely extend beyond the edge, and setback
requirements are not violated. Exterior piping for solar thermal systems shall
be allowed to extend beyond the perimeter of the building on a side yard
exposure.
      4.   Safety: Roof mount solar energy systems, excluding building
integrated systems, shall allow for adequate roof access for firefighting
purposes to the south facing or flat roof upon which the panels are mounted.
Panels should allow for a minimum of a three foot (3') perimeter around panels.
      5.   Roof Coverage: Roof mount solar energy systems shall not occupy more
than eighty percent (80%) of the aggregate square footage of the roof area. The
roof shall be considered a part of a building completely covering and
permanently attached to such building and can be flat or pitched.
   E.   Approval And Building Permits:
      1.   All requests for solar energy systems will require a permit from the
Village of San Jose.
   F.   Non-Conforming Systems:
      1.   All solar energy systems shall be maintained and kept in good
working order. If it is determined that a solar energy system is not being
maintained, kept in good working order, or is no longer being utilized to
perform its intended use for six (6) consecutive months, the property owner
shall be given thirty (30) day notice for removal or repair of the unit and all
equipment. It shall be a unlawful for any person owning or occupying any real
estate located within the Village of San Jose to fail to remove or repair a
solar energy system within thirty (30) days of receipt of the notice for
removal or repair.
   G.   Penalties:
      1.   A failure to obtain applicable permit(s) for the construction of a
solar energy system or failure to comply with the requirements of a permit or
the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed a violation. The Village of San
Jose may bring an action to enforce compliance of the requirements of this
section in accordance with the General Provisions set forth in the Village
Municipal Code.
(Ord. 23-001, 5-29-2023)
TITLE 11
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Streets
11-1-2: Street Lighting
11-1-3: Street Signs
11-1-4: Sidewalks
11-1-5: Curbs And Gutters
11-1-6: Driveways
11-1-7: Survey Monuments
11-1-8: Utility Easements
11-1-9: Utility Connections
11-1-10: Sanitary Sewers
11-1-11: Stormwater Sewers
11-1-12: Fire Hydrants
11-1-13: Parking Areas
11-1-14: Terracing Lots
11-1-15: Inspection Of Improvements
11-1-1: STREETS:
   A.   Specifications:
      1.   No subdivision shall be accepted by the village unless streets
therein platted shall have a minimum width of fifty feet (50'), with the
placement of the curb lines to provide a minimum width of traveled way of
thirty feet (30') except such streets as may be deemed by the village board to
be main thoroughfares, which streets may have a greater dedicated width and/or
traveled way. However, subdivisions may be accepted wherein courts are provided
for a length of not to exceed two hundred fifty feet (250') and a minimum width
of thirty five feet (35') with a traveled way between the curb lines of twenty
six feet (26') and with a turnaround having an inside diameter of not less than
fifty feet (50').
      2.   It is further provided that no subdivision shall be accepted unless
the streets or courts provided therein are surfaced with a gravel foundation
with a minimum thickness of seven inches (7") when thoroughly compacted, and
with B-4 surface of two inch (2") thickness as defined by the division of
highways of the state of Illinois, or its equivalent, approved by the village
board.
   B.   Street Grade: The full dedicated width of all streets shall be brought
to the approximate elevation of the curbs constructed, and in no case below or
more than one foot (1') above the top of the curb, in order to facilitate
installation of sidewalks.
   C.   Maintenance Of Streets; Bond Requirements: As a condition to the
acceptance of any subdivision, the person presenting said subdivision for
acceptance shall agree to maintain the streets in said subdivision for a period
of two (2) years from the date of acceptance of the plat; and before the
acceptance of said subdivision by the village, said person shall post with the
village a good and sufficient bond to assure maintenance of the streets for a
period of two (2) years from the time of acceptance and to ensure the
compliance of said person with all provisions of this chapter, and shall be
subject to any charges by the village for the performance of the work by the
village to be performed by the subdivider herein. Said bond may, at the option
of the subdivider, be a cash bond, surety company bond or personal bond. In the
event either a cash or surety company bond shall be given, the same shall be in
a penal amount one and one-half (11/2) times the basic amount required, which
amount shall be determined by the village board upon recommendation of the
village engineer, and in the event a personal bond shall be given, the same
shall be in an amount double the basic amount required and shall be signed by
the subdivider with two (2) sureties owning real estate located in Mason and
Logan Counties, Illinois, and subject to the approval of the village board.
After the subdivider has substantially performed the obligations of said bond,
the amount of the bond may be reduced proportionately by endorsement thereon
upon written request being made to the village board asking for said reduction,
but the bond will not be canceled in its entirety until complete performance
has been made. (1982 Code §
6-1-2)
11-1-2: STREET LIGHTING:
No subdivision shall be accepted by the village unless the subdivider shall
have provided the same with proper streetlights in a minimum number of
locations for proper lighting in accordance with the approved requirements of
the village engineer, and the estimated cost to the village for electricity and
maintenance of said streetlights for a minimum period of two (2) tax years
subsequent to the acceptance of the subdivision shall be paid by the subdivider
in advance of the acceptance of the subdivision. (1982 Code §
6-1-3; amd. 2016 Code)
11-1-3: STREET SIGNS:
No subdivision shall be accepted by the village unless appropriate street signs
shall be erected or arranged for each street intersection within the
subdivision, the cost of an installation of same to be paid by the subdivider.
The type of signs and the location thereof shall be subject to the approval and
direction of the village board. (1982 Code §
6-1-4)
11-1-4: SIDEWALKS:
Sidewalks may be required at the discretion of the village based upon the cost
of and need for same. (1982 Code § 6-1-16)
11-1-5: CURBS AND GUTTERS:
Curbs and gutters may be required at the discretion of the village based upon
the cost of and need therefor. If deemed to be required, they shall be state of
Illinois type 5 combination concrete curbs and gutters seven inches (7") thick,
or an equivalent. (1982 Code §
6-1-6; amd. 2016 Code)
11-1-6: DRIVEWAYS:
No subdivision shall be accepted by the village unless driveways are provided
with a smooth approach and curbing removed, and with sufficient grade to
prevent street drainage into the owner's property. The entrance apron to the
property line shall be constructed of concrete. (1982 Code §
6-1-5)
11-1-7: SURVEY MONUMENTS:
No subdivision shall be accepted until steel pipes or rods or concrete posts
shall be installed at all block corners and other survey control points for use
as permanent monuments. (1982 Code §
6-1-7)
11-1-8: UTILITY EASEMENTS:
No subdivision shall be accepted unless provision is made for utility easements
deemed by the village board to be adequate and proper. (1982 Code § 6-1-8)
11-1-9: UTILITY CONNECTIONS:
No subdivision shall be accepted unless gas mains, water mains and electrical
distribution lines (wherever the same shall be available) shall be provided or
arranged for by the subdivider prior to acceptance. (1982 Code § 6-1-9)
11-1-10: SANITARY SEWERS:
   A.   No subdivision shall be accepted unless sanitary sewers shall be
installed or arranged for prior to acceptance, under a state sanitary water
board permit and village supervision. All lateral house connections shall be so
installed that they can be connected to the facilities on each lot in the
subdivision without entering the traveled way of the street.
   B.   No subdivision shall be accepted involving land located outside the
boundaries of a duly constituted sewer district unless the subdivider shall pay
the village an amount to be determined by the village board as payment for the
right to connect the sewers in said subdivision to existing sewer facilities in
the village. However, in determining the amount to be paid by the subdivider,
the village board shall take into consideration the benefits to be received by
the property in the subdivision. (1982 Code § 6-1-10)
11-1-11: STORMWATER SEWERS:
No subdivision shall be accepted unless stormwater sewers are provided or
arranged for by the subdivider, which street sewers shall be installed under
village supervision, with plans approved by the village prior to construction.
(1982 Code § 6-1-11)
11-1-12: FIRE HYDRANTS:
No subdivision shall be accepted by the village unless the subdivider shall
have provided the same with proper fire hydrants in a minimum number of
locations for proper fire protection in accordance with the approval of the
village engineer. (1982 Code § 6-1-12)
11-1-13: PARKING AREAS:
No subdivision shall be accepted by the village unless residential and
commercial parking areas are surfaced from the sidewalk inner boundary with
approved material and conforming to standards of good practice. (1982 Code § 6-
1-13)
11-1-14: TERRACING LOTS:
No subdivision shall be accepted by the village unless terracing adjacent to
the longitudinal side of lots is confined wholly within the boundary line of
said lot; and all terracing exceeding two and one-half feet (21/2') in height
and a one to one (1:1) slope shall have a retaining wall conforming to
standards of good practice. (1982 Code § 6-1-14)
11-1-15: INSPECTION OF IMPROVEMENTS:
All improvements to be made under the provisions of this chapter shall be
inspected during the course of construction by an engineer or inspector
designated by the village board. The final acceptance of all such improvements
shall be subject to the approval thereof by the village board. (1982 Code § 6-
1-15)
