VILLAGE CODE
of
SCALES MOUND, ILLINOIS
2009
Code current through:
Ord. 2021-004, passed 10-25-2021
Published by:
STERLING CODIFIERS
an
American Legal Publishing Company
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the Village of Scales Mound, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 2021-004, passed October 25, 2021.
Ordinances of the Village adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions
of this code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith.
Consult the Village office in order to ascertain whether any particular
provision of the code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
Sterling Codifiers
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING CODIFICATION
Ordinances listed have been passed, but have not been incorporated in the
actual code. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning the ordinances listed.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 2009-004
   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING
   THE SCALES MOUND, IL VILLAGE CODE
BE IT ORDAINED by the president and board of trustees of the village of Scales
Mound, Illinois, as follows:
   Section 1: From and after the date of passage of this ordinance, the village
code of the village of Scales Mound, Illinois prepared by Sterling Codifiers,
Inc. containing the compilation of all ordinances of a general nature together
with the changes made to said ordinances, under the direction of the governing
body of the village, shall be accepted in all courts without question as the
official code and law of the village as enacted by the president and board of
trustees.
   Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the official village code is identified by the proper catchline and is
inserted in the proper place in each of the official copies, one copy of which
shall be maintained in the office of the village clerk, certified as to
correctness and available for inspection at any and all times that said office
is regularly open.
   Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this official
village code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision
and the fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the
governing body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous
effectiveness of ordinances included in said official village code. All
ordinances of a special nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances,
franchises, vacating ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in
full force and effect unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of
the village code. Such ordinances are not intended to be included in the
official village code.
   Section 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the village to be
misrepresented thereby.
   Section 5: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 6: This ordinance and the code adopted by the same shall be recorded
and shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage, approval and
publication in pamphlet form as provided by law.
PASSED this  28  day of  December , 2009.
APPROVED this                  day of                   ,       .
   President
ATTEST:
   Village Clerk
Roll Call Vote:
AYES:
NAYS:
ABSENT:
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
SCALES MOUND VILLAGE CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the village board of trustees, this village code is hereby
declared to be and shall hereafter constitute the official village code of
Scales Mound. This village code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the
SCALES MOUND VILLAGE CODE and is hereby published by authority of the board of
trustees and shall be supplemented to incorporate the most recent legislation
of the village as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title headings, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this code by title in any legal documents. (2009 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The village code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of
the state as the ordinances of the village of general and permanent effect,
except the excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2009 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of the village code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the village code. (2009 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Said code, while in
actual possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be and
remain the property of the village and shall be returned to the office of the
village clerk when directed so to do by order of the village board of trustees.
(2009 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the village passed by the president and board of
trustees prior to the adoption of this code are hereby repealed, except such as
are included in this code or are by necessary implication herein reserved from
repeal (subject to the saving clauses contained in the following sections), and
excluding the following ordinances which are not hereby repealed:
   A.   Tax levy ordinances.
   B.   Appropriation ordinances.
   C.   Ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations.
   D.   Franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to
persons or corporations.
   E.   Contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants.
   F.   Salary ordinances.
   G.   Ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other
public places.
   H.   Improvement ordinances.
   I.   Bond ordinances.
   J.   Ordinances relating to elections.
   K.   Ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or
from the village.
   L.   All special ordinances. (2009 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue of section
1-2-1 of this chapter, excepting as this code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances with respect to such provisions only. (2009 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not,
as to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act
done, any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued
or claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect
any such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Current Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the village herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the village under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this code. (2009 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this code, or any codes or portions of codes adopted herein by reference, is
for any reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any
court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or
effectiveness of the remaining portions of this code, or any codes or portions
of codes adopted herein by reference. The village board hereby declares that it
would have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence,
clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more
sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases
be declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (2009 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS; INTERPRETATION
SECTION:
1-3-1: General Rules Of Interpretation
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: GENERAL RULES OF INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the village president and board of trustees may
be fully carried out.
   B.   Minimum Requirements: In the interpretation and application of any
provision of this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
   C.   Computation Of Time: Whenever a notice is required to be given or an
act to be done in a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be held,
the day on which such notice is given or such act is done shall not be counted
in computing the time, but the day on which such proceeding is to be held shall
be counted.
   D.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other village officer to do some act or perform
some duty, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department or
other officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
   E.   Gender: A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be
applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to
males.
   F.   Joint Authority: All words giving a joint authority to three (3) or
more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of such persons or officers.
   G.   May; Shall: The word "may" is permissive; the word "shall" is
mandatory.
   H.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
   I.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
   J.   Officers And Employees Generally: Whenever any officer or employee is
referred to by title only, such reference shall be construed as if followed by
the words "of the village of Scales Mound".
   K.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
   L.   Ordinance: The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the
village has been changed in the content of this code to "title", "chapter",
"section" and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to village ordinances is not meant to
amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2009 Code)
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
the meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
BOARD OF TRUSTEES: Unless otherwise indicated, the village board of trustees of
the village of Scales Mound.
CODE: The village code of the village of Scales Mound.
COUNTY: The county of Jo Daviess, state of Illinois.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the village, or any activity which, by its perpetuation, can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
STATE: The state of Illinois.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
VILLAGE: The village of Scales Mound, county of Jo Daviess, state of Illinois.
WHOLESALER AND WHOLESALE DEALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall
be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things
to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law on any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person or, in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark. (2009 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the village code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (2009 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-4: Suits, Actions And Prosecutions
1-4-5: Payment Of Fines And Penalties
1-4-6: Arrests
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY 1 :
   A.   General Penalty Imposed:
      1.   Unless specifically provided elsewhere in this code or state
statute, any person found to have been in violation of any of the terms and
provisions of this code shall be fined in an amount not to exceed seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00). No imprisonment for failure to pay such fine, penalty
or cost shall exceed six (6) months for each offense. Each day that a violation
continues shall be deemed to be a separate offense.
      2.   A penalty for each offense may include a requirement that the
offending party perform some reasonable public service work such as, but not
limited to, picking up litter in public parks or upon public highways or
performing maintenance of public facilities. A violation hereof may be
established by a preponderance of the evidence.
      3.   A default in the payment of a fine or any installment of a fine may
be collected by any means authorized for the collection of monetary judgments.
The village attorney may retain attorneys and private collection agents for the
purpose of collecting any default in payment of any fine or installment of that
fine. Any fees or costs incurred by the village with respect to attorneys or
private collection agents retained by the village attorney under this
subsection shall be charged to the offender.
   B.   Acts Consistent With Criminal Laws Of State: If, by the terms of an
ordinance, an act that would be consistent with the criminal laws of the state,
is declared to be a misdemeanor, the penalty therefor shall be for a period of
incarceration in a penal institution other than the penitentiary not to exceed
six (6) months. The matter shall be prosecuted under the rules of criminal
procedure of the state, and the village shall be required to establish guilt
beyond a reasonable doubt.
   C.   Limitation; Compliance With Statute: The provisions of subsection A of
this section notwithstanding, no penalty shall be greater than that established
by state statute for the same offense. (2009 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1, 5/1-2-1.1.
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty: The penalty provided in this chapter shall be
applicable to every section of this code the same as though it were a part of
each and every separate section.
   B.   Acts Punishable Under Different Sections: In all cases where the same
offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of
this code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not
more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the same
offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be
considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code and
there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply. (2009 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the village board of trustees to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or
employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the
duty. (2009 Code)
1-4-4: SUITS, ACTIONS AND PROSECUTIONS:
   A.   All suits, actions or prosecutions for the recovery of any fine,
forfeiture or penalty by the village against any persons or corporations for
the violation of any provision of this code, where said fine, forfeiture or
penalty does not exceed seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00), may be
instituted by any officer of the village, or other responsible person, before
the proper judge.
   B.   All such actions aforesaid shall be commenced against any corporation,
and may be commenced against any person, by the issuance of a summons by the
proper judge in the ordinary form, as near as may be, of the summons now issued
in civil actions; except, that such summons shall state the section of this
code that is alleged to have been violated and the particular breach thereof,
substantially in the language of the section, and may be as near the nature of
the case as possible. (Ord. 50, 10-28-1895; amd. 2009 Code)
1-4-5: PAYMENT OF FINES AND PENALTIES:
All fines and penalties shall be paid by the defendant to the judge in charge
of the docket upon which the judgment against such defendant is entered, and
the judge shall immediately pay over to the village treasurer such collections,
taking for the same duplicate receipt of the treasurer. It shall be the duty of
the judge to prepare such duplicate receipts for said treasurer to sign, and
immediately after such receipts are executed by the treasurer, to file one of
said receipts with the village clerk, and no such collection shall be deemed to
have been received by the village until such duplicate receipt is filed with
the village clerk. (Ord. 50, 10-28-1895; amd. 2009 Code)
1-4-6: ARRESTS:
The village marshal and all police officers of the village shall, and any
officer of the village may, arrest on view without warrant any person in the
act of violating any provisions of this code or where any such officer has
reasonable grounds to believe that such person has recently violated any
provision of this code and will likely escape before warrant can be issued, and
take such person before the proper judge for trial as hereinbefore prescribed.
Provided, that any person so brought before the judge for trial, with or
without a warrant, and who cannot be tried because of the absence of witnesses
or other causes, and who fails to give bail, may be detained for trial upon the
written order of the judge. (Ord. 50, 10-28-1895; amd. 2009 Code)
CHAPTER 5
VILLAGE PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES
SECTION:
1-5-1: Village President
1-5-2: Village Board Of Trustees
1-5-3: Regular Meetings
1-5-1: VILLAGE PRESIDENT:
   A.   Election; Term Of Office: The village president shall be elected for a
four (4) year term, and shall serve until his successor is elected and
qualified as is provided by statute.
   B.   Bond 1 : Before entering upon the duties of his office, the president
shall execute a bond in such amount and with such sureties as may be required
by the board of trustees, conditioned upon the faithful performance of the
duties of his office, provided the amount of such bond shall not be less than
fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00).
   C.   Oath Of Office: The president shall take the oath of office as
prescribed by statute.
   D.   Duties:
      1.   General Duties: The president shall be the chief executive officer
of the village and shall preside over the meetings of the village board of
trustees and shall perform such duties as may be required of him by statute or
ordinance. He shall have supervision over all of the executive officers and
employees of the village, and shall have the power and authority to inspect all
books and records pertaining to village affairs and kept by any officer or
employee of the village at any reasonable time.
      2.   Appointment Of Officers: The village president shall appoint, with
the advice and consent of the village board of trustees, all officers of the
village whose election or appointment is not otherwise provided for. Any
vacancies occurring in an appointive office shall be filled in the same manner.
      3.   Designation Of Officers' Duties: Whenever there is dispute to the
respective duties or powers of any appointed officer of the village, this
dispute shall be settled by the president after consultation with the village
attorney, and the president shall have the power to delegate to any appointed
officer any duty which is to be performed when no specific officer has been
directed to perform that duty.
      4.   Formal Occasions: The village president shall act for and on behalf
of the village on formal occasions and receptions, but in his absence or
inability to attend any such functions, the board of trustees may select any
other village officer to so act. (2009 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  1-6-4 of this title.
1-5-2: VILLAGE BOARD OF TRUSTEES:
   A.   Election; Term Of Office: The members of the village board of trustees
shall be elected to office for a four (4) year term, according to the method
provided by statute.
   B.   Oath Of Office: The members of the village board of trustees take the
oath of office prescribed by statute.
   C.   Powers And Duties: The board of trustees shall be the legislative
division of the village government and shall perform such duties and have such
powers as may be authorized by statute. (2009 Code)
1-5-3: REGULAR MEETINGS:
The regular meeting of the village board of trustees shall be held the last
Monday of each month, unless otherwise properly noticed, at seven o'clock (7:
00) P.M. at the Stone House, 309 North Avenue, Scales Mound, Illinois. (Per
minutes dated 4-23-2001; amd. 2009 Code)
CHAPTER 6
VILLAGE OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL
SECTION:
1-6-1: Enumeration Of Village Officers And Personnel
1-6-2: Oath Of Office
1-6-3: Compensation
1-6-4: Bonds
1-6-5: Clerk An Appointed Position
1-6-6: Signatures On Checks
1-6-1: ENUMERATION OF VILLAGE OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL:
The officers of the village shall be (in addition to the president and board of
trustees) as follows: a village clerk, village treasurer and other officers as
may be appointed by the president, by and with the advice and consent of a
majority vote of all the members of the board of trustees authorized by law to
be elected, such vote to be taken by the yeas and nays and entered of record.
(Ord. 20, 9-11-1885; amd. 2009 Code)
1-6-2: OATH OF OFFICE:
All village officers, whether elected or appointed, shall, before entering upon
the duties of their respective offices, take and subscribe the following oath
or affirmation:
I do solemnly swear or affirm that I will support the constitution of the
United States and the constitution of the State of Illinois and that I will
faithfully discharge the duties of my office according to the best of my
ability.
(Ord. 20, 9-11-1885)
1-6-3: COMPENSATION:
   A.   President And Trustees:
      1.   The village president shall be paid the sum of sixty dollars
($60.00) per regular meeting attended. The village president shall be allowed
to miss no more than two (2) regular meetings per year and still receive the
meeting stipend.
      2.   Each village trustee shall be paid the sum of thirty five dollars
($35.00) per regular meeting. Each trustee shall be allowed to miss no more
than two (2) regular meetings per year and still receive the meeting stipend.
      3.   The village president and each village trustee shall be paid twenty
dollars ($20.00) for all additional meetings attended on behalf of the village.
These meetings shall include, but not be limited to, special meetings, county
board meetings, seminars, etc. (Ord., 10-28-1996; amd. per minutes dated 3-26-
2001)
      4.   Any individual representing the village board on outside committees
shall be compensated twenty dollars ($20.00) per meeting, and the
representative shall report back to the board at the regularly scheduled
monthly board meeting. (Per minutes dated 6-28-1999)
   B.   Clerk And Treasurer: The village clerk and village treasurer salaries
shall be one hundred twenty five dollars ($125.00) a month, straight across the
board. (Per minutes dated 3-26-2001; amd. 2009 Code)
   C.   Changes To Compensation: No salary or compensation of any village
officer who is elected or appointed for a definite term shall be increased or
diminished during such term. (Ord. 20, 9-11-1885)
1-6-4: BONDS:
The following are the required bonds for the following village officers:
 
Village Officer                 Bond Amount
President (see also subsection  $50,000.00
1-5-1B of this title)
Clerk                           50,000.00
Treasurer                       50,000.00
 
(Ord. 25, 4-28-1887; amd. 2009 Code)
1-6-5: CLERK AN APPOINTED POSITION:
The village board of trustees, pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3.1-
25-90, hereby makes the office of village clerk an appointed position. (Per
minutes dated 9-27-1999)
1-6-6: SIGNATURES ON CHECKS:
It shall be unlawful for the village treasurer to pay any checks or money
orders not countersigned by the village president under a penalty as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this title for each and every violation hereof, said fine to be
secured in the name of the village in the same manner as all other fines. (Ord.
25, 4-28-1887; amd. 2009 Code)
CHAPTER 7
ETHICS
SECTION:
1-7-1: Definitions
1-7-2: Ethics Advisor
1-7-3: Ethics Commission
1-7-4: Politics
1-7-5: Gifts
1-7-6: Complaints
1-7-7: Penalties
1-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall be given the following
definitions:
CAMPAIGN FOR ELECTIVE OFFICE: Any activity in furtherance of an effort to
influence the selection, nomination, election, or appointment of any individual
to any federal, state, or local public office or office in a political
organization, or the selection, nomination, or election of presidential or vice
presidential electors, but does not include activities: a) relating to the
support or opposition of any executive, legislative, or administrative action;
b) relating to collective bargaining; or c) that are otherwise in furtherance
of the person's official duties.
CANDIDATE: A person who has filed nominating papers or petitions for nomination
or election to an elective office, or who has been appointed to fill a vacancy
in nomination, and who remains eligible for placement on the ballot at a
"regular election", as defined in section 1-3 of the election code, 10 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/1-3.
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING: Has the same meaning as the term is defined in section 3
of the Illinois public labor relations act, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 315/3.
COMPENSATED TIME: With respect to an employee, any time worked by or credited
to the employee that counts toward any minimum work time requirement imposed as
a condition of his or her employment, but for purposes of this chapter, does
not include any designated holidays, vacation periods, personal time,
compensatory time off or any period when the employee is on a leave of absence.
With respect to officers or employees whose hours are not fixed, "compensated
time" includes any period of time when the officer is on premises under the
control of the employer and any other time when the officer or employee is
executing his or her official duties, regardless of location.
COMPENSATORY TIME OFF: Authorized time off earned by or awarded to an employee
to compensate in whole or in part for time worked in excess of the minimum work
time required of that employee as a condition of his or her employment.
CONTRIBUTION: Has the same meaning as that term is defined in section 9-1.4 of
the election code, 10 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/9-1.4.
EMPLOYEE: A person employed by the village of Scales Mound, whether on a full
time or part time basis or pursuant to a contract, whose duties are subject to
the direction and control of an employer with regard to the material details of
how the work is to be performed, but does not include an independent
contractor.
EMPLOYER: The village of Scales Mound.
GIFT: Any gratuity, discount, entertainment, hospitality, loan, forbearance or
other tangible or intangible item having monetary value including, but not
limited to, cash, food and drink, and honoraria for speaking engagements
related to or attributable to government employment or the official position of
an officer or employee.
LEAVE OF ABSENCE: Any period during which an employee does not receive: a)
compensation for employment; b) service credit towards pension benefits; and c)
health insurance benefits paid for by the employer.
OFFICER: A person who holds, by election or appointment, an office created by
statute or ordinance, regardless of whether the officer is compensated for
service in his or her official capacity.
POLITICAL ACTIVITY: Any activity in support of or in connection with any
campaign for elective office or any political organization, but does not
include activities: a) relating to the support or opposition of any executive,
legislative, or administrative action; b) relating to collective bargaining; or
c) that are otherwise in furtherance of the person's official duties.
POLITICAL ORGANIZATION: A party, committee, association, fund, or other
organization (whether or not incorporated) that is required to file a statement
of organization with the state board of elections or the county clerk under
section 9-3 of the election code, 10 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/9-3, but only
with regard to those activities that require filing with the state board of
elections or the county clerk.
PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITY: A. Preparing for, organizing, or participating
in any political meeting, political rally, political demonstration, or other
political event.
   B.   Soliciting contributions, including, but not limited to, the purchase
of, selling, distributing, or receiving payment for tickets for any political
fundraiser, political meeting, or other political event.
   C.   Soliciting, planning the solicitation of, or preparing any document or
report regarding any thing of value intended as a campaign contribution.
   D.   Planning, conducting, or participating in a public opinion poll in
connection with a campaign for elective office or on behalf of a political
organization for political purposes or for or against any referendum question.
   E.   Surveying or gathering information from potential or actual voters in
an election to determine probable vote outcome in connection with a campaign
for elective office or on behalf of a political organization for political
purposes or for or against any referendum question.
   F.   Assisting at the polls on election day on behalf of any political
organization or candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum
question.
   G.   Soliciting votes on behalf of a candidate for elective office or a
political organization or for or against any referendum question or helping in
an effort to get voters to the polls.
   H.   Initiating for circulation, preparing, circulating, reviewing, or
filing any petition on behalf of a candidate for elective office or for or
against any referendum question.
   I.   Making contributions on behalf of any candidate for elective office in
that capacity or in connection with a campaign for elective office.
   J.   Preparing or reviewing responses to candidate questionnaires.
   K.   Distributing, preparing for distribution, or mailing campaign
literature, campaign signs, or other campaign material on behalf of any
candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum question.
   L.   Campaigning for any elective office or for or against any referendum
question.
   M.   Managing or working on a campaign for elective office or for or against
any referendum question.
   N.   Serving as a delegate, alternate, or proxy to a political party
convention.
   O.   Participating in any recount or challenge to the outcome of any
election.
PROHIBITED SOURCE: Any person or entity who:
   A.   Is seeking official action: 1) by an officer; or 2) by an employee, or
by the officer or another employee directing that employee;
   B.   Does business or seeks to do business: 1) with the officer; or 2) with
an employee, or with the officer or another employee directing that employee;
   C.   Conducts activities regulated: 1) by the officer; or 2) by an employee,
or by the officer or another employee directing that employee; or
   D.   Has interests that may be substantially affected by the performance or
nonperformance of the official duties of the officer or employee. (Ord., 5-24-
2004)
1-7-2: ETHICS ADVISOR:
   A.   President To Designate: The village president, with the advice and
consent of the board of trustees, shall designate an ethics advisor for the
village. The duties of the ethics advisor may be delegated to an officer or
employee of the village unless the position has been created as an office by
the village.
   B.   Duties: The ethics advisor shall provide guidance to the officers and
employees of the village concerning the interpretation of and compliance with
the provisions of this chapter and state ethics laws. The ethics advisor shall
perform such other duties as may be delegated by the village president and
board of trustees. (Ord., 5-24-2004)
1-7-3: ETHICS COMMISSION:
   A.   Created; Appointment; Restrictions: There is hereby created a
commission to be known as the ethics commission of the village. The commission
shall be comprised of three (3) members appointed by the village president,
with the advice and consent of the board of trustees. No person shall be
appointed as a member of the commission who is related, either by blood or by
marriage up to the degree of first cousin, to any elected officer of the
village.
   B.   Terms Of Office: At the first meeting of the commission, the initial
appointees shall draw lots to determine their initial terms. Two (2)
commissioners shall serve two (2) year terms, and the third commissioner shall
serve a one year term. Thereafter, all commissioners shall be appointed to two
(2) year terms. Commissioners may be reappointed to serve subsequent terms.
   C.   Removals And Vacancies: The village president, with the advice and
consent of the board of trustees, may remove a commissioner in case of
incompetency, neglect of duty or malfeasance in office, after service on the
commissioner by certified mail, return receipt requested, of a copy of the
written charges against the commissioner and after providing an opportunity to
be heard in person or by counsel upon not less than ten (10) days' notice.
Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as original appointments.
   D.   Organization: At the first meeting of the commission, the commissioners
shall choose a chairperson from their number. Meetings shall be held at the
call of the chairperson or any two (2) commissioners. A quorum shall consist of
two (2) commissioners, and official action by the commission shall require the
affirmative vote of two (2) members.
   E.   Powers And Duties: The commission shall have the following powers and
duties:
      1.   To promulgate procedures and rules governing the performance of its
duties and the exercise of its powers.
      2.   Upon receipt of a signed, notarized, written complaint, to
investigate, conduct hearings and deliberations, issue recommendations for
disciplinary actions, impose fines in accordance with subsection
1-7-7C of this chapter and refer violations of section
1-7-4 or
1-7-5 of this chapter to the appropriate attorney for prosecution. The
commission shall, however, act only upon the receipt of a written complaint
alleging a violation of this chapter and not upon its own prerogative.
      3.   To receive information from the public pertaining to its
investigations and to require additional information and documents from persons
who may have violated the provisions of this chapter.
      4.   To compel the attendance of witnesses and to compel the production
of books and papers pertinent to an investigation. It is the obligation of all
officers and employees of the village to cooperate with the commission during
the course of its investigations. Failure or refusal to cooperate with requests
by the commission shall constitute grounds for discipline or discharge.
      5.   The powers and duties of the commission are limited to matters
clearly within the purview of this chapter. (Ord., 5-24-2004)
1-7-4: POLITICS:
   A.   Prohibited Political Activities:
      1.   No officer or employee shall intentionally perform any prohibited
political activity during any "compensated time", as defined in section
1-7-1 of this chapter. No officer or employee shall intentionally use any
property or resources of the village in connection with any prohibited
political activity.
      2.   At no time shall any officer or employee intentionally require any
other officer or employee to perform any prohibited political activity: a) as
part of that officer's or employee's duties; b) as a condition of employment;
or c) during any compensated time off (such as holidays, vacation or personal
time off).
      3.   No officer or employee shall be required at any time to participate
in any prohibited political activity in consideration for that officer or
employee being awarded additional compensation or any benefit, whether in the
form of a salary adjustment, bonus, compensatory time off, continued employment
or otherwise, nor shall any officer or employee be awarded additional
compensation or any benefit in consideration for his participation in any
prohibited political activity.
      4.   Nothing in this subsection prohibits activities that are permissible
for an officer or employee to engage in as part of his official duties, or
activities that are undertaken by an officer or employee on a voluntary basis
which are not prohibited by this chapter.
   B.   Effect Of Political Party, Organization Or Club: No person, either: 1)
in a position that is subject to recognized merit principles of public
employment; or 2) in a position, the salary for which is paid in whole or in
part by federal funds and that is subject to the federal standards for a merit
system of personnel administration applicable to grant in aid programs, shall
be denied or deprived of employment or tenure solely because he is a member or
an officer of a political committee, of a political party, or of a political
organization or club. (Ord., 5-24-2004)
1-7-5: GIFTS:
   A.   Prohibitions: Except as permitted by this section, no officer or
employee, and no spouse of or immediate family member living with any officer
or employee (collectively referred to herein as "recipients"), shall
intentionally solicit or accept any gift from any "prohibited source", as
defined in section
1-7-1 of this chapter, or which is otherwise prohibited by law or ordinance. No
prohibited source shall intentionally offer or make a gift that violates this
subsection.
   B.   Exceptions:
      1.   Subsection A of this section is not applicable to the following:
         a.   Opportunities, benefits, and services that are available on the
same conditions as for the general public.
         b.   Anything for which the officer or employee, or his spouse or
immediate family member, pays the fair market value.
         c.   Any: 1) contribution that is lawfully made under the election
code 1 ; or 2) activities associated with a fundraising event in support of a
political organization or candidate.
         d.   Educational materials and missions.
         e.   Travel expenses for a meeting to discuss business.
         f.   A gift from a relative, meaning those people related to the
individual as father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt,
great aunt, great uncle, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife,
grandfather, grandmother, grandson, granddaughter, father-in-law, mother-in-
law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather,
stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, or
half sister, and including the father, mother, grandfather, or grandmother of
the individual's spouse and the individual's fiance or fiancee.
         g.   Anything provided by an individual on the basis of a personal
friendship unless the recipient has reason to believe that, under the
circumstances, the gift was provided because of the official position or
employment of the recipient or his spouse or immediate family member and not
because of the personal friendship. In determining whether a gift is provided
on the basis of personal friendship, the recipient shall consider the
circumstances under which the gift was offered, such as: 1) the history of the
relationship between the individual giving the gift and the recipient of the
gift, including any previous exchange of gifts between those individuals; 2)
whether, to the actual knowledge of the recipient, the individual who gave the
gift personally paid for the gift or sought a tax deduction or business
reimbursement for the gift; and 3) whether, to the actual knowledge of the
recipient, the individual who gave the gift also, at the same time, gave the
same or similar gifts to other officers or employees, or their spouses or
immediate family members.
         h.   Food or refreshments not exceeding seventy five dollars ($75.00)
per person in value on a single calendar day; provided, that the food or
refreshments are: 1) consumed on the premises from which they were purchased or
prepared; or 2) catered. For the purpose of this subsection, "catered" means
food or refreshments that are purchased ready to consume which are delivered by
any means. (Ord., 5-24-2004)
         i.   Food, refreshments, lodging, transportation, and other benefits
resulting from outside business or employment activities (or outside activities
that are not connected to the official duties of an officer or employee) of the
officer or employee or spouse of the officer or employee, if the benefits have
not been offered or enhanced because of the official position or employment of
the officer or employee, and are customarily provided to others in similar
circumstances. (Ord., 5-24-2004; amd. 2009 Code)
         j.   Intragovernmental and intergovernmental gifts. For the purpose of
this chapter, "intragovernmental gift" means any gift given to an officer or
employee from another officer or employee, and "intergovernmental gift" means
any gift given to an officer or employee by an officer or employee of another
governmental entity.
         k.   Bequests, inheritances, and other transfers at death.
         l.   Any item or items from any one prohibited source during any
calendar year having a cumulative total value of less than one hundred dollars
($100.00).
      2.   Each of the exceptions listed in this subsection is mutually
exclusive and independent of every other.
   C.   Disposition Of Gifts: An officer or employee, his spouse or an
immediate family member living with the officer or employee does not violate
this chapter if the recipient promptly takes reasonable action to return a gift
from a prohibited source to its source or gives the gift or an amount equal to
its value to an appropriate charity that is exempt from income taxation under
section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code of 1986, as now or hereafter
amended, renumbered, or succeeded. (Ord., 5-24-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. 10 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.
1-7-6: COMPLAINTS:
   A.   Complaints alleging a violation of this chapter shall be filed with the
ethics commission.
   B.   Within three (3) business days after the receipt of a complaint, the
commission shall send by certified mail, return receipt requested, a notice to
the respondent that a complaint has been filed against him or her and a copy of
the complaint. The commission shall send by certified mail, return receipt
requested, a confirmation of the receipt of the complaint to the complainant
within three (3) business days after receipt by the commission. The notices to
the respondent and the complainant shall also advise him or her of the date,
time, and place of the meeting to determine the sufficiency of the complaint
and to establish whether probable cause exists to proceed.
   C.   1. Upon not less than forty eight (48) hours' public notice, the
commission shall meet to review the sufficiency of the complaint and, if the
complaint is deemed sufficient to allege a violation of this chapter, to
determine whether there is probable cause, based on the evidence presented by
the complainant, to proceed. The meeting may be closed to the public to the
extent authorized by the open meetings act 1 . The commission shall issue
notice to the complainant and the respondent of the commission's ruling on the
sufficiency of the complaint and, if necessary, on probable cause to proceed
within seven (7) business days after receiving the complaint.
      2.   If the complaint is deemed sufficient to allege a violation of
section
1-7-5 of this chapter and there is a determination of probable cause, then the
commission's notice to the parties shall include a hearing date scheduled
within four (4) weeks after the complaint's receipt. Alternatively, the
commission may elect to notify in writing the attorney designated by the
village board of trustees to prosecute such actions and request that the
complaint be adjudicated judicially. If the complaint is deemed not sufficient
to allege a violation or if there is no determination of probable cause, then
the commission shall send by certified mail, return receipt requested, a notice
to the parties of the decision to dismiss the complaint, and that notice shall
be made public.
      3.   If the complaint is deemed sufficient to allege a violation of
section
1-7-4 of this chapter, then the commission shall notify in writing the attorney
designated by the village board of trustees to prosecute such actions and shall
transmit to the attorney the complaint and all additional documents in the
custody of the commission concerning the alleged violation.
   D.   On the scheduled date and upon at least forty eight (48) hours' public
notice of the meeting, the commission shall conduct a hearing on the complaint
and shall allow both parties the opportunity to present testimony and evidence.
The hearing may be closed to the public only if authorized by the open meetings
act.
   E.   Within thirty (30) days after the date the hearing or any recessed
hearing is concluded, the commission shall either: 1) dismiss the complaint; or
2) issue a recommendation for discipline to the alleged violator and to the
president and/or village board of trustees, or impose a fine upon the violator,
or both. The particular findings in the case, any recommendation for
discipline, and any fine imposed shall be a matter of public information.
   F.   If the hearing was closed to the public, the respondent may file a
written demand for a public hearing on the complaint within seven (7) business
days after the issuance of the recommendation for discipline or imposition of a
fine, or both. The filing of the demand shall stay the enforcement of the
recommendation or fine. Within fourteen (14) days after receiving the demand,
the commission shall conduct a public hearing on the complaint upon at least
forty eight (48) hours' public notice of the hearing and allow both parties the
opportunity to present testimony and evidence. Within seven (7) days
thereafter, the commission shall publicly issue a final recommendation to the
alleged violator and to the president and/or village board of trustees, or
impose a fine upon the violator, or both.
   G.   If a complaint is filed during the sixty (60) days preceding the date
of any election at which the respondent is a candidate, the commission shall
render its decision as required under subsection E of this section within seven
(7) days after the complaint is filed, and during the seven (7) days preceding
that election, the commission shall render such decision before the date of
that election, if possible.
   H.   A complaint alleging the violation of this chapter must be filed within
one year after the alleged violation. (Ord., 5-24-2004; amd. 2009 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
1-7-7: PENALTIES:
   A.   A person who intentionally violates any provision of section
1-7-4 of this chapter may be punished by a term of incarceration in a penal
institution other than a penitentiary for a period of not more than three
hundred sixty four (364) days, and may be fined an amount not to exceed two
thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00).
   B.   A person who intentionally violates any provision of section
1-7-5 of this chapter is subject to a fine in an amount not less than one
thousand one dollars ($1,001.00) and not more than five thousand dollars
($5,000.00).
   C.   Any person who intentionally makes a false report alleging a violation
of any provision of this chapter to the local enforcement authorities, the
state's attorney or any other law enforcement official may be punished by a
term of incarceration in a penal institution other than a penitentiary for a
period of not more than three hundred sixty four (364) days, and may be fined
an amount not to exceed two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00).
   D.   A violation of section
1-7-4 of this chapter shall be prosecuted as a criminal offense by an attorney
for the village by filing in the circuit court on information, or sworn
complaint, charging such offense. The prosecution shall be under and conform to
the rules of criminal procedure. Conviction shall require the establishment of
the guilt of the defendant beyond a reasonable doubt.
   E.   A violation of section
1-7-5 of this chapter may be prosecuted as a quasi-criminal offense by an
attorney for the village.
   F.   In addition to any other penalty that may be applicable, whether
criminal or civil, an officer or employee who intentionally violates any
provision of section
1-7-4 or
1-7-5 of this chapter is subject to discipline or discharge. (Ord., 5-24-2004)
CHAPTER 8
VILLAGE TAXATION
ARTICLE A. MUNICIPAL RETAILERS' OCCUPATION, SERVICE OCCUPATION AND USE TAXES
SECTION:
1-8A-1: Municipal Retailers' Occupation Tax
1-8A-2: Municipal Service Occupation Tax
1-8A-3: Municipal Use Tax
1-8A-1: MUNICIPAL RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed: A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the village in
the business of selling tangible personal property at retail at the rate of one
percent (1%) of the gross receipts from such sales made in the course of such
business in accordance with section
8-11-1 of the Illinois municipal code.
   B.   Report Required: Every person required to account for municipal
retailers' occupation tax for the benefit of the village shall file, on or
before the last day of each calendar month, the report to the state department
of revenue as required by the municipal retailers' occupation tax act 1 .
   C.   Payment Of Tax: At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid
to the state department of revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed. (Ord. 205,
9-8-1969)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
1-8A-2: MUNICIPAL SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed: A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the village in
the business of making sales of service at the rate of one percent (1%) of the
cost price of all tangible personal property transferred by said servicemen
either in the form of tangible personal property or in the form of real estate
as an incident to a sale of service in accordance with section
8-11-5 of the Illinois municipal code.
   B.   Report Required: Every supplier or serviceman required to account for
municipal service occupation tax for the benefit of the village shall file, on
or before the last day of each calendar month, the report to the state
department of revenue as required by section 9 of the service occupation tax
act 1 .
   C.   Payment Of Tax: At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid
to the state department of revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed. (Ord. 204,
9-8-1969)
 
Notes
1 2. 35 ILCS 115/9.
1-8A-3: MUNICIPAL USE TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed in accordance with the provisions
of section
8-11-6 of the Illinois municipal code upon the privilege of using in the
village any item of tangible personal property which is purchased outside
Illinois at retail from a retailer, and which is titled or registered with an
agency of Illinois government. The tax shall be at a rate of one percent (1%)
of the selling price of such tangible property with "selling price" to have the
meaning as defined in the use tax act, approved July 14, 1955 1 . (Ord., 2-23-
1976)
   B.   Collection And Payment Of Tax: Such tax shall be collected by the
Illinois department of revenue and shall be paid before the title or
certificate of registration for the personal property is issued. (Ord., 2-23-
1976; amd. 2009 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 105/2.
ARTICLE B. SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX
SECTION:
1-8B-1: Definitions
1-8B-2: Imposition Of Tax; Exemptions
1-8B-3: Collection Of Tax By Retailers
1-8B-4: Tax Returns
1-8B-5: Reselling Telecommunications
1-8B-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
AMOUNT PAID: The amount charged to the taxpayer's service address in the
village regardless of where such amount is billed or paid.
DEPARTMENT: The Illinois department of revenue.
GROSS CHARGE: The amount paid for the act or privilege of originating or
receiving telecommunications in the village and for all services and equipment
provided in connection therewith by a retailer, valued in money, whether paid
in money or otherwise, including cash, credits, services and property of every
kind or nature, and shall be determined without any deduction on account of the
cost of such telecommunications, the cost of the materials used, labor or
service costs or any other expense whatsoever. In case credit is extended, the
amount thereof shall be included only as and when paid. "Gross charges" for
private line service shall include charges imposed at each channel termination
point within the village and charges for the portion of the interoffice
channels provided within the village. Charges for that portion of the
interoffice channel connecting two (2) or more channel termination points, one
or more of which is located within the jurisdictional boundary of the village,
shall be determined by the retailer by multiplying an amount equal to the total
charge for the interoffice channel by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
number of channel termination points that are located within the jurisdictional
boundary of the village, and the denominator of which is the total number of
channel termination points connected by the interoffice channel. However,
"gross charge" shall not include any of the following:
   A.   Any amounts added to a purchaser's bill because of a charge made
pursuant to: 1) the tax imposed by this article; 2) the tax imposed by the
telecommunications excise tax act 1 ; 3) the tax imposed by section 4251 of the
internal revenue code; 4) 911 surcharges; or 5) charges added to customers'
bills pursuant to the provisions of section 9-221 or 9-222 of the public
utilities act, as amended 2 , or any similar charges added to customers' bills
by retailers who are not subject to rate regulation by the Illinois commerce
commission for the purpose of recovering any of the tax liabilities or other
amounts specified in those provisions of the public utilities act;
   B.   Charges for a sent collect telecommunication received outside of the
village;
   C.   Charges for leased time on equipment or charges for the storage of data
or information for subsequent retrieval or the processing of data or
information intended to change its form or content. Such equipment includes,
but is not limited to, the use of calculators, computers, data processing
equipment, tabulating equipment or accounting equipment and also includes the
usage of computers under a time sharing agreement;
   D.   Charges for customer equipment, including such equipment that is leased
or rented by the customer from any source, wherein such charges are
disaggregated and separately identified from other charges;
   E.   Charges to business enterprises certified as exempt under section 9-
222.1 of the public utilities act 3  to the extent of such exemption and during
the period of time specified by the department of commerce and economic
opportunity;
   F.   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment provided
in connection therewith between a parent corporation and its wholly owned
subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries when the tax imposed under
this article has already been paid to a retailer and only to the extent that
the charges between the parent corporation and wholly owned subsidiaries or
between wholly owned subsidiaries represent expense allocation between the
corporations and not the generation of profit for the corporation rendering
such service;
   G.   Bad debts ("bad debt" means any portion of a debt that is related to a
sale at retail for which gross charges are not otherwise deductible or
excludable that has become worthless or uncollectible, as determined under
applicable federal income tax standards; if the portion of the debt deemed to
be bad is subsequently paid, the retailer shall report and pay the tax on that
portion during the reporting period in which the payment is made);
   H.   Charges paid by inserting coins in coin operated telecommunication
devices;
   I.   Amounts paid by telecommunications retailers under the
telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee act 4 ; or
   J.   Charges for nontaxable services or telecommunications if: 1) those
charges are aggregated with other charges for telecommunications that are
taxable; 2) those charges are not separately stated on the customer bill or
invoice; and 3) the retailer can reasonably identify the nontaxable charges on
the retailer's books and records kept in the regular course of business. If the
nontaxable charges cannot reasonably be identified, the "gross charge" from the
sale of both taxable and nontaxable services of telecommunications billed on a
combined basis shall be attributed to the taxable services or
telecommunications. The burden of proving nontaxable charges shall be on the
retailer of the telecommunications.
INTERSTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS: All telecommunications that either originate or
terminate outside this state.
INTRASTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS: All telecommunications that originate and
terminate within this state.
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association,
joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, limited liability company, or
a receiver, trustee, guardian, or other representative appointed by order of
any court, the federal and state governments, including state universities
created by statute, or any city, town, county, or other political subdivision
of this state.
PURCHASE AT RETAIL: The acquisition, consumption or use of telecommunications
through a sale at retail.
RETAILER: Means and includes every person engaged in the business of making
"sales at retail" as defined in this section. The department may, in its
discretion, upon application, authorize the collection of the tax hereby
imposed by any retailer not maintaining a place of business within this state,
who, to the satisfaction of the department, furnishes adequate security to
ensure collection and payment of the tax. Such retailer shall be issued,
without charge, a permit to collect such tax. When so authorized, it shall be
the duty of such retailer to collect the tax upon all of the gross charges for
telecommunications in this state in the same manner and subject to the same
requirements as a retailer maintaining a place of business within this state.
The permit may be revoked by the department at its discretion.
RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE (Or Any Like Term):
Means and includes any retailer having or maintaining within this state,
directly or by a subsidiary, an office, distribution facilities, transmission
facilities, sales office, warehouse or other place of business, or any agent or
other representative operating within this state under the authority of the
retailer or its subsidiary, irrespective of whether such place of business or
agent or other representative is located here permanently or temporarily, or
whether such retailer or subsidiary is licensed to do business in this state.
SALE AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying or furnishing of telecommunications
and all services and equipment provided in connection therewith for a
consideration, to persons other than the federal and state governments, and
state universities created by statute, and other than between a parent
corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries, or between wholly owned
subsidiaries for their use or consumption and not for resale.
SERVICE ADDRESS: The location of telecommunications equipment from which
telecommunications services are originated or at which telecommunications
services are received by a taxpayer. In the event this may not be a defined
location, as in the case of mobile phones, paging systems, and maritime
systems, "service address" means the customer's place of primary use as defined
in the mobile telecommunications sourcing conformity act 5 . For air to ground
systems and the like, "service address" shall mean the location of a taxpayer's
primary use of the telecommunications equipment as defined by telephone number,
authorization code, or location in Illinois where bills are sent.
TAXPAYER: A person who, individually or through his or her agents, employees,
or permittees, engages in the act or privilege of originating or receiving
telecommunications in the village and who incurs a tax liability as authorized
by this article.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: In addition to the meaning ordinarily and popularly
ascribed thereto, includes, without limitation, messages or information
transmitted through use of local, toll, and wide area telephone service,
private line services, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter,
computer exchange services, cellular mobile telecommunications service,
specialized mobile radio, stationary two-way radio, paging service, or any
other form of mobile and portable one-way or two-way communications, or any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. As used in this article, "private line" means
a dedicated nontraffic sensitive service for a single customer that entitles
the customer to exclusive or priority use of a communications channel or group
of channels from one or more specified locations to one or more other specified
locations. The definition of "telecommunications" shall not include value added
services in which computer processing applications are used to act on the form,
content, code, and protocol of the information for purposes other than
transmission. "Telecommunications" shall not include purchases of
telecommunications by a telecommunications service provider for use as a
component part of the service provided by such provider to the ultimate retail
consumer who originates or terminates the taxable end to end communications.
Carrier access charges, right of access charges, charges for use of
intercompany facilities, and all telecommunications resold in the subsequent
provision of, used as a component of, or integrated into, end to end
telecommunications service shall be nontaxable as sales for resale. Prepaid
telephone calling arrangements shall not be considered "telecommunications"
subject to the tax imposed under this article. For purposes of this definition,
"prepaid telephone calling arrangements" means that term as defined in section
2-27 of the retailers' occupation tax act 6 . (Ord. 2008-004, 8-18-2008, eff.
1-1-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 636/5-1 et seq.
2 2. 220 ILCS 5/9-221, 5/9-222.
3 3. 220 ILCS 5/9-222.1.
4 1. 220 ILCS 5/13-511.
5 1. 35 ILCS 638/1 et seq.
6 1. 35 ILCS 120/2-27.
1-8B-2: IMPOSITION OF TAX; EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed upon any and all the following
acts or privileges:
      1.   The act or privilege of originating in the village or receiving in
the village intrastate telecommunications by a person at a rate of six percent
(6%) of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at retail from a
retailer. (Note: the tax must be imposed in increments of 0.25 percent, and
cannot exceed 6 percent.) To prevent actual multimunicipal taxation of the act
or privilege that is subject to taxation under this subsection A1, any
taxpayer, upon proof that the taxpayer has paid a tax in another municipality
on that event, shall be allowed a credit against any tax enacted pursuant to or
authorized by this section to the extent of the amount of the tax properly due
and paid in the village that was not previously allowed as a credit against any
other municipal tax.
      2.   The act or privilege of originating in the village or receiving in
the village interstate telecommunications by a person at a rate of six percent
(6%) of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at retail from a
retailer. (Note: The tax must be imposed in increments of 0.25 percent, and
cannot exceed 6 percent.) To prevent actual multistate or multimunicipal
taxation of the act or privilege that is subject to taxation under this
subsection A2, any taxpayer, upon proof that the taxpayer has paid a tax in
another state or municipality in this state on such event, shall be allowed a
credit against any tax enacted pursuant to or authorized by this section to the
extent of the amount of such tax properly due and paid in such other state or
such tax properly due and paid in another municipality in this state which was
not previously allowed as a credit against any other state or local tax in this
state.
   B.   Exemptions: The tax imposed by this article is not imposed on such act
or privilege to the extent such act or privilege may not, under the
constitution and statutes of the United States, be made the subject of taxation
by the village. (Ord. 2008-004, 8-18-2008, eff. 1-1-2009)
1-8B-3: COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILERS:
   A.   The tax authorized by this article shall be collected from the taxpayer
by a retailer maintaining a place of business in this state and shall be
remitted by such retailer to the department. Any tax required to be collected
pursuant to or as authorized by this article and any such tax collected by such
retailer and required to be remitted to the department shall constitute a debt
owed by the retailer to the state. Retailers shall collect the tax from the
taxpayer by adding the tax to the gross charge for the act or privilege of
originating or receiving telecommunications when sold for use, in the manner
prescribed by the department. The tax authorized by this article shall
constitute a debt of the taxpayer to the retailer until paid, and, if unpaid,
is recoverable at law in the same manner as the original charge for such sale
at retail. If the retailer fails to collect the tax from the taxpayer, then the
taxpayer shall be required to pay the tax directly to the department in the
manner provided by the department.
   B.   Whenever possible, the tax authorized by this article shall, when
collected, be stated as a distinct item separate and apart from the gross
charge for telecommunications. (Ord. 2008-004, 8-18-2008, eff. 1-1-2009)
1-8B-4: TAX RETURNS:
On or before the last day of February 2009, and on or before the last day of
every month thereafter, the tax imposed under this article on
telecommunications retailers shall be returned with appropriate forms and
information as required by the department pursuant to the Illinois simplified
municipal telecommunications tax act (public act 92-526, section 5-50) and any
accompanying rules and regulations created by the department to implement the
act. (Note: Any new ordinance or amendment to an existing ordinance can take
effect at only 2 times each year, January 1 and July 1. To be effective January
1 [with first returns due by the last day of February], an ordinance must be
adopted and filed with the department of revenue by September 20. To be
effective July 1 [with first returns due by August 31], an ordinance must be
adopted and filed with the department of revenue by March 20.) (Ord. 2008-004,
8-18-2008, eff. 1-1-2009)
1-8B-5: RESELLING TELECOMMUNICATIONS:
   A.   If a person who originates or receives telecommunications claims to be
a reseller of such telecommunications, such person shall apply to the
department for a resale number. Such applicant shall state facts which will
show the department why such applicant is not liable for the tax authorized by
this article on any of such purchases and shall furnish such additional
information as the department may reasonably require.
   B.   Upon approval of the application, the department shall assign a resale
number to the applicant and shall certify such number to the applicant. The
department may cancel any number which is obtained through misrepresentation,
or which is used to send or receive such telecommunications tax free when such
action in fact is not for resale, or which no longer applies because of the
person having discontinued the making of resales.
   C.   Except as provided in this section, the act or privilege of originating
or receiving telecommunications in this state shall not be made tax free on the
ground of being a sale for resale unless the person has an active resale number
from the department and furnishes that number to the retailer in connection
with certifying to the retailer that any sale to such person is nontaxable
because of being a sale for resale. (Ord. 2008-004, 8-18-2008, eff. 1-1-2009)
ARTICLE C. TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
SECTION:
1-8C-1: Title
1-8C-2: Scope; Application Of Provisions
1-8C-3: Definitions
1-8C-4: Notice Requirements
1-8C-5: Delinquent Notices, Payments, Remittances Or Other Filings
1-8C-6: Application Of Tax Payments
1-8C-7: Certain Credits And Refunds
1-8C-8: Audit Procedure
1-8C-9: Appeals
1-8C-10: Payment Required; Interest And Penalties
1-8C-11: Installment Contracts
1-8C-12: Statute Of Limitations
1-8C-13: Voluntary Disclosure
1-8C-14: Publication Of Tax Ordinances; Copies
1-8C-15: Review Of Liens
1-8C-1: TITLE:
This article shall be known as, and may be cited as, the LOCALLY IMPOSED AND
ADMINISTERED TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITY ORDINANCE. (Ord., 12-26-2000)
1-8C-2: SCOPE; APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Scope: The provisions of this article shall apply to the village
procedures in connection with all of the village's locally imposed and
administered taxes.
   B.   Application Of Provisions; Conflicting Provisions: This article shall
be liberally construed and administered to supplement all of the village tax
ordinances. To the extent that any tax ordinance is in conflict with or
inconsistent with this article, this article shall be controlling. (Ord., 12-
26-2000)
1-8C-3: DEFINITIONS:
Certain words or terms used in this article shall have the meanings ascribed to
them as follows:
ACT: The local government taxpayers' bill of rights act 1 .
CORPORATE AUTHORITIES: The village president and board of trustees.
LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR: The village treasurer is charged with the
administration and collection of the locally imposed and administered taxes,
including staff, employees or agents to the extent they are authorized by the
"local tax administrator" to act in the "local tax administrator's" stead. The
"local tax administrator" shall have the authority to implement the terms of
this article to give full effect to this article. The exercise of such
authority by the "local tax administrator" shall not be inconsistent with this
article and the act.
NOTICE: Each audit notice, collection notice or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the village's locally imposed and
administered taxes.
TAX ORDINANCE: Each ordinance adopted by the village that imposes any locally
imposed and administered tax.
TAXPAYER: Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered tax
and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax is
placed and, with respect to consumer taxes, includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
village.
VILLAGE: The village of Scales Mound, Illinois. (Ord., 12-26-2000)
 
Notes
1 1. 50 ILCS 45/1 et seq.
1-8C-4: NOTICE REQUIREMENTS:
Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given, the notice
is to be in writing mailed not less than ten (10) calendar days prior to the
day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit or other scheduled act of the local
tax administrator. The notice shall be sent by the local tax administrator by
U.S. registered or certified mail. (Ord., 12-26-2000; amd. 2009 Code)
1-8C-5: DELINQUENT NOTICES, PAYMENTS, REMITTANCES OR OTHER FILINGS:
Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required to be made to the
village pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered late unless it is: a)
physically received by the village on or before the due date; or b) received in
an envelope or other container displaying a valid, readable U.S. postmark dated
on or before the due date, properly addressed to the village, with adequate
postage prepaid. (Ord., 12-26-2000)
1-8C-6: APPLICATION OF TAX PAYMENTS:
Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be applied in the
following order: a) first, to the tax due for the applicable period; b) second,
to the interest due for the applicable period; and c) third, to the penalty for
the applicable period. (Ord., 12-26-2000)
1-8C-7: CERTAIN CREDITS AND REFUNDS:
   A.   Written Protest Required: The village shall not refund or credit any
taxes voluntarily paid without written protest at the time of payment in the
event that a locally imposed and administered tax is declared invalidly enacted
or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer
shall not be deemed to have paid the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked
knowledge of the facts upon which to protest the taxes at the time of payment
or if the taxpayer paid the taxes under duress. (Ord., 12-26-2000)
   B.   Statute Of Limitations: The statute of limitations on a claim for
credit or refund may not be less than four (4) years after the end of the
calendar year in which payment in error was made. The village shall not grant a
credit or refund of locally imposed and administered taxes, interest, or
penalties to a person who has not paid the amounts directly to the village.
(Ord., 12-26-2000; amd. 2009 Code)
   C.   Procedure: The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally
imposed and administered taxes, interest or penalties paid in error shall be as
follows:
      1.   The taxpayer shall submit to the local tax administrator in writing
a claim for credit or refund, together with a statement specifying:
         a.   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
         b.   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
         c.   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the canceled
check or receipt for the payment;
         d.   The taxpayer's recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
         e.   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest and penalties overpaid and,
as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however, that
there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer owes
any monies to the village.
      2.   Within ten (10) days of the receipt by the local tax administrator
of any claim for a refund or credit, the local tax administrator shall either:
         a.   Grant the claim; or
         b.   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement as
to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
      3.   In the event the local tax administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate of six percent (6%) per annum, based on
a year of three hundred sixty five (365) days and the number of days elapsed,
from the date of the overpayment to the date of mailing of a refund check or
the grant of a credit. (Ord., 12-26-2000)
1-8C-8: AUDIT PROCEDURE:
Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any locally administered tax shall
comply with the notice requirements of this article.
   A.   Information Required: Each notice of audit shall contain the following
information:
      1.   The tax;
      2.   The time period of the audit; and
      3.   A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the auditor.
   B.   Time For Conducting Audit:
      1.   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours, and if
the date and time selected by the local tax administrator is not agreeable to
the taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer within
thirty (30) days after the originally designated audit and during normal
business hours.
      2.   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted not less than seven (7) days nor more
than thirty (30) days from the date the notice is given, unless the taxpayer
and the local tax administrator agreed to some other convenient time. In the
event the taxpayer is unable to comply with the audit on the date in question,
the taxpayer may request another date within the thirty (30) days, approved in
writing, that is convenient to the taxpayer and the local tax administrator.
   C.   Taxpayer's Books And Records:
      1.   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the
taxpayer's business or activities, including original source documents and
books of entry denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given
rise to any tax liability, exemption or deduction. All books shall be kept in
the English language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by
the village.
      2.   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make
available its books and records for inspection by the village. If the taxpayer
or tax collector fails to provide the documents necessary for audit within the
time provided, the local tax administrator may issue a tax determination and
assessment based on the tax administrator's determination of the best estimate
of the taxpayer's tax liability.
   D.   Overpayments: If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a
locally imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice
of the amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within thirty (30)
days of the village's determination of the amount of overpayment.
   E.   Payment To Improper Entity: In the event a tax payment was submitted to
the incorrect local governmental entity, the local tax administrator shall
notify the local governmental entity imposing such tax. (Ord., 12-26-2000)
1-8C-9: APPEALS:
   A.   Contents Of Notice Regarding Taxes Due: The local tax administrator
shall send written notice to a taxpayer upon the local tax administrator's
issuance of a protestable notice of tax due, a bill, a claim denial, or a
notice of claim reduction regarding any tax. The notice shall include the
following information:
      1.   The reason for the assessment;
      2.   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
      3.   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
      4.   The obligations of the village during the audit, appeal, refund and
collection process.
   B.   Request For Hearing: A taxpayer who receives written notice from the
local tax administrator of a determination of tax due or assessment may file
with the local tax administrator a written protest and petition for hearing,
setting forth the basis of the taxpayer's request for a hearing. The written
protest and petition for hearing must be filed with the local tax administrator
within forty five (45) days of receipt of the written notice of the tax
determination and assessment.
   C.   Hearing Scheduled; Notice: If a timely written notice and petition for
hearing is filed, the local tax administrator shall fix the time and place for
hearing and shall give written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be
scheduled for a date within fourteen (14) days of receipt of the written
protest and petition for hearing, unless the taxpayer requests a later date
convenient to all parties.
   D.   Time Limit For Filing Hearing Request: If a written protest and
petition for hearing is not filed within the forty five (45) day period, the
tax determination, audit or assessment shall become a final bill due and owing
without further notice.
   E.   Reopening, Extension Of Hearing Request: Upon the showing of reasonable
cause by the taxpayer and the full payment of the contested tax liability along
with interest accrued as of the due date of the tax, the local tax
administrator may reopen or extend the time for filing a written protest and
petition for hearing. In no event shall the time for filing a written protest
and petition for hearing be reopened or extended for more than ninety (90) days
after the expiration of the forty five (45) day period.
   F.   Conduct Of Hearing; Decision:
      1.   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under this section, the local tax
administrator shall conduct a hearing regarding any appeal.
      2.   No continuances shall be granted except in cases where a continuance
is absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of
preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted
shall not exceed fourteen (14) days.
      3.   At the hearing, the local tax administrator shall preside and shall
hear testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax determination, audit
or assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall not apply.
      4.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the local tax administrator shall
make a written determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the
hearing. The taxpayer or tax collector shall be provided with a copy of the
written decision. (Ord., 12-26-2000)
1-8C-10: PAYMENT REQUIRED; INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Time For Payment: In the event a determination has been made that a tax
is due and owing, through audit, assessment or other bill sent, the tax must be
paid within the time frame otherwise indicated.
   B.   Interest: The village hereby provides for the amount of interest to be
assessed on a late payment, underpayment, or nonpayment of the tax, to be
eighteen percent (18%) per annum, based on a year of three hundred sixty five
(365) days and the number of days elapsed.
   C.   Late Filing And Payment Penalties: If a tax return is not filed within
the time and manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance, a late filing
penalty of five percent (5%) of the amount of tax required to be shown as due
on a return shall be imposed, and a late payment penalty of five percent (5%)
of the tax due shall be imposed. If no return is filed within the time or
manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance and prior to the village
issuing a notice of tax delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a failure
to file penalty shall be assessed equal to twenty five percent (25%) of the
total tax due for the applicable reporting period for which the return was
required to be filed. A late filing or payment penalty shall not apply if a
failure to file penalty is imposed by the controlling ordinance.
   D.   Abatement Of Penalties: The local tax administrator shall have the
authority to waive or abate any late filing penalty, late payment penalty or
failure to file penalty if the local tax administrator shall determine
reasonable cause exists for delay or failure to make a filing. (Ord., 12-26-
2000)
1-8C-11: INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS:
The village may enter into an installment contract with the taxpayer for the
payment of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance. The local tax
administrator may not cancel any installment contract so entered unless the
taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing. Upon written notice by the
local tax administrator that the payment is thirty (30) days delinquent, the
taxpayer shall have fourteen (14) days to cure any delinquency. If the taxpayer
fails to cure the delinquency within the fourteen (14) day period or fails to
demonstrate good faith in restructuring the installment contract with the local
tax administrator, the installment contract shall be canceled without further
notice to the taxpayer. (Ord., 12-26-2000)
1-8C-12: STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS:
   A.   The village, through the local tax administrator, shall review all tax
returns in a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due
and owing. The taxpayer shall have forty five (45) days after receiving notice
of the reviewed tax returns to make any request for refund or provide any tax
still due and owing. (Ord., 12-26-2000)
   B.   No notice determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than
four (4) years maximum after the end of the calendar year for which the return
for the applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the
return for the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later.
   C.   If any tax return is not filed or if, during any four (4) year period
for which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the
village, the tax paid was less than seventy five percent (75%) of the tax due,
the statute of limitations shall be six (6) years maximum after the end of the
calendar year in which return for the applicable period was due or end of the
calendar year in which the return for the applicable period was filed,
whichever occurs later.
   D.   No statute of limitations shall apply if a fraudulent tax return was
filed by the taxpayer. (Ord., 12-26-2000; amd. 2009 Code)
1-8C-13: VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE:
For any locally imposed and administered tax for which a taxpayer has not
received a written notice of an audit, investigation, or assessment from the
local tax administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an application with the
local tax administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the tax due. A taxpayer
filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to pay the amount of tax
due, along with interest of one percent (1%) per month, for all periods prior
to the filing of the application but not more than four (4) years before the
date of filing the application. Except for the amount of tax and interest due
under this section, a taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure application
may not be liable for any additional tax, interest, or penalty for any period
before the date the application was filed. However, if the taxpayer incorrectly
determined and underpaid the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is liable for the
underpaid tax along with applicable interest on the underpaid tax, unless the
underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the taxpayer, in which
case, the application shall be deemed invalid and void. The payment of tax and
interest must be made by no later than ninety (90) days after the filing of the
voluntary disclosure application or the date agreed to by the local tax
administrator, whichever is longer. However, any additional amounts owed as a
result of an underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under this
section must be paid within ninety (90) days after a final determination and
the exhaustion of all appeals of the additional amount owed or the date agreed
to by the local tax administrator, whichever is longer. (Ord., 12-26-2000; amd.
2009 Code)
1-8C-14: PUBLICATION OF TAX ORDINANCES; COPIES:
Any locally administered tax ordinance shall be published via normal or
standard publishing requirements. The posting of a tax ordinance on the
internet shall satisfy the publication requirements. Copies of all tax
ordinances shall be made available to the public upon request at the village
clerk's office. (Ord., 12-26-2000)
1-8C-15: REVIEW OF LIENS:
The local tax administrator shall establish an internal review procedure
regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for unpaid taxes. Upon a
determination by the local tax administrator that the lien is valid, the lien
shall remain in full force and effect. If the lien is determined to be
improper, the local tax administrator shall:
   A.   Timely remove the lien at the village's expense;
   B.   Correct the taxpayer's credit record; and
   C.   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien. (Ord.,
12-26-2000)
CHAPTER 9
TRAVEL, MEAL AND LODGING EXPENSES
SECTION:
1-9-1: Definitions
1-9-2: Maximum Allowable Amounts
1-9-3: Expense Reimbursement Request
1-9-4: Exceeding Maximum Allowed Amount
1-9-5: Entertainment
1-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
ENTERTAINMENT: Includes, but is not limited to, shows, amusements, theaters,
circuses, sporting events, or any other place of public or private
entertainment or amusement, unless ancillary to the purpose of the program or
event.
PUBLIC BUSINESS: Expenses incurred in the performance of a public purpose which
is required or useful for the benefit of the Village to carry out the
responsibilities of Village business.
TRAVEL: Any expenditure directly incident to official travel by employees and
officers of the Village or by wards or charges of the Village involving
reimbursement to travelers or direct payment to private agencies providing
transportation or related services. (Ord. 2017-001, 2-27-2017, eff. 3-1-2017)
1-9-2: MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE AMOUNTS:
The Village shall only reimburse the following types of travel, meal, and
lodging expenses incurred by its employees and officers up to the following
maximum allowable amounts:
   A.   Maximum allowable reimbursement in the Village of Scales Mound shall be
equal to the rate established by the State of Illinois.
   B.   Alcohol is specifically excluded from reimbursement. (Ord. 2017-001, 2-
27-2017, eff. 3-1-2017)
1-9-3: EXPENSE REIMBURSEMENT REQUEST:
No reimbursement of travel, meal or lodging expenses incurred by a Village
employee or officer shall be authorized unless the "Travel, Meal, and Lodging
Expense Reimbursement Request Form", on file in the Village, has been submitted
and approved. All documents and information submitted with the form shall be
subject to disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act 1 . (Ord. 2017-001,
2-27-2017, eff. 3-1-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
1-9-4: EXCEEDING MAXIMUM ALLOWED AMOUNT:
Expenses for travel, meals, and lodging of: a) any officer or employee that
exceeds the maximum reimbursement allowed under the regulations adopted under
section
1-9-2 of this chapter or b) any member of the Corporate Authorities of the
Village may only be approved by roll call vote at an open meeting of the
Corporate Authorities of the Village. However, in the event of an emergency or
other extraordinary circumstances, the Corporate Authorities may approve more
than the maximum allowable expenses set forth above. (Ord. 2017-001, 2-27-2017,
eff. 3-1-2017)
1-9-5: ENTERTAINMENT:
The Village shall not reimburse any elected official, employee, or officer for
any activities which would be considered entertainment. Activities which would
otherwise be considered entertainment, but which are excluded from the
prohibition on reimbursement due to being ancillary to the purpose of the
program or event, may be reimbursed in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 2017-001, 2-27-2017, eff. 3-1-2017)
CHAPTER 10
SEXUAL HARASSMENT POLICY
SECTION:
1-10-1: Prohibition On Sexual Harassment
1-10-2: Definition Of Sexual Harassment
1-10-3: Procedure For Reporting An Allegation Of Sexual Harassment
1-10-4: Prohibition On Retaliation For Reporting Sexual Harassment Allegations
1-10-5: Consequences Of A Violation Of The Prohibition On Sexual Harassment
1-10-6: Consequences For Knowingly Making A False Report
1-10-1: PROHIBITION ON SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
It is unlawful to harass a person because of that person's sex. The courts have
determined that sexual harassment is a form of discrimination under Title VII
of the U.S. Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended in 1991. All persons have a
right to work in an environment free from sexual harassment. Sexual harassment
is unacceptable misconduct which affects individuals of all genders and sexual
orientations. It is a policy of the Village to prohibit harassment of any
person by any municipal official, municipal agent, municipal employee or
municipal agency or office on the basis of sex or gender. All municipal
officials, municipal agents, municipal employees and municipal agencies or
offices are prohibited from sexually harassing any person, regardless of any
employment relationship or lack thereof. (Ord. 2018-001, 1-15-2018)
1-10-2: DEFINITION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
   A.   This policy adopts the definition of sexual harassment as stated in the
Illinois Human Rights Act, which currently defines sexual harassment as any
unwelcome sexual advances or requests for sexual favors or any conduct of a
sexual nature when:
      1.   Submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or implicitly a
term or condition of an individual's employment,
      2.   Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used
as the basis for employment decisions affecting such individual, or
      3.   Such conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially interfering
with an individual's work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile or
offensive working environment.
   B.   Conduct which may constitute sexual harassment includes:
      1.   Verbal: sexual innuendos, suggestive comments, insults, humor, and
jokes about sex, anatomy or gender-specific traits, sexual propositions,
threats, repeated requests for dates, or statements about other employees, even
outside of their presence, of a sexual nature.
      2.   Non-Verbal: suggestive or insulting sounds (whistling), leering,
obscene gestures, sexually suggestive bodily gestures, "catcalls", "smacking"
or "kissing" noises.
      3.   Visual: posters, signs, pin-ups or slogans of a sexual nature,
viewing pornographic material or websites.
      4.   Physical: touching, unwelcome hugging or kissing, pinching, brushing
the body, any coerced sexual act or actual assault.
       5.   Textual/Electronic: "sexting" (electronically sending messages with
sexual content, including pictures and video), the use of sexually explicit
language, harassment, cyber stalking and threats via all forms of electronic
communication (e-mail, text/picture/video messages, intranet/on-line postings,
blogs, instant messages and social network websites like Facebook and Twitter).
   C.   The most severe and overt forms of sexual harassment are easier to
determine. On the other end of the spectrum, some sexual harassment is more
subtle and depends, to some extent, on individual perception and
interpretation. The courts will assess sexual harassment by a standard of what
would offend a "reasonable person." (Ord. 2018-001, 1-15-2018)
1-10-3: PROCEDURE FOR REPORTING AN ALLEGATION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
An employee who either observes sexual harassment or believes herself/himself
to be the object of sexual harassment should deal with the incident(s) as
directly and firmly as possible by clearly communicating her/his position to
the offending employee, and her/his immediate supervisor. It is not necessary
for sexual harassment to be directed at the person making the report.
   A.   Any employee may report conduct which is believed to be sexual
harassment, including the following:
      1.   Electronic/Direct Communication: If there is sexual harassing
behavior in the workplace, the harassed employee should directly and clearly
express her/his objection that the conduct is unwelcome and request that the
offending behavior stop. The initial message may be verbal. If subsequent
messages are needed, they should be put in writing in a note or a memo.
      2.   Contact With Supervisory Personnel:
         a.   At the same time direct communication is undertaken, or in the
event the employee feels threatened or intimidated by the situation, the
problem must be promptly reported to the immediate supervisor of the person
making the report, a department head, a director of human resources, an ethics
officer, the city manager or administrator, or the chief executive officer of
the municipality.
         b.   The employee experiencing what he or she believes to be sexual
harassment must not assume that the employer is aware of the conduct. If there
are no witnesses and the victim fails to notify a supervisor or other
responsible officer, the municipality will not be presumed to have knowledge of
the harassment.
      3.   Resolution Outside Municipality: The purpose of this policy is to
establish prompt, thorough and effective procedures for responding to every
report and incident so that problems can be identified and remedied by the
municipality. However, all municipal employees have the right to contact the
Illinois Department of Human Rights (IDHR) or the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission (EEOC) for information regarding filing a formal complaint with
those entities. An IDHR complaint must be filed within three hundred (300) days
of the alleged incident(s) unless it is a continuing offense. A complaint with
the EEOC must be filed within three hundred (300) days.
   B.   Documentation of any incident may be submitted with any report (what
was said or done, the date, the time and the place), including, but not limited
to, written records such as letters, notes, memos and telephone messages.
   C.   All allegations, including anonymous reports, will be accepted and
investigated regardless of how the matter comes to the attention of the
municipality. However, because of the serious implications of sexual harassment
charges and the difficulties associated with their investigation and the
questions of credibility involved, the claimant's willing cooperation is a
vital component of an effective inquiry and an appropriate outcome. (Ord. 2018-
001, 1-15-2018)
1-10-4: PROHIBITION ON RETALIATION FOR REPORTING SEXUAL HARASSMENT ALLEGATIONS:
   A.   No municipal official, municipal agency, municipal employee or
municipal agency or office shall take any retaliatory action against any
municipal employee due to a municipal employee's:
      1.   Disclosure or threatened disclosure of any violation of this policy,
      2.   The provision of information related to or testimony before any
public body conducting an investigation, hearing or inquiry into any violation
of this policy, or
      3.   Assistance or participation in a proceeding to enforce the
provisions of this policy.
   B.   For the purposes of this policy, retaliatory action means the
reprimand, discharge, suspension, demotion, denial of promotion or transfer, or
change in the terms or conditions of employment of any municipal employee that
is taken in retaliation for a municipal employee's involvement in protected
activity pursuant to this policy.
   C.   No individual making a report will be retaliated against even if a
report made in good faith is not substantiated. In addition, any witness will
be protected from retaliation.
   D.   Similar to the prohibition against retaliation contained herein, the
State Officials and Employees Ethics Act (5 ILCS 430/15-10) provides
whistleblower protection from retaliatory action such as reprimand, discharge,
suspension, demotion, or denial of promotion or transfer that occurs in
retaliation for an employee who does any of the following:
      1.   Discloses or threatens to disclose to a supervisor or to a public
body an activity, policy, or practice of any officer, member, state agency, or
other state employee that the state employee reasonably believes is in
violation of a law, rule, or regulation,
      2.   Provides information to or testifies before any public body
conducting an investigation, hearing, or inquiry into any violation of a law,
rule, or regulation by any officer, member, state agency or other state
employee, or
      3.   Assists or participates in a proceeding to enforce the provisions of
the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act.
   E.   Pursuant to the Whistleblower Act (740 ILCS 174/15(a)), an employer may
not retaliate against an employee who discloses information in a court, an
administrative hearing, or before a legislative commission or committee, or in
any other proceeding, where the employee has reasonable cause to believe that
the information discloses a violation of a state or federal law, rule, or
regulation. In addition, an employer may not retaliate against an employee for
disclosing information to a government or law enforcement agency, where the
employee has reasonable cause to believe that the information discloses a
violation of a state or federal law, rule, or regulation. (740 ILCS 174/15(b)).
   F.   According to the Illinois Human Rights Act (775 ILCS 5/6-101), it is a
civil rights violation for a person, or for two (2) or more people to conspire,
to retaliate against a person because he/she has opposed that which he/she
reasonably and in good faith believes to be sexual harassment in employment,
because he/she has made a charge, filed a complaint, testified, assisted, or
participated in an investigation, proceeding, or hearing under the Illinois
Human Rights Act.
   G.   An employee who is suddenly transferred to a lower paying job or passed
over for a promotion after filing a complaint with IDHR or EEOC, may file a
retaliation charge - due within three hundred (300) days (EEOC) of the alleged
retaliation. (Ord. 2018-001, 1-15-2018)
1-10-5: CONSEQUENCES OF A VIOLATION OF THE PROHIBITION ON SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
In addition to any and all other discipline that may be applicable pursuant to
municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks and/
or collective bargaining agreement, any person who violates this policy or the
prohibition on sexual harassment contained in 5 ILCS 430/5-65, may be subject
to a fine of up to five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) per offense, applicable
discipline or discharge by the municipality and any applicable fines and
penalties established pursuant to local ordinance, state law or federal law.
Each violation may constitute a separate offense. Any discipline imposed by the
municipality shall be separate and distinct from any penalty imposed by an
ethics commission and any fines or penalties imposed by a court of law or a
state or federal agency. (Ord. 2018-001, 1-15-2018)
1-10-6: CONSEQUENCES FOR KNOWINGLY MAKING A FALSE REPORT:
   A.   A false report is a report of sexual harassment made by an accuser
using the sexual harassment report to accomplish some end other than stopping
sexual harassment or retaliation for reporting sexual harassment. A false
report is not a report made in good faith which cannot be proven. Given the
seriousness of the consequences for the accused, a false or frivolous report is
a severe offense that can itself result in disciplinary action. Any person who
intentionally makes a false report alleging a violation of any provision of
this policy shall be subject to discipline or discharge pursuant to applicable
municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks and/
or collective bargaining agreements.
   B.   In addition, any person who intentionally makes a false report alleging
a violation of any provision of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act to
an ethics commission, an inspector general, the State Police, a State's
Attorney, the Attorney General, or any other law enforcement official is guilty
of a Class A misdemeanor. An ethics commission may levy an administrative fine
of up to five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) against any person who intentionally
makes a false, frivolous or bad faith allegation. (Ord. 2018-001, 1-15-2018)
CHAPTER 11
MUNICIPAL CODE VIOLATIONS
SECTION:
1-11-1: Adjudication Of Municipal Code Violations; Scope
1-11-2: Administrative Adjudication Procedures Not Exclusive
1-11-3: Composition Of Code Hearing Division; Hearing Officer; Powers And
Duties
1-11-4: Administrative Hearing Process
1-11-5: Prima Facie Case; Rules Of Evidence; Standard Of Proof
1-11-6: Subpoenas And Defaults
1-11-7: Continuances
1-11-8: Findings, Decision, Order, And Penalty
1-11-9: Late Fees
1-11-10: Judicial Review
1-11-11: Nonresident Procedures
1-11-12: Enforcement Of Administrative Orders
1-11-13: Other Methods Of Code And Ordinance Enforcement
1-11-14: Collections Of Fines And Costs
1-11-15: Table Of Offenses Subject To Code Hearing Enforcement
1-11-1: ADJUDICATION OF MUNICIPAL CODE VIOLATIONS; SCOPE:
   A.   The Village of Scales Mound, pursuant to its authority under 65 ILCS 5/
1-2.2 et seq., hereby establishes the procedure for a system of local
adjudication of Village code violations to the extent permitted by the Illinois
Constitution.
   B.   As used in this chapter, a “system of local adjudication” means the
adjudication of any violation of the Village of Scales Mound Code through the
establishment of a code hearing department except for (i) building code
violations and (ii) any offense under the Illinois Vehicle Code or similar
offense that is a traffic regulation governing the movement of vehicles or a
reportable offense under section 6-204 of the Illinois Vehicle Code (625 ILCS
5/6-204) (hereinafter “local adjudication”).
   C.   This chapter is intended to comply with 65 ILCS 5/1-2.2 et seq. and
where there is any conflict or missing information, 65 ILCS 5/1-2.2 et seq.
shall supersede this chapter.
   D.   To accomplish the purposes set forth herein, the Illinois Vehicle Code
(625 ILCS 5/11-208.3 et seq.) is adopted in its current form and as it may be
amended from time to time for adjudication of vehicular regulation violations
to the extent permitted by the state constitution.
   E.   The process for local adjudication may be consolidated and organized in
conjunction with Seizure and Impoundment of Vehicles Ordinance of the Village
of Scales Mound.
   F.   The process for local adjudication may be consolidated and organized in
conjunction with the process for building code and nuisance administrative
adjudication provided in Chapters 1 through 5 of Title 2, Chapters 1 through 7
of Title 3, Chapters 1 through 6 of Title 4, Chapters 1 through 3 of title 5,
Chapters 1 through 2 of Title 6, Chapters 1 through 3 of Title 7, Chapters 1
through 14 of Title 8, and Chapters 1 through 4 of Title 9 of the Village of
Scales Mound Code. (Ord. 2021-002, 10-25-2021)
1-11-2: ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION PROCEDURES NOT EXCLUSIVE:
The adoption by the Village of a system of local adjudication procedures does
not preclude the Village from using other methods to enforce municipal
ordinances, including, but not limited to, the prosecution of violations in the
Circuit Court for the Fifteenth Judicial Circuit, Jo Daviess County, Illinois.
(Ord. 2021-002, 10-25-2021)
1-11-3: COMPOSITION OF CODE HEARING DIVISION; HEARING OFFICER; POWERS AND
DUTIES:
   A.   A code hearing division is hereby established with the authority to
oversee the local adjudication process in the Village as herein provided and
shall consist of a hearing officer, administrator, and may include a computer
operator/systems coordinator and hearing room personnel.
   B.   Hearing Officer. Adjudicatory hearings shall be presided over by a
hearing officer. The powers and duties of the hearing officer shall include the
authority to:
      1.   Preside over adjudicatory hearings and hear testimony and accept
evidence that is relevant to the existence of the code violations;
      2.   Administer oaths;
      3.   Upon written request of the parties or their representatives, issue
subpoenas and direct witnesses to appear and give testimony at the hearings;
      4.   Rule upon objections and the admissibility of evidence;
      5.   Preserve and authenticate the record, including the exhibits and
evidence introduced at hearings;
      6.   Weigh the evidence presented at hearings based on relevancy and
competence, determine the credibility of witnesses, and resolve conflicts in
testimony;
      7.   Make ultimate findings and determinations based on the relevant and
competent evidence presented at a hearing of whether a code violation exists
and determine the validity of any notice of impending driver’s license
suspensions; and
      8.   The determination of the hearing officer shall be in writing and
shall include a written finding of fact, decision, and order, including any
fine, costs, penalty or other action with which the defendant must comply
should the defendant be found liable.
   C.   Administrator. The administrator is authorized and directed to:
      1.   Operate and manage this system of adjudicatory hearings;
      2.   Adopt, distribute, and process code violation notices and other
notices as may be required to carry out the purpose of this chapter;
      3.   Collect and process monies paid after a final determination of a
code violation;
      4.   Promulgate internal rules and regulations reasonably required to
operate and maintain this administrative hearing system;
      5.   Certify copies of final determinations of standing and/or parking
regulation violation liability, vehicle compliance violation, vehicle sticker
violation or any other ordinance violation adjudicated pursuant to this
chapter, and any factual reports verifying the final determination of any
violation liability which was issued in accordance with this chapter or the
laws of the state, including 625 ILCS 5/11-208.3, as from time to time amended;
      6.   Certify reports to the Secretary of State concerning initiation of
suspension of driving privileges in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter and those of 625 ILCS 5/6- 306.5; and
      7.   Collect unpaid fines and/or penalties and otherwise pursue all post
judgment remedies available under law, including compromising and settling
violation notices prior to a hearing date which shall be approved by the
hearing officer.
      8.   The administrator shall also be the traffic compliance administrator
as provided in 625 ILCS 5/11-208.3.
   D.   System Coordinator/Computer Operator. The system coordinator/computer
operator shall operate and maintain computer programs for the local
adjudication created hereunder, on a day-to-day basis, including, but not
limited to:
      1.   Input of violation notice information;
      2.   Input of hearing and notice dates;
      3.   Input of fine, costs, and penalty assessments and payments;
      4.   Issuance of receipts for payment;
      5.   Issuance of succeeding notices of hearing dates or court dates,
issuing notice of a final determination of liability, issuing notice of
impending driver’s license suspension, as directed by the administrator or by
the hearing officer in accordance with the provisions hereinafter set forth;
and
      6.   Maintaining accurate records of appearances and nonappearances at
administrative hearings, pleas entered, fines and penalties assessed and paid.
   E.   Hearing Room Personnel. Hearing room personnel shall be qualified off-
duty, full-time, part-time, or auxiliary police officers who are authorized and
directed to:
      1.   Maintain hearing room decorum;
      2.   Exercise authority consistent with those powers granted to courtroom
deputies of the circuit court; and
      3.   Perform such other duties or acts as may reasonably be required and
as directed by the hearing officer or administrator.
   F.   Selection and Appointment of Personnel. The persons who shall hold the
positions of hearing officer, administrator, computer operator/systems
coordinator, and hearing room personnel under this chapter shall be selected
and appointed according to the following procedures:
      1.   Hearing Officer Appointment. The hearing officer shall be appointed
by the East Dubuque City Mayor with the consent of the Board and shall serve
pursuant to the terms set forth in an approved agreement. The hearing officer
shall be an attorney licensed to practice law in the State of Illinois for at
least three years and must successfully complete a formal training program,
which instructions on rules of procedure of the administrative hearings that
will be conducted, orientation to each subject area of the code violations that
will be adjudicated, observation of similar administrative hearings, and
participation in hypothetical cases, including ruling on evidence and issuing
final orders.
      2.   Administrator, System Coordinator, and Hearing Room Personnel. The
Village President shall assign the duties of administrator, system coordinator,
and hearing room personnel to Village employees. (Ord. 2021-002, 10-25-2021)
1-11-4: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING PROCESS:
   A.   Authority. All full-time, part-time, and auxiliary police officers as
well as other specifically appointed individuals shall have the authority to
issue violation notices.
   B.   Content of Violation Notice. When a Village official with authority to
enforce Village ordinances and code provisions makes a determination that a
violation has occurred, he or she shall note the violation on a multiple copy
violation notice and report form that indicates (i) the name and address of the
defendant, (ii) the type and nature of the violation, including the section or
regulation violated, (iii) the date and time the violation was observed, (iv)
the names of witnesses to the violation, (v) the signature and identification
number, if applicable, of the person issuing the violation notice and in the
case of vehicular standing, parking or compliance regulations certification
shall be valid if the authorized person issuing the notice signs the notice at
the time of service, (vi) a hearing date along with the time and location of
the hearing, (vii) if applicable, the amount of the fine and notice that the
failure to pay the fine within the allotted time will result in adjudication of
the violation notice through administrative hearing and the penalties for
failing to appear at the administrative hearing, (viii) penalty for any late
fee, and (ix) if applicable, the vehicle make and state registration number.
   C.   Content of Violation Notice for Ordinance Violations Related to Vehicle
Standing, Parking, and Other Compliance Regulations. In addition to the above,
there shall be a section entitled “request for hearing” setting forth that the
registered owner or lessee may appear at the initial administrative hearing to
contest the validity of the violation notice on the date and at the time and
place as specified in the violation notice by:
      1.   Checking or placing a mark in a space provided and clearly
identified “request for hearing”;
      2.   If a non-resident of the Village of Scales Mound or Jo Daviess
County, checking or placing a mark in a space provided and clearly identified
as “nonresident request for hearing-nonappearance”;
      3.   Placing his name and current address in the place provided;
      4.   Signing his name in the appropriate indicated place;
      5.   Filing the violation notice, with the request for hearing portion
fully completed, with the Ordinance Enforcement Administrator postmarked by the
25th of the month, if the violation notice was issued between the first through
the 15th day of the month, or postmarked by the tenth of the month, if the
violation notice was issued between the 16th and the end of the prior month.
The request shall be deemed filed upon receipt by the Ordinance Enforcement
Administrator; and
      6.   A clearly marked statement that execution of the nonresident request
for hearing is a waiver of the nonresident’s right to a personal appearance and
that the adjudication will be made based upon the notarized statement of facts
submitted by the nonresident and the facts contained in the violation notice.
   D.   The violation report derived from the violation notice form shall be
forwarded to the code hearing division where a docket number shall be stamped
on all copies of the report and a hearing date shall be noted or filled in. The
hearing date shall not be less than thirty (30) nor more than forty (40) days
after the notice is served. One copy of the violation notice and report form
shall be maintained in the files of the code hearing division and shall be part
of the record of the hearing; one copy of the report form shall be returned to
the individual representing the Village in the case so that he or she may
prepare evidence of the code violation for presentation at the hearing on the
date indicated; and one copy of the report form shall be served either in
person or by first class mail to the defendant along with a summons commanding
the defendant to appear at the hearing. Hand delivery of the violation notice
containing the required content shall be sufficient for in person service.
Service of a violation notice may be made by affixing the original or a
facsimile of the notice to an unlawfully standing or parked vehicle.
   E.   Parties may request in writing to the hearing officer before the
hearing date that the hearing officer issue subpoenas to direct attendance and
testimony of relevant witnesses and the production of relevant documents.
   F.   At the hearing, parties shall be provided with an opportunity to give
testimony, present witnesses, submit evidence, and cross-examine opposing
witnesses. Parties may be represented by legal counsel. (Ord. 2021-002, 10-25-
2021)
1-11-5: PRIMA FACIE CASE; RULES OF EVIDENCE; STANDARD OF PROOF:
   A.   A prima facie case may be established if the violation notice served in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter is certified by the issuer. A
violation notice shall be admissible in any subsequent administrative or legal
proceeding.
   B.   The formal and technical rules of evidence shall not apply in the
adjudicatory hearing process. Any evidence, including hearsay, may be admitted,
but only if it is of a type commonly relied upon by reasonably prudent persons
in the conduct of their affairs.
   C.   The burden of proof required to sustain a finding of a violation of
Village ordinances shall be by a preponderance of the evidence. (Ord. 2021-002,
10-25-2021)
1-11-6: SUBPOENAS AND DEFAULTS:
At any time prior to the hearing date, but not less than two working days prior
to the hearing date, the hearing officer assigned to hear the case may, at the
request of either party, direct witness to appear and give testimony at the
hearing. If, on the date set for hearing, the defendant, or his or her attorney
fails to appear, the hearing officer may find the defendant in default and
shall proceed with the hearing and accept evidence relevant to the existence of
a code violation in the defendant’s absence. (Ord. 2021-002, 10-25-2021)
1-11-7: CONTINUANCES:
No continuance shall be authorized by the hearing officer except in cases in
which a continuance is necessary to protect the rights of the parties. Lack of
preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance. (Ord. 2021-002, 10-25-2021)
1-11-8: FINDINGS, DECISION, ORDER, AND PENALTY:
   A.   At the conclusion of a hearing, the hearing officer shall make a
determination, on the basis of the relevant and competent evidence presented at
the hearing, whether or not a code or ordinance violation exists. The
determination shall be in writing and shall be designated as findings, decision
and order. The findings, decision and order shall include the hearing officer’s
findings of fact, a decision whether or not a code or ordinance violation
exists based upon the findings of fact, and an order.
   B.   If a violation is found, the order shall impose a fine and costs and
may direct the defendant to correct the violation and/or impose such other
sanction as may be appropriate as allowed by law consistent with Village
ordinance; set a date by which the violation must be brought into compliance,
if applicable. The order shall contain a statement of the penalties for late
payment and that any unpaid fines, costs, and penalty assessed is a debt due
and owing the Village after the exhaustion of, or the failure to exhaust
judicial procedures for review. In the case in which a defendant fails to
comply with a judgment ordering the correction of a code violation or imposing
any fine or other sanction as a result of the code violation, the order shall
provide that any expenses incurred by the Village to enforce the judgment,
including, but not limited to, attorney fees, costs, and costs related to
property demolition or foreclosure, shall be a debt due and owing the Village
and may be collected in accordance with applicable law. If a violation is not
found, the order shall include a statement to that effect and dismiss the case.
A copy of the findings, decision and order shall be served on the owner within
five days after issuance by first class mail.
   C.   A notice of judgment entered by default shall be forwarded to any
person who fails to appear and shall contain the same information as a
determination of liability but shall also state that the judgment may be set
aside by the hearing officer if, within twenty-one (21) days of issuance of the
judgment, a petition is received stating what the hearing officer determines is
good cause for failure to appear. The default judgment shall state that it
constitutes a final determination of liability if such petition is not
received, if the petition is denied, or after setting a new hearing date, the
person fails to appear.
   D.   The hearing officer shall not have the authority to impose a penalty of
incarceration or impose a fine in excess of seven hundred and fifty dollars
($750.00) for each violation except for those offenses under 625 ILCS 5/11-
208.3 which shall carry a maximum fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00). When
applicable, however, each day a code provision is found to have been violated
by the defendant shall constitute a separate offense, and each separate offense
subjects the defendant to the fine and penalty provided by the governing fine
or penalty provision. Any fine assessed is exclusive of any costs imposed. In
all cases where there is a determination of liability by the hearing officer,
the hearing officer shall impose administrative costs (i.e., court costs) in
the amount of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) or greater.
   E.   In addition, and notwithstanding any fines and administrative costs,
the hearing officer may order:
      1.   Costs incurred by the Village for effecting compliance with code
provision(s) for which a defendant has been found to be liable;
      2.   Compliance with the code provision(s) found to have been violated;
and
      3.   Performance of a term of community service in lieu of fines.
   F.   For all vehicular standing, parking or compliance regulation violation,
there shall be a second notice sent following a failure to appear at the
hearing. In addition, a notice of final determination shall be sent following
an appearance by the violator and a determination of liability or the failure
to appear by the violator by the final hearing date upon conclusion of any
judicial review. The notice shall contain, but not be limited to, the following
information:
      1.   The date and location of violation cited in the vehicular standing,
parking or compliance regulation violation notice;
      2.   The particular standing, parking or compliance regulation violated;
      3.   The vehicle make and state registration;
      4.   The fine, court costs, and any penalty that may be assessed for late
payment;
      5.   A notice to the registered owner or lessee of their current status,
other than paid in full;
      6.   The date, time and place of the administrative hearing at which the
alleged violation may be contested on its merits if the individual failed to
appear at his or her first hearing date;
      7.   A statement that failure to either pay the fine and any applicable
penalty or failure to appear at the hearing on its merits on the date and at
the time and place specified will result in a final determination of vehicle
standing, parking, or compliance regulation violation liability for the cited
vehicle violation in the amount of the fine and penalty indicated as well as
court costs;
      8.   If a final determination occurs, a statement that a final
determination of vehicular standing, parking or compliance violation liability
for the failure, and the exhaustion of, or the failure to exhaust judicial
procedures for review, any unpaid fine or penalty will constitute a debt due
and owing the Village;
      9.   A warning that failure to pay the fine and any penalty due and owing
the Village within the time specified may result in the Village filing a
complaint in the circuit court to have the unpaid fine or penalty rendered a
judgment as provided herein; and
      10.   A warning that failure to pay the fine or penalty owing within
forty-five (45) days of the date of the notice may result in the Village
notifying the Secretary of State that the person is eligible for initiation of
suspension proceedings under 625 ILCS 5/6-306.5 if they have failed to pay any
fine or penalty due and owing as a result of ten (10) or more vehicular
standing, parking or compliance regulation violations.
   G.   A notice of impending suspension of a person’s driver’s license shall
be sent to any person determined to be liable for the payment of any fine or
penalty that remains due and owing on ten (10) or more vehicular standing,
parking, or compliance regulation violations. The notice shall state that the
failure to pay the fine or penalty owing within forty-five (45) days of the
date of the notice will result in the Village notifying the Secretary of State
that the person is eligible for initiation of suspension proceedings under 625
ILCS 5/6-306.5. The notice of impending driver’s license suspension shall be
sent by first class mail, postage prepaid, to the address recorded with the
Secretary of State.
   H.   Notices shall be sent to the registered owner of the cited vehicle at
the address as is recorded with the Secretary of State or sent to the lessee of
the cited vehicle at the address last known to the lessor of the cited vehicle
at the time of the lease by first class mail, postage prepaid.
   I.   Notices not related to vehicular standing, parking or compliance
regulations shall be sent to the last known address of the individual by first
class mail, postage prepaid. (Ord. 2021-002, 10-25-2021)
1-11-9: LATE FEES:
Failing to pay the total fines and costs within twenty-one (21) days of the
issuance of the determination of liability and the exhaustion of or the failure
to exhaust any administrative review procedures as set forth in this chapter
shall result in the imposition of a late payment penalty fee as follows:
   A.   A late payment penalty fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) shall be imposed
if the total fines and costs are paid more than twenty-one (21) days following
the issuance of the determination of liability but within forty-two (42) days
following the issuance of the determination of liability.
   B.   A late payment penalty fee of seventy-five dollars ($75.00) shall be
imposed if the total fines and costs are paid more than forty-two (42) days
following the issuance of the determination of liability but within sixty-three
(63) days following the issuance of the determination of liability.
   C.   A late payment penalty fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) shall be
imposed if the total fines and costs are paid more than sixty-three (63) days
following the issuance of the determination of liability. (Ord. 2021-002, 10-
25-2021)
1-11-10: JUDICIAL REVIEW:
Any final decision by a hearing officer that a code violation does or does not
exist shall constitute a final determination for purposes of judicial review
and shall be subject to review under the Illinois Administrative Review Law, as
amended. (Ord. 2021-002, 10-25-2021)
1-11-11: NONRESIDENT PROCEDURES:
Nonresidents of this Village who have been issued a vehicular standing, parking
or compliance regulation violation notice may contest the alleged violation on
its merits without personally appearing at an administrative hearing by:
   A.   Completing, in full, the “nonresident request for hearing” section of
the violation notice;
   B.   Signing the nonresident “request for hearing” in the space specified in
the violation notice and acknowledging that his personal appearance is waived
and submitting to an adjudication based upon the notarized statement filed by
him and the facts contained in the violation notice;
   C.   Filing the violation notice with the “request for hearing” section
fully completed with the Ordinance Enforcement Administrator postmarked by the
25th of the month, if the violation notice was issued between the first through
the 15th day of the month, or postmarked by the tenth of the month if the
violation notice was issued between the 16th and the end of the prior month.
The request shall be deemed filed upon receipt by the Ordinance Enforcement
Administrator;
   D.   Filing a notarized statement of facts specifying the grounds for
challenging the violation notice which must be filed with the administrator
postmarked by the 25th of the month, if the violation notice was issued between
the first through the 15th day of the month, or postmarked by the tenth of the
month if the violation notice was issued between the 16th and the end of the
prior month. The request shall be deemed filed upon receipt by the
administrator. The acceptance of a “nonresident request for hearing” after the
due date or with cause is at the discretion of the administrator.
      1.   The hearing officer shall make an adjudication based upon the facts
set forth in the notarized statement of facts filed by the nonresident as is
contained in the violation notice.
      2.   Notice of the determination of the hearing officer shall be served
upon the nonresident by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the
nonresident at the address set forth in the statement of facts submitted.
      3.   Service of the notice shall be complete on the date the notice is
placed in the United States mail.
      4.   All other provisions of this chapter shall apply equally to
nonresidents. (Ord. 2021-002, 10-25-2021)
1-11-12: ENFORCEMENT OF ADMINISTRATIVE ORDERS:
   A.   Any fine, costs or other sanction imposed that remains unpaid after the
exhaustion of, or the failure to exhaust judicial review procedures under the
Illinois Administrative Review Law, shall be considered a debt due and owing to
the Village and enforced in the same manner as a judgment entered by a court of
competent jurisdiction.
   B.   Issues such as whether a violation occurred and the penalties that are
imposed may not be raised in any subsequent proceeding after the period for
judicial review has passed.
   C.   Any expenses incurred by a municipality to enforce the judgment,
including, but not limited to, attorney’s fees, court costs, and costs related
to property demolition or foreclosure, after they are fixed by a court of
competent jurisdiction or a hearing officer, shall be a debt due and owing the
Village and may be collected in accordance with applicable law. However, prior
to any expenses being fixed by a hearing officer, the Village shall provide
notice to the defendant that states that the defendant shall appear at a
hearing before the administrative hearing officer to determine whether the
defendant has failed to comply with the judgment. The notice shall set the date
for such a hearing, which shall not be less than seven days from the date that
notice is served. If notice is served by mail, the seven-day period shall begin
to run on the date that the notice was deposited in the mail.
   D.   Any person, having received notice and an opportunity for a hearing as
provided in this chapter, who knowingly fails to comply with an order issued by
the hearing officer under this chapter, including the issuance of a subpoena,
shall, if the order is not stayed by a court of competent jurisdiction prior to
its effective date, be guilty of contempt. Contempt shall be enforceable only
through a court proceeding in 15th Judicial Circuit, Jo Daviess County,
Illinois, and shall be punishable by applicable law. Each day that a violation
continues shall be considered a separate and distinct offense. It shall not be
a defense that a person came into compliance with an order, sought judicial
review of it, or made efforts to comply with an order, subsequent to its
effective date. (Ord. 2021-002, 10-25-2021)
1-11-13: OTHER METHODS OF CODE AND ORDINANCE ENFORCEMENT:
This chapter shall not affect the validity of any other system of adjudication
authorized by state law and Village of Scales Mound Ordinances. (Ord. 2021-002,
10-25-2021)
1-11-14: COLLECTIONS OF FINES AND COSTS:
All fines and other monies to be paid to the Village in accordance with this
chapter shall be remitted to the Village and deposited in the appropriate
Village account as designated by the Village administrator, or his or her
designee. (Ord. 2021-002, 10-25-2021)
1-11-15: TABLE OF OFFENSES SUBJECT TO CODE HEARING ENFORCEMENT:
The table below provides a non-exhaustive list of ordinance violations subject
to adjudication under this chapter:
ANIMAL VIOLATIONS
ANIMAL VIOLATIONS
                  Any structures, kennels, pens,
                  or runs for the keeping of
4-3-2 (b)(1)      animals must comply with all   $100.00 $50.00 $150.00 $200.00
                  ordinances, titles, chapters
                  and codes of the Village of
                  Scales Mound.
                  Any structures, kennels, pens,
4-3-2 (b)(2)      or runs for the keeping of     $100.00 $50.00 $150.00 $200.00
                  animals shall be located only
                  within a rear yard.
4-3-2 (b)(3)      Any kennel, pens, or runs      $100.00 $50.00 $150.00 $200.00
                  requirements
                  Inhumanely beat, underfeed,
4-3-3 (a)         overload or abandon any        $100.00 $50.00 $150.00 $200.00
                  animal.
4-3-3 (b)         Fail to provide any animal     $100.00 $50.00 $150.00 $200.00
                  with proper shelter
                  Promote, stage, hold, manage,
4-3-3 (c)         conduct or carry on any animal $100.00 $50.00 $150.00 $200.00
                  fight
4-3-3 (d)         Hold a greased pig contest.    $100.00 $50.00 $150.00 $200.00
                  Keep animals in violation of
4-3-3 (e)         the Illinois Humane Care for   $100.00 $50.00 $150.00 $200.00
                  Animals Act 1or the Illinois
                  Animal Welfare Act 2
4-3-3 (f)         Intentionally strike wildlife  $100.00 $50.00 $150.00 $200.00
                  with a motor vehicle
4-3-3 (g)         Torment, shoot at Animals      $100.00 $50.00 $150.00 $200.00
4-3-3 (h)         Give away or use any live      $100.00 $50.00 $150.00 $200.00
                  animal as a prize
                  Bring or cause to have brought
                  into the Village, sell, offer
                  for sale, barter or display
                  living baby chicks, ducklings,
                  or other fowl or rabbits which
                  have been dyed, colored or
                  otherwise treated so as to
                  impart to them an artificial
4-3-3 (i)         color, or give away as pets or $100.00 $50.00 $150.00 $200.00
                  sell, offer for sale, barter
                  or give away at no cost or as
                  novelties or prizes. Nothing
                  in this subsection shall be
                  construed to prohibit
                  legitimate commerce in poultry
                  for agricultural or food
                  purposes.
4-3-3 (j)         Poison or cause to be poisoned $100.00 $50.00 $150.00 $200.00
                  any domesticated animal
                  Take the nest or eggs or young
4-3-3 (k)         of any bird that is protected  $100.00 $50.00 $150.00 $200.00
                  by Federal or State law.
4-3-3 (L)         Wild animal                    $100.00 $50.00 $150.00 $200.00
4-3-3 (m)         Animal weather conditions      $100.00 $50.00 $150.00 $200.00
                  Own any animal which is known
                  to be infected with any
                  disease transmissible to other
4-3-3 (n)         animals or man, including      $100.00 $50.00 $150.00 $200.00
                  severe parasitism, unless such
                  animal shall be confined in
                  such a manner as not to expose
                  other animals or man.
4-3-4 (a)         Control of animal              $100.00 $50.00 $150.00 $200.00
4-3-4 (b)(1)      Consent required - animal      $100.00 $50.00 $150.00 $200.00
                  Public body of water: To
                  permit any animal, whether
4-3-4 (b)(2)      licensed or not, to enter any  $100.00 $50.00 $150.00 $200.00
                  public body of water, pond,
                  fountain or stream.
4-3-4 (b)(3)      Food establishment - animal    $100.00 $50.00 $150.00 $200.00
4-3-4 (b)(4)      Animal trespass                $100.00 $50.00 $150.00 $200.00
4-3-4 (b)(5)      Animal damage                  $100.00 $50.00 $150.00 $200.00
                  Vehicles: To permit any dog to
4-3-4 (b)(6)      chase, run after or jump at    $100.00 $50.00 $150.00 $200.00
                  vehicles using the public
                  thoroughfares.
4-3-4 (b)(7)      Threatening animal             $100.00 $50.00 $150.00 $200.00
4-3-4 (b)(8)      Vicious or dangerous animal    $100.00 $50.00 $150.00 $200.00
4-3-4 (b)(9)      Disturbance of the peace -     $100.00 $50.00 $150.00 $200.00
                  animal
4-3-4  (b)(10)    Unsanitary conditions - animal $100.00 $50.00 $150.00 $200.00
4-3-4  (b)(11)    Livestock                      $100.00 $50.00 $150.00 $200.00
4-3-4  (b)(12)    Exotic Animals                 $100.00 $50.00 $150.00 $200.00
4-3-4  (b)(13)    Number Of Dogs Or Cats         $100.00 $50.00 $150.00 $200.00
                  For any person to cause or
                  permit any animal to be on any
                  property, public or private,
                  not owned or possessed by such
                  person unless such person has
4-3-4  (14)(a)    in his immediate possession a  $100.00 $50.00 $150.00 $200.00
                  device for the removal of
                  excrement and a depository for
                  the transmission of excrement
                  to a receptacle located upon
                  property owned or possessed by
                  such person.
                  For any person in control of,
                  causing or permitting any
                  animal to be on any property,
                  public or private, not owned
4-3-4  (14)(b)    or possessed by such person to $100.00 $50.00 $150.00 $200.00
                  fail to remove excrement left
                  by such animal to a proper
                  receptacle located on property
                  owned or possessed by such
                  person.
4-3-4  (b)(15)    Bites: To fail to report an    $100.00 $50.00 $150.00 $200.00
                  animal bite.
4-3-4  (b)(16)    Animals Other Than Domestic    $100.00 $50.00 $150.00 $200.00
                  Pets
4-3-4  (b)(17)    Animals on Public Street Or    $100.00 $50.00 $150.00 $200.00
                  Highway
4-3-4  (b)(18)(a) Vicious Animal Requirements    $100.00 $50.00 $150.00 $200.00
4-3-4  (b)(18)(b) Vicious Animal Enforcement     $100.00 $50.00 $150.00 $200.00
4-3-4  (b)(19)    Public Nuisance Animal         $100.00 $50.00 $150.00 $200.00
4-3-5 (a)         Running At Large, Removal From $100.00 $50.00 $150.00 $200.00
                  Premises Prohibited
4-3-5 (b)         Running at Large Preventive    $100.00 $50.00 $150.00 $200.00
                  Measures
4-3-6             Disposition of Dead Animals    $100.00 $50.00 $150.00 $200.00
 
 
PARKING VIOLATIONS
Violation Violation    Violation Initial Fine Step 2 Fee Step 3 Fee Step 4 Fee
Code      Text         Category
          It shall be
          unlawful to
          park or
          leave
          standing any
          vehicle on
5-1-6 (b) the public   P         $25.00       $10.00     $85.00     $130.00
(1)       streets and
          alleys of
          the village
          for more
          than twenty
          four (24)
          hours.
          It shall be
          unlawful to
          set, put,
          place,
          deposit or
          store any
          part or
          component
5-1-6 (b) part of any  P         $25.00       $10.00     $85.00     $130.00
(2)       vehicle on
          the public
          streets and
          alleys of
          the village
          for more
          than twenty
          four (24)
          hours.
 
COMPLIANCE VIOLATIONS
Violation Code Violation Text Initial fine Step 2 Fee Step 3 Fee Step 4 Fee
COMPLIANCE VIOLATIONS
Violation Code   Violation Text   Initial fine Step 2 Fee Step 3 Fee Step 4 Fee
2-1-9            Business lic -   $100.00      $50.00     $150.00    $500.00
                 nuisance
2-1-10           Business lic -   $100.00      $50.00     $150.00    $500.00
                 posting license
                 Alcoholic
2-2-7            beverages -      $100.00      $50.00     $150.00    $500.00
                 hours of
                 operation
                 Alcoholic
2-2-14           beverages -      $100.00      $50.00     $150.00    $500.00
                 premises
                 requirements
                 Alcoholic
2-2-15           beverages -      $100.00      $50.00     $150.00    $500.00
                 operational
                 restrictions
                 Alcoholic
2-2-16           beverages -      $100.00      $50.00     $150.00    $500.00
                 consumption on
                 premises
                 Alcoholic
2-2-17           beverages -      $100.00      $50.00     $150.00    $500.00
                 employee health
                 requirements
                 Alcoholic
2-2-18           beverages -      $100.00      $50.00     $150.00    $500.00
                 persons under
                 twenty one
                 Alcoholic
                 beverages -
2-2-19           sales to certain $100.00      $50.00     $150.00    $500.00
                 persons
                 prohibited
                 Alcoholic
2-2-20           beverages -      $100.00      $50.00     $150.00    $500.00
                 peddling liquor
                 Alcoholic
2-2-21           beverages - open $100.00      $50.00     $150.00    $500.00
                 containers
                 Alcoholic
2-2-22           beverages -      $100.00      $50.00     $150.00    $500.00
                 entertainment
2-3-5            Junk dealers -   $100.00      $50.00     $150.00    $500.00
                 license required
                 Junk dealers -
2-3-6            prohibited
                 operations
                 Junk Dealers -
2-3-8            concealment of   $100.00      $50.00     $150.00    $500.00
                 articles
                 Adult
2-4-3            entertainment -  $100.00      $50.00     $150.00    $500.00
                 license required
                 Adult
2-4-12  through  entertainment-   $100.00      $50.00     $150.00    $500.00
2-4-21           regulations and
                 requirements
3-2-1            Height           $150.00      $100.00    $200.00    $600.00
                 restriction
                 Interfering with
3-2-4            enforcement      $150.00      $100.00    $200.00    $600.00
                 officials
3-6-1            Outdoor and      $150.00      $100.00    $200.00    $600.00
                 indoor burning
                 Burning
3-6-2            permission       $150.00      $100.00    $200.00    $600.00
                 required
3-6-3            Open burning of  $150.00      $100.00    $200.00    $600.00
                 leaves
                 Fires near
3-6-4            buildings, on    $150.00      $100.00    $200.00    $600.00
                 public ways
                 Assault;
4-2-2            battery;         $150.00      $100.00    $200.00    $600.00
                 disturbing the
                 peace
4-2-3            Disorderly, lewd $150.00      $100.00    $200.00    $600.00
                 conduct
                 Disturbing
4-2-4            assemblies and   $150.00      $100.00    $200.00    $600.00
                 public dances
4-2-5            Graffiti         $150.00      $100.00    $200.00    $600.00
                 Discharge of
4-2-7            weapons and      $150.00      $100.00    $200.00    $600.00
                 fireworks
                 Deposit of
4-2-8 (a)        refuse on public $150.00      $100.00    $200.00    $600.00
                 ways
4-2-8 (b)        Damage to public $150.00      $100.00    $200.00    $600.00
                 property
4-2-8 (c)        Throwing         $150.00      $100.00    $200.00    $600.00
                 missiles
                 Driving or
4-2-8 (d)        riding on        $150.00      $100.00    $200.00    $600.00
                 sidewalks
4-2-8 (e)        Obstructing      $150.00      $100.00    $200.00    $600.00
                 public ways
4-2-8 (f)        Excavations      $150.00      $100.00    $200.00    $600.00
4-2-9            Failure to aid   $250.00      $100.00    $200.00    $600.00
                 village marshal
4-2-10           Public           $250.00      $100.00    $200.00    $600.00
                 intoxication
4-4-1            Curfew           $150.00      $100.00    $200.00    $600.00
4-5-3            Discrimination   $150.00      $100.00    $200.00    $600.00
                 in housing
                 Keeping of
4-6-3            chickens -       $150.00      $100.00    $200.00    $600.00
                 permit required
                 Keeping of
4-6-4            chickens -       $150.00      $100.00    $200.00    $600.00
                 performance
                 standards
                 Keeping of
4-6-5            chickens -       $150.00      $100.00    $200.00    $600.00
                 structure
                 requirements
                 Keeping of
4-6-6            chickens -       $150.00      $100.00    $200.00    $600.00
                 location
                 requirements
                 Keeping of
4-6-7            chickens -       $150.00      $100.00    $200.00    $600.00
                 prohibited
                 activities
                 Excessive
5-1-3            acceleration and $150.00      $100.00    $200.00    $600.00
                 noise prohibited
5-1-4            Truck routes     $150.00      $100.00    $200.00    $600.00
                 Railroad trains
5-1-5            obstructing      $150.00      $100.00    $200.00    $600.00
                 intersections
                 Snowmobiles -
5-2-2            permitted        $150.00      $100.00    $200.00    $600.00
                 streets
5-2-3            Snowmobiles -    $150.00      $100.00    $200.00    $600.00
                 private property
                 Non-highway
5-3-3            vehicles -       $150.00      $100.00    $200.00    $600.00
                 limitations on
                 use
                 Public ways &
                 property -
6-1-1 -B         sidewalks        $100.00      $50.00     $150.00    $500.00
                 accumulation of
                 snow
6-2-4            Village park -   $100.00      $50.00     $150.00    $500.00
                 hours
                 Village park-
6-2-5            Tables for Park  $100.00      $50.00     $150.00    $500.00
                 Use Only
                 Public
                 utilities-
7-1-3            garbage          $100.00      $50.00     $150.00    $500.00
                 collection
                 required
                 Public
7-2-1            utilities- cross $100.00      $50.00     $150.00    $500.00
                 connection
                 restricted
                 Public
7-3-2            utilities-use of $100.00      $50.00     $150.00    $500.00
                 sewer required
                 Public
7-3-4            utilities-       $100.00      $50.00     $150.00    $500.00
                 building sewers
                 and connections
                 Public
7-3-5-1          utilities-       $100.00      $50.00     $150.00    $500.00
                 discharge into
                 sewer system
                 Public
7-3-5-2          utilities-       $100.00      $50.00     $150.00    $500.00
                 interceptors
                 required
                 Public
                 utilities-
7-3-6            damage to,       $100.00      $50.00     $150.00    $500.00
                 tampering with
                 sewage works
8-2-1  through   Zoning           $150.00      $100.00    $200.00    $600.00
8-14-9           regulations
 
(Ord. 2021-002, 10-25-2021)
TITLE 2
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
2-1-1: Applications
2-1-2: Persons Subject To License
2-1-3: Forms
2-1-4: Signatures
2-1-5: Inspection Or Investigation
2-1-6: Term Of License
2-1-7: Building And Premises
2-1-8: Change Of Location
2-1-9: Nuisances
2-1-10: Posting License
2-1-11: Revocation Of License; Hearing
2-1-12: Appeal Procedure
2-1-1: APPLICATIONS:
Applications for all licenses required by this code shall be made in writing to
the village clerk, unless otherwise specifically provided by law. Each
application shall state the name of the applicant, the license desired, the
location to be used, if any, the time covered and the fee to be paid; and each
application shall contain such additional information as may be required by the
issuing official. (2009 Code)
2-1-2: PERSONS SUBJECT TO LICENSE:
Whenever in this code a license is required for the maintenance, operation or
conduct of any business or establishment or for doing business or engaging in
any activity or occupation, any person or corporation shall be subject to the
requirement if, by himself or through an agent, employee or partner, he holds
himself forth as being engaged in the business or occupation; or solicits
patronage therefor, actively or passively; or performs or attempts to perform
any part of such business or occupation in the village. (2009 Code)
2-1-3: FORMS:
Forms for all licenses, and applications therefor, shall be prepared and kept
on file by the village clerk. (2009 Code)
2-1-4: SIGNATURES:
Each license issued shall bear the signatures of the village president and the
village clerk in the absence of any provision to the contrary. (2009 Code)
2-1-5: INSPECTION OR INVESTIGATION:
Upon the receipt of an application for a license where laws of the village
necessitate an inspection or investigation before the issuance of such license,
the village clerk shall refer such application to the proper officer for making
such investigation within forty eight (48) hours of the time of such receipt.
The officer charged with the duty of making the investigation or inspection
shall make a report thereon, favorable or otherwise, within ten (10) days after
receiving the application or a copy thereof. For the protection of health, the
building inspector shall make or cause to be made any such inspections relative
to the construction of buildings or other structures. All other investigations,
except where otherwise provided, shall be made by the village marshal or by
some other officer designated by the village president. (2009 Code)
2-1-6: TERM OF LICENSE:
All annual licenses shall terminate on the last day of the fiscal year (April
30) of the village, where no provision to the contrary is made. (2009 Code)
2-1-7: BUILDING AND PREMISES:
No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business and no license shall
be issued for any thing or act if the premises and building to be used for the
purpose do not fully comply with the requirements of the village. (2009 Code)
2-1-8: CHANGE OF LOCATION:
In the absence of any provision to the contrary, the location of any licensed
business or occupation or of any permitted act may be changed, provided ten
(10) days' notice thereof is given to the village clerk; and provided further,
there is compliance with the building requirements of this code 1 . (2009 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 8, chapter 6 of this code.
2-1-9: NUISANCES:
No business, licensed or not, shall be conducted or operated as to amount to a
nuisance in fact. (2009 Code)
2-1-10: POSTING LICENSE:
It shall be the duty of any person conducting a licensed business in the
village to keep his license posted at all times in a prominent place on the
premises used for such business. (2009 Code)
2-1-11: REVOCATION OF LICENSE; HEARING:
Any license may be revoked by the village president and board of trustees
during the life of such license for the violation by the licensee of any
provision relating to the license, the subject of the license, or the premises
occupied; such revocation may be in addition to any fine imposed. The village
president and board of trustees shall be authorized to summarily order the
cessation of business, the closing of the premises, and the suspension of any
business license for a period not to exceed fifteen (15) days.
   A.   Hearing: Within ten (10) days after the village officials have so
acted, the village president shall call a hearing for the purpose of
determining whether or not the license should be revoked.
   B.   Notice Of Hearing: Notice of hearing for revocation of a license shall
be given in writing setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and
the time and place of the hearing. Such notice shall be sent to the licensee by
certified mail at his last known address or personally served at least five (5)
days prior to the date of the hearing.
   C.   Hearing Procedures: At the hearing, the licensee shall be permitted
counsel and shall have the right to submit evidence and cross examine
witnesses. The village president shall preside and shall render the decision
and recommendation.
   D.   Causes For Revocation: Business licenses issued under the ordinances of
the village, unless otherwise provided, may be revoked by the village president
and board of trustees after notice and hearing as provided in subsections B and
C of this section for any of the following causes:
      1.   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for the license.
      2.   Any violation by the licensee of ordinance provisions or state law
relating to the license, the subject matter of the license, or the premises
occupied.
      3.   Conviction of the licensee of any felony or of a misdemeanor
involving moral turpitude.
      4.   Failure of the licensee to pay any fine or penalty owing to the
village.
      5.   Refusal to permit an inspection or investigation or any interference
with a duly authorized village officer or employee while in the performance of
his duties in making such inspections, as provided in this chapter. (2009 Code)
2-1-12: APPEAL PROCEDURE:
   A.   Right To Appeal: Any applicant aggrieved by the refusal of the village
to issue a license or by the revocation of a license shall have the right to
appeal the village decision to the village board of trustees. Such appeal shall
be requested by submitting a written request to the village president within
five (5) days of the action of the village which is appealed.
   B.   Village Board Of Trustees Consideration: The village board of trustees
shall consider the appeal at its next regularly scheduled meeting, at which
time, the applicant shall be entitled to present his appeal orally or in
writing. The village board of trustees shall act on the appeal within seven (7)
days of the hearing and shall either uphold the action of the village or shall
direct the issuance of a license which the village has denied or the reissuance
of a license which the village had revoked. (2009 Code)
CHAPTER 2
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
2-2-1: Definitions
2-2-2: Local Liquor Control Commissioner
2-2-3: License And Compliance Required
2-2-4: Ineligibility For License
2-2-5: Application Required
2-2-6: Examination Of Applicant
2-2-7: Classes Of Licenses; Fees; Hours Of Operation
2-2-8: Payment And Disposition Of Fees
2-2-9: Term Of License; Fee Prorated
2-2-10: Nontransferability Of License; Change Of Location
2-2-11: Renewal Of License
2-2-12: Number Of Licenses May Be Restricted; Extended Hours
2-2-13: Limitations During Closing Hours
2-2-14: Premises Requirements
2-2-15: Operational Restrictions
2-2-16: Consumption On Premises
2-2-17: Employee Health Requirements
2-2-18: Persons Under Twenty One
2-2-19: Sales To Certain Persons Prohibited
2-2-20: Peddling Liquor Prohibited
2-2-21: Open Containers
2-2-22: Entertainment
2-2-23: List Of Licenses
2-2-24: Entry Powers
2-2-25: Emergency Closing
2-2-26: Suspension Or Revocation Of License
2-2-27: Penalty
2-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR: Any spirits, wine, beer, ale or other liquid containing more
than one-half of one percent (0.5%) of alcohol by volume, which is fit for
beverage purposes.
RESTAURANT: Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out to
the public as a place where meals are served, and where meals actually are
served and regularly served, without sleeping accommodations, and where the
principal business is the serving of meals and not the sale of alcoholic
beverages, and such space being provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and
dining room equipment and capacity and have employed therein a sufficient
number and kind of employees to prepare, cook and serve suitable food for its
guests.
RETAIL SALE: The sale for use of or consumption and not for resale. (Ord., 10-
23-1995)
2-2-2: LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER:
The president of the board of trustees is hereby authorized to be the local
liquor control commissioner and shall be charged with the administration of the
dramshop act, chapter 235 of the Illinois Compiled Statutes, and of such
ordinances and resolutions relating to alcoholic liquor as may be needed. The
president of the board of trustees may appoint a person or persons to assist
him in the exercise of the powers and performance of the duties provided for
such local liquor control commissioner. For the purpose of this chapter, the
use of the phrase "president of the board of trustees" shall be synonymous with
liquor control commissioner. (Ord., 10-23-1995; amd. 2009 Code)
2-2-3: LICENSE AND COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at retail in the village any
alcoholic liquor without having a retail liquor dealer's license or in
violation of the terms of such license. (Ord., 10-23-1995)
2-2-4: INELIGIBILITY FOR LICENSE:
No such license shall be issued to:
   A.   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the community
in which he resides.
   B.   A person who is not a citizen of the United States.
   C.   A person who has been convicted of a felony under the laws of the state
of Illinois.
   D.   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper of a house of ill
fame.
   E.   A person who has been convicted of pandering or crime or misdemeanor
opposed to decency and morality.
   F.   A person whose license under this chapter has been revoked for cause.
   G.   A person who, at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder, would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application.
   H.   A copartnership, unless all of the members of such copartnership shall
be qualified to obtain a license.
   I.   A corporation or any officer, manager or director thereof, or any
stockholder owning in the aggregate more than five percent (5%) of the stock of
such corporation, would not be eligible to receive a license hereunder for any
reason other than citizenship and residence within the village.
   J.   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent
unless said manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required of the
licensee.
   K.   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any state or federal
law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor, or who
shall have forfeited his bond to appear in court to charges for such violation.
   L.   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is sought,
or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for which the license is
issued.
   M.   Any law enforcing public official, any president of the board of
trustees or any member of the board of trustees, and no such official shall be
interested in any way, either directly or indirectly, in the manufacture, sale
or distribution of alcoholic liquor.
   N.   A person, firm or corporation not eligible for a state retail liquor
dealer's license. (Ord., 10-23-1995)
2-2-5: APPLICATION REQUIRED:
An application for a liquor license may be obtained from the village president
or the village clerk. The application shall be completed in full and signed by
the applicant if an individual, or if a club or organization, by a duly
authorized agent thereof, and delivered to the village president. (Ord. 2014-
002, 1-15-2014)
2-2-6: EXAMINATION OF APPLICANT:
The local liquor control commissioner shall have the right to examine, or cause
to be examined, under oath, any applicant for a local license or for a renewal
thereof, or any licensee upon whom notice of revocation or suspension has been
served as provided by statute, and to examine or cause to be examined the books
and records of any such applicant or licensee; to hear testimony and take proof
for his information in the performance of his duties, and for such purpose, to
issue subpoenas which shall be effective in any part of this state. For the
purpose of obtaining any of the information desired by the local liquor control
commissioner under this section, he may authorize his agent to act on his
behalf as provided by statute. (Ord., 10-23-1995)
2-2-7: CLASSES OF LICENSES; FEES; HOURS OF OPERATION:
   A.   Every person, firm or corporation engaged in the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor in the village shall pay an annual license fee. Such licenses
shall be divided into the following classes:
      1.   Class A: A class A license shall authorize the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises specified in the license as
well as in package form for consumption off the premises. It shall be unlawful
to sell alcoholic liquor between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight,
Mondays, and five o'clock (5:00) A.M., Tuesdays through Fridays; one o'clock
(1:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M., Saturday; one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and
five o'clock (5:00) A.M., Sunday; and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M., Sunday, and
five o'clock (5:00) A.M., Monday. The license shall be annual and the fee shall
be reviewed periodically by the governing body of the village and shall be
adjusted as necessary. The annual fee for such license shall be five hundred
dollars ($500.00) and fully earned when such license is issued.
      2.   Class B: A class B license shall authorize the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises by restaurants whose principal
business as defined in this chapter is not the retail sale of alcoholic
beverages. A class B license holder shall also be allowed to sell alcoholic
liquor in package form for consumption off the premises. It shall be unlawful
to sell alcoholic liquor between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight,
Mondays, and five o'clock (5:00) A.M., Tuesdays through Fridays; one o'clock
(1:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M., Saturday; one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and
twelve o'clock (12:00) noon, Sunday; and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M., Sunday, and
five o'clock (5:00) A.M., Monday. The license shall be annual and the fee shall
be reviewed periodically by the governing body of the village and shall be
adjusted as necessary. The annual fee for such license shall be five hundred
dollars ($500.00) and fully earned when such license is issued.
Class A and B license hours permitting the sale of alcoholic liquor will
include the following hours:
         a.   New Year's Eve until two o'clock (2:00) A.M. on New Year's Day.
         b.   Sunday proceeding Memorial Day until twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight Monday.
         c.   Sunday proceeding Labor Day until twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight
Monday.
         d.   Sunday July 3 until twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight Monday.
      3.   Class C: A class C license shall authorize the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor in package form, but not for consumption on the premises where
sold. It shall be unlawful to sell alcoholic liquor as a class C license holder
between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. The
license shall be annual and the fee shall be reviewed periodically by the
governing body of the village and shall be adjusted as necessary. The annual
fee for such license shall be two hundred dollars ($200.00) and fully earned
when such license is issued.
   B.   All regulations that are part of this chapter shall apply in the same
manner and degree as they apply to all other classes of licenses described
herein. (Ord. 2014-002, 1-15-2014)
2-2-8: PAYMENT AND DISPOSITION OF FEES:
All such fees shall be paid to the liquor control commissioner or his
authorized agent at the time application is made, and shall be forthwith turned
over to the treasurer. In the event the license applied for is denied, the fee
shall be returned to the applicant; if the license is granted, then the fee
shall be deposited in the general corporate fund or in such other fund as shall
have been designated by the board of trustees by proper action. No license fee
shall be refunded by the village except when the license applied for is denied
as herein provided. (Ord., 10-23-1995)
2-2-9: TERM OF LICENSE; FEE PRORATED:
Each license shall terminate on April 30 next following the date of issuance.
The fee to be paid shall be reduced in proportion to the full calendar months
which have expired in the year prior to the issuance of the license. Payment
shall be due on the date of issuance of said license. The fee for a seasonal
liquor license shall be prorated for the number of months the license is
issued. (Ord., 9-27-1999)
2-2-10: NONTRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSE; CHANGE OF LOCATION:
   A.   Nontransferability Of License: A license shall be purely a personal
privilege, good for not to exceed one year after issuance, unless sooner
revoked as in this chapter provided, and shall not constitute property, nor
shall it be subject to attachment, garnishment or execution, nor shall it be
alienable or transferable, voluntarily or involuntarily, or subject to being
encumbered or hypothecated. Such license shall cease upon the death of the
licensee and shall not descend by the laws of testate or intestate devolution;
provided, that executors or administrators of the estate of any deceased
licensee, and the trustee of any insolvent or bankrupt licensee, when such
estate consists in part of alcoholic liquor, may continue the business of the
sale or manufacture of alcoholic liquor under the order of the appropriate
court, and may exercise the privileges of the deceased or insolvent or bankrupt
licensee after the death of such decedent, or such insolvency or bankruptcy
until the expiration of such license but not longer than six (6) months after
the death, bankruptcy or insolvency of such licensee.
   B.   Change Of Location: A retail liquor dealer's license shall permit the
sale of alcoholic liquor only on the premises described in the application and
license. Such location may be changed only upon the written permission to make
such a change, issued by the president of the village board of trustees. No
change of location shall be permitted unless the proposed new location is a
proper one for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor under the laws of the state
and the ordinances of the village. (Ord., 10-23-1995)
2-2-11: RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
Any licensee may renew his license at the expiration thereof; provided, that he
is then qualified to receive a license and the premises for which the renewal
is sought is suited for the purpose provided, further, that the renewal
privilege herein provided shall not be construed as a vested right which shall
in any case prevent the liquor control commissioner from decreasing the number
of licenses to be issued within his or her jurisdiction. License holders must
complete a renewal application. An application for liquor license renewal may
be obtained from the village president or the village clerk. The application
shall be completed in full and signed by the applicant if an individual, or if
a club or organization, by a duly authorized agent thereof, and delivered to
the village president. (Ord. 2014-002, 1-15-2014)
2-2-12: NUMBER OF LICENSES MAY BE RESTRICTED; EXTENDED HOURS:
In the interest of strict regulation of the sale of intoxicating liquor in the
village and all matters related to the sale of intoxicating liquor, the board
of trustees reserves the right to limit the number of specific licenses and
extend or further restrict the hours for the sale of alcoholic liquor specified
in this chapter on special occasions. (Ord. 2014-002, 1-15-2014)
2-2-13: LIMITATIONS DURING CLOSING HOURS:
   A.   Class A License: During the hours when the sale of alcoholic liquor is
prohibited under the provisions of a class A license, such premises shall be
closed, and no person shall be permitted to remain in or on the premises during
such hours, except the licensee and his employees.
   B.   Class B License: During the hours when the sale of alcoholic liquor or
beverages is prohibited, the sale of food or serving of meals in restaurants
holding a class B license shall be permitted, provided patrons or guests do not
have access to the bar, barroom or cocktail lounge or are served alcoholic
liquor. Any area where such alcoholic liquors are dispensed shall not be
available to the general public at such times. (Ord., 10-23-1995)
2-2-14: PREMISES REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Sanitary Premises: All premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic
liquor or for the storage of such liquor for sale shall be kept in full
compliance with the ordinances regulating the condition of premises used for
the storage or sale of food for human consumption. (Ord., 10-23-1995)
   B.   View Of Interior: No premises upon which the sale of alcoholic liquor
for consumption on the premises is licensed, other than as a restaurant, or
other than one situated on the first or ground floor, shall be permitted to
have any screen, blind, curtain, partition, article or thing in the window or
upon the doors of such licensed premises nor inside such premises which shall
prevent a clear view into the interior of such licensed premises from the
street, road or sidewalk at all times, and no booth, screen, partition, or
other obstruction nor any arrangement of lights or lighting shall be permitted
in or about the interior of such premises which shall prevent a clear view of
the entire interior from the street, road or sidewalk. All rooms where liquor
is sold for consumption on the premises shall be continuously lighted during
business hours by natural light or artificial white light so that all parts of
the interior of the premises shall be clearly visible. In case the view into
any such licensed premises required by the foregoing provisions shall be
wilfully obscured or in any manner obstructed, then such licensee shall be
subject to revocation or suspension of his license in the manner herein
provided. In order to enforce the provisions of this subsection, the president
of the board of trustees shall have the right to require the filing with him of
plans, drawings and photographs showing the clearance of the view as required
herein. (Ord., 10-23-1995; amd. 2009 Code)
2-2-15: OPERATIONAL RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   No license shall be valid if held by or be issued to any party not
actually operating a business for which such license is issued.
   B.   No license shall be issued to a party until such time as the business
for which the license is issued is actually operating or who owns or holds a
bona fide lease to property which shall be in actual operation within one
hundred twenty (120) days of the issuance of such license, except as regards
new construction. A license shall become invalid whenever the holder of the
license ceases to actually operate the business for which such license was
issued. Any licensed business shall be deemed to have ceased doing business
when such business has not operated continuously for a period of eight (8)
consecutive months in any twelve (12) month period.
   C.   No party holding a license of one class may operate a business for
which a different classification applies or change his operation from one class
of business to another class without obtaining a new license applicable to the
class of operation he will then be operating. (Ord., 10-23-1995)
2-2-16: CONSUMPTION ON PREMISES:
It shall be unlawful for anyone not having a license providing for consumption
on the premises where sold to offer for sale or sell any alcoholic liquor for
consumption on the premises or to permit the same to be consumed on the
premises where sold. (Ord., 10-23-1995; amd. 2009 Code)
2-2-17: EMPLOYEE HEALTH REQUIREMENTS:
It shall be unlawful to employ in any premises used for the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor any person who is afflicted with or who is a carrier of any
contagious, infectious or sexually transmitted disease, and it shall be
unlawful for any person who is afflicted with or who is a carrier of any such
disease to work in or about any premises or to be engaged in any way in the
handling, preparation or distribution of such liquor. (Ord., 10-23-1995; amd.
2009 Code)
2-2-18: PERSONS UNDER TWENTY ONE:
   A.   Purchase By, Providing To; Identification; Presence On Premises;
Employment:
      1.   Purchase By: It shall be unlawful for any person, male or female,
under the age of twenty one (21) years to purchase or obtain any alcoholic
liquor in any tavern or other place in the village where alcoholic liquor is
sold.
      2.   Providing To: It shall be unlawful to sell, give or deliver
alcoholic liquor to any person under the age of twenty one (21) years except in
the performance of a religious ceremony or service.
      3.   Misrepresentation Of Age:
         a.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one
(21) years to misrepresent his or her age for the purpose of purchasing or
obtaining alcoholic liquor in any tavern or other place in the village where
alcoholic liquor is sold.
         b.   In every tavern or other place in the village where alcoholic
liquor is sold, there shall be displayed at all times in a prominent place a
printed card which shall be supplied by the village clerk and which shall read
substantially as follows: (Ord., 10-23-1995)
   Warning To Persons Under Twenty-One
   (21) Years Of Age
You are subject to a fine up to seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) under the
Ordinances of the Village of Scales Mound if you purchase alcoholic liquor, or
misrepresent your age for the purpose of purchasing or obtaining alcoholic
liquor if you are under twenty-one (21) years of age.
(Ord., 10-23-1995; amd. 2009 Code)
      4.   Presence On Premises:
         a.   It shall be unlawful for any holder of a retail liquor dealer's
license, or his agent or employee, to suffer or permit any person under the age
of twenty one (21) years to be or remain in any room or compartment adjoining
or adjacent to or situated in the room or place where such licensed premises is
located; provided, that this subsection A4a shall not apply to any person under
the age of twenty one (21) years who is accompanied by his or her parent or
guardian, or to any licensed premises which derives its principal business from
the sale or service of other commodities than alcoholic liquor, or to any
person under the age of twenty one (21) years entering or in any licensed
premises hereunder for the specific purpose of purchasing food and as long as
said person under the age of twenty one (21) years is sitting or standing in a
place designated and used for the servicing of food and set off from the bar.
In addition to all other fines and penalties, the president of the board of
trustees may suspend or revoke the retail liquor dealer's license for any
violation of this subsection A4a. (Ord., 10-23-1995)
         b.   Subsection A4a of this section shall not apply to the following:
            (1)   Any person under the age of twenty one (21) years who is a
member of the immediate family of the person to whom a liquor license has been
issued.
            (2)   Any person under the age of twenty one (21) years who is a
bona fide paid employee.
            (3)   Any person under the age of twenty one (21) years who is
accompanied by his or her parents or guardian.
            (4)   Any person under the age of twenty one (21) years entering
the establishment for the purpose of purchasing food and as long as said person
under the age of twenty one (21) years is sitting or standing in a place
designated and used for the servicing of food and is set off from the bar.
            (5)   Any person under the age of twenty one (21) years who is
hired for entertainment purposes and is only in the establishment during the
time of the performance. (Ord. 2014-002, 1-15-2014)
      5.   Employment: It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of
twenty one (21) years to attend bar, draw, pour or mix any alcoholic liquor in
any licensed retail premises.
      6.   Responsibility Of Parent Or Guardian: It shall be unlawful for any
parent or guardian to permit any person under the age of twenty one (21) years
of which he or she may be the parent or guardian to violate any provisions of
this subsection.
   B.   Purchases, Accept A Gift, Possession; Identification Requirements:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to whom the sale, gift or
delivery of alcoholic liquor is prohibited because of age to purchase or accept
a gift of alcoholic liquor or to have alcoholic liquor in his possession.
      2.   If a licensee, or his agent or employees, believes or has reason to
believe that a sale of or delivery of alcoholic liquor is prohibited because of
nonage of the prospective recipient, he shall, before making such sale or
delivery, demand presentation of some form of positive identification,
containing proof of age, issued by a public officer in the performance of his
official duties.
      3.   No person shall transfer, alter or deface such an identification
card, use the identification card of another, carry or use a false or forged
identification card, or obtain an identification card by means of false
information. No person shall purchase, accept delivery or have possession of
alcoholic liquor in violation of this subsection. (Ord., 10-23-1995)
2-2-19: SALES TO CERTAIN PERSONS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for the holder of an alcoholic liquor dealer's license to
sell, deliver or give any alcoholic liquor to any intoxicated person, or to any
person under the age of twenty one (21) years. (Ord., 10-23-1995; amd. 2009
Code)
2-2-20: PEDDLING LIQUOR PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful to peddle alcoholic liquor in the village. (Ord., 10-23-
1995)
2-2-21: OPEN CONTAINERS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any licensed premises with
or to carry out from such premises onto any public way any open container of
alcoholic beverage.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry onto any public way any
open container of alcoholic beverage. (Ord., 10-23-1995)
2-2-22: ENTERTAINMENT:
Entertainment, including any entertainment not suitable for all ages as
determined by the liquor commissioner, personal appearances of amateur or
professional entertainers or the showing of commercially produced motion
pictures, shall be prohibited on all premises wherein alcoholic beverages are
sold. Provided, however, that nothing contained herein shall prohibit amateur
or professional singing or theatrical performances, the use of musical
instruments by amateur or professional entertainers, or the use of sound
equipment, or video equipment, or patron dancing. (Ord. 2014-002, 1-15-2014)
2-2-23: LIST OF LICENSES:
The local liquor control commissioner shall keep or cause to be kept a complete
record of all licenses issued by him. (Ord., 10-23-1995)
2-2-24: ENTRY POWERS:
The local liquor control commissioner is hereby given the power to enter or to
authorize any law enforcing officer to enter at any time upon any premises
licensed hereunder to determine whether any of the provisions of the dramshop
act, 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-1 et seq., or any rules or regulations
adopted by him or by the state liquor control commission have been or are being
violated, and at such time to examine the premises of said licensee in
connection therewith. (Ord., 10-23-1995; amd. 2009 Code)
2-2-25: EMERGENCY CLOSING:
In all cases where, in the opinion of the president of the board of trustees,
the public peace is likely to be endangered by the keeping open of premises
licensed hereunder, it shall be lawful for the president of the board of
trustees to issue his proclamation, under the seal of the village, commanding
and enjoining all persons licensed by the village to sell any of said liquors,
and their servants and agents, to close their shops and places of business for
such time as the president of the board of trustees shall deem necessary, and
neither sell, give away nor suffer to be drawn any of said liquors in or about
their premises during the time mentioned in said proclamation. (Ord., 10-23-
1995)
2-2-26: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The president of the board of trustees may suspend for not more than thirty
(30) days, as per 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/4-4, or revoke for cause,
any liquor dealer's license for any violation of any provisions pertaining to
the sale of alcoholic liquor, as provided and in the manner provided in 235
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/4-4. (Ord., 10-23-1995; amd. 2009 Code)
2-2-27: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter shall
be fined pursuant to section
1-4-1 of this code and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 2014-002, 1-15-2014)
CHAPTER 3
JUNK DEALERS AND JUNKYARDS 1
SECTION:
2-3-1: Statute Authority
2-3-2: Definitions
2-3-3: License Required; Application
2-3-4: Qualifications Of Junk Dealers And Premises
2-3-5: Issuance And Renewal Of License; Fee
2-3-6: Prohibited Operations
2-3-7: Entry Powers
2-3-8: Concealment Of Articles Prohibited
2-3-9: Penalties
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 8, chapter 7 of this code.
2-3-1: STATUTE AUTHORITY:
This chapter is adopted by the village board of trustees pursuant to 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-42-3, as amended. (Ord. 86-3-1, 3-31-1986; amd.
2009 Code)
2-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
Terms used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires, are defined
as follows:
JUNK: Old or scrap copper, brass, rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash, rubber,
debris, waste other than garbage or toxic substances, or junked, dismantled, or
wrecked motor vehicles or motorboats or parts thereof, iron, steel, and other
old or scrap ferrous or nonferrous material.
JUNK DEALER: Any person, firm, or corporation who operates a junkyard or is
otherwise engaged in the business of buying, trading, storing, selling, or
otherwise acquiring or disposing of junk in any quantity, and from which his,
their, or its gross revenues in any fiscal year exceed one thousand dollars
($1,000.00).
JUNKYARD: An establishment or place of business which is maintained, operated,
or used for storing, keeping, buying, or selling junk; or for the maintenance
or operation of any establishment or place of business which is maintained,
used, or operated for storing, keeping, buying, or selling wrecked, scrapped,
ruined, or dismantled motor vehicles or motorboats or motor vehicle or
motorboat parts; or any establishment having facilities for processing iron,
steel, nonferrous scrap, mineral wastes or slag, whether by remelting or
otherwise; but said term shall not include any garbage dump or toxic waste dump
or sanitary fill. (Ord. 86-3-1, 3-31-1986)
2-3-3: LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION:
   A.   No junk dealer operating a junkyard located within the boundaries of
the village, and no owner of any real estate located within the boundaries of
the village, shall operate the same, or allow any person, firm, or corporation
to operate the same, after thirty (30) days from the effective date hereof,
without first having obtained from the village a license therefor. Such license
shall be applied for on forms provided by the village clerk.
   B.   A separate license shall be required for each separate and nonadjacent
junkyard. (Ord. 86-3-1, 3-31-1986)
2-3-4: QUALIFICATIONS OF JUNK DEALERS AND PREMISES:
   A.   Junk Dealers:
      1.   No person, firm, or corporation shall be licensed as a junk dealer
who has been convicted of any of the following offenses:
         a.   "Theft", as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/16-1.
         b.   Violation of any penal provision of the copper purchase
registration law, 815 Illinois Compiled Statutes 325/1 et seq.
         c.   The purchasing or receiving of any goods from a minor, as
prohibited by 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 345/1 and 345/2. (Ord. 86-3-1, 3-
31-1986; amd. 2009 Code)
         d.   Any felony, the commission of which involved the operation or
ownership of a junkyard or the dismantling or wrecking of a motor vehicle or
motorboat or part thereof.
      2.   Any license issued or renewed contrary to the provisions of
subsection A1 of this section shall be null and void from date of issuance or
renewal.
      3.   Any licensee convicted of any offense listed in subsection A1 of
this section shall surrender said license within three (3) days of said
conviction, and said license shall be null and void from the date of said
conviction.
   B.   Junkyards:
      1.   No real estate shall be licensed as a junkyard unless and until the
same shall be enclosed by a fence of not less than eight feet (8') nor more
than ten feet (10') in height and constructed of such material and in such
manner as to screen from sight, by any person outside said junkyard and at
ground level, all junk located therein.
      2.   No junkyard shall occupy more than two (2) platted lots of the
village.
      3.   No junkyard shall be located within one hundred fifty feet (150') of
any residence other than that of the operating junk dealer. (Ord. 86-3-1, 3-31-
1986)
2-3-5: ISSUANCE AND RENEWAL OF LICENSE; FEE:
   A.   If the applicant is found qualified therefor in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, said license shall be issued or renewed annually by
the village clerk in behalf of the village.
   B.   For the issuance or renewal thereof, the applicant shall pay a
licensing fee of two hundred dollars ($200.00) to the village treasurer.
   C.   No license fee, whether for issuance or renewal, shall be refundable or
abatable, in whole or in part, for any reason. (Ord. 86-3-1, 3-31-1986)
2-3-6: PROHIBITED OPERATIONS:
   A.   No junkyard shall be used for the storage, keeping or dumping of any
garbage, sanitary fill, live animals, dead animals, toxic wastes, or other
noxious or harmfully or dangerously odorous material.
   B.   No junk shall be located within a junkyard in such manner as to extend
over, above, or beyond the fencing thereof.
   C.   No sign, poster, placard, picture, notice, or other billboard shall be
attached to the outside of said fencing other than a sign placed there by the
junk dealer for the sole purpose of identifying said junkyard. (Ord. 86-3-1, 3-
31-1986)
   D.   No junk dealer shall allow the burning of any junk within a junkyard.
   E.   No junk dealer shall buy, trade, barter, or otherwise acquire any
goods, items, or articles of value from any person who is legally incompetent,
or is a known thief, or intoxicated person, or is a minor who does not have the
written consent of his or her parent or guardian to do business with said junk
dealer. (Ord. 86-3-1, 3-31-1986; amd. 2009 Code)
   F.   No person, firm, or corporation who is required by this chapter to be
licensed as a junk dealer, or who is the owner of any real estate which is
required by this chapter to be licensed as a junkyard, shall, for any reason,
store or keep any junk of a value in excess of one hundred dollars ($100.00) in
or upon any real estate located within the boundaries of the village and not
licensed under this chapter. (Ord. 86-3-1, 3-31-1986)
2-3-7: ENTRY POWERS:
Any peace officer or investigating agent of any governmental agency concerned
with the operation or ownership of a junkyard shall be allowed to enter upon,
inspect, and otherwise examine the premises of any junkyard and any junk stored
or kept therein, and any junk dealer or owner of a junkyard who prohibits,
prevents, or otherwise refuses to allow such entry, inspection, or examination
shall thereupon surrender said license to the appropriate village authorities.
(Ord. 86-3-1, 3-31-1986; amd. 2009 Code)
2-3-8: CONCEALMENT OF ARTICLES PROHIBITED:
No junk dealer shall conceal or secrete any goods, items, or articles of value
purchased, received, or otherwise acquired by him for the purpose of preventing
identification thereof by any peace officer or investigating agent of any
governmental agency concerned with the operation or ownership of a junkyard.
Any junk dealer or owner of a junkyard convicted of a violation of this section
shall, in addition to any other penalty imposed by law thereupon, surrender
said license to the appropriate village authorities. (Ord. 86-3-1, 3-31-1986;
amd. 2009 Code)
2-3-9: PENALTIES:
   A.   Fine: Any junk dealer or owner of a junkyard shall, upon conviction of
any offense under this chapter, or upon violation of or refusal to comply with
any provision of this chapter, be subject to a fine of not less than two
hundred dollars ($200.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
(Ord. 86-3-1, 3-31-1986; amd. 2009 Code)
   B.   Additional Remedies: The village may, in addition to any other
remedies, initiate an appropriate action in any court of competent jurisdiction
to prevent the unlawful operation, maintenance, or ownership of a junkyard by a
junk dealer which is not in compliance with this chapter, or to restrain,
correct, or abate any violation of this chapter, or to prevent any illegal act,
conduct, business, or use in or about the premises of such junkyard.
   C.   Costs A Lien: For the cost of enforcing any order of court obtained by
the village pursuant to subsection B of this section, including any court
costs, attorney fee, and expenses of suit involved in obtaining said order of
court, the village hereby has a lien upon the real estate of said junkyard and
upon the personal and real estate of any junk dealer whose act, conduct,
business, or use is the subject of such suit, said lien to be enforced and
collected in such manner as provided in the case of judgment. (Ord. 86-3-1, 3-
31-1986)
CHAPTER 4
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT
SECTION:
2-4-1: Purpose
2-4-2: Definitions
2-4-3: License Required
2-4-4: Issuance Of License
2-4-5: Application And Investigation Fee
2-4-6: Inspection
2-4-7: Expiration Of License
2-4-8: Suspension
2-4-9: Revocation
2-4-10: Transfer Of License
2-4-11: Business Records
2-4-12: Adult Entertainment Cabarets; Restrictions
2-4-13: Video Viewing Booths; Restrictions
2-4-14: Mandatory Installation Of Operable Video Cameras
2-4-15: Hours Of Operation
2-4-16: Separation From Other Uses
2-4-17: Separation From Other Adult Entertainment Establishments
2-4-18: Access
2-4-19: Windows And Doors
2-4-20: Signs
2-4-21: Parking Area Lighting
2-4-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to regulate adult uses to protect the village
from the many types of criminal activity and deleterious effects frequently
associated with such uses. The village recognizes that such regulation cannot
in effect prohibit adult uses. This chapter has balanced the competing interest
of the community in reducing criminal activity, protecting property values and
protecting the unique character of the village of Scales Mound versus the
rights of the owners, operators, employees and patrons of adult uses. (Ord.
2013-014, 12-30-2013)
2-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
ADULT BOOKSTORE: A business or establishment having a significant inventory or
sales of books, magazines or films for sale or for viewing on premises which
are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting,
describing or relating to "specified sexual activities", or "specified
anatomical areas"; or an establishment, with a segment or section devoted to
the sale or display of such materials; or an establishment that holds itself
out to the public as a purveyor of such materials based upon its signage,
advertising, displays, actual sales, presence of video preview or coin operated
booths, exclusion of minors from the establishment's premises or any other
factors showing the establishment's primary purpose is to purvey such material.
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT CABARET: A public or private establishment which:
   A.   Features topless dancers, strippers, male or female impersonators,
lingerie or bathing suit fashion shows;
   B.   Not infrequently features entertainers who display "specified
anatomical areas"; or
   C.   Features entertainers who by reason of their appearance or conduct
perform in a manner which is designed primarily to appeal to the prurient
interest of the patron or features entertainers who engage in, or are engaged
in explicit simulation of, "specified sexual activities".
ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER: A building or area used for presenting materials
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing
or relating to "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas"
for observation by patrons therein.
ADULT NOVELTY STORE: An establishment having a significant inventory or sales
consisting of toys, devices, clothing "novelties", lotions and other items
distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on or use for "specialized
sexual activities" or on "specified anatomical areas" or an establishment that
holds itself out to the public as a purveyor of such materials based upon its
signage, advertising, displays, actual sales, exclusion of minors from the
establishment's premises or any other factors showing the establishment's
primary purpose is to purvey such material.
ADULT USE: Adult bookstores, adult motion picture theaters, adult entertainment
cabarets, and other similar uses.
EMPLOYEE: Employees, independent contractors or any other person who is
retained by the licensee or subject to dismissal from working at the licensed
premises.
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS: For the purpose of this section, "specified
anatomical areas" means:
   A.   Less than completely and opaquely covered:
      1. Human genitals;
      2. Pubic region;
      3. Buttock;
      4. Female breasts below a point immediately above the top of the areola;
and
      5. Human male genitals in a discernably turgid state, even if completely
and opaquely covered.
SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY: Any of the following offenses:
   A.   Prostitution or promotion of prostitution; dissemination of obscenity;
sale, distribution or display of harmful material to a minor; sexual
performance by a minor; possession or distribution of child pornography; public
lewdness; indecent exposure; indecency with a child; engaged in organized
criminal activity; sexual assault; molestation of a child; gambling; or
distribution of a controlled substance; or any similar offenses to those
described above under the criminal or penal code of other states or countries;
   B.   For which:
      1. Less than two (2) years have elapsed since the date of conviction or
the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction which is the
later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense;
      2. Less than five (5) years have elapsed since the date of conviction or
the date of release from confinement for conviction whichever is the later
date, if the conviction is a felony offense; or
      3. Less than five (5) years have elapsed since the date of the last
conviction or the date of release from confinement from the last conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the convictions are of two (2) or more
misdemeanor offenses or combination of misdemeanor offenses occurred within any
twenty four (24) month period;
   C.   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on
the disqualification of the applicant.
SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES: For the purpose of this section "specified sexual
activities" means:
   A.   Human genitals in the state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
   B.   Acts of human masturbation;
   C.   Sexual intercourse or sodomy; and
   D.   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttock or female breasts. (Ord. 2013-014, 12-30-2013)
2-4-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate an adult entertainment
or use without a valid adult use business license issued by the village
pursuant to this chapter. The annual cost for a license shall be one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) and periodically may be reviewed and adjusted as deemed
necessary.
   B.   An application for a license shall be made on a form provided by the
village.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate an adult use without
first obtaining a special use permit issued by the village in accordance with
its zoning ordinance.
   D.   All applicants must be qualified according to the provisions of this
chapter. The application may request and the applicant shall provide such
information (including fingerprints) as is needed to enable the village to
determine whether the applicants meet the qualifications established in this
chapter.
   E.   If a person who wishes to operate an adult use is an individual, the
person must sign the application for a license as applicant. If a person who
wishes to operate an adult use is other than an individual, each individual who
has a twenty percent (20%) or greater interest in the business must sign the
application for a license as applicant. Each applicant must be qualified under
the following section and each applicant shall be considered a licensee if the
license is granted.
   F.   The completed application for an adult use business license shall
contain the following information:
      1.   If the applicant is an individual, the individual shall state his/
her legal name and any aliases and submit proof that he/she is at least
eighteen (18) years of age;
      2.   If the applicant is a partnership, the partnership shall state its
complete name and the names of all partners, whether the partnership is general
or limited, and a copy of the partnership agreement, if any;
      3.   If the applicant is a corporation, the corporation shall state its
complete name, the date of incorporation, evidence that the corporation is in
good standing under the laws of its state of incorporation, the names and
capacity of all officers, directors and principal shareholders, and the name
and address of the registered corporate agent.
   G.   If the applicant intends to operate the adult use business under a name
other than that of the applicant; he/she must state: 1) the business'
fictitious name and 2) submit any required registration documents.
   H.   Whether the applicant has been convicted of any "specified criminal
activity" as defined in this chapter, and if so, the specified criminal
activity involved, the date, place and jurisdiction of each.
   I.   Whether the applicant has had a previous license under this chapter or
similar ordinances from another city or county denied, suspended or revoked,
including the name and location of the business which the permit was denied,
suspended or revoked as well as the date of the denial, suspension or
revocation. If the applicant has been a partner in a partnership or under a
similar ordinance in another jurisdiction or an officer, director or principal
stockholder of a corporation that is or was licensed under this chapter and a
license has previously been denied, suspended or revoked, include the name and
location of the business for which the permit was denied, suspended or revoked
as well as the date of denial, suspension or revocation.
   J.   Whether the applicant holds any other licenses under this chapter or
other similar ordinance from another city or county and if so the names and
locations of such other licensed businesses.
   K.   A sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises including
a statement of total floor area occupied by the business. This sketch or
diagram need not be professionally prepared, but it must be drawn to a
designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the
premises. (Ord. 2013-014, 12-30-2013)
2-4-4: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
   A.   Within ninety (90) days after receipt of a completed adult use business
license application, the village shall approve or deny the issuance of a
license to an applicant. The village shall not approve the issuance of a
license if it determines by a preponderance of the evidence any one or more of
the following:
      1.   The applicant is under eighteen (18) years of age;
      2.   The applicant is overdue in payment to the village of taxes, fees,
fines or penalties assessed against or imposed upon him/her in relation to any
business;
      3.   The applicant has failed to provide information reasonably necessary
for the issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or request
for information on the application form;
      4.   The applicant has been denied a license by the village to operate an
adult use business within the preceding twelve (12) months or whose license to
operate an adult use business has been revoked within the preceding twelve (12)
months;
      5.   The applicant has been convicted of a "specified criminal activity"
defined in this chapter;
      6.   The premises to be used for the adult use business has not been
approved by the village building and zoning department as being in compliance
with applicable laws and ordinances;
      7.   The license fee required by this chapter has not been paid;
      8.   The applicant of the proposed establishment is in violation of or is
not in compliance with any of the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   The license, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the person
or persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date, the address of the adult
use business. All licenses shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or near
the entrance to the business so that they may be easily read at any time.
   C.   The village building and zoning department shall complete their
certification that the premises are in compliance or not in compliance with
village codes within forty five (45) days of receipt of the application by the
village.
   D.   No adult use business license shall be issued unless the premises at
which the adult use will operate is in conformance with the restrictions set
forth in the Scales Mound zoning ordinance. (Ord. 2013-014, 12-30-2013)
2-4-5: APPLICATION AND INVESTIGATION FEE:
Every application for an adult use business license (whether a new license or
for renewal of an existing license) shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable
application and investigation fee. The application and investigation fee shall
be five hundred dollars ($500.00) and periodically may be reviewed and adjusted
as deemed necessary. (Ord. 2013-014, 12-30-2013)
2-4-6: INSPECTION:
   A.   An applicant or licensee shall permit representatives of the police
department, fire department and building department or other village designated
departments or agencies to inspect the premises of the adult use for the
purpose of ensuring compliance with the law at any time it is occupied or open
for business.
   B.   A person who operates an adult use or his agent or employee violates
this chapter if he/she refuses to permit such lawful inspection of the premises
at any time it is occupied or open for business. (Ord. 2013-014, 12-30-2013)
2-4-7: EXPIRATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Each license shall expire on April 30 and may be renewed only by making
application as provided in section
2-4-4 of this chapter. Application for renewal shall be made at least thirty
(30) days before the expiration date.
   B.   If the village denies renewal of a license, the applicant shall not be
issued a license for one year from the date of denial. If, subsequent to
denial, the village finds that the basis for denial of the license has been
corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a license. (Ord. 2013-014,
12-30-2013)
2-4-8: SUSPENSION:
   A.   The village may suspend a license for a period not to exceed thirty
(30) days if, after a hearing, it determines that a licensee or an employee of
a licensee:
      1.   Violated or is not in compliance with any section of this chapter;
      2.   Refused to allow an inspection of the adult use business premises as
authorized by this chapter; or
      3.   Knowingly permitted gambling by any person on the adult use business
premises.
   B.   If the licensee or an employee of the licensee has been found guilty in
a court of law of a violation of this chapter, no hearing is necessary prior to
suspension of the license. (Ord. 2013-014, 12-30-2013)
2-4-9: REVOCATION:
   A.   The village shall revoke a license if a cause of suspension in section
2-4-8 of this chapter occurs and the license has been suspended within the
preceding twelve (12) months or if the licensee is convicted of any "specified
criminal activity".
   B.   The village shall revoke a license if it determines, after a hearing,
that:
      1.   A licensee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted during the application process;
      2.   A licensee has knowingly allowed possession, use or sale of alcohol
or controlled substances on the premises;
      3.   A licensee has knowingly allowed prostitution on the premises;
      4.   A licensee knowingly operated the adult use business during a period
of time when the licensee's license was suspended;
      5.   A licensee has been suspended more than once in a given licensing
year or demonstrates a history of consistent violations of the licensing
ordinance;
      6.   A licensee has knowingly allowed any act of sexual intercourse,
sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation or other sex act to occur in or on the
licensee's premises; or
      7.   A licensee is delinquent in payment to the village, county or state
for any taxes or fees past due;
      8.   A licensee has knowingly or intentionally facilitated another
commission of the offense of public indecency.
   C.   After denial of an application, or denial of a renewal of an
application, or suspension or a revocation of any license, the applicant or
licensee may seek prompt judicial review of such action in any court of
competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 2013-014, 12-30-2013)
2-4-10: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
A licensee shall not transfer his/her license to another nor shall a licensee
operate an adult use business under the authority of a license at any place
other than the address on the license. (Ord. 2013-014, 12-30-2013)
2-4-11: BUSINESS RECORDS:
All adult uses shall file a verified report with the village showing the
licensee's gross receipts and amounts paid to employees during the preceding
calendar year. In addition, all adult uses shall maintain and retain for a
period of two (2) years the names, addresses and ages of all persons employed,
including independent contractors, by the licensee. (Ord. 2013-014, 12-30-2013)
2-4-12: ADULT ENTERTAINMENT CABARETS; RESTRICTIONS:
All dancing and other performances shall occur on a stage intended for that
purpose which is raised at least two feet (2') from the level of the floor. No
dancing, or other performances shall occur closer than ten feet (10') to any
patron. In addition, no performer shall fondle, caress or otherwise touch any
patron and no patron shall fondle, caress or otherwise touch any performer. No
patron shall directly pay or give any gratuity to any performer and no
performer shall solicit any pay or gratuity from any patron. Gratuities may be
indirectly given to performers by placing the gratuity on the stage. (Ord.
2013-014, 12-30-2013)
2-4-13: VIDEO VIEWING BOOTHS; RESTRICTIONS:
No booths, stalls or partitioned portions of a room or individual rooms used
for the viewing of motion pictures or other forms of entertainment shall have
doors, curtains or portal partitions, but all such booths, stalls or
partitioned portions or a room or individual rooms so used shall have at least
one side open to an adjacent public room so that the area inside is visible to
persons in the adjacent public room. All such described areas shall be lighted
in such a manner that the persons in the areas used for viewing motion pictures
or other forms of entertainment are visible from the adjacent public rooms, but
such lighting shall not be of such intensity as to prevent the viewing of the
motion pictures or other offered entertainment. (Ord. 2013-014, 12-30-2013)
2-4-14: MANDATORY INSTALLATION OF OPERABLE VIDEO CAMERAS:
All businesses operating pursuant to this chapter must have installed operable
video cameras which shall be situated so as to videotape all areas of the
facility open to the public. Said video systems must be operable and must video
record all activities within the facility during open hours. Said videos must
then be held for thirty (30) days after which time they can be destroyed. (Ord.
2013-014, 12-30-2013)
2-4-15: HOURS OF OPERATION:
No adult use shall be open prior to ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. or after twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight. (Ord. 2013-014, 12-30-2013)
2-4-16: SEPARATION FROM OTHER USES:
Adult entertainment establishment shall be limited to the zones specified for
such use and shall be forbidden in all other zones within the village. No adult
entertainment establishment shall be permitted within one thousand three
hundred twenty feet (1,320') of any residential zone, residential dwelling, or
of any facility or property used for religious assembly, school or park and
recreation. This separation distance shall be measured as a straight line,
without regard to intervening properties, from the nearest exterior wall of the
adult entertainment establishment to the nearest lot line of a residential
zone, residential dwelling or a lot that contains a religious assembly, school
or park and recreation use. (Ord. 2013-014, 12-30-2013)
2-4-17: SEPARATION FROM OTHER ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENTS:
No adult entertainment establishment shall be allowed to locate or expand
within one thousand three hundred twenty feet (1,320') of any other adult
entertainment use or of any bar or tavern. (Ord. 2013-014, 12-30-2013)
2-4-18: ACCESS:
All access to and from the adult entertainment establishment shall be provided
from a thoroughfare street. (Ord. 2013-014, 12-30-2013)
2-4-19: WINDOWS AND DOORS:
The building in which the adult entertainment establishment is located shall be
designed in such a fashion that all openings, entries and windows prevent views
into such establishments from any sidewalk, walkway, street or other public
area. Further, no merchandise or pictures of products or entertainment on the
premises shall be displayed in window areas or any area where such merchandise
or pictures can be viewed from the sidewalk in front of the building. No adult
entertainment activity shall take place outside the building containing the
adult entertainment establishment. (Ord. 2013-014, 12-30-2013)
2-4-20: SIGNS:
Adult entertainment establishments shall be limited to one wall mounted sign no
greater than one-half (1/2) square foot of sign per linear foot of wall length,
not to exceed a total of fifteen (15) square feet. The sign shall not be lit or
lighted, flash, blink or move by mechanical means and shall not extend above
the roofline of the building. No flashing lights or lighting that gives the
impression of motion or movement shall be permitted. (Ord. 2013-014, 12-30-
2013)
2-4-21: PARKING AREA LIGHTING:
Lighting of parking areas that serve an adult entertainment establishment shall
provide a minimum light level of twenty five hundredths (0.25) foot-candle over
the entire parking area, but in no point shall the light level exceed three
(3.0) foot- candles, nor shall any increase in light levels or visible glare be
permitted at the lot line. (Ord. 2013-014, 12-30-2013)
CHAPTER 5
SOLICITATION PRACTICES
SECTION:
2-5-1: Purpose
2-5-2: Definitions
2-5-3: Solicitation Prohibited
2-5-4: Exemptions
2-5-5: Enforcement
2-5-6: Penalty
2-5-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is as follows:
   A.   To aid in the prevention of fraud and unethical and dishonest business
practices within the Village of Scales Mound.
   B.   To aid in the general protection of health and welfare of the residents
of the Village of Scales Mound and to deter the use of peddling, soliciting,
and canvassing to gain access to homes for criminal purposes.
   C.   To aid in the preservation of privacy and the peaceful quiet
environment. This ordinance is not intended to prohibit or restrict
noncommercial speech. (Ord. 2018-005, 10-29-2018)
2-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
BARTER:       The exchanging of goods or services for other goods or services, rather than
              selling them for money.
CHARITABLE:   501 (c) (3) Organizations - Boy & Girl Scouts, youth athletic clubs, school
              clubs - public or private school, etc.
COMMERCIAL    The solicitation of goods and services directly to businesses located within
SOLICITATION: business, commercial or industrial areas.
              An establishment used for commercial purposes, such as bars, restaurants,
              private offices, fitness clubs, retail stores, banks and financial
COMMERCIAL    institutions, auto and boat dealerships, and other establishments with common
BUSINESS      business areas. Any person who engages in, does, or transacts any temporary or
ESTABLISHMENT transient business in any county, city or town and who, for the purpose of
              carrying on such business, occupies any location for a period of less than one
              year.
MOBILE        Any food service establishment that is vehicle-mounted, wheeled, or constructed
VENDING UNIT: in a manner in which it is capable of being readily moveable.
              A.   Requesting directly or indirectly: Money, credit, funds, contributions,
              personal property or anything of value.
              B.   Taking or attempting to take orders for the sale of goods, wares,
              merchandise, or services.
              C.   Providing a description of future delivery or for services to be performed
SOLICITATION: in the future.
              D.   Selling and making immediate delivery any goods, wares, merchandise or
              services.
              (Solicitation is not communication that is political, religious, or charitable
              in nature and that does not involve solicitation of money, funds,
              contributions, or anything of value. It also is not delivery of items ordered
              by resident or business for example, newspapers, groceries, etc.)
TRANSIENT:    Staying in a place for only a short time and then moving locations, lasting
              only a short time, or is constantly changing.
              Any person, individual, co-partnership or corporation, either a principal or
TRANSIENT     agent, who engages in, does, or transacts any temporary or transient business
MERCHANT:     in the Village who does not intend to become or does not become a permanent
              merchant of the Village.
VILLAGE:      The Corporate Authority of The Village of Scales Mound. (Ord. 2018-005, 10-29-
              2018)
 
2-5-3: SOLICITATION PROHIBITED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to go in or upon any lot on which a
private residence is located for the purpose of selling, dispensing, or
bartering goods, wares, merchandise, or services, or for the purpose of
soliciting orders for the sale of such goods, wares, merchandise, or services
to the occupants of such private residences or for the purpose of soliciting
for donations of money for any purpose from the occupants of such private
residence unless such person has first been requested or invited to do so by
the owner or occupant of the private residence.
   B.   No person shall stand on public streets or roadways and solicit, or
attempt to solicit, or accept charitable contributions of any kind from
occupants of any vehicle or from any person walking on a public roadway,
street, or walkway.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any transient or itinerant merchant to sell,
dispense, or barter goods, wares, merchandise, or services, or to solicit
orders for the sale of such goods, wares, merchandise, or services from any
temporary location within the corporate limits of the Village of Scales Mound
without explicit written consent of the Village.
   D.   It shall be unlawful to sell, dispense, or barter goods, wares,
merchandise, or services, or to solicit orders for the sale of such goods,
wares, merchandise, or services from any mobile vending unit from any location
within the corporate limits of the Village of Scales Mound without explicit
written consent of the Village. (Ord. 2018-005, 10-29-2018)
2-5-4: EXEMPTIONS:
The following shall be exempt from the conditions of this chapter:
   A.   Any person exempt from the requirements of this chapter by virtue of
State of Illinois or federal law.
   B.   Any person under eighteen (18) years of age, when engaged in the
business of being a solicitor under the direct supervision of any school or
recognized charitable organization or religious organization.
   C.   Any person who is the duly authorized representative or agent of any
church, charitable organization, or of any political group seeking membership
or contacting members or electors.
   D.   Any person, transient or itinerant merchant, or mobile vending unit
operator engaging in business solely at a city-recognized market or event,
provided that all transactions are conducted solely within the confines of that
city-recognized market or event and that the rules and regulations of the city-
recognized market or event are observed.
   E.   Any person soliciting commercial business establishments during normal
business hours.
   F.   Any person engaged in the delivery of goods wares or merchandise or
other articles or things in the regular course of business to the premises or
persons who had previously ordered the same or were entitled to receive the
same by reason of prior agreement.
   G.   A person or entity having garage or yard sales or sidewalk sales on
their own property so long as the sales are intermittent and not continuous and
do not last for longer than three days at a time and no longer than twelve (12)
days total per calendar year. Each day a garage or yard sale or sidewalk sale
is set up shall constitute one day. (Ord. 2018-005, 10-29-2018)
2-5-5: ENFORCEMENT:
The enforcing agent shall be any employee of the Village designated by the
Village President to exercise police powers in the enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 2018-005, 10-29-2018)
2-5-6: PENALTY:
   A.   Any person violating any conditions of this permit shall reimburse the
Village of Scales Mound for all cost borne by the Village to enforce the
conditions of this chapter.
   B.   In addition to all other costs, any person who violates any provision
of this chapter may be punished by a fine as set forth in Title 1 Chapter 4 of
the Village Code. Each day during any portion of which any violation of any
provision of this chapter is committed, continued or permitted by any such
person shall be deemed a separate offense.
   C.   The remedies contained in this section are cumulative and are in
addition to all other remedies available to the Village. (Ord. 2018-005, 10-29-
2018)
CHAPTER 6
CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED
SECTION:
2-6-1: Definitions
2-6-2: Cannabis Business Establishments Prohibited
2-6-3: Public Nuisance Declared
2-6-4: Violations
2-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases shall, for the purposes of this Chapter, have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section, as follows:
                                        A cultivation center, craft grower,
ADULT-USE CANNABIS BUSINESS             processing organization, infuser
ESTABLISHMENT:                          organization, dispensing organization
                                        or transporting organization.
                                        A facility operated by an organization
                                        or business that is licensed by the
                                        Illinois Department of Agriculture to
                                        cultivate, dry, cure and package
                                        cannabis and perform other necessary
ADULT-USE CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER:        activities to make cannabis available
                                        for sale at a dispensing organization
                                        or use at a processing organization,
                                        per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax
                                        Act, (P.A.101-0027), as it may be
                                        amended from time-to-time, and
                                        regulations promulgated thereunder.
                                        A facility operated by an organization
                                        or business that is licensed by the
                                        Illinois Department of Agriculture to
                                        cultivate, process, transport and
                                        perform necessary activities to provide
ADULT-USE CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER:  cannabis and cannabis-infused products
                                        to licensed cannabis business
                                        establishments, per the Cannabis
                                        Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A.101-0027),
                                        as it may be amended from time-to-time,
                                        and regulations promulgated thereunder.
                                        A facility operated by an organization
                                        or business that is licensed by the
                                        Illinois Department of Financial and
                                        Professional Regulation to acquire
                                        cannabis from licensed cannabis
                                        business establishments for the purpose
ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING           of selling or dispensing cannabis,
ORGANIZATION:                           cannabis-infused products, cannabis
                                        seeds, paraphernalia or related
                                        supplies to purchasers or to qualified
                                        registered medical cannabis patients
                                        and caregivers, per the Cannabis
                                        Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A.101-0027),
                                        as it may be amended from time-to-time,
                                        and regulations promulgated thereunder.
                                        A facility operated by an organization
                                        or business that is licensed by the
                                        Illinois Department of Agriculture to
                                        directly incorporate cannabis or
ADULT-USE CANNABIS INFUSER ORGANIZATION cannabis concentrate into a product
OR INFUSER:                             formulation to produce a cannabis-
                                        infused product, per the Cannabis
                                        Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A.101-0027),
                                        as it may be amended from time-to-time,
                                        and regulations promulgated thereunder.
                                        A facility operated by an organization
                                        or business that is licensed by the
                                        Illinois Department of Agriculture to
                                        either extract constituent chemicals or
                                        compounds to produce cannabis
ADULT-USE CANNABIS PROCESSING           concentrate or incorporate cannabis or
ORGANIZATION OR PROCESSOR:              cannabis concentrate into a product
                                        formulation to produce a cannabis
                                        product, per the Cannabis Regulation
                                        and Tax Act, (P.A.101-0027), as it may
                                        be amended from time-to-time, and
                                        regulations promulgated thereunder.
                                        An organization or business that is
                                        licensed by the Illinois Department of
                                        Agriculture to transport cannabis on
                                        behalf of a cannabis business
ADULT-USE CANNABIS TRANSPORTING         establishment or a community college
ORGANIZATION OR TRANSPORTER:            licensed under the Community College
                                        Cannabis Vocational Training Pilot
                                        Program, per the Cannabis Regulation
                                        and Tax Act, (P.A.101-0027), as it may
                                        be amended from time- to-time, and
                                        regulations promulgated thereunder.
                                        Any person, firm, corporation,
                                        association, club, society or other
PERSON:                                 organization, including any owner,
                                        manager, proprietor, employee,
                                        volunteer or agent. (Ord. 2020-001, 2-
                                        24-2020)
 
2-6-2: CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED:
The following Adult-Use Cannabis Business Establishments are prohibited in the
Village of Scales Mound. No person shall locate, operate, own, suffer, allow to
be operated or aide, abet or assist in the operation within the Village of
Scales Mound of any of the following:
Adult-Use Cannabis Craft Grower
Adult-Use Cannabis Cultivation Center
Adult-Use Cannabis Dispensing Organization
Adult-Use Cannabis Infuser Organization or Infuser
Adult-Use Cannabis Processing Organization or Processor
Adult-Use Cannabis Transporting Organization or Transporter
(Ord. 2020-001, 2-24-2020)
2-6-3: PUBLIC NUISANCE DECLARED:
Operation of any prohibited Cannabis Business Establishment within the Village
of Scales Mound in violation of the provisions of this Chapter is hereby
declared a public nuisance and shall be abated pursuant to all available
remedies. (Ord. 2020-001, 2-24-2020)
2-6-4: VIOLATIONS:
Violations of this Chapter may be enforced in accordance with the provisions of
Title 1 Chapter 4 of this Code. (Ord. 2020-001, 2-24-2020)
TITLE 3
HEALTH, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES
SECTION:
3-1-1: Definition
3-1-2: Nuisances Prohibited
3-1-3: Abatement By Village; Costs
3-1-4: Penalty
3-1-1: DEFINITION:
For the purpose of this chapter, the term “nuisance” is defined to mean any use
or condition of use of a parcel of land or premises or of building exteriors
which is detrimental to the property of others, and/or the health and welfare
of others, or which causes or tends to cause substantial diminution of the
value of other property, and/or diminution of health and welfare of the
citizens in the neighborhood in which said land or premises is located. This
includes, but is not limited to, the keeping or the depositing on or the
scattering over the premises of any of the following:
   A.   Lumber, junk, trash or debris.
   B.   Abandoned, discarded or unused objects or equipment, such as
automobiles, parts of automobiles, furniture, stoves, refrigerators, freezers,
cans or containers.
   C.   Trailers, machinery, implements of husbandry, or any other equipment or
items not common to the neighborhood in which the premises is located. (Ord.,
3-31-2008; amd. Ord., 9-30-2019)
3-1-2: NUISANCES PROHIBITED:
No person owning, leasing, occupying or having charge of any premises shall
maintain or keep any nuisance thereon, nor shall any person keep or maintain
such parcel of land or premises in a manner causing substantial diminution to
the value of other property in the neighborhood or diminution of the health and
welfare of the citizens in the neighborhood in which such parcel of land or
premises is located. (Ord., 3-31-2008; amd. Ord., 9-30-2019)
3-1-3: ABATEMENT BY VILLAGE; COSTS:
The village marshal or any person so designated by the village president and
board of trustees is hereby authorized to abate any violation hereof and may
enter upon private property at all reasonable hours for the purpose of
inspecting such nuisance, and posting notice and abating the nuisance. The
person owning, leasing, or occupying the property shall be given seven (7) days
to abate the nuisance. If the owner or custodian has not abated the conditions
within seven (7) days of the date notice is provided, the Village may abate the
nuisance. The person owning, leasing, or occupying the property shall be
responsible for all cost of such abatement and shall reimburse the Village of
Scales Mound for all cost borne by the Village to enforce the conditions of
this chapter. (Ord., 9-30-2019)
3-1-4: PENALTY:
Any person violating this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2012-001,3-26-2012be punished by a fine of not less
than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00)
for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each date
during or on which such violation is permitted to exist.
   A.   Any person violating any conditions of this chapter shall reimburse the
Village of Scales Mound for all cost borne by the Village to enforce the
conditions of this chapter including but not limited to the abatement of the
nuisance.
   B.   In addition to all other costs, any person who violates any provision
of this chapter may be punished by a fine as set forth in Title 1 Chapter 4 of
the Village Code. Each day during any portion of which any violation of any
provision of this Chapter is committed, continued or permitted by any such
person shall be deemed a separate offense.
   C.   The remedies contained in this section are cumulative and are in
addition to all other remedies available to the Town. (Ord., 3-31-2008; amd.
2009 Code; Ord., 9-30-2019)
CHAPTER 2
GRASS AND WEED CONTROL
SECTION:
3-2-1: Height Restriction
3-2-2: Notice To Abate
3-2-3: Entry Powers
3-2-4: Interfering With Enforcement Officials Prohibited
3-2-5: Penalty; Abatement Procedures
3-2-1: HEIGHT RESTRICTION:
No owner of, or other person occupying, any lot, place or area within the
village shall permit any grass, weeds or other unhealthful or noxious growth to
grow or stand to a height exceeding eight inches (8") anywhere on such lot,
place or area. (Ord., 5-28-2002)
3-2-2: NOTICE TO ABATE:
   A.   Whenever the existence of a nuisance, as defined in this chapter, on
any lots or parcels of real estate situated within the village shall come to
the attention or knowledge of the village marshal, village president, or
village trustees, it shall be the duty of the village marshal or his designated
representative to cause a written notice to be issued to the person owning the
property on which the nuisance is being continued or conducted, or to the
lessee or person responsible for said nuisance. (Ord., 5-28-2002; amd. 2009
Code)
   B.   Such notice shall be served on the person or persons, or sent by
certified mail to the last known postal address of the person or persons, or
posted on the premises wherein said nuisance is continuing, in the event no one
is in actual possession thereof.
   C.   Such notice will give said person or persons ten (10) days after
mailing, service or posting, as the case may be, to abate the nuisance and will
further describe generally the nuisance itself and the abatement relief sought.
Said notice shall further state that, in default of the performance of those
acts necessary to abate the nuisance, the village may at once cite the owner
for the violation of this chapter and cause the nuisance to be abated and
charge the costs and expenses incurred in doing or having such work done to the
owner of such property. Failure to reimburse the village for abatement costs
shall result in the placement of a lien upon the land for the cost of
abatement. Said notice shall further state that violation of this chapter may
subject the offender to fines as outlined in this chapter. (Ord., 5-28-2002;
amd. 2009 Code)
3-2-3: ENTRY POWERS:
The village marshal, or a designated representative, shall have the authority
to enter any property at any reasonable time to determine compliance with the
provisions of this chapter. In the event the village marshal, or a designated
representative, in attempting to enter any premises for the purpose of making
an inspection to carry out the provisions of this chapter, shall be refused
entry, an affidavit may be made under oath to any judge or the circuit court
for a warrant authorizing the inspector named in the affidavit to enter upon
such premises for the purpose of determining the existence of the conditions
set forth in the affidavit. (Ord., 5-28-2002; amd. 2009 Code)
3-2-4: INTERFERING WITH ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, hinder or refuse to
allow a public official or police officer to carry out the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord., 5-28-2002)
3-2-5: PENALTY; ABATEMENT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Fine: Any person, firm or corporation found guilty of violating the
provisions of this chapter shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00)
nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. Each
person, firm or corporation shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for
each and every day during which any violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter are continued.
   B.   Abatement By Village; Costs A Lien: In addition to the foregoing, the
village may abate the nuisance in any reasonable manner and may collect from
such violators the reasonable cost thereof. The cost of removal shall become a
lien on the real estate affected; provided, that a notice of lien is filed in
the office of the county recorder of deeds within sixty (60) days of the
completion of the abatement of said nuisance. The lien notice shall set forth a
description of the real estate involved, the amount of money representing the
costs and expenses incurred in the abatement of the nuisance, and the dates
when said costs and expenses were incurred by the village. (Ord., 5-28-2002;
amd. 2009 Code)
   C.   Recovery Of Costs: In addition to the foregoing, the village attorney
is authorized and directed to initiate litigation in court to recover the costs
incurred in abating the nuisance. (Ord., 5-28-2002)
CHAPTER 3
ABANDONED, INOPERABLE, UNREGISTERED VEHICLES; STORAGE AND ABANDONMENT OF
MACHINERY 1
SECTION:
3-3-1: Definitions
3-3-2: Nuisance Declared; Exception
3-3-3: Abatement By Village; Costs
3-3-4: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  5-1-6 of this code.
3-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle given up with the intent of never
again claiming a right or interest therein.
CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT: Any implement commonly used in the construction trade
including, but not limited to, office trailers, forklifts, man lifts, trailers,
dumpsters, and vehicles not commonly used for human transportation.
FARM MACHINERY: Any implement commonly used in the agriculture trade including,
but not limited to, tractors, wagons, trailers, skid steer loaders and tillage
equipment.
INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle from which, for a period of at
least seven (7) days or any greater period fixed by ordinance, the engine,
wheels, or other parts have been altered, damaged, or otherwise so treated that
the vehicle is incapable of being driven under its own motor power.
UNREGISTERED MOTOR VEHICLE: A motor vehicle not properly licensed and insured
to meet state law. (Ord., 3-31-2008)
3-3-2: NUISANCE DECLARED; EXCEPTION:
Farm machinery, construction machinery, abandoned motor vehicles, inoperable
motor vehicles, and unregistered motor vehicles, whether on public streets or
alleys or private property and in view of the general public, are hereby
declared to be nuisances, and no person in charge or control of any property
within the village, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee, or otherwise,
shall allow any farm machinery, construction machinery, abandoned motor
vehicles, inoperable motor vehicles or unregistered motor vehicles to remain on
such property longer than seven (7) days; except, that this section shall not
apply with regard to such vehicle when it is completely enclosed in a permanent
structure or when it is on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a
lawful place and manner and when necessary to the operation of such business
enterprise; or with regard to the vehicle in an appropriate storage place or
depository maintained in a lawful place and manner by the village or by any
other public agency or entity. (Ord., 3-31-2008)
3-3-3: ABATEMENT BY VILLAGE; COSTS:
The village marshal or any person so designated by the village president and
board of trustees is hereby authorized to abate any violation hereof and may
enter upon private property at all reasonable hours for the purpose of
inspecting such vehicle, posting notice thereon, and removing and impounding
such vehicle. The owner of the vehicle shall be responsible for all towing and
storage costs and shall pay same before such vehicle is released to the owner's
custody or possession. (Ord., 3-31-2008; amd. 2009 Code)
3-3-4: PENALTY:
The penalty for violation of this chapter, upon conviction, shall be a fine of
not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon
each day such violation continues. (Ord., 3-31-2008; amd. 2009 Code)
CHAPTER 4
RECYCLING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
3-4-1: Title
3-4-2: Statute Authority
3-4-3: Definitions
3-4-4: Purpose
3-4-5: Application; Interpretation; Effect
3-4-6: Administration
3-4-7: Separation Of Recyclable Materials Required; Exemptions
3-4-8: Care Of Separated Materials
3-4-9: Management Of Batteries, Major Appliances, Waste Oil And Yard Waste
3-4-10: Responsibilities Regarding Recycling
3-4-11: Regulations, Standards And Schedules
3-4-12: Prohibitions
3-4-13: Enforcement And Penalties
3-4-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the RECYCLING ORDINANCE FOR THE VILLAGE OF
SCALES MOUND. (Ord., 7-24-1995, eff. retroactive to 1-1-1995)
3-4-2: STATUTE AUTHORITY:
This chapter is adopted as authorized under Illinois Compiled Statutes. (Ord.,
7-24-1995, eff. retroactive to 1-1-1995; amd. 2009 Code)
3-4-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
BIMETAL CONTAINER: A container for carbonated or malt beverages that is made
primarily of a combination of steel and aluminum.
CONTAINER BOARD: Corrugated paperboard used in the manufacture of shipping
containers and related products.
FOAM POLYSTYRENE PACKAGING: Packaging made primarily from foam polystyrene that
satisfies one of the following criteria:
   A.   Is designed for serving food or beverages.
   B.   Consists of loose particles intended to fill space and cushion the
packaged article in a shipping container.
   C.   Consists of rigid materials shaped to hold and cushion the packaged
article in a shipping container.
HDPE: High density polyethylene, labeled by the SPI code 2.
LDPE: Low density polyethylene, labeled by the SPI code 4.
MAGAZINES: Magazines and other materials printed on similar paper.
MAJOR APPLIANCES: Residential or commercial air conditioners, furnaces,
boilers, dehumidifiers, water heaters, clothes dryers, clothes washers,
dishwashers, freezers, microwave ovens, ovens, refrigerators, or stoves.
MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING: A property containing five (5) or more residential
units, including those which are occupied seasonally.
MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE LANDFILL (MSWLF): A landfill that accepts garbage or
solid waste from households. Wastes that are typically landfilled include
bottles, cans, disposable diapers, uneaten food, scraps of wood and metal,
newspapers, paper and plastic packaging, and old appliances, as well as some
industrial and commercial nonhazardous wastes and construction and demolition
(C&D) wastes. "MSWLFs" may also accept household hazardous wastes and
conditionally exempt small quantity generator (CESQG) wastes that are not
regulated as hazardous wastes under subtitle C of the resource conservation and
recovery act (RCRA).
NEWSPAPER: A newspaper and other materials printed on newspaper.
NONRESIDENTIAL FACILITIES AND PROPERTIES: Commercial, retail, industrial,
institutional and governmental facilities and properties. This term does not
include multiple-family dwellings.
OFFICE PAPER: High grade printing and writing papers from offices in
nonresidential facilities and properties. Printed white ledger and computer
printout are examples of "office paper" generally accepted as high grade. This
term does not include industrial process waste.
OTHER RESINS OR MULTIPLE RESINS: Plastic resins labeled by the SPI code 7.
PETE: Polyethylene terephthalate, labeled by the SPI code 1.
PP: Polypropylene, labeled by the SPI code 5.
PS: Polystyrene, labeled by the SPI code 6.
PVC: Polyvinyl chloride, labeled by the SPI code 3.
PERSON: Includes any individual, corporation, partnership, association, local
governmental unit, state agency or authority or federal agency.
PLASTIC CONTAINER: An individual, separate, rigid plastic bottle, can, jar or
carton, except for a blister pack, that is originally used to contain a product
that is the subject of retail sale.
POSTCONSUMER WASTE: Solid waste other than the solid waste generated in the
production of goods; hazardous waste, as defined in 415 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/3.220; waste from construction and demolition of structures; scrap
automobiles; or industrial process waste, as defined in 415 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/3.235.
RECYCLABLE MATERIALS: Includes lead acid batteries; major appliances; waste
oil; yard waste; aluminum containers; corrugated paper or other container
board; foam polystyrene packaging; glass containers; magazines; newspaper;
office paper; rigid plastic containers, including those made of PETE, HDPE,
PVC, LDPE, PP, PS, and other resins or multiple resins; steel containers; waste
tires; and bimetal containers.
SOLID WASTE: "Waste", as defined in 415 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3.535 but,
for the purposes of this chapter, does not include "hazardous waste", as
defined in 415 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3.220.
SOLID WASTE TREATMENT: Any method, technique or process which is designed to
change the physical, chemical or biological character or composition of solid
waste.
TREATMENT: Includes incineration.
WASTE TIRE: A tire that is no longer suitable for its original purpose because
of wear, damage or defect.
YARD WASTE: Leaves, grass clippings, yard and garden debris and brush,
including clean woody vegetative material no greater than six inches (6") in
diameter. This term does not include stumps, roots or shrubs with intact root
balls. (Ord., 7-24-1995, eff. retroactive to 1-1-1995; amd. 2009 Code)
3-4-4: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to promote recycling, composting, and resource
recovery through the administration of an effective recycling program. (Ord.,
7-24-1995, eff. retroactive to 1-1-1995; amd. 2009 Code)
3-4-5: APPLICATION; INTERPRETATION; EFFECT:
   A.   Application: The requirements of this chapter apply to all persons
within the village.
   B.   Minimum Requirements: In their interpretation and application, the
provisions of this chapter shall be held to be the minimum requirements and
shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal of any other power granted by the
Illinois statutes.
   C.   Conflicts With Other Laws: Where any terms or requirements of this
chapter may be inconsistent or conflicting, the more restrictive requirements
or interpretation shall apply. (Ord., 7-24-1995, eff. retroactive to 1-1-1995)
   D.   Effect Of Statute Regulations: Where a provision of this chapter is
required by Illinois Compiled Statutes and the provision of this chapter is
unclear, the provision shall be interpreted in light of the state statute in
effect on the effective date hereof, or in effect on the date of the most
recent text amendment to this chapter. (Ord., 7-24-1995, eff. retroactive to 1-
1-1995; amd. 2009 Code)
   E.   Abrogation And Greater Restrictions: It is not intended by this chapter
to repeal, abrogate, annul, impair or interfere with any existing rules,
regulations, ordinances or permits previously adopted or issued pursuant to
law. However, whenever this chapter imposes greater restrictions, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply. (Ord., 7-24-1995, eff. retroactive to
1-1-1995)
3-4-6: ADMINISTRATION:
The provisions of this chapter shall be administered by the village board of
trustees. (Ord., 7-24-1995, eff. retroactive to 1-1-1995)
3-4-7: SEPARATION OF RECYCLABLE MATERIALS REQUIRED; EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Occupants of single-family and two- to four-unit residences, multiple-
family dwellings and nonresidential facilities and properties shall separate
the following materials from postconsumer waste:
      1.   Lead acid batteries.
      2.   Major appliances.
      3.   Waste oil.
      4.   Yard waste.
      5.   Aluminum containers.
      6.   Bimetal containers.
      7.   Corrugated paper or other container board.
      8.   Foam polystyrene packaging.
      9.   Glass containers.
      10.   Magazines.
      11.   Newspaper.
      12.   Office paper.
      13.   Rigid plastic containers of PETE, HDPE, PVC, LDPE, PP, PS, and
other resins or multiple resins.
      14.   Steel containers.
      15.   Waste tires.
   B.   The separation requirements of subsection A of this section do not
apply to the following: (Ord., 7-24-1995, eff. retroactive to 1-1-1995)
      1.   Occupants of single-family and two- to four-unit residencies,
multiple-family dwellings and nonresidential facilities and properties that
send their postconsumer waste to a processing facility licensed by the Illinois
department of natural resources that recovers the materials specified in
subsection A of this section from solid waste in as pure a form as is
technically feasible. (Ord., 7-24-1995, eff. retroactive to 1-1-1995; amd. 2009
Code)
      2.   Solid waste which is burned as a supplemental fuel at a facility if
less than thirty percent (30%) of the heat input to the facility is derived
from the solid waste burned as supplemental fuel. (Ord., 7-24-1995, eff.
retroactive to 1-1-1995)
      3.   A recyclable material specified in subsections A5 through A15 of
this section for which a variance has been granted by the state department of
natural resources. (Ord., 7-24-1995, eff. retroactive to 1-1-1995; amd. 2009
Code)
3-4-8: CARE OF SEPARATED MATERIALS:
To the greatest extent practical, the recyclable materials separated in
accordance with subsection
3-4-7A of this chapter shall be clean and kept free of contaminants such as
food or product residue, oil or grease, or other nonrecyclable materials,
including, but not limited to, household hazardous waste, medical waste, and
agricultural chemical containers. Recyclable materials shall be stored in a
manner which protects them from wind, rain, and other inclement weather
conditions. The collector of recyclables shall be entitled to refuse to accept
recyclables that are contaminated or otherwise in a condition that makes
recycling infeasible. (Ord., 7-24-1995, eff. retroactive to 1-1-1995)
3-4-9: MANAGEMENT OF BATTERIES, MAJOR APPLIANCES, WASTE OIL AND YARD WASTE:
Occupants of single-family and two- to four-unit residences, multiple-family
dwellings and nonresidential facilities and properties shall manage lead acid
batteries, major appliances, waste oil and yard waste as follows:
   A.   Lead Acid Batteries: Lead acid batteries shall be placed at the
roadside separated from solid waste for collection by the village solid waste
contractor. Car, truck, and other automotive batteries only will be collected.
Battery casing must be unbroken.
   B.   Major Appliances: Residential and commercial furnaces, boilers,
dehumidifiers and water heaters, and other major appliances shall be placed at
the roadside separated from solid waste for collection by the village solid
waste contractor. Appliances shall be upright and empty. Freezers and
refrigerators must have doors removed. Microwaves must have capacitor removed.
   C.   Waste Oil: Waste oil shall be placed at roadside separated from solid
waste for collection by the village solid waste contractor. Common engine oil
only will be collected. Such oil must be in leak resistant, nonbreakable
containers of a maximum size of one gallon.
   D.   Yard Waste: Yard waste shall be composted by the homeowner via backyard
composting or other methods available to the homeowner. (Ord., 7-24-1995, eff.
retroactive to 1-1-1995)
3-4-10: RESPONSIBILITIES REGARDING RECYCLING:
   A.   Single-Family And Two- To Four-Unit Residences: Except as otherwise
directed by the village board, occupants of single- family and two- to four-
unit residences shall do the following for the preparation and collection of
the materials specified in subsections
3-4-7A5 through A15 of this chapter: (Ord., 7-24-1995, eff. retroactive to 1-1-
1995)
      1.   Aluminum containers shall be rinsed and placed in the recycling
container provided for collection. No aluminum foil, TV dinner trays, etc.,
will be collected. (Ord., 7-24-1995, eff. retroactive to 1-1-1995; amd. 2009
Code)
      2.   Bimetal containers shall be rinsed and have labels removed and shall
be placed in the recycling container provided for collection. Containers may be
flattened to save space within the recycling container.
      3.   Corrugated paper or other container board shall be flattened and
tied in bundles and placed alongside the recycling container for collection.
(Ord., 7-24-1995, eff. retroactive to 1-1-1995)
      4.   Foam polystyrene packaging will not currently be collected for
recycling. (Ord., 7-24-1995, eff. retroactive to 1-1-1995; amd. 2009 Code)
      5.   Glass containers shall be rinsed, all metal and plastic caps and
rings shall be removed, and the containers shall be placed in the recycling
container for collection.
      6.   Magazines shall be tied in bundles and placed alongside or within
the recycling container for collection.
      7.   Newspaper shall be tied in bundles and placed alongside or within
the recycling container for collection.
      8.   Office paper shall be placed inside paper grocery bags and placed
alongside or within the recycling container for collection.
      9.   Plastic containers made of PETE, HDPE, PVC, LDPE, PP, and PS shall
be rinsed and placed within the recycling container for collection. Containers
may be flattened to save space within the recycling container.
      10.   Steel containers shall be rinsed, labels removed, and placed within
the recycling container for collection. Containers may be flattened to save
space within the container.
      11.   Waste tires shall be placed at the roadside separated from solid
waste for collection by the village solid waste contractor. Car, truck, and
other tires not exceeding four feet (4') in diameter or eighty (80) pounds in
weight will be collected.
   B.   Multiple-Family Dwellings:
      1.   Owners or designated agents of multiple-family dwellings shall do
all of the following to recycle the materials specified in subsections
3-4-7A5 through A15 of this chapter:
         a.   Provide adequate containers for the recyclable materials.
         b.   Notify tenants in writing at the time of renting or leasing the
dwelling and at least semiannually thereafter about the recycling program.
         c.   Provide for the collection of the materials separated from the
solid waste by the tenants and the delivery of the materials to a recycling
facility.
         d.   Notify tenants of reasons to reduce and recycle solid waste,
which materials are collected, how to prepare the materials in order to meet
the processing requirements, collection methods or sites, location and hours of
operation, and a contact person or company, including name, address and
telephone number. (Ord., 7-24-1995, eff. retroactive to 1-1-1995)
      2.   The requirements specified in subsection B1 of this section do not
apply to the owners or designated agents of multiple-family dwellings if the
postconsumer waste generated within the dwelling is treated at a processing
facility licensed by the Illinois department of natural resources that recovers
the materials specified in subsections
3-4-7A5 through A15 of this chapter from solid waste in as pure a form as is
technically feasible. (Ord., 7-24-1995, eff. retroactive to 1-1-1995; amd. 2009
Code)
   C.   Nonresidential Facilities And Properties:
      1.   Owners or designated agents of nonresidential facilities and
properties shall do all of the following to recycle the materials specified in
subsections
3-4-7A5 through A15 of this chapter:
         a.   Provide adequate containers for the recyclable materials.
         b.   Notify in writing, at least semiannually, all users, tenants and
occupants of the properties about the established recycling program.
         c.   Provide for the collection of the materials separated from the
solid waste by the users, tenants, and occupants and the delivery of the
materials to a recycling program.
         d.   Notify users, tenants, and occupants of reasons to reduce and
recycle solid waste, which materials are collected, how to prepare the
materials in order to meet the processing requirements, collection methods or
sites, locations and hours of operation, and a contact person or company,
including a name, address and telephone number. (Ord., 7-24-1995, eff.
retroactive to 1-1-1995)
      2.   The requirements specified in subsection C1 of this section do not
apply to the owners or designated agents of nonresidential facilities and
properties if the postconsumer waste generated with the facility or property is
treated at a processing facility licensed by the Illinois department of natural
resources that recovers the materials specified in subsections
3-4-7A5 through A15 of this chapter from solid waste in as pure a form as is
technically feasible. (Ord., 7-24-1995, eff. retroactive to 1-1-1995; amd. 2009
Code)
3-4-11: REGULATIONS, STANDARDS AND SCHEDULES:
The village board shall prepare regulations, standards, and schedules as
necessary to make effective all provisions of this chapter. Periodically, the
village board shall have notices prepared and shall distribute other
information to persons and entities generating waste within the village for the
purpose of informing the public about the requirements dictated by this
mandatory source separation recycling chapter. (Ord., 7-24-1995, eff.
retroactive to 1-1-1995)
3-4-12: PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Disposal Or Burning Of Recyclable Materials Separated For Recycling: No
person may dispose of in a solid waste disposal facility or burn in a solid
waste treatment facility any of the materials specified in subsections
3-4-7A5 through A15 of this chapter which have been separated for recycling,
except waste tires which may be burned for energy recovery in a solid waste
treatment facility.
   B.   Scavenging: Persons shall not pilfer recyclables or disturb recyclables
once those materials are placed for collection unless good faith applies. All
recyclable materials placed for collection pursuant to this chapter shall
thereupon become the property of the village solid waste contractor. Only
persons authorized by the village or the generator of waste shall collect or
handle recyclable materials once those materials have been placed appropriately
for collection. Any and each collection by unauthorized persons in violation of
this subsection shall constitute a separate and distinct offense punishable as
provided hereinafter. (Ord., 7-24-1995, eff. retroactive to 1-1-1995)
3-4-13: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Inspections; Interfering With Prohibited: For the purpose of
ascertaining compliance with the provisions of this chapter, any authorized
officer, employee or representative of the village may inspect recyclable
materials separated for recycling, postconsumer waste intended for disposal,
recycling collection sites and facilities, collection vehicles, collection
areas of multiple-family dwellings and nonresidential facilities and
properties, and any records relating to recycling activities, which shall be
kept confidential when necessary to protect proprietary information. No person
may refuse access to any authorized officer, employee or authorized
representative of the village who requests access for purposes of inspection,
and who presents appropriate credentials. No person may obstruct, hamper, or
interfere with such an inspection.
   B.   Citation: Any person who violates a provision of this chapter may be
issued a citation by any police officer of the village. The issuance of a
citation shall not preclude proceedings under any other ordinance or law
relating to the same or any other matter. Proceedings under any other ordinance
or law relating to the same or any other matter shall not preclude the issuance
of a citation under this subsection.
   C.   Penalties: Penalties for violating this chapter may be assessed as
follows:
      1.   Any person who violates subsection
3-4-12A of this chapter may be required to forfeit fifty dollars ($50.00) for a
first violation, two hundred dollars ($200.00) for a second violation, and not
more than two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) for a third or subsequent violation.
(Ord., 7-24-1995, eff. retroactive to 1-1-1995)
      2.   Any person who violates a provision of this chapter, except
subsection
3-4-12A, may be required to forfeit not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each violation. (Ord., 7-
24-1995, eff. retroactive to 1-1-1995; amd. 2009 Code)
   D.   Separate Offense: Each incident of violation shall be a separate
offense, and each day or part thereof during which a violation occurs shall be
deemed a separate offense. (Ord., 7-24-1995, eff. retroactive to 1-1-1995)
CHAPTER 5
COMPOSTING
SECTION:
3-5-1: Purpose And Intent
3-5-2: Definitions
3-5-3: Owner Responsibility
3-5-4: Maintenance
3-5-5: Location
3-5-6: Compost Bin Construction
3-5-7: Penalty
3-5-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose of this chapter is to promote the recycling of yard wastes through
composting and to establish minimum standards for proper compost maintenance.
(2009 Code)
3-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
COMPOSTABLE MATERIAL: Grass, garden clippings, brush, leaves, tree clippings,
and other materials accumulated as a result of the maintenance of gardens,
lawns, shrubbery, vines and trees.
COMPOSTING: The controlled biological reduction of organic wastes to humus.
(2009 Code)
3-5-3: OWNER RESPONSIBILITY:
Every owner or operator shall be responsible for maintaining all property under
his or her control in accordance with the requirements of this chapter. (2009
Code)
3-5-4: MAINTENANCE:
All compost piles shall be maintained using approved composting procedures that
comply with the following requirements:
   A.   All compost piles shall be enclosed in a freestanding compost bin.
   B.   Compostable materials may be placed in a compost pile; provided, that
such materials are placed in such a manner as not to allow them to be
windblown.
   C.   The depositing of garbage, pet waste, meat scraps or other materials
that may attract animals or vermin to the compost pile or which may provide an
obnoxious odor shall be prohibited. Compost piles containing garden debris
shall be kept covered, except while turning. (2009 Code)
3-5-5: LOCATION:
A compost pile shall not be located less than twenty five feet (25') from any
neighboring dwelling unit, less than eight feet (8') from any rear or side lot
line or within any required front yard as defined in the village zoning
regulations in title 8 of this code. (2009 Code)
3-5-6: COMPOST BIN CONSTRUCTION:
Each compost bin shall be no larger than three feet (3') to five feet (5') wide
and no taller than five feet (5') high, and shall be constructed of woven
galvanized wire, block, or brick; or shall be a prefabricated wooden bin, with
sufficient openings to allow adequate air movement. (2009 Code)
3-5-7: PENALTY:
Any person found guilty of a violation of this chapter shall be fined as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2009 Code)
CHAPTER 6
BURNING RESTRICTIONS 1
SECTION:
3-6-1: Outdoor And Indoor Burning Generally
3-6-2: Permission Required
3-6-3: Open Burning Of Leaves
3-6-4: Fires Near Buildings, On Public Ways
3-6-5: Authority To Restrict Burning
3-6-6: Exemptions From Provisions
3-6-7: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. See subsections
  2-3-6D and 8-7-5D of this code for burning restrictions in junkyards.
3-6-1: OUTDOOR AND INDOOR BURNING GENERALLY:
   A.   Outdoor Burning: No person, firm, corporation, or entity shall burn any
wood, trash, paper, rubbish or garbage out of doors anywhere in the village,
except as specifically authorized by this chapter or any ordinance of the
village. This subsection shall not prohibit the use of an outdoor fire for
cooking or a recreation bonfire or burning tree limbs, branches or brush.
   B.   Indoor Burning: No person, firm, corporation, or entity shall burn any
trash, paper, rubbish or garbage anywhere indoors in the village except in an
incinerator complying with all applicable laws and ordinances. (2009 Code)
3-6-2: PERMISSION REQUIRED:
   A.   No person shall kindle or maintain any bonfire that contains wood or
rubbish or authorize any such fire to be kindled or maintained on any public or
private real property without first obtaining permission from the village board
of trustees.
   B.   During construction or demolition of buildings or structures, no waste
materials or rubbish shall be disposed of by burning on the premises or in the
immediate vicinity without having obtained permission from the village board of
trustees. (2009 Code)
3-6-3: OPEN BURNING OF LEAVES:
The open burning of leaves within the village limits is prohibited except as
follows:
   A.   Time Established: The open burning of leaves shall be permitted only
during the period from September 15 through December 15 and from April 1
through April 30. During said periods, the open burning of leaves shall be
permitted only between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and six o'clock
(6:00) P.M.
   B.   Where Permitted:
      1.   The open burning of leaves is not permitted on public rights of way
including, but not limited to, sidewalks, roadways, alleys and all paved areas
of village property without prior written approval of the board of trustees.
      2.   No person shall burn any leaves unless such fire is located at least
twenty feet (20') from any structure.
   C.   Fires To Be Attended: A competent person shall constantly attend any
fire resulting from the open burning of leaves until such fire is extinguished.
(2009 Code)
3-6-4: FIRES NEAR BUILDINGS, ON PUBLIC WAYS:
It shall be unlawful to build or light any bonfire so close to any structure as
to endanger such building or structure or on any public street or sidewalk
pavement. Determination of a danger shall be made by the village board of
trustees. (2009 Code)
3-6-5: AUTHORITY TO RESTRICT BURNING:
The chief of the fire department, or his/her designee, may prohibit any and all
bonfires and all outdoor burning of leaves, brush, trash, papers, rubbish and
garbage when conditions or circumstances make such fires hazardous in his/her
sole determination. (2009 Code)
3-6-6: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prohibit the use of wood in stoves
used for cooking, the use of wood in fireplaces or decorative fires or the use
of wood in fireplaces or stoves designed for heating. (2009 Code)
3-6-7: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2009 Code)
CHAPTER 7
SMOKE FREE AREA
SECTION:
3-7-1: Designated Area
3-7-1: DESIGNATED AREA:
The Stone House is a smoke free environment. Signs will be posted in the Stone
House to remind visitors of the smoke free status. (Per minutes dated 3-28-
1994)
CHAPTER 8
BUILDING CODES AND NUISANCES
SECTION:
3-8-1: Administrative Adjudication Of Building Codes And Nuisances
3-8-2: Administrative Adjudication Procedures Not Exclusive
3-8-3: Code Hearing Division; Hearing Officer; Powers And Duties
3-8-4: Administrative Hearing Process
3-8-5: Prima Facie Case; Rules Of Evidence; Standard Of Proof
3-8-6: Subpoenas And Defaults
3-8-7: Continuances
3-8-8: Rights Of Property Occupants
3-8-9: Defenses To Code Violations And Nuisances
3-8-10: Findings, Decision, And Order
3-8-11: Judicial Review
3-8-12: Enforcement Of Administrative Orders
3-8-13: Sanctions Applicable To Owner
3-8-14: Vacant Residential Real Estate
3-8-15: Other Methods Of Code And Ordinance Enforcement
3-8-1: ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION OF BUILDING CODES AND NUISANCES:
The Village of Scales Mound, pursuant to authority of 65 ILCS 5/11-31.1-1 et
seq., establishes a system of administrative adjudication for the adjudication
of the Village’s Building Code Violations and Nuisances to the extent permitted
by statute and the Illinois Constitution. As used in this chapter, a “system of
administrative adjudication” means the adjudication of any violation of the
Village of Scales Mound Code found only in (i) the provisions of Title 3,
Chapters 1 through 7, Title 8, Chapters 1 through 14, and (ii) the commission
of nuisances as defined in the Village of Scales Mound Code (hereinafter
“building code and nuisance administrative adjudication”). (Ord. 2021-004, 10-
25-2021)
3-8-2: ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION PROCEDURES NOT EXCLUSIVE:
The adoption by the Village of a system of building code and nuisance
administrative adjudication procedures does not preclude the Village from using
other methods to enforce municipal building codes and nuisances, including, but
not limited to, relief in the Circuit Court for the Fifteenth Judicial Circuit,
Jo Daviess County, Illinois. (Ord. 2021-004, 10-25-2021)
3-8-3: CODE HEARING DIVISION; HEARING OFFICER; POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   A code hearing division is established with the authority to oversee
the building code and nuisance administrative adjudication process in the
Village as herein provided.
   B.   Adjudicatory hearings shall be presided over by a hearing officer
appointed by the Village President with the consent of the Board.
   C.   The powers and duties of the hearing officer shall include the
authority to:
      1.   Hear testimony and accept evidence that is relevant to the existence
of the code violations;
      2.   Upon written request of the parties or their representatives, issue
subpoenas and direct witnesses to appear and give testimony at the hearings;
      3.   Preserve and authenticate the record, including the exhibits and
evidence introduced at hearings;
      4.   Weigh the evidence presented at hearings based on relevancy and
competence, determine the credibility of witnesses, and resolve conflicts in
testimony;
      5.   Make ultimate findings and determinations, based on the relevant and
competence evidence presented at a hearing, of whether a code violation exists;
and
      6.   Impose penalties consistent with the applicable code provisions and
assess costs upon finding a party liable for the charged violation.
   D.   The determination of the hearing officer shall be in writing and shall
include a written finding of fact, decision, and order, including the fine,
penalty or other action with which the defendant must comply.
   E.   The hearing officer shall not have the authority to impose a penalty of
incarceration or impose a fine in excess of seven hundred and fifty dollars
($750) for each violation.
   F.   The hearing officer must be an attorney licensed to practice law in the
State of Illinois for at least three years and must successfully complete a
formal training program, which includes the following:
      1.   Instructions on rules of procedure of the administrative hearings
that will be conducted;
      2.   Orientation to each subject area of the code violations that will be
adjudicated;
      3.   Observation of similar administrative hearings; and
      4.   Participation in hypothetical cases, including ruling on evidence
and issuing final orders.
   G.   The process for building code and nuisance administrative adjudication
may be consolidated and organized in conjunction with the process for general
administrative adjudication provided in this Ordinance of this title of the
Village of Scales Mound Code. (Ord. 2021-004, 10-25-2021)
3-8-4: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING PROCESS:
   A.   When a Village official with authority to enforce Village building
codes and nuisances makes a determination that a violation has occurred, he or
she shall note the violation on a multiple copy violation notice and report
form that indicates (i) the name and address of the defendant, (ii) the type
and nature of the violation or nuisance, (iii) the date and time the violation
or nuisance was observed, and (iv) the names of witnesses to the violation or
nuisance. The violation report form shall be forwarded to the code hearing
division where a docket number shall be stamped on all copies of the report and
a hearing date shall be noted in the blank space provided for that purpose on
the form. The hearing date shall not be less than thirty (30) nor more than
forty (40) days after the notice is served. One copy of the violation notice
and report form shall be maintained in the files of the code hearing division
and shall be part of the record of the hearing; one copy of the report form
shall be returned to the individual representing the Village in the case so
that he or she may prepare evidence of the code violation or nuisance for
presentation at the hearing on the date indicated; and one copy of the report
form shall be served either in person or by first class mail to the defendant
along with a summons commanding the defendant to appear at the hearing.
   B.   The notice of an adjudicatory hearing shall include the type and nature
of the building code violation or nuisance to be adjudicated, the date and
location of the adjudicatory hearing, the legal authority and jurisdiction
under which the hearing is to be held, and the penalties for failure to appear
at the hearing.
   C.   Parties may request in writing to the hearing officer before the date
set for an administrative hearing that the hearing officer issue subpoenas to
direct attendance and testimony of relevant witnesses and the production of
relevant documents.
   D.   At the hearing, parties shall be provided with an opportunity to give
testimony, present witnesses, submit evidence, and cross-examine opposing
witnesses. Parties may be represented by legal counsel.
   E.   If the person who has been charged with the building code violation or
nuisance cannot be found or served by first class mail, the Village may post
the notice on the front door or in some other prominent place on the property
on which the code violation or nuisance occurred, and the posting shall be
deemed sufficient notice. (Ord. 2021-004, 10-25-2021)
3-8-5: PRIMA FACIE CASE; RULES OF EVIDENCE; STANDARD OF PROOF:
   A.   A prima facie case may be established if the notice served in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter is certified by the issuer.
   B.   The formal and technical rules of evidence shall not apply in the
adjudicatory hearing process. Any evidence, including hearsay, may be admitted,
but only if it is of a type commonly relied upon by reasonably prudent persons
in the conduct of their affairs.
   C.   The burden of proof required to sustain a conviction of building code
violation or nuisance shall be by a preponderance of the evidence. (Ord. 2021-
004, 10-25-2021)
3-8-6: SUBPOENAS AND DEFAULTS:
At any time prior to the hearing date, but not less than two working days prior
to the hearing date, the hearing officer assigned to hear the case may, at the
request of either party, direct witness to appear and give testimony at the
hearing. If on the date set for hearing, the defendant or his or her attorney
fails to appear, the hearing officer may find the defendant in default and
shall proceed with the hearing and accept evidence relevant to the existence of
a code violation or nuisance in the defendant’s absence. (Ord. 2021-004, 10-25-
2021)
3-8-7: CONTINUANCES:
No continuance shall be authorized by the hearing officer except in cases in
which a continuance is necessary to protect the rights of the parties. Lack of
preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance. (Ord. 2021-004, 10-25-2021)
3-8-8: RIGHTS OF PROPERTY OCCUPANTS:
It is a violation of this chapter for any person to take action or threaten to
take action for eviction, forcible entry and detainer or similar proceeding or
other adverse action against an occupant of property solely because such
occupant agrees to testify or testifies at a building code and nuisance
administrative adjudication hearing. (Ord. 2021-004, 10-25-2021)
3-8-9: DEFENSES TO CODE VIOLATIONS AND NUISANCES:
It shall be a defense to an owner of property for which a charge of a building
code violation or nuisance under this chapter is made if the owner of the
property, his or her attorney, or any other agent or representative proves to
the hearing officer’s satisfaction that:
   A.   The code violation or nuisance alleged in the notice does not in fact
exist, or at the time of the hearing, the violation or nuisance has been
remedied or removed;
   B.   The code violation or nuisance alleged in the notice has been caused by
the current property occupants and that, in spite of reasonable attempts by the
owner to maintain the dwelling free of such violation or nuisance, the current
occupants continue to cause the violation or nuisances; or
   C.   An occupant of the dwelling has refused entry to the owner or his or
her agent to all or part of the dwelling for the purpose of correcting the code
violation or nuisance. (Ord. 2021-004, 10-25-2021)
3-8-10: FINDINGS, DECISION, AND ORDER:
At the conclusion of a hearing, the hearing officer shall make a determination
on the basis of the relevant and competent evidence presented at the hearing
whether or not a building code violation or nuisance exists. The determination
shall be in writing and shall be designated as findings, decision and order.
The findings, decision and order shall include the hearing officer’s findings
of fact, a decision whether or not a building code violation or nuisance exists
based upon the findings of fact, and an order. If a violation or nuisance is
found, the order may impose a fine, direct the defendant to correct the
violation or abate the nuisance and/or impose such other sanction as may be
appropriate as allowed by law consistent with Village ordinances. If a
violation or nuisance is not found, the order shall include a statement to that
effect and dismiss the case, in the event a violation or nuisance is not
proved. A copy of the findings, decision and order shall be served on the owner
within five days after they are issued by first class mail. (Ord. 2021-004, 10-
25-2021)
3-8-11: JUDICIAL REVIEW:
Any final decision by a hearing officer that a code violation does or does not
exist shall constitute a final determination for purposes of judicial review
and shall be subject to review under the Illinois Administrative Review Law.
(Ord. 2021-004, 10-25-2021)
3-8-12: ENFORCEMENT OF ADMINISTRATIVE ORDERS:
   A.   Any fine, costs or other sanction imposed that remains unpaid after the
exhaustion of or the failure to exhaust judicial review procedures under the
Illinois Administrative Review Law shall be considered a debt due and owing to
the Village and may be collected in accordance with applicable law.
   B.   After expiration of the period within which judicial review under
Administrative Review Law may be sought for a final determination of a code
violation, the Village may commence a proceeding in the Circuit Court of the
Fifteenth Judicial Circuit, Jo Daviess County, Illinois for the purpose of
obtaining a judgment on the findings, decision, and order. Nothing in this
chapter shall prevent the Village from the consolidation of multiple findings,
decisions, and orders against a person in such a proceeding.
   C.   Issues such as whether a violation occurred and the penalties that are
imposed may not be raised in any enforcement proceeding after the period for
judicial review has passed. (Ord. 2021-004, 10-25-2021)
3-8-13: SANCTIONS APPLICABLE TO OWNER:
An order to correct a code violation or abate a nuisance and the fine or other
sanctions imposed by the Village as a result of a finding of a code violation
or nuisance under this chapter shall attach to the property as well as to the
owner of the property, so that a finding of a code violation against one owner
cannot be avoided by conveying or transferring the property to another owner.
Any subsequent transferee or owner of property takes subject to the findings,
decision and order of a hearing officer under this chapter. (Ord. 2021-004, 10-
25-2021)
3-8-14: VACANT RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE:
   A.   A person who contracts with the federal government or any of its
agencies, including without limitation the Department of Housing and Urban
Development, to care for vacant residential real estate shall be responsible
for maintaining the property to prevent and correct Village health and safety
code violations.
   B.   A person who intentionally violates this section is guilty of a
business offense and shall be fined not less than two hundred and fifty dollars
($250) and not more than seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750). (Ord. 2021-
004, 10-25-2021)
3-8-15: OTHER METHODS OF CODE AND ORDINANCE ENFORCEMENT:
This chapter shall not affect the validity of systems of administration
adjudication that were authorized by state law, including the Village of Scales
Mound ordinances, and in existence prior to the effective date of the ordinance
codified in this chapter and which may continue thereafter. (Ord. 2021-004, 10-
25-2021)
TITLE 4
POLICE AND PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
POLICE OFFICERS
SECTION:
4-1-1: Village Marshal
4-1-2: Part Time Police
4-1-1: VILLAGE MARSHAL:
There is hereby created the office of village marshal. The village marshal
shall be appointed by the village president, with the advice and consent of the
board of trustees. (2009 Code)
4-1-2: PART TIME POLICE:
   A.   Employment: The village of Scales Mound may employ part time police
officers from time to time as they deem necessary.
   B.   Duties: A part time police officer shall have all the responsibilities
of a full time police officer and such specific duties as delineated in the
general orders of the Scales Mound police department, but the number of hours a
part time officer may work within a calendar year is restricted. Part time
officers shall not be assigned to supervise or direct full time police
officers. Part time officers shall be trained in accordance with the Illinois
police training act 1  and the rules and requirements of the ILETSB.
   C.   Hiring Standards: Any person employed as a part time police officer
must meet the following standards:
      1.   Be of good moral character, of temperate habits, of sound health,
and physically and mentally able to perform assigned duties.
      2.   Be at least twenty one (21) years of age.
      3.   Pass a medical examination.
      4.   Possess a high school diploma or GED certificate.
      5.   Possess a valid state of Illinois driver's license.
      6.   Possess no prior felony convictions.
      7.   Any individual who has served in the U.S. military must have been
honorably discharged.
   D.   Discipline: Part time police officers shall be under disciplinary
jurisdiction of the chief of police. Part time officers serve at the discretion
of the village authorities, shall not have any property rights in said
employment, and may be removed by the village authorities at any time. Part
time officers shall comply with all applicable rules and general orders issued
by the police department. (Ord. 2015-002, 3-30-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. 50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
4-2-1: State Criminal Code Adopted
4-2-2: Assault; Battery; Disturbing The Peace
4-2-3: Disorderly, Lewd Conduct
4-2-4: Disturbing Assemblies And Public Dances
4-2-5: Graffiti
4-2-6: Illinois State Video Gaming Permitted
4-2-7: Discharge Of Weapons And Fireworks
4-2-8: Offenses Involving Property
4-2-9: Failure To Aid Village Marshal
4-2-10: Public Intoxication
4-2-11: Penalty
4-2-1: STATE CRIMINAL CODE ADOPTED:
Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, provisions and
sections of the Illinois criminal code, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-1 et
seq., as amended, are hereby adopted by the village. Any and all violations
thereof shall be considered violations of this chapter, and each such violation
shall subject the violator thereof to penalty provisions under this chapter.
(2009 Code)
4-2-2: ASSAULT; BATTERY; DISTURBING THE PEACE:
No person shall commit an assault, or assault and battery. No person shall
provoke a breach of the peace, or shall use any violent, threatening, profane
or indecent language to the disturbance of any person, or shall use any
threatening, reproaching or abusive language to or concerning any other person
tending to provoke a breach of the peace. (Ord. 22, 9-11-1885)
4-2-3: DISORDERLY, LEWD CONDUCT:
No person shall be guilty of open lewdness, disorderly conduct or act of public
indecency tending to debauch the public morals. (Ord. 22, 9-11-1885)
4-2-4: DISTURBING ASSEMBLIES AND PUBLIC DANCES:
   A.   Assemblies:
      1.   No person shall, by any menace, profane swearing, vulgar language or
any unusual disorderly conduct, interrupt or disturb any assembly of people met
for worship. (Ord. 22, 9-11-1885; amd. 2009 Code)
      2.   No person shall wilfully interrupt or disturb any school or other
assembly of people met for a lawful purpose. (Ord. 22, 9-11-1885)
   B.   Public Dances:
      1.   This subsection is created to maintain peace at public dances held
within the corporate boundaries of the village.
      2.   Anyone causing a disturbance while entering, participating in or
exiting a public dance held within the corporate boundaries of the village is
subject to the following:
         a.   First offense:
            (1)   The person causing the disturbance will be issued a citation
for disturbance of the peace.
            (2)   The person causing the disturbance will be informed of the
regulations of this subsection.
            (3)   The person causing the disturbance will be escorted from the
area of the dance for the duration of the dance.
         b.   Second offense:
            (1)   The person causing the disturbance will be issued a citation
for disturbance of the peace.
            (2)   The person will be informed that he is banished from all
public dances within the village for a period of one year from the date of the
second offense.
            (3)   The person causing the disturbance will be escorted from the
area of the dance.
      3.   Anyone committing a second offense will be entered onto a list to be
submitted to security persons for enforcement of banishment. If an organization
sponsoring a public dance does not use sheriff radio patrol for security, the
sponsoring organization will be held responsible for enforcing the "banishment
list". Any organization which refuses to enforce the "banishment list" will not
be allowed to rent the town hall for a public dance. (Ord., 10-30-1989)
4-2-5: GRAFFITI:
No person shall write, print or paint with chalk, ink, paint or other material,
any words, language or expression upon any building, tenement fence, wall or
other place, or draw or paint on the same any figure, picture or representation
of anything of any character. (Ord. 22, 9-11-1885; amd. 2009 Code)
4-2-6: ILLINOIS STATE VIDEO GAMING PERMITTED:
Video gaming is permitted using only devices and equipment licensed and
operated in accordance with the video gaming act, 230 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 40/1 et seq. (Ord. 2014-001, 1-15-2014)
4-2-7: DISCHARGE OF WEAPONS AND FIREWORKS:
   A.   Weapons And Explosives: No person shall fire or discharge any cannon,
gun, fowling piece, pistol or firearms of any description or fire, explode, or
set off anything containing powder or other explosive substance within the
village limits. (Ord. 22, 9-11-1885; amd. 2009 Code)
   B.   Fireworks: Firecrackers are prohibited within the village limits before
July 1 and after July 7. Any person violating this subsection shall be subject
to a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, plus costs. (Per minutes dated 5-26-1952; amd. 2009 Code)
4-2-8: OFFENSES INVOLVING PROPERTY:
   A.   Deposit Of Refuse On Public Ways: It shall be unlawful for any person
to cast, throw or deposit ashes, dirt, waste or byproduct of a process, rubbish
or refuse matter of any kind upon the streets and alleys or into the gutters
and ditches of the village. Any person violating this subsection shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each and every offense. (Ord. 137, 6-27-1932; amd. 2009
Code)
   B.   Damage To Public Property: No person shall negligently or wilfully
injure, destroy, or deface any bridge, railing, crossing, sidewalk,
streetlight, light pole or other property of the village.
   C.   Throwing Missiles: No person shall throw or cast any stone or other
missile upon or at any building, tree, or other public or private property or
upon any person in any street, alley, lane, public place, or enclosed or
semienclosed ground in the village, or shall aid or abet in the same. (Ord. 53,
10-12-1896)
   D.   Driving Or Riding On Sidewalks: No person shall ride or drive upon any
sidewalk of the village any vehicle or animal, whether attached or not attached
to any vehicle, in such a manner as to damage such sidewalk. (Ord. 53, 10-12-
1896; amd. 2009 Code)
   E.   Obstructing Public Ways:
      1.   No person shall encumber or obstruct any street, alley or sidewalk
with building material or any article or thing whatsoever without first having
obtained the written permission of the village board of trustees, nor shall any
person, except in case of urgent necessity and for a short time, encumber or
obstruct more than one-third (1/3) of any street or alley or one-half (1/2) of
any sidewalk. (Ord. 22, 9-11-1885; amd. 2009 Code)
      2.   No person shall suffer the sidewalk in front of or adjoining the
premises owned or occupied by him or her to become obstructed with trash, dirt
or weeds. (Ord. 22, 9-11-1885)
   F.   Excavations: No person shall injure or tear up any pavement side or
crosswalk, or any part thereof, or dig any holes, ditches or drains in, or
remove any sod, stone, earth, sand, or gravel from, any street, alley, or
public grounds of the village without having first obtained the written
permission from the village president and/or the village board of trustees.
Whoever shall violate this subsection shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 45, 8-28-1893; amd. 2009 Code)
4-2-9: FAILURE TO AID VILLAGE MARSHAL:
No person shall refuse to aid in the arrest of any offender when ordered to do
so by the village marshal. (Ord. 22, 9-11-1885)
4-2-10: PUBLIC INTOXICATION:
No person shall be drunk nor shall be in a state of intoxication in any street,
thoroughfare, or public place or in any private house or place, to the
disturbance of any person. (Ord. 22, 9-11-1885)
4-2-11: PENALTY:
Unless otherwise provided in this chapter, a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code is hereby affixed for the violation of any provision of this
chapter. (Ord. 22, 9-11-1885; amd. 2009 Code)
CHAPTER 3
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
4-3-1: Definitions
4-3-2: General Provisions
4-3-3: Prohibited
4-3-4: Control Of Animals
4-3-5: Diseased Animals
4-3-6: Disposition Of Dead Animals
4-3-7: Enforcement
4-3-8: Penalty
4-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
ANIMAL: Any live vertebrate creature except human.
ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER/WARDEN: Any employee of the Village designated by the
Village President to exercise police powers in the enforcement of this chapter,
including but not limited to any Village police officers or the Village
Attorney.
AUTHORIZED PERSON: Any person designated by the Village President to exercise
police powers in the enforcement of this chapter, including but not limited to
any Village police officers or the Village Attorney.
BITE: Seizure of a person with the jaws or teeth of any cat, dog or other
animal capable of transmitting rabies so that the person so seized has been
wounded or pierced and further includes contact of the saliva of such cat, dog
or other animal with any break or abrasion of the skin.
CAT: A domesticated member of the feline family defined as (Felis Catus).
COMFORT ANIMAL: A trained animal whose sole function is to provide comfort or
emotional support to persons with mental or psychiatric disabilities. Comfort
animals are sometimes referred to in alternative terms including but not
limited to, emotional support animals, companion animals or therapy animals.
DANGEROUS ANIMAL: Any animal that chases or approaches a person upon the
streets, sidewalks, or any other public grounds in a menacing fashion or
apparent attitude of attack or any animal that causes injury to or otherwise
threatens the safety of a human or domestic animal or inflicts a bite upon a
human or domestic animal either on public or private property.
DISEASED ANIMAL: Any animal affected with a disease contagious or infectious to
both humans and animals.
DOG: A domesticated member of the canine family defined as (Canis lupus
familiaris or Canis familiaris).
DOMESTIC ANIMAL: A dog (Canis lupus familiaris), cat (Felis catus), or house
pet (as defined herein).
DOMESTICATED ANIMAL: An animal that has been tamed and made fit for a human
environment.
ENCLOSURE: Any fence or structure of at least six feet (6') in height, forming
or causing an enclosure suitable to prevent the entry of young children and to
confine a dog or other animal, designed with secure sides, top and bottom
adequate to prevent escape.
ENFORCING AGENT: Any employee or agent of the Village designated by the Village
President to exercise police powers in the enforcement of this chapter,
including but not limited to any Village police officers or the Village
Attorney.
EXOTIC ANIMAL: Any animal other than a domestic animal (as defined herein) that
is indigenous or not indigenous to Jo Daviess County, Illinois.
FARM ANIMAL: Any animal commonly reared for the purpose of food or profit.
HOUSE PET: A small animal which primarily lives indoors and is confined to a
cage, tank, or container and is not allowed outdoors.
IMPOUNDMENT: The removal and taking into custody of animals pursuant to this
chapter.
KENNEL, COMMERCIAL: Any structure or premises or portion thereof on which more
than four (4) dogs or cats, or other house pets over four (4) months of age are
kept, or on which more than two (2) such animals are boarded for compensation
or kept for sale.
LEASH: Any restraint, cord, thong or chain not more than six feet (6') in
length, designed for the purpose of keeping the animal under control. The leash
must securely fasten to the collar or harness of the animal and must be of
sufficient strength to restrain the animal.
LIVESTOCK: Animals commonly reared for the purpose of food or profit.
POUND: Any facility licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture and
approved by the Village President and Board of Trustees for the purpose of
enforcing this chapter and used as a shelter for seized, stray, homeless,
abandoned or unwanted animals.
REAR YARD: The area of a lot located only directly behind the primary
residential structure and not extending from side lot line to side lot line.
SERVICE ANIMAL: Dogs that are individually trained by professionals to do work
or perform tasks for people with disabilities. Examples of such work or tasks
include guiding people who are blind, alerting people who are deaf, pulling a
wheelchair, alerting and protecting a person who is having a seizure, reminding
a person with mental illness to take prescribed medications, calming a person
with Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) during an anxiety attack, or
performing other duties. Service animals are working animals, not pets. The
work or task a dog has been trained to provide must be directly related to the
person's disability. Dogs whose sole function is to provide comfort or
emotional support do not qualify as service animals under this chapter.
SHELTER: Any establishment where dogs, cats or other animals are received,
housed and distributed with or without charge.
STRAY ANIMAL: Any animal running at large in the public way or on private
property other than that of the owner or keeper of such animal.
VICIOUS ANIMAL: A. Any individual animal that, when unprovoked, inflicts bites
and attacks a human being or other animal either on public or private property.
   B.   Any individual animal with a propensity, tendency, or disposition to
attack without provocation, to cause injury or to otherwise do any act that
might endanger the safety of human beings, domestic animals or any other
property of another, including, but not limited to, a disposition to mischief
or fierceness which might lead to attack to the foregoing.
   C.   Any individual animal which attacks a human being or domestic animal
without provocation, whether in play, anger or outbreak of untrained nature.
   D.   No animal shall be deemed vicious if it bites, attacks or menaces a
trespasser on the property of its owner or harms or menaces anyone who has
tormented or abused it or is a professionally trained animal for law
enforcement or guard duties.
VILLAGE: The Village of Scales Mound, Jo Daviess County, Illinois. (Ord. 2017-
003, 4-24-2017)
4-3-2: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Types Of Animals: For the enforcement of this chapter, each animal
shall be considered as one of the following categories of animals by the animal
control officer or enforcing agent:
A farm animal (as defined herein);
A domestic animal (as defined herein);
An exotic animal (as defined herein);
Only domestic animals (as defined herein) shall be recognized and qualified as
comfort animals.
   B.   Structure Requirements/Location:
      1.   Any structures, kennels, pens, or runs for the keeping of animals
must comply with all ordinances, titles, chapters and codes of the Village of
Scales Mound.
      2.   Any structures, kennels, pens, or runs for the keeping of animals
shall be located only within a rear yard.
      3.   Any kennel, pens, or runs for the keeping of animals shall be set
back a minimum of twenty feet (20') from any side lot line and twenty feet
(20') from any rear lot line except where a rear lot line adjoins an alley way.
In such case whereas a rear lot line adjoins an alley way the minimum setback
from the rear lot line shall be ten feet (10'). (Ord. 2017-003, 4-24-2017)
4-3-3: PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful to:
   A.   Inhumanely beat, underfeed, overload or abandon any animal.
   B.   Fail to provide any animal with proper shelter, protection from weather
or veterinary care when needed to prevent suffering.
   C.   Promote, stage, hold, manage, conduct or carry on any animal fight of a
similar nature, nor any simulated version of same, that involves baiting or
inciting an animal toward intent to fight.
   D.   Hold a greased pig contest.
   E.   Keep animals in violation of the Illinois Humane Care for Animals Act 1
or the Illinois Animal Welfare Act 2 .
   F.   Intentionally strike wildlife with a motor vehicle. Wildlife shall have
the right-of-way when crossing streets within the Village. Any person who, as
the operator of a motor vehicle, strikes an animal, shall stop at once and
render such assistance as may be possible, or shall immediately report such
injury to the animal owner, if known; or to the appropriate law enforcement
agency; or to the local humane society.
   G.   Torment, shoot at with slingshots, BB or pellet type guns or other
firearms, pelt with rocks or otherwise disturb any animals.
   H.   Give away or use any live animal as a prize for or as an inducement to
enter any contest, game, or other compensation or an inducement to enter a
place of amusement or offer such animal as an incentive to enter any business
agreement whereby the offer was for the purpose of attracting trade.
   I.   Bring or cause to have brought into the Village, sell, offer for sale,
barter or display living baby chicks, ducklings, or other fowl or rabbits which
have been dyed, colored or otherwise treated so as to impart to them an
artificial color, or give away as pets or sell, offer for sale, barter or give
away at no cost or as novelties or prizes. Nothing in this subsection shall be
construed to prohibit legitimate commerce in poultry for agricultural or food
purposes.
   J.   Poison or cause to be poisoned any domesticated animal. The only
exception will be by written permit from the Illinois Department of Agriculture
for the purpose of controlling diseases transmissible to humans or other
animals and only when all other methods and means have been exhausted. Any
drugs used for euthanasia shall be by or under the direction of a licensed
veterinarian.
   K.   Take the nest or eggs or young of any bird that is protected by Federal
or State law.
   L.   Keep or permit to be kept or display for exhibition purposes any wild
animal contrary to Federal, State, and local laws or regulations.
   M.   Leave any animal unattended in a motor vehicle or enclosed trailer when
the outside temperature exceeds eighty six degrees Fahrenheit (86°F) (30°C) or
contain any animal in such manner that said animal does not have proper air
circulation while confined in a motor vehicle, trailer, kennel, dog house, or
any type of container or structure in which an animal may be confined.
   N.   Own any animal which is known to be infected with any disease
transmissible to other animals or man, including severe parasitism, unless such
animal shall be confined in such a manner as not to expose other animals or
man. (Ord. 2017-003, 4-24-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. 510 ILCS 70/1 et seq.
2 2. 225 ILCS 605/1 et seq.
4-3-4: CONTROL OF ANIMALS:
   A.   Control: The owner or keeper of any animal lawfully or unlawfully kept
in the Village of Scales Mound shall be responsible for the control of such
animal at all times day or night and at times when said owner or keeper is
present or not present.
   B.   Unlawful Acts: It shall be unlawful:
      1.   Consent Required: For the owner or any person who has in his custody
or control, any dog, cat, or other animal to enter upon the premises of another
within the Village without the consent of the owners.
      2.   Public Body Of Water: To permit any animal, whether licensed or not,
to enter any public body of water, pond, fountain or stream.
      3.   Food Establishment: To permit any animal to enter any place where
food is stored, prepared, served or sold to the public, or any public building
or hall; provided, however, that this subsection B3 shall not apply to service
animals, to veterinary offices or hospitals, or to animal shows or exhibitions.
      4.   Trespass: To permit any animal to run uncontrolled or trespass on
private or public property.
      5.   Damage: To permit any animal to damage or destroy any property.
      6.   Vehicles: To permit any dog to chase, run after or jump at vehicles
using the public thoroughfares.
      7.   Threatening Animal: To permit any dog to habitually snap, growl,
snarl, jump upon or otherwise threaten persons lawfully using any common
thoroughfare, sidewalk, passageway, bypath, play area, park or any place where
people congregate or walk.
      8.   Vicious Or Dangerous Animal: To own, keep, harbor or maintain any
animal determined to be vicious or dangerous by the enforcing agent, animal
control officer, or other qualified official or to keep, harbor or maintain any
animal with vicious propensities in a manner which may or does endanger the
safety of persons or property off its premises or lawfully on its premises. Any
dog, cat or other animal that has previously demonstrated vicious propensities
shall not be permitted within the Village limits.
      9.   Disturbance Of The Peace: To permit any dog or other animal to howl,
yelp, whine, or bark or make noise in such a manner as to disturb any person or
neighborhood at any time of the day or night.
      10.   Unsanitary Conditions: To allow any places where any animal is or
may be kept to become unclean or unsanitary or become offensive to those
residing in the vicinity.
      11.   Livestock: To harbor or keep any farm animal (as defined herein)
anywhere in the Village, other than areas zoned as agricultural use by the
Scales Mound zoning ordinance, unless such animal is specifically allowed and
regulated by Village ordinance.
      12.   Exotic Animals: To harbor or keep any exotic animal (as defined
herein) anywhere in the Village unless such animal is specifically allowed and
regulated by Village ordinance.
      13.   Number Of Dogs Or Cats: To keep on the premises more than four (4)
dogs or cats or any combination thereof over four (4) months of age, or more
than two (2) such animals boarded for compensation or kept for sale, with the
exception of regularly established and zoned veterinary hospitals, pet shops,
pounds or shelters.
      14.   Excrement Removal:
         a.   For any person to cause or permit any animal to be on any
property, public or private, not owned or possessed by such person unless such
person has in his immediate possession a device for the removal of excrement
and a depository for the transmission of excrement to a receptacle located upon
property owned or possessed by such person.
         b.   For any person in control of, causing or permitting any animal to
be on any property, public or private, not owned or possessed by such person to
fail to remove excrement left by such animal to a proper receptacle located on
property owned or possessed by such person.
      15.   Bites: To fail to report an animal bite.
      16.   Animals Other Than Domestic Pets: To keep, harbor or maintain any
animal which may endanger the safety of persons or property. This includes
animals which may harm or injure humans or other animals by injection of
toxins, by constriction or suffocation, or by vicious biting, scratching or
mauling. It is no defense to a violation of this subsection B16 that the keeper
of such animal prohibited herein has attempted to domesticate such animal.
Exceptions to this subsection B16 are animals displayed or harbored in a zoo,
carnival or circus.
      17.   Public Street Or Highway: To permit any dog, cat or other animal
upon a public street or highway, or upon any premises other than that of the
person owning such dog, cat or other animal unless such dog, cat or other
animal is on a leash securely fastened to a collar or harness. The overall
length of the leash including the handle shall not exceed six feet (6') and
shall be held by its owner or other person able to control such dog, cat or
other animal and, while lawfully on the premises of the owner, shall not be
allowed to come in contact with any person who is not a member of the immediate
household.
      18.   Vicious Animal Requirements:
         a.   For any person to keep or maintain an animal that has been deemed
vicious by the enforcing agent, animal control officer, or other qualified
official.
         b.   Any animal which has been found to be a vicious animal shall be
impounded by the enforcing agent, animal control officer, or other qualified
official enforcement authority having jurisdiction in such area and shall be
turned over to a shelter for relocation or to a licensed veterinarian for
destruction by lethal injection.
      19.   Public Nuisance: For any person to maintain a public nuisance by
permitting any dangerous animal to leave the premises of its owner when not
under control by leash or other recognized control methods.
   C.   Exemptions: Service animals, sentry dogs, guard dogs, or police owned
dogs are exempt from this section, provided an attack or injury to a person
occurs while the dog is performing duties as expected. To qualify for exemption
under this subsection, each such dog shall be currently inoculated against
rabies in accordance with the Jo Daviess County Code. It shall be the duty of
the owner of such exempted dog to notify the Village of changes of address. In
the case of a sentry or guard dog, the owner shall keep the Village advised of
the location where such dog will be stationed.
   D.   Complaint: The Village Attorney may file a complaint to enjoin all
persons for maintaining or permitting such, to abate the same, and to enjoin
the owner of such dog or other animal from permitting same to leave his
premises when not under control by leash or other recognized control methods.
(Ord. 2017-003, 4-24-2017)
4-3-5: DISEASED ANIMALS:
   A.   Running At Large, Removal From Premises Prohibited: No domestic animal
afflicted with a contagious or infectious disease shall be allowed to run at
large, or be exposed to any public place whereby the health of man or other
animals may be affected; nor shall such diseased animal be shipped or removed
from the premises of the owner, except under the supervision of an authorized
person.
   B.   Preventive Measures: It shall be made the duty of such person so
authorized to secure such disposition of any diseased animal and secure
treatment of affected premises as to prevent the communication and spread of
contagion and infection, except as otherwise provided by law. (Ord. 2017-003,
4-24-2017)
4-3-6: DISPOSITION OF DEAD ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to allow any dead animals which he owns to
remain within the Village for more than twenty four (24) hours. No such animal
shall be buried within the Village limits. (Ord. 2017-003, 4-24-2017)
4-3-7: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Enforcing And Control:
      1.   The enforcing agent of this chapter shall be any employee of the
Village designated by the Village President to exercise police powers in the
enforcement of this chapter.
      2.   This chapter shall not affect any private controls which are more
stringent, including additional regulations or prohibitions on the keeping of
animals contained in private covenants. Nothing in this title shall affect the
authority of any owner's association to adopt and enforce more stringent
standards for the keeping of animals, or to prohibit outright the keeping of
animals on any property within the jurisdiction of such association.
      3.   The enforcing agent shall have the authority to seize, impound, or
dispose of any animal found at large within the Village corporate limits. Such
seizure, impoundment and/or disposal shall not require notice to any owner or
keeper, nor any attempt to locate the owner thereof. (Ord. 2017-003, 4-24-2017)
4-3-8: PENALTY:
   A.   Any person violating any conditions of this permit shall reimburse the
Village of Scales Mound for all cost borne by the Village to enforce the
conditions of this chapter.
   B.   In addition to all other costs, any person who violates any provision
of this chapter may be punished by a fine as set forth in title 1, chapter 4 of
this Code. Each day during any portion of which any violation of any provision
of this chapter is committed, continued or permitted by any such person shall
be deemed a separate offense.
   C.   The remedies contained in this section are cumulative and are in
addition to all other remedies available to the Village of Scales Mound. (Ord.
2017-003, 4-24-2017)
CHAPTER 4
MINORS
SECTION:
4-4-1: Curfew
4-4-2: Child Sex Offender Residency
4-4-1: CURFEW:
   A.   Age And Hour Restrictions: It is unlawful for any person less than
seventeen (17) years of age ("minor") to be in or upon any place to which the
public or a substantial group of the public has access and includes, but is not
limited to, avenues, streets, roads, highways, alleys, parks, playgrounds,
schoolyards, sports fields and courts, transport facilities, lands used for
public purposes, restaurants, shops, amusements, and any place of business or
entertainment open to the public (whether with or without charge), and common
areas of hospitals, apartment houses, and office buildings within the village
between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M., Friday, and six o'clock (6:
00) A.M., Saturday; between twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight, Saturday, and six
o'clock (6:00) A.M., Sunday; and between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on any other day of the week, unless one of the
exceptions listed in subsection B of this section applies.
   B.   Exemptions: This section and the curfew of minors established in
subsection A of this section shall not apply to any person less than seventeen
(17) years of age who is:
      1.   Accompanied by a parent, legal guardian or other person having legal
custody of such minor or other responsible companion of at least seventeen (17)
years of age who is approved by the parent or legal guardian or legal custodian
of such minor;
      2.   Engaged in a business or occupation in which such a minor is
authorized to perform or to engage lawfully under the statutes of the state or
in the course of traveling directly to or returning home from his or her
business or occupation qualifying hereunder, without detour or stop;
      3.   Attending an official school, religious or civic activity or other
educational training, sporting, recreational, religious, political or
expressive activity supervised by an adult and sponsored by the village, the
park district, a school, a civic organization or another similar entity that
takes responsibility for the minor, as well as going to or returning home from
such activity, without detour or stop;
      4.   In a motor vehicle in the course of interstate or international
travel from a location outside Illinois to another location outside Illinois;
      5.   In the performance of an errand directed by his or her parent, legal
guardian or person having legal custody of the minor, without detour or other
stop;
      6.   On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence or abutting the
residence of a next door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
village marshal about the minor's presence;
      7.   Directly involved in an emergency involving the protection of a
person or property from an imminent threat of serious bodily injury or
substantial damage;
      8.   Engaged in an activity coming within the protection of an
established first amendment right, such as the right of freedom of speech and
the right of assembly, applicable to minors, and going to or returning home
from such an activity, without detour or stop; or
      9.   Married or has been married or is otherwise an emancipated minor
under the emancipation of minors act, as amended 1 .
   C.   Enforcement:
      1.   Before issuing any citation pursuant to this section, the officer
shall make reasonable inquiry which shall include among the pertinent
questions, the apparent offender's age, reason for being out and, if
applicable, with whom, in order to determine if the person is within the terms
of this section, and if so, whether the minor is involved in an activity
excepted under subsection B of this section. If the officer determines that the
person is not within this section or the minor is involved in an excepted
activity, then no citation shall be issued or arrest made. The officer shall
not issue a citation or make an arrest under this section unless the officer
reasonably believes, after a reasonable inquiry to ascertain the circumstances,
that an offense has occurred and that, based on any response and other
circumstances, no exception in subsection B of this section applies.
      2.   Where a citation or arrest is appropriate under the terms of
subsection C1 of this section, each member of the police force is hereby
authorized to arrest, without warrant, any minor for whom there is probable
cause to believe that he or she is violating the provisions of subsection A of
this section and not excepted from its terms by subsection B of this section
and retain such minor until he or she is turned over to the custody of his or
her parent, legal guardian or other person having the legal care and custody of
the minor.
   D.   Responsibility Of Parent, Guardian Or Other Person: It is unlawful for
a parent, legal guardian or other person having legal care and custody of a
minor to knowingly permit the minor in his custody or control to violate
subsection A of this section.
   E.   Penalty: A person convicted of a violation of any provision of this
section shall be guilty of a petty offense and shall be fined not less than ten
dollars ($10.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00); except, that
neither a person who has been made a ward of the court under the juvenile court
act 2 , nor that person's legal guardian, shall be subject to any fine. (2009
Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 750 ILCS 30/1 et seq.
2 1. 705 ILCS 405/1-1 et seq.
4-4-2: CHILD SEX OFFENDER RESIDENCY:
   A.   Definitions: In this section, the village hereby incorporates by
reference the definitions from state statutes found at 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-9.3(c) and 5/11-9.4(d).
   B.   Residency Restrictions:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for a child sex offender to knowingly reside
within two thousand feet (2,000') of a school building or the real property
comprising any school that persons under the age of eighteen (18) attend.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for a child sex offender to knowingly reside
within two thousand feet (2,000') of a playground or a facility providing
programs or services exclusively directed toward persons under eighteen (18)
years of age.
   C.   Exceptions:
      1.   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a child sex offender from
residing within two thousand feet (2,000') of a school building or the real
property comprising any school that persons under eighteen (18) years of age
attend, if the property is owned by the child sex offender and was purchased no
less than sixty (60) days prior to the effective date hereof or the property is
leased or rented by the child sex offender and the sex offender resided at said
premises no less than sixty (60) days prior to the effective date hereof.
      2.   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a child sex offender from
residing within two thousand feet (2,000') of a playground or a facility
providing programs or services exclusively directed toward persons under
eighteen (18) years of age, if the property is owned by the child sex offender
and was purchased no less than sixty (60) days prior to the effective date
hereof or the property is leased or rented by the child sex offender and he
resided at the premises no less than sixty (60) days prior to the effective
date hereof.
   D.   Penalty: Any person violating any provision of this section shall be
fined in accordance with section
1-4-1 of this code. Every day that the violation is permitted to exist shall
constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 2008-005, 8-25-2008)
CHAPTER 5
DISCRIMINATION IN HOUSING
SECTION:
4-5-1: Declaration Of Policy
4-5-2: Definitions
4-5-3: Prohibited Acts
4-5-4: Penalty And Enforcement
4-5-1: DECLARATION OF POLICY:
   A.   In furthering the policy of the state of Illinois, as expressed in its
constitution, and in order that the safety and general welfare, peace and
health of all the inhabitants of the village may be ensured, it is hereby
declared the policy of the village to assure equal opportunity to all residents
regardless of race, color, religion, gender, creed, ancestry, national origin,
physical or mental handicap, familial status, marital status, age, military
status, sexual orientation or unfavorable discharge from the military, or
ability to live in decent, sanitary, healthful, standard living quarters.
   B.   It is the policy of the village that no owner, lessee, sublessee,
assignee, managing agent, or other person, firm or corporation having the right
to sell, rent, lease, or otherwise control any housing accommodation and/or
real property within the village, or any agent of these, shall refuse to sell,
rent, lease, or otherwise deny to or withhold from any person or group of
persons such housing accommodations and/or real property because of race,
color, religion, gender, creed, ancestry, national origin, physical or mental
handicap, familial status, marital status, age, military status, sexual
orientation or unfavorable discharge from the military or discriminate against
any person or persons because of race, color, religion, gender, creed,
ancestry, national origin, physical or mental handicap, familial status,
marital status, age, military status, sexual orientation or unfavorable
discharge from the military in the conditions, terms, or privileges of the
sale, rental or lease of any housing accommodation and/or real property or in
the furnishing of facilities and/or services in connection therewith.
   C.   Relocation shall be carried out in a manner that will promote maximum
choice within the community's total housing supply; lessen racial, ethnic, and
economic concentrations; and facilitate desegregation and racially inclusive
patterns of occupancy and use of public and private facilities. (Ord. 2004-004,
12-27-2004; amd. 2009 Code)
4-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context, the following
terms shall have the meanings as prescribed in this section:
DECENT, SANITARY, HEALTHFUL, STANDARD LIVING QUARTERS: Housing which is in
sound, clean, and weathertight condition in conformance with applicable local,
state, and national codes.
DISCRIMINATE OR DISCRIMINATION: Any difference expressed in any way toward a
person or persons in the terms of the sale, exchange, lease, rental or
financing for housing accommodation and/or real property in regard to such
sale, exchange, rental, lease or finance because of race, color, religion,
gender, creed, ancestry, national origin, physical or mental handicap, familial
status, marital status, age, military status, sexual orientation or unfavorable
discharge from the military of such person.
FINANCIAL INSTITUTION: Any person, institution or business entity of any kind
which loans money to persons and receives as security for said loans a secured
interest of any kind in the real property of the borrower.
HOUSING ACCOMMODATION: Includes any building, structure, or portion thereof
which is used or occupied, or maintained, arranged or designed to be used or
occupied, as a home, residence or sleeping place of one or more human beings,
or any real estate so used, designed or intended for such use.
OWNER: Any person/persons who hold legal or equitable title to, or own any
beneficial interest in any real property, or who hold legal or equitable title
to shares of, or hold any beneficial interest in any real estate cooperative
which owns any real property and/or housing accommodations.
REAL ESTATE BROKER: Any person, partnership, association, corporation and/or
agent thereof who, for a fee or other valuable consideration, offers, sells,
purchases, exchanges or rents, or negotiates for the sale, purchase, exchange
or rental of a housing accommodation and/or real property of another, or
collects rent for the use of housing accommodation and/or real property of
another.
REAL PROPERTY: Any real estate or vacant land, building, structure or housing
accommodations within the corporate limits of the village of Scales Mound,
Illinois. (Ord. 2004-004, 12-27-2004; amd. 2009 Code)
4-5-3: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any owner of real estate, lessee, sublessee,
real estate broker or salesman, financial institution or employee of the
financial institution, advertiser, or agent of any or all of the foregoing, to
discriminate against any person or persons because of their race, color,
religion, gender, creed, ancestry, national origin, physical or mental
handicap, familial status, marital status, age, military status, sexual
orientation or unfavorable discharge from the military with regard to the sale,
exchange or rental, or any dealing concerning any housing accommodation and/or
real property.
   B.   In addition to the foregoing, it shall also be unlawful for any real
estate broker or employee thereof, owner or other person, or financial
institution dealing with housing or real property in the village:
      1.   To discriminate against any person in the availability of or the
price, terms, conditions, or privileges of any kind relating to the sale,
rental, lease, or occupancy of any housing accommodation or real property in
the village or in furnishing of any facilities or services in connection
therewith.
      2.   To publish or circulate, or cause to be published or circulated, any
notice, statement or advertisement, or to announce a policy, or to use any form
of application for the purchase, lease, rental or financing of real property,
or to make any record of inquiry in connection with the prospective purchase,
rental or lease of such real estate, which expresses directly or indirectly any
discrimination as to race, color, religion, gender, creed, ancestry, national
origin, physical or mental handicap, familial status, marital status, age,
military status, sexual orientation or unfavorable discharge from the military
of any person.
      3.   To discriminate in connection with lending money, guaranteeing
loans, accepting mortgages or otherwise obtaining or making available funds for
the purchase, acquisition, construction, rehabilitation, repair or maintenance
of any housing accommodation and/or real property.
      4.   To solicit for sale or lease, or listing for the sale or lease, of
any housing accommodation and/or real property on the grounds of loss of value
because of the present or prospective entry into any neighborhood of any person
or persons of any particular race, color, religion, gender, creed, ancestry,
national origin, physical or mental handicap, familial status, marital status,
age, military status, sexual orientation or unfavorable discharge from the
military.
      5.   To distribute or cause to be distributed written material or
statements designed to induce any owner or any housing accommodation and/or
real property to sell or lease his or her property because of any present or
prospective change in the race, color, religion, gender, creed, ancestry,
national origin, physical or mental handicap, familial status, marital status,
age, military status, sexual orientation or unfavorable discharge from the
military of persons in the neighborhood.
      6.   To make any misrepresentations concerning the listing for sale or
the anticipated listing for sale or the sale of any housing accommodation and/
or real property for the purpose of inducing or attempting to induce the sale
or listing for sale of any housing accommodation and/or real property by
representing that the presence or anticipated presence of persons of any
particular race, color, religion, gender, creed, ancestry, national origin,
physical or mental handicap, familial status, marital status, age, military
status, sexual orientation or unfavorable discharge from the military in the
area will or may result in the lowering of property values in the block,
neighborhood or area in which the property is located.
      7.   For an owner to solicit any real estate broker to sell, rent or
otherwise deal with such owner's housing accommodations and/or real property
with any limitation on its sale based on race, color, religion, gender, creed,
ancestry, national origin, physical or mental handicap, familial status,
marital status, age, military status, sexual orientation or unfavorable
discharge from the military.
      8.   For an owner to refuse to sell, rent, or otherwise deal with any
housing accommodation and/or real property because of race, color, religion,
gender, creed, ancestry, national origin, physical or mental handicap, familial
status, marital status, age, military status, sexual orientation or unfavorable
discharge from the military of the proposed buyer or tenant. (Ord. 2004-004,
12-27-2004; amd. 2009 Code)
4-5-4: PENALTY AND ENFORCEMENT:
Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
be punished by a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day a violation continues shall constitute a separate
violation. This section shall in no way abrogate or impair the right of the
village to specifically enforce, by any legal means, any of the provisions of
this chapter. (Ord. 2004-004, 12-27-2004; amd. 2009 Code)
CHAPTER 6
KEEPING CHICKENS
SECTION:
4-6-1: Statement Of Purpose
4-6-2: Definitions
4-6-3: Permit Required
4-6-4: Performance Standards
4-6-5: Structure Requirements
4-6-6: Location Requirements
4-6-7: Prohibited Activities
4-6-8: Administration And Enforcement
4-6-9: Penalty
4-6-1: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
The Village of Scales Mound recognizes that there may be a negative adverse
impact to neighborhoods resulting from the keeping of domesticated chickens.
The negative impact may include noise, odor, visual aesthetics, unsanitary
animal living conditions, unsanitary waste storage and removal, the attraction
of predators, rodents, insects or parasites and non-confined animals leaving
the owners property.
The purpose of this chapter is to create licensing standards and requirements
that will enable residents of the Village of Scales Mound to keep a small
number of female domesticated chickens (defined as fowl of the genus Gallus and
species Gallus domesticus) while limiting the potential adverse impacts on the
surrounding neighborhood and the village of Scales Mound as a whole. (Ord.
2018-002, 6-25-2018)
4-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following definitions shall apply and any word not
listed in these definitions shall be enforced as defined by the enforcing
agent.
AIRTIGHT:         Closely sealed, fastened, or fitted so that no air enters or
                  passes through.
BUTCHERING:       To slaughter an animal and prepare the meat for consumption.
CHICKEN:          A domestic fowl of the genus Gallus and species Gallus
                  domesticus.
COOP:             A weather tight cage or pen to be used for confining poultry
                  and for protection from weather and predators.
                  A structure constructed of planks or plates approximately
DECK:             horizontal and may be open to the weather or partially open
                  to the weather. Commonly used as entertainment space in a
                  residential setting.
DRAINAGE AREA:    An area characterized by surface water being collected or
                  conveyed.
                  Any employee or agent of the Village designated by the
ENFORCING AGENT:  Village President to exercise police powers in the
                  enforcement of this chapter, including but not limited to any
                  Village police officers or the Village Attorney.
FECES:            Waste matter discharged from the bowels after food has been
                  digested.
HEN:              An adult female chicken.
                  A recreational area on a residential or commercial lot often
PATIO:            surfaced with wood, cement, block, brick, or rock and is
                  adapted especially to outdoor entertaining.
PORCH:            An exterior appendage to a building, forming a covered
                  approach or vestibule to a doorway.
PREDATORS:        An animal that lives by killing and eating other animals.
PRIVACY FENCE:    A continuous, solid fence used to prevent view across the
                  fence line.
                  The area of a lot located only directly behind the primary
REAR YARD:        residential structure and not extending from side lot line to
                  side lot line.
                  A gnawing mammal of an order that includes rats, mice,
RODENT:           squirrels, hamsters, porcupines, and their relatives,
                  distinguished by strong constantly growing incisors and no
                  canine teeth. They constitute the largest order of mammals.
ROOST:            A place where birds rest or sleep.
ROOSTER:          An adult male chicken.
RUN:              An outdoor exercise area for chickens connected to a coop.
SLAUGHTER:        The killing of animals, generally for food.
                  A right to use another's property for purposes of laying
UTILITY EASEMENT: water and sewer lines, gas lines, or bringing in electric or
                  telecommunications services.
                  Animals or insects which are difficult to control, prey on
VERMIN:           game and sometimes compete with humans or domestic animals
                  for food.
WASTE:            Anything rejected as useless, worthless, or in excess of what
                  is required.
WATERTIGHT:       Closely sealed, fastened, or fitted so that no water enters
                  or passes through.
WINTERIZED:       Prepared to be functional in or to withstand cold weather.
                  (Ord. 2018-002, 6-25-2018)
 
4-6-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
A permit issued by the Village of Scales Mound is required for the keeping of
hens within the corporate limits of the Village of Scales Mound. Standard
application fees will apply for initial permit request and an annual permit fee
for keeping chickens may be required. A permit approved in accordance with this
chapter shall not be transferred to another owner upon the sale, change of
occupancy on the property to which it is issued and shall not be transferred to
another property. An application for such permit must be made to the Village
and must include the following information.
   A.   Number of hens to be kept.
   B.   A detailed site plan of the property showing the location and
dimensions of the proposed coop and run, setbacks from coop and run to property
lines and surrounding buildings including houses and buildings on adjacent
lots. The site plan should include the location, style and height of all
fencing proposed to contain the hens in a run or to provide privacy to the coop
and run.
   C.   Specifications and sketch of the proposed coop and run including but
not limited to, dimensions and exterior finish materials which will be used for
the coop and run.
   D.   Portable coops and runs and prebuilt coops and runs are acceptable so
long as they meet the requirements of this chapter.
   E.   Written document describing the planned method for disposing of feces,
discarded feed, dead animals and all other waste associated with keeping hens.
   F.   Statements that the applicant will at all times keep the hens in
accordance with all of the conditions of this chapter and it is understood that
failure to obey such conditions will constitute a violation of the provisions
of this chapter and will be grounds to permanently revoke the permit for
keeping hens, remove all chickens owned, kept, or harbored by such person, and
no part of the permit fee shall be refunded.
   G.   Any additional information the Village deems necessary to evaluate the
application for compliance with this title and this Code. (Ord. 2018-002, 6-25-
2018)
4-6-4: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
   A.   Hens may only be permitted and kept on single family residential
parcels containing one primary detached residential structure.
   B.   The owner of the hens must occupy the premises for which the permit is
issued.
   C.   The owner of the hens for which the permit is issued shall at all times
be responsible for the containment and care of the hens and the condition of
the coop and run.
   D.   The maximum amount of hens allowed to be kept on a property shall be
four (4) hens.
   E.   The keeping of roosters is prohibited.
   F.   A coop for housing hens and a run for exercise shall be provided for
the keeping of hens in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and all
other Village regulations that may apply.
   G.   Adequate fresh feed and water shall be made available to hens at all
times in a manner to prevent the water from freezing. Such feed and water shall
be made unavailable to rodents and predators.
   H.   Hens shall be confined inside of a coop from sunset to sunrise each day
to prevent attracting predators and to minimize noise.
   I.   All feed for hens shall be kept in a vermin proof and watertight
container.
   J.   The coop and run shall be kept in a sanitary and odor free condition,
including daily removal of feces and waste.
   K.   Feces, discarded feed and all other waste must be stored in a
watertight, airtight, and vermin proof container until properly disposed.
   L.   All necessary steps shall be taken to prevent the attraction of
predators, rodents, and the potential infestation of insects and/or parasites.
   M.   Any health inspector, Health Officer, animal control officer, or
enforcing agent may order the removal of hens upon a determination that the
hens pose a health risk.
   N.   At such time hens are no longer kept, all facilities and equipment
including but not limited to the coop and run shall be removed from the
property within thirty (30) days and the permit shall be deemed nonvalid by the
enforcing agent. (Ord. 2018-002, 6-25-2018)
4-6-5: STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The coop and run shall be constructed in conformance with this chapter
and any other requirements of any other ordinances, titles, chapters and codes
of the Village of Scales Mound.
   B.   The interior floor space of the coop shall provide a minimum of two (2)
square feet and maximum of five (5) square feet for each hen authorized by the
permit.
   C.   A run shall be provided with sides and overhead fully enclosed by
fencing, wire mesh, or netting with a minimum of five (5) square feet and
maximum of ten (10) square feet per hen authorized by the permit. Such run
shall be attached to the coop so as to provide controlled access between the
coop and run.
   D.   The coop and run shall not exceed sixty (60) square feet in area
including coop and run and shall not exceed sixty five inches (65") in height.
   E.   A minimum of one nest box for every three (3) hens shall be provided.
   F.   A roost shall be provided installed a minimum of twelve inches (12")
from the wall and a minimum of two inches (2") off the floor.
   G.   The exterior of the coop shall be wood so long as the surfaces are
finished for exterior use or the wood is of proven durability for exterior use
such as cedar, fir, redwood or cypress. Alternative exterior residential
products may be approved so long as the products resemble the common materials
used in other residential structures and buildings in the neighborhood.
   H.   Adequate ventilation and/or insulation shall be used to maintain the
coop temperature between 32 - 85 degrees Fahrenheit.
   I.   The construction of the coop, and the materials used to construct the
coop and run must be adequate to prevent access by predators and vermin.
   J.   Only motion activated lighting shall be used to light the exterior of
the coop. Such lighting shall not emit more than eight hundred (800) lumens and
shall be made as to not interfere with neighboring properties.
   K.   Any fencing surrounding the coop and run shall be the form of a
residential style privacy fence with a minimum height of four feet (4') and
maximum height of six feet (6') and shall be subject to all additional Village
regulations that may apply. (Ord. 2018-002, 6-25-2018)
4-6-6: LOCATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The coop and run shall be located only within a rear yard.
   B.   The coop and run shall be setback a minimum of twenty feet (20') from
any side lot line and twenty feet (20') from any rear lot line except where a
rear lot line adjoins an alley way. In such case whereas a rear lot line
adjoins an alley way the minimum setback from the rear lot line shall be ten
feet (10').
   C.   The coop and run shall not be located within a drainage area and/or
utility easement.
   D.   The coop and run shall be located a minimum of thirty five feet (35')
from any residential dwelling or living space including decks and patios
located on abutting property.
   E.   The coop and run must be located closer to the principal dwelling upon
the property to which the permit is issued than any other dwelling or living
space including decks, porches and patios on an abutting property. (Ord. 2018-
002, 6-25-2018)
4-6-7: PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES:
   A.   No chicken shall be permitted at any time to roam freely in any area
outside of the coop and run.
   B.   Chickens shall not be kept or allowed at any time within a residential
dwelling, accessory building or part thereof other than a coop and run as
allowed by this chapter.
   C.   Eggs from chickens kept upon the property to which the permit is issued
are for personal use and consumption by the occupants and shall not be offered
for sale or sold.
   D.   The slaughter or butchering of chickens upon a residential property
within the corporate limits of the Village of Scales Mound is prohibited.
   E.   The composting, broadcasting or burial of waste including dead chickens
upon a residential property within the corporate limits of the Village of
Scales Mound is prohibited. (Ord. 2018-002, 6-25-2018)
4-6-8: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   The enforcing agent of this chapter shall be any employee of the
Village designated by the Village President to exercise police powers in the
enforcement of this chapter.
   B.   The premises, including the primary dwelling, accessory structures and
the chicken coop and run, for which the permit is issued in accordance with
this chapter shall at all reasonable times be open to inspection by the
enforcing agent to determine compliance with the requirements of this chapter
and this Code.
   C.   The requirements and conditions set forth in this chapter are the
minimum requirements and conditions to keep chickens and are intended to work
in conjunction with all other ordinances, titles, chapters and codes of the
Village of Scales Mound. When any requirement or condition of this chapter is
in conflict with the requirement of any other ordinance, title, chapter, or
code of the Village of Scales Mound, the requirement which is deemed most
restrictive by the enforcing agent shall be considered valid and enforced as
such.
   D.   This chapter shall not affect any private controls which are more
stringent, including additional regulations or prohibitions on the keeping of
chickens contained in private covenants. Nothing in this chapter shall affect
the authority of any owner's association to adopt and enforce more stringent
standards for the keeping of chickens, or to prohibit outright the keeping of
chickens on any property within the jurisdiction of such association.
   E.   The enforcing agent shall have the authority to seize, impound and
dispose of any chickens found at large within the Village corporate limits.
Such seizure, impoundment and disposal shall not require notice to any owner or
keeper, nor any attempt to locate the owner thereof.
   F.   Chicken facilities that are not kept or maintained in conformance with
the requirements of this chapter and/or any other Village ordinances, titles,
chapters and codes of the Village of Scales Mound shall be deemed a public
nuisance and the owner or custodian shall be given seven (7) days to rectify
the conditions creating a public nuisance. If the owner or custodian has not
rectified the conditions within seven (7) days of the date notice is provided,
the Village may abate the nuisance and permanently revoke the permit for
keeping hens, remove all chickens owned, kept, or harbored by such person, and
no part of the permit fee shall be refunded.
   G.   The enforcing agent may permanently revoke any permit issued under this
chapter if the person holding the permit refuses or fails to comply with this
chapter, with any regulations promulgated by the Village Board of Trustees
pursuant to this chapter or with any State or local law governing cruelty to
animals or the keeping of animals. Any person whose permit is revoked shall,
within seven (7) days thereafter, remove all chickens owned, kept, or harbored
by such person, and no part of the permit fee shall be refunded. (Ord. 2018-
002, 6-25-2018)
4-6-9: PENALTY:
   A.   Any person violating any conditions of this permit shall reimburse the
Village of Scales Mound for all cost borne by the Village to enforce the
conditions of the permit including but not limited to the impounding or removal
of chickens and the abatement of the nuisance.
   B.   In addition to all other costs, any person who violates any provision
of this chapter may be punished by a fine as set forth in title 1, chapter 4 of
this Code. Each day during any portion of which any violation of any provision
of this chapter is committed, continued or permitted by any such person shall
be deemed a separate offense.
   C.   The remedies contained in this section are cumulative and are in
addition to all other remedies available to the Village. (Ord. 2018-002, 6-25-
2018)
TITLE 5
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC CODE; GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-1-1: State Traffic Code Adopted
5-1-2: Speed Limit
5-1-3: Excessive Acceleration And Noise Prohibited
5-1-4: Truck Routes
5-1-5: Railroad Trains Obstructing Intersections
5-1-6: Parking For More Than Twenty Four Hours
5-1-1: STATE TRAFFIC CODE ADOPTED:
Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, provisions and
sections of the Illinois vehicle code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-100
et seq., as amended, are hereby adopted by the village. Any and all violations
thereof shall be considered violations of this title, and, upon conviction,
each such violation shall subject the violator thereof to penalty provisions of
section
1-4-1 of this code. (2009 Code)
5-1-2: SPEED LIMIT:
There shall be a twenty five (25) mile per hour speed limit within the village
unless posted otherwise. (Ord. 2014-003, 4-28-2014)
5-1-3: EXCESSIVE ACCELERATION AND NOISE PROHIBITED:
   A.   No person shall excessively accelerate a motor vehicle or test the
acceleration or speed of any motor vehicle from a stopped or moving position so
as to create excessive vehicle noise, whether such speed is below or in excess
of the established speed limits as set forth in the village.
   B.   No person shall accelerate or decelerate any motor vehicle in such a
manner as to cause the tires of such vehicle to squeal, smoke or form black
skid marks on the pavement.
   C.   No person shall accelerate in such a manner as to make the motor
vehicle swerve or fishtail from side to side. (Ord., 1-27-1986)
   D.   The penalty for any violation of this section shall be a fine of not
less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00). (Ord., 1-27-1986; amd. 2009 Code)
5-1-4: TRUCK ROUTES:
   A.   Routes Established:
      1.   Traffic entering the village from the south on Elizabeth- Scales
Mound Road shall continue north on Franklin Street to South Avenue, then east
on South Avenue and cross the railroad crossing to North Avenue, then east on
North Avenue to Jackson Street, then north on Jackson Street to Charles Mound
Avenue, then west on Charles Mound Avenue to Franklin Street, then north on
Elizabeth-Scales Mound Road.
      2.   Traffic entering the village from the north on Elizabeth- Scales
Mound Road shall go east on Charles Mound Avenue to Jackson Street, then south
on Jackson Street to North Avenue, then west on North Avenue and cross the
railroad crossing to South Avenue, then west on South Avenue to Franklin
Street, then south on Franklin Street and exit the village on Elizabeth-Scales
Mound Road.
   B.   Scope: The truck routes shall be in force for all vehicles in excess of
eight thousand (8,000) pounds excepting delivery vehicles that are making
deliveries to localities within the village limits.
   C.   Penalty: A violation of this section is a petty offense and shall be
punishable by a fine not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00). (Ord., 1-29-
2001)
5-1-5: RAILROAD TRAINS OBSTRUCTING INTERSECTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person in any manner to obstruct the travel or
passage of any public crossing or highway of the village by placing or leaving
upon, along or across such public crossing or highway any truck, locomotive,
car or train of cars for a longer period than ten (10) minutes at any one time.
Such public crossing, crossings or highways shall not be obstructed in the
manner aforesaid under a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each and every offense prohibited hereby. (Ord. 11, 12-
8-1881; amd. 2009 Code)
5-1-6: PARKING FOR MORE THAN TWENTY FOUR HOURS 1 :
   A.   Definition: When used in this section, the word "vehicle" shall mean
every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may be
transported thereon upon a street or alley, except devices moved by human power
or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
   B.   Vehicles And Parts Prohibited:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to park or leave standing any vehicle on the
public streets and alleys of the village for more than twenty four (24) hours.
      2.   It shall be unlawful to set, put, place, deposit or store any part
or component part of any vehicle on the public streets and alleys of the
village for more than twenty four (24) hours. (Ord., 7-25-1966)
   C.   Penalties:
      1.   Any person, association, firm or corporation violating the
provisions of this section shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense.
      2.   Each and every twenty four (24) hour period in which a violation
shall occur shall constitute a separate offense.
      3.   There shall be attached to every vehicle in violation of subsection
B1 of this section and every component part of any vehicle in violation of
subsection B2 of this section a notice stating the violation and instructing
the owner or operator to report to the village clerk in regard to such
violation and to pay the appropriate fine. If not paid within five (5) days, a
warrant shall be issued for the arrest of said violator, and prosecution shall
be in the same manner as for other violations of village ordinances. (Ord., 7-
25-1966; amd. 2009 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 3, chapter 3 of this code for abandoned, inoperable,
  unregistered vehicles and storage and abandonment of machinery.
CHAPTER 2
SNOWMOBILES
SECTION:
5-2-1: Definitions
5-2-2: Permitted Streets
5-2-3: Private Property
5-2-4: Penalty
5-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
OPERATE: To ride in or on, other than as a passenger, use or control the
operation of a snowmobile in any manner, whether or not the snowmobile is under
way.
PERSON: An individual, partnership, firm, corporation, association or other
entity.
ROADWAY: That portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular traffic, exclusive of the shoulder. In the event the highway includes
two (2) or more separate roadways, the term "roadway" refers to any such
roadway separately but not to all such roadways collectively.
SNOWMOBILE: A self-propelled device designed for travel on snow or ice or
natural terrain steered by skis or runners and supported in part by skis, belts
or cleats. (Ord., 11-27-2000)
5-2-2: PERMITTED STREETS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate any snowmobile
on any public property or roadway in the village, except as follows:
On Franklin Street between the southern corporate boundary and South Avenue.
On South Avenue between the western corporate boundary and the railroad
crossing.
On North Avenue between the railroad crossing and Jackson Street.
On Jackson Street between North Avenue and Charles Mound Avenue.
On Charles Mound Avenue between Jackson Street and Franklin Street.
   B.   Village residents and their guests must access the above snowmobile
routes following the shortest, most direct route from the residence using
streets and/or alleys to the above described roadways. (Ord., 11-27-2000)
5-2-3: PRIVATE PROPERTY:
It shall be unlawful to drive or operate any snowmobile on private property
other than that of the resident. (Ord., 11-27-2000)
5-2-4: PENALTY:
Any person violating this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine
of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense. (Ord., 11-27-2000; amd. 2009 Code)
CHAPTER 3
NONHIGHWAY VEHICLES
SECTION:
5-3-1: Purpose
5-3-2: Definitions
5-3-3: Limitations On Use Of Nonhighway Vehicles
5-3-4: Penalty
5-3-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to protect, maintain, and enhance health, safety
and general welfare of the citizens of the village of Scales Mound. After
consideration of the volume, speed and character of traffic on the village
roadways, the village board has determined that nonhighway vehicles may safely
travel on village streets.
Therefore, the intent of this chapter is to regulate the use of nonhighway
vehicles within the corporate limits of the village of Scales Mound as
authorized by 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-1426.1, operation of non-
highway vehicles on streets, roads and highways.
This chapter does not designate any nonhighway vehicle as an intended or
permitted user of any village roadway, county roadway, or township roadway.
(Ord. 2012-001, 3-26-2012)
5-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
COUNTY ROADWAY: Any county roadway located within the corporate boundaries of
the village of Scales Mound.
NONHIGHWAY VEHICLE: A motor vehicle not specifically designed to be used on a
public highway, including, but not limited to:
   A.   An all-terrain vehicle, as defined by section 1-101.8 of the Illinois
vehicle code.
   B.   A golf cart, as defined by section 1-123.9 of the Illinois vehicle
code.
   C.   A recreational off highway vehicle, as defined by section 1-168.8 of
the Illinois vehicle code.
OPERATE: To ride in or on, other than as a passenger, use or control the
operation of a nonhighway vehicle in any manner, whether or not the nonhighway
vehicle is under way.
PERSON: An individual, partnership, firm, corporation, association or other
entity.
ROADWAY: Any road, street, avenue or alley within the corporate limits of the
village of Scales Mound.
TOWNSHIP ROADWAY: Any township roadway within the corporate boundaries of the
village of Scales Mound.
VILLAGE ROADWAY: Any street, avenue, or alley within the corporate boundaries
of the village of Scales Mound except for county or township roads. (Ord. 2012-
001, 3-26-2012)
5-3-3: LIMITATIONS ON USE OF NONHIGHWAY VEHICLES:
   A.   Any person wishing to operate a nonhighway vehicle on the roadway
within the corporate boundaries of the village of Scales Mound must comply with
the following requirements:
      1.   No nonhighway vehicle may be operated on a village roadway unless,
at a minimum, it has the following: a steering apparatus, brakes, tires, a
rearview mirror, red reflectorized warning devices in the front and rear, a
"slow moving" emblem as required of other vehicles in Illinois motor vehicle
code 1  on the rear of the nonhighway vehicle, a headlamp that, under normal
circumstances, emits a white visible light from a distance of five hundred feet
(500') to the front, a taillamp that, under normal circumstances, emits a red
light visible from at least one hundred feet (100') from the rear, brake
lights, and turn signals.
      2.   When operated on a village roadway, a nonhighway vehicle shall have
its headlight and taillamps lighted as required by Illinois motor vehicle code
2 .
      3.   Nonhighway vehicles may only be operated on village roadways with
the exception of authorized crossing of state roads, county roads, and township
roads.
      4.   No nonhighway vehicles shall be operated on sidewalks, in parks or
on other public property not accessible to or authorized to vehicular traffic.
      5.   No nonhighway vehicle may be operated on village roadways at a speed
in excess of twenty (20) miles per hour.
      6.   Nonhighway vehicles may only be operated on village roadways from
sunrise to sunset. They shall not be operated in inclement weather nor when
visibility is impaired by weather, smoke, fog, or other conditions or anytime
when there is insufficient light to clearly see persons and vehicles on the
roadway at a distance of five hundred feet (500').
      7.   Any person who operates a nonhighway vehicle on a village roadway
must have an official valid driver's license issued in his or her name.
      8.   Any person who operates or is in physical control of a nonhighway
vehicle on a roadway while under the influence is subject to Illinois motor
vehicle code 3 .
      9.   Any person who operates a nonhighway vehicle on a village roadway
shall be required to comply with the "rules of the road" 4 .
      10.   Any person who operates a nonhighway vehicle on a village roadway
shall be subject to the mandatory insurance requirements under the Illinois
motor vehicle code 5  and must have in their possession the required proof of
insurance for such nonhighway vehicle. (Ord. 2012-001, 3-26-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/12-709.
2 2. 625 ILCS 5/12-201.
3 1. 625 ILCS 5/11-500 – 5/11-502.
4 2. 625 ILCS 5/11.
5 3. 625 ILCS 5.
5-3-4: PENALTY:
Any person violating this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2012-001, 3-26-2012)
CHAPTER 4
SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES
SECTION:
5-4-1: Definitions
5-4-2: Purpose And Intent
5-4-3: Roster
5-4-4: Eligibility
5-4-5: Application
5-4-6: Review Of Applications
5-4-7: Non-Assignment
5-4-8: Tow Truck; Minimum Equipment Standards
5-4-9: Minimum Business And Storage Lot Requirements
5-4-10: Dispatching Requirements
5-4-11: Violations Authorizing Seizure And Administrative Penalty
5-4-12: Notice Of Seizure And Impoundment
5-4-13: Preliminary And Full Hearing
5-4-14: Administrative Penalty
5-4-15: Vehicle Possession
5-4-16: General Regulations
5-4-17: Tow Truck Owner And Driver Duties And Obligations
5-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
 
                              Any employee or agent of the Village designated
                              by the Village President to exercise police
ENFORCING AGENT:              powers to enforce the ordinances and policies of
                              the Village of Scales Mound. This includes but is
                              not limited to any Police Officer, Enforcement
                              Officer, or Village Attorney.
                              Any person having a lawfully recorded lien on a
LIENHOLDER OF RECORD:         vehicle as registered with the Illinois Secretary
                              of State.
OWNER OF RECORD OF A VEHICLE: The record title holder as registered with the
                              Illinois Secretary of State.
                              A motor vehicle which has been altered or
                              designed and equipped for and exclusively used in
TOW TRUCK:                    the business of towing vehicles by means of a
                              crane, tow bar, tow line or dolly, or is
                              otherwise exclusively used to render assistance
                              to other vehicles.
                              A company or provider whose primary business is
TOWING SERVICE:               the provision of tow truck services in response
                              to a dispatch or request from the police
                              department or any other municipal department.
TRUCK:                        Any truck weighing over ten thousand (10,000)
                              pounds. (Ord. 2021-003, 10-25-2021)
 
5-4-2: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
It is the intent of this chapter to prescribe the basic regulations for the
operation of tow trucks in the removal of motor vehicles and trailers which as
a result of an arrest are left on a public right-of-way, private parking lots,
roadways, driveways (or similar locations) or which are illegally parked,
abandoned, constitute an obstruction to traffic or snow removal operations, or
constitute a public nuisance. It is the purpose of the Village Board in
enacting this chapter to provide a fair and impartial means of distributing
Village requests for towing services among qualified services, and to ensure
that such services are prompt and are provided in the best interest of the
public, as well as the interest of efficient removal of such vehicles. In
enacting this chapter, it is not the purpose of the board to regulate towing
services other than those dispatched or requested by Village personnel. (Ord.
2021-003, 10-25-2021)
5-4-3: ROSTER:
All towing services selected and designated to provide towing services under
this chapter shall be listed on a roster to be kept by the Enforcement Agent.
The roster of towing services shall, at all reasonable times, be open to public
inspection. The maximum number of towing services on said roster shall not
exceed six firms at any one time. The roster of towing services shall be
effective for a period of two years commencing January 1, 2021 and continue
unless amended by the Village Board. (Ord. 2021-003, 10-25-2021)
5-4-4: ELIGIBILITY:
A towing service shall become eligible to be listed on the roster and
participate in the assignment of service calls by the Enforcement Agent if it
meets the requirements set forth in this chapter. No person or towing service
shall be placed on the roster or operate a tow truck on tow roster calls if
that person or towing service has been convicted under the laws of Illinois or
any other state of an offense which under the laws of Illinois would be a
felony theft of a vehicle or a felony offense under Article 1, Chapter 4 of the
Illinois Vehicle Code, or has been fined by the Illinois Commerce Commission.
(Ord. 2021-003, 10-25-2021)
5-4-5: APPLICATION:
Any towing service meeting the minimum eligibility requirements may submit a
verified application to the Village to participate in towing operations. The
application shall be in a form provided by the Village Clerk, and shall elicit
the following information:
   A.   Business Operation.
      1.   Name of Towing Service. Indicate whether a corporation or
partnership, list all parties having a financial interest in the towing
service, including names and addresses, and number of years the business has
been established.
      2.   Experience. List number of years and locations of participation in
similar towing services, together with any commendations or written complaints
received from governmental agencies in conduct of the business within the last
five years.
      3.   Stability. State business activities of the towing service aside
from participation in police towing activities.
      4.   Attendants and Drivers. List names and addresses of all attendants
and drivers who will conduct the towing service, as well as number of years
employed, training received by attendants and drivers, and experience of the
personnel in the conduct of the business. Said list shall be updated within ten
(10) days on any new attendants and/or drivers being employed.
      5.   Equipment. Describe available equipment to be used in towing
services, particularly in terms of comparative qualities or capacities as
related to minimum eligibility requirements.
      6.   Communications. Describe the method of operation of the
communications system between the place of business and operating tow trucks,
as well as the means utilized for ensuring prompt dispatch of trucks upon
receipt of call from the police department.
      7.   Other Facilities and Personnel Available. List all provisions for
record keeping, backup personnel and auxiliary services which might be required
to effectively carry out a high level of service to the public in the business
of tow truck operations.
   B.   Business Location and Storage Lot.
      1.   Primary Business Location. List location of primary business
operation, including dimensions and types of facilities available.
      2.   Storage Lot. List location of storage lots, zoning classification,
dimensions thereof, relationship to primary business operation, and the type of
protection provided at the lot(s). (Ord. 2021-003, 10-25-2021)
5-4-6: REVIEW OF APPLICATIONS:
It shall be the duty of the police chief or his designated agents to
investigate all applications and renewals submitted under this chapter and
place all eligible firms on the roster. The police chief shall disapprove of
any application or renewal if, after due investigation, he finds that the
applicant does not meet the minimum requirements set forth in this chapter. The
Enforcement Agent shall notify an applicant in writing if an application or
renewal is disapproved and state the reasons for such disapproval. (Ord. 2021-
003, 10-25-2021)
5-4-7: NON-ASSIGNMENT:
Any towing service listed on the roster shall not assign its place to other
towing services nor assign any calls without written consent of the Enforcement
Agent. (Ord. 2021-003, 10-25-2021)
5-4-8: TOW TRUCKS; MINIMUM EQUIPMENT STANDARDS:
Minimum equipment standards for tow trucks shall be as follows:
   A.   Truck Chassis. At least one rig of one-ton capacity with rear dual
wheels. The police officer on the scene shall determine if greater capacity is
needed and shall call upon any service capable of providing that capacity
regardless of whether or not the company is on the roster of the Village or
whether it is their period of time to receive towing requests.
   B.   Company Information. Company name, address or phone number on both
sides of tow truck.
   C.   Lights. Trucks must, at all times, be equipped with such headlights,
taillights, red reflectors, stoplights, warning lights, etc., as required by
state law, plus one white utility light (adjustable or portable), and may be
equipped with such other lights as the owner may desire which are not forbidden
by law.
   D.   Winch. To be power-driven by power takeoff from transmission equipped
with safety dogs or equivalent braking devices.
   E.   Additional Equipment. Trucks must be equipped with oil dry, red flares,
lanterns or reflectors, hand tools, crowbar, rope, broom, shovel, dustpan, fire
extinguisher (dry chemical type), portable red taillight and stoplight for
towed vehicles, equipment for opening locked vehicles and safety snubber chain.
Each towing service shall have at least one set of dollies readily available at
all times. (Ord. 2021-003, 10-25-2021)
5-4-9: MINIMUM BUSINESS AND STORAGE LOT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Business and Storage. The business and storage lot of a towing service
must be a reasonable distance from public transportation and the storage lot
must be in close proximity to the place of business, the storage lot must have
adequate storage space (at least fifty (50) feet by one hundred (100) feet or
equivalent area) to accommodate thirty (30) cars, either under cover or well
fenced. The towing service must exercise ordinary care to keep stored vehicles
and contents safe from theft.
   B.   Hours. There shall be an attendant on call, capable of responding to
police requests for towing twenty-four (24) hours a day, seven days a week. An
attendant shall be on call to be present or available for the recovery of 1)
towed vehicles and 2) personal items from towed vehicles by an authorized party
Monday through Friday from 7:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., except for New Year’s Day,
Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, and Christmas Day.
   C.   Records. Each garage shall keep a record of the vehicle and license
number; date and time it was towed; location from which it was towed; name of
officer ordering the towing; and whether the vehicle was impounded or towed at
the owner’s request. (Ord. 2021-003, 10-25-2021)
5-4-10: DISPATCHING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All requests for towing service pursuant to this chapter shall be made
through the Enforcement Agent.
   B.   When it becomes evident that there will be a delay in responding to a
request for towing service, the towing service concerned shall advise the
Enforcement Agent of this delay.
   C.   Tow trucks shall be dispatched from the place of business, or a
reasonable distance from the place of business, as determined by the
Enforcement Agent. The Enforcement Agent may, from time to time, establish a
policy with regard to distribution of requests for towing service among the
successful applicants, provided that the policy is fair and equitable to all
firms listed on the roster. (Ord. 2021-003, 10-25-2021)
5-4-11: VIOLATIONS AUTHORIZING SEIZURE AND ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTY:
   A.   Violations Authorizing Seizure. A motor vehicle, operated with the
permission, express or implied, of the owner of record, that is used in
connection with the violations set forth in subsections (1)-(35) below, shall
be subject to seizure and impoundment by the Village, and the owner of record
of said vehicle shall be liable to the Village for an administrative penalty in
the amount of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00), which shall be in addition
to any towing and storage fees charged by the towing service as provided
herein. The administrative penalty shall be assessed to cover costs associated
with the investigation, arrest and detention of an offender, or the removal,
impoundment, storage, and release of the vehicle. It shall not be necessary for
criminal charges to be filed, prosecuted, and/or proven in order to demonstrate
that one or more of the following violations has/have been committed:
      1.   Driving with suspended or revoked license, 625 ILCS 5/6-303, except
that a vehicle shall not be subjected to seizure or impoundment if the
suspension is for an unpaid citation (parking or moving) or due to failure to
comply with emission testing;
      2.   Driving under the influence of alcohol, drugs, any intoxicating
compound or a combination of alcohol, drugs, or any intoxicating compound, 625
ILCS 5/11- 501(a);
      3.   When a motor vehicle is operated by a person against whom a warrant
has been issued by a Circuit Court in Illinois, failing to answer charges that
the driver violated subsection (A)(1)(a) or (A)(1)(b) of the above or for a
violation of 625 ILCS 5/6-101;
      4.   Fleeing or attempting to elude a police officer, third or subsequent
offense, 625 ILCS 5/11-204(c);
      5.   Aggravated fleeing or attempting to elude a police officer, 625 ILCS
5/11-204.1;
      6.   Leaving the scene, after involvement in a motor vehicle accident
involving death or personal injury, 625 ILCS 5/11-401;
      7.   Reckless driving or reckless driving causing bodily harm to a child
or school crossing guard, 625 ILCS 5/1 l-503(a), (b), (b-1), (c) and (d);
      8.   Aggravated reckless driving, 625 ILCS 5/1 l-503(c);
      9.   Reckless driving causing great bodily harm or permanent disability
or disfigurement to a child or a school crossing guard, 625 ILCS 5/11-503(d);
      10.   Street racing, second or subsequent offense, pursuant to 625 ILCS
5/11-506;
      11.   Aggravated street racing, 625 ILCS 5/11-506(d)(3);
      12.   Illegal transportation of alcohol/driver, 625 ILCS 5/11-502(a);
      13.   The following firearms offenses:
         a.   Unlawful use of weapons, 720 ILCS 5/24-1;
         b.   Unlawful use or possession of weapons by felons or persons in the
custody of the Department of Corrections facilities, 720 ILCS 5/24-1.1;
         c.   Aggravated discharge of a firearm, 720 ILCS 5/24-1.2;
         d.   Aggravated discharge of a machine gun or a firearm equipped with
a device designed or used for silencing the report of a firearm, 720 ILCS 5/24-
1.2-5;
         e.   Reckless discharge of a firearm, 720 ILCS 5/24-1.5;
         f.   Aggravated unlawful use of a weapon, 720 ILCS 5/24-1.6;
         g.   Unlawful possession of firearms and firearm ammunition, 720 ILCS
5/24-3.1;
         h.   Unlawful sale or delivery of a firearm on the premises of any
school, 720 ILCS 5/24-3.3;
      14.   Indecent solicitation of a child, 720 ILCS 5/11-6;
      15.   Aggravated assault, 720 ILCS 5/12-2;
      16.   Aggravated battery, 720 ILCS 5/12-3.05;
      17.   Theft, 720 ILCS 5/16-1;
      18.   Theft of lost or mislaid property, 720 ILCS 5/16-2;
      19.   Theft from coin operated machine, 720 ILCS 5/16-5;
      20.   Tampering with or theft of communication services, 720 ILCS 5/16-
18;
      21.   Retail theft, 720 ILCS 5/16-25;
      22.   Robbery, 720 ILCS 5/18-1;
      23.   Armed robbery, 720 ILCS 5/18-2;
      24.   Burglary, 720 ILCS 5/19-1;
      25.   Residential burglary, 720 ILCS 5/19-3;
      26.   Arson, 720 ILCS 5/20-1;
      27.   Aggravated arson, 720 ILCS 5/20-1;
      28.   Possession of explosives or explosive or incendiary devices, 720
ILCS 5/20-2;
      29.   Criminal damage to property, 720 ILCS 5/21-1;
      30.   Mob action, 720 ILCS 5/25-1;
      31.   The operation or use of a motor vehicle:
         a.   In the commission of, or in the attempt to commit, a violation of
the Cannabis Control Act, 720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.;
         b.   In the commission of, or in the attempt to commit, a violation of
the Illinois Controlled Substance Act, 720 ILCS 570/100 et seq.; or
         c.   While soliciting, possessing, or attempting to solicit or possess
cannabis or a 550/1 et seq., or the Illinois Controlled Substance Act, 720 ILCS
570/100 et seq.;
      32.   The following sexual offenses:
         a.   Prostitution, 720 ILCS 5/11-14.
         b.   Solicitation of a sexual act, 720 ILCS 5/11-14.1.
         c.   Promoting prostitution, 720 ILCS 5/11-14.3.
         d.   Promoting juvenile prostitution, 720 ILCS 5/11-14.4.
         e.   Patronizing a prostitute, 720 ILCS 5/11-18.
         f.   Patronizing a juvenile prostitute, 720 ILCS 5/11-18.1.
      33.   The motor vehicle is otherwise subject to seizure and impoundment
pursuant to 720 ILCS 5/36-1;
      34.   A violation of 720 ILCS 5/11-03 (reckless driving) while the
vehicle is part of a funeral procession, or in a manner that interferes with a
funeral procession; or
      35.   A violation of 625 ILCS 5/6-10 (drivers must have licenses or
permits), except where the violation is for a license which has been expired
for twelve (12) months or less, or for a license which is invalid because of
curfew (as in the case of a graduated license).
   B.   Imposition of Administrative Penalty. The following shall apply to the
administrative penalty imposed for costs for seizure pursuant to subsection (A)
above:
      1.   All administrative penalties and towing and storage charges shall be
imposed on the registered owner of the motor vehicle or the agent of that
owner.
      2.   The fees shall be in addition to:
         a.   Any other penalties that may be assessed by a court of law for
the underlying violation; and
         b.   Any towing or storage fees or both, charged by the towing
company.
      3.   The officers on the scene shall advise the owner of record of the
vehicle, or any person who is found to be in control of the vehicle at the time
of the alleged violation, as to whether such tow requires charging the penalty
specified in subsection (A) hereof. If an administrative penalty is to be
imposed, the penalty shall be paid directly to the village, and payment shall
be made at the City police department.
      4.   The towing or storage fees, or both, shall be collected by and paid
to the towing service that tows and stores the impounded vehicles.
      5.   The towing service shall keep detailed records regarding vehicles
towed hereunder, rates charged, and fees paid. Said records shall be available
for inspection by the police department upon two days request by the police
department.
      6.   In lieu of the Village imposing a fee upon a towing service
providing services hereunder, the towing service shall (by applying to be
placed on the roster and accepting placement thereon) perform the following
services to Village police vehicles (located within Village boundaries) at the
request of the Village:
         a.   Provide tows of Village police vehicles that have broken down;
and
         b.   Provide the changing of flat tires for Village police vehicles
(or tow said vehicles). (Ord. 2021-003, 10-25-2021)
5-4-12: NOTICE OF SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDMENT:
Whenever a police officer has probable cause to believe that a vehicle is
subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to this Ordinance the police
officer shall provide for the towing of the vehicle to a facility authorized by
the Village. The police officer shall notify the registered owner or lessee of
the vehicle and any lienholder of record, of the fact of the seizure and of the
vehicle and of owner’s right to request an administrative hearing, as provided
for in this Ordinance. Said vehicle shall be impounded pending the completion
of the administrative hearing, an administrative tow fee of two hundred and
fifty dollars ($250), and the towing and storage charges are paid. (Ord. 2021-
003, 10-25-2021)
5-4-13: PRELIMINARY AND FULL HEARING:
   A.   Hearing Officer. The police chief shall designate from time to time a
person within the police department as a preliminary hearing officer and an
attorney licensed to practice law in the state for at least a minimum of three
prior years as the hearing officer.
   B.   Preliminary Hearing. Within twenty-four (24) hours of any vehicle being
seized and impounded pursuant to this chapter, if requested by any owner of
record, lessee, or any lienholder of record, the preliminary hearing officer
shall allow for preliminary hearing at which time said owner of record, lessee,
or any lienholder of record may present any evidence said person desires which
would demonstrate a defense to said seizure and impoundment. The preliminary
hearing may be conducted in person, over the phone or by other communication
method or combination of communication methods. If the preliminary hearing
officer determines that said evidence supports such a defense, the police
department may release said vehicle without further process. If the preliminary
hearing officer determines that said evidence does not support such a defense,
then the preliminary hearing officer shall proceed to a full hearing as
outlined in the subsection (C) below.
   C.   Full Administrative Hearing. If the vehicle remains impounded, and
absent a determination to release vehicle, a full administrative hearing shall
be scheduled within sixty days from the date of the seizure and impoundment.
      1.   Notice of Administrative Hearing. Notice shall be given in writing
within thirty days after a vehicle is seized and impounded by personal delivery
or by certified mail, return receipt requested to the registered owner or
lessee of the vehicle and any lienholder of record, stating the stating the
date, time, location of the administrative hearing and requesting a plea of
guilty or not guilty.
      2.   Guilty Plea. If the owner returns a guilty plea, the matter may be
disposed of without administrative hearing on the basis of the guilty plea.
      3.   Hearing. If the owner pleads not guilty or fails to respond, the
administrative hearing will proceed as scheduled, unless continued by order of
the hearing officer, no later than sixty days after the initial administrative
hearing. All interested persons shall be given a reasonable opportunity to be
heard at the hearing. At any time prior to the hearing date, the hearing
officer may, at the request of either party, direct witnesses to appear and
give testimony at the hearing. The formal rules of evidence will not apply at
the hearing, and hearsay evidence shall be admissible, but only if it is the
type commonly relied upon by reasonably-prudent persons in the conduct of their
affairs.
      4.   Administrative Determination. After the hearing, the hearing officer
(s) shall issue a written decision either sustaining or overruling the vehicle
impoundment. If the hearing officer determines by a preponderance of evidence
that the vehicle was used in connection with a violation set forth in this
section, the hearing officer shall enter an order finding the owner of record
of the vehicle civilly liable to the Village for an administrative penalty in
an amount not to exceed seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750) and requiring
the vehicle to continue to be impounded until the owner pays the administrative
penalty to the Village (or to the towing firm as directed by the Village) plus
fees to the towing firm for the towing and storage of the vehicle. If the
hearing officer finds that no such violation occurred, the hearing officer
shall order the immediate return of the owner’s vehicle or cash bond without
fees.
      5.   Default. If the owner of record fails to appear at the hearing, the
hearing officer shall enter a default order in favor of the Village.
      6.   Appeal. An owner may appeal the determination made by the hearing
officer pursuant to the administrative review law. (Ord. 2021-003, 10-25-2021)
5-4-14: ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTY:
If an administrative penalty is imposed pursuant to this section, such penalty
shall constitute a debt due and owing to the Village. If a cash bond has been
posted pursuant to this section, the bond shall be applied to the penalty.
Unless stayed by a court of competent jurisdiction, any fine, penalty, or
administrative fee imposed under this chapter which remains unpaid in whole or
in part after the expiration of the deadline for seeking judicial review under
the administrative review law may be enforced by obtaining a judgment in the
local circuit court and pursuing enforcement of the judgment. Except as
provided otherwise in this section, a vehicle shall continue to be impounded
until the penalty is paid to the Village and any applicable towing and storage
fees are paid, in which case possession of the vehicle shall be given to the
person who is legally entitled to possess the vehicle or the vehicle is sold or
otherwise disposed of to satisfy a judgment to enforce a lien as provided by
law. If the vehicle is not retrieved within sixty days after an administrative
hearing officer issues a written decision, the vehicle shall be deemed
abandoned and shall be disposed of in the manner provided by law for the
disposition of abandoned vehicles, as set forth in Article II, Chapter 4 of the
Illinois Vehicle Code. (Ord. 2021-003, 10-25-2021)
5-4-15: VEHICLE POSSESSION:
   A.   Except as otherwise specifically provided by law, or as set forth in
this section, no owner, lien holder, or other person shall be legally entitled
to take possession of a vehicle impounded under this chapter until the
administrative penalty and any fees or costs that are applicable have been
paid.
   B.   A person with a lien of record against an impounded vehicle may obtain
possession of the vehicle if formal foreclosure proceedings have been
initiated, provided that the lienholder agrees in writing to pay from the net
proceeds of any foreclosure sale, the administrative penalty, plus the
applicable fees and costs imposed under this chapter. (Ord. 2021-003, 10-25-
2021)
5-4-16: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   This chapter shall not replace or otherwise abrogate any existing state
or federal laws or Village ordinance pertaining to vehicle seizure and
impoundment, and these penalties shall be in addition to any penalties that may
be assessed by a court for any criminal charges.
   B.   This section shall not apply if the vehicle used in the violation of
law was stolen at that time, and the theft was reported to the appropriate
police authorities within twenty-four hours after the theft was discovered.
   C.   Fees for towing and storage of a vehicle under this chapter shall be
those approved by the Enforcement Agent for all towers authorized to tow for
the Village. (Ord. 2021-003, 10-25-2021)
5-4-17: TOW TRUCK OWNER AND DRIVER DUTIES AND OBLIGATIONS:
The following duties and obligations shall apply in regard to the tow trucks,
tow truck owners and to trick drivers:
   A.   Removal of Hazards; Enforcement Agent to Determine Necessity of
Removing Vehicles. After being dispatched by the Enforcement Agent to the
scene, the tow truck operator shall cooperate with the Enforcement Agent in
removing hazards and illegally parked vehicles as requested. It is the duty of
the Enforcement Agent to determine when such a vehicle should be impounded or
moved, and the tow truck operator shall abide by their decisions. Enforcement
Agent shall refer to Village policies (as amended from time to time) for said
determinations.
   B.   Identification of Tow Trucks. Only tow trucks bearing the name of the
towing service called shall be dispatched to the scene of need.
   C.   Conduct. All owners of towing services shall conduct their business in
an orderly and businesslike manner and use every means to avoid any conflicts
between any interested parties. The primary measure to be used by the Village
in determining whether a towing service has violated this section will be the
number and type of complaints received by the Village from the public. The
Village is charged with the investigation of all complaints related to towing
services.
   D.   Protection of Vehicles. Vehicles impounded by the Enforcement Agent for
special investigations, i.e., fingerprints, etc., shall be held in maximum
security until cleared by the investigating officers. Contents of vehicles with
a police hold shall not be removed until cleared by the investigating
officials.
   E.   Responsibility for Employees’ Acts. The owners of a tow truck
participating in towing assignments by the Village shall be responsible for the
acts of their employees while on duty. Towing services shall be responsible for
damage to vehicles while in their possession (with the exception of occurrences
that are out of the reasonable control of the towing service).
   F.   Periodic Inspection of Records, Equipment, Facilities. Towing services
on the roster shall be subject to periodic checks of all towing service’s
records, equipment and storage facilities by Enforcement Agents. A towing
service that fails to produce tow records or allow for inspections of its
equipment and facilities at the request of the police shall be immediately
suspended from the roster until further investigation.
   G.   Damage Appraisals. All vehicles stored or impounded as a result of a
tow ordered by the Enforcement Agent shall be made available for inspection to
the owner of the vehicle or his representative, any insurance agent, insurance
adjuster, or any body shop or car dealer, for the purpose of estimating or
appraising damages, except vehicles with a police hold.
   H.   Access to Vehicles. Vehicles impounded or to be impounded by a towing
service shall be accessible to Enforcement Agents, and employees of the towing
service shall be required to assist Enforcement Agents in respect to the
impounded vehicles upon request.
   I.   Itemized Statements, When Required.
      1.   A person conducting towing services shall furnish an itemized
statement of services performed, labor and special equipment used in completing
the tow of a vehicle and the charges made therefor to and upon the request of:
         a.   The person requesting the towing service;
         b.   The registered owner of the vehicle towed;
         c.   The insurance carrier of either subsection (a) or (b) above;
         d.   The duly authorized agent of subsection (a), (b) or (c) above.
      2.   A person conducting towing services shall furnish a copy of the
statement to any person authorized by this section to receive the statement
without demanding payment as a condition precedent. The Enforcement Agent or
his designee shall have authority over determining who may have access to towed
vehicles ordered by the Village during any dispute that may arise from this
section.
   J.   Vehicle Repair or Alteration, When Permitted. A person conducting
towing services shall refrain from making any repairs or alterations to a towed
vehicle without first being authorized by the Village. Parts or accessories
shall not be removed from a towed vehicle without authorization except as
necessary for security purposes. Under such circumstances, the parts or
accessories removed shall be listed on the itemized statement and stored in the
business office. This section shall not be construed to prohibit persons
conducting towing services from making emergency alterations necessary to
permit the removal vehicles by the tow service.
   K.   Facilities to Conform to Building Code. Towing services’ storage lots,
buildings, fencing, driveways, etc., must conform to the building code
requirements of the municipality in which the property is located.
   L.   Zoning Requirements. Business and storage lots of towing services must
conform to the zoning regulations of the municipality in which the property is
located.
   M.   Storage Lot Capacity. At no time shall the storage lot of a towing
service be filled to more than fifty percent capacity. Should the lot be filled
greater than that limit, the City may suspend towing until such time as the
number of the vehicles in the lot is reduced to within the above-stated
capacity.
   N.   Deviation from Roster. Any and all tow truck operators not selected and
designated pursuant to this chapter are prohibited from removing from the
public streets and towing away any vehicles involved in the situations as set
forth in this chapter.
   O.   Insurance.
      1.   Each towing service listed on the roster shall have, in full force
and effect, during the period the service remains on the roster, public
liability, property damage and fire and theft insurance coverage as follows.
The Village shall be listed as an additional insured on each policy. Proof of
such coverage shall be a minimum eligibility requirement.
         a.   Comprehensive general liability must include the following
industry standard forms of insurance:
            (1)   Premises/operation coverage;
            (2)   Products and completed operations coverage;
            (3)   Blanket contractual liability;
            (4)   Five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) combined single
limit, or five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) bodily injury and two
hundred fifty thousand dollars ($250,000.00) property damage.
         b.   Comprehensive auto liability must include the following
endorsements:
            (1)   All owned autos, hired-car coverage, and employers non-owned
auto coverage;
            (2)   The policy shall not contain a radius restriction of less
than fifty (50) miles;
            (3)   Fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) on hook liability.
         c.   Garage keeper’s legal liability or motor truck cargo: The towing
service shall provide coverage for the vehicles in their custody. Either a
motor truck cargo policy, listing all storage lots as terminal locations or
garage keepers’ legal liability shall be required. The minimum amount of
coverage shall be no less than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00).
         d.   Workers’ compensation and employers’ liability: Statutory limits
for workmen’s compensation and a one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00)
employers’ liability limit.
      2.   Each towing service shall supply the Village with a certificate of
insurance, which indicates coverage for the above-mentioned minimum insurance
requirements and Village at least sixty days’ notice of cancellation or
material change. The certificate of insurance shall name the Village as
additional insured.
   P.   Village Indemnification. If any service listed on the roster performs
towing services in a manner not in accordance with the provisions contained in
this chapter, the Village is held harmless from any and all liability or damage
arising therefrom and by participating in the roster, the towing service hereby
indemnifies and holds harmless the Village and its employees, officers, agents
and assigns (indemnitees), for any and all liability, obligation, damages,
penalties, claims, liens, costs, charges, losses and expenses (including,
without limitation, reasonable fees and expenses of attorneys, expert witnesses
and consultants), which may be imposed upon, incurred by or be asserted against
the indemnitees by reason of any act or omission of the towing service, its
personnel, employees, agents, contractors or subcontractors, resulting in
personal injury, bodily injury, sickness, disease or death to any person or
damage to, loss of or destruction of tangible or intangible property, or any
other claims which may arise out of or be in any way connected with the towing
services operations performed under this chapter.
   Q.   Removal or Suspension from Roster.
      1.   Any deviation from the requirements established in this chapter, or
failure at any time to provide reasonable, quick and efficient service may
result in the temporary suspension for no more than sixty days or removal of
the name of such towing service from the roster upon the determination of the
Enforcement Agent.
      2.   The Enforcement Agent shall provide the tow operator with written
notice at least seven calendar days prior to the effective date of the
suspension/removal by delivering said notice to the tow operator’s place of
business. Said written notice shall include:
         a.   The effective date of the suspension/removal;
         b.   Whether the suspension/removal is temporary or permanent;
         c.   The allegations which form the basis of the suspension/removal;
         d.   The actions, if any, the tow operator may take to prevent the
suspension/removal from occurring;
         e.   The procedure which the tow operator must follow to request a
hearing to appeal the suspension/removal;
         f.   That the towing service may request a hearing by submitting
formal request for hearing in writing within seven days from the date of the
delivery of notice; and
         g.   If no hearing is requested, the suspension/removal shall stand.
      3.   If a hearing is requested, the Village President shall act as
hearing officer. The Village shall set a time for the hearing within thirty
business days of receipt the request (if the request is timely made). If the
towing service is unavailable at the time provided by the Village, the Village
may (in its discretion) reschedule the hearing, but the suspension/removal will
continue until the hearing unless the Village is unable to provide an
alternative hearing date within the next three days after the initial hearing
date.
      4.   The hearing shall be informal and provide both sides with the
opportunity to present all evidence relevant to the suspension/removal. The
hearing officer shall issue a written decision based upon a preponderance of
the presented evidence within thirty days of the hearing. The opinion will be
sent to the towing service’s business address with a copy retained in the
towing services application file. The Village or the towing service may contest
the decision of the hearing officer in any manner provided by law. (Ord. 2021-
003, 10-25-2021)
TITLE 6
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Sidewalks
6-1-2: Street Designations
6-1-1: SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Construction And Repair:
      1.   Village Policy: It is hereby declared to be the policy of the
village board that safe sidewalks should exist in the village, as said
sidewalks exist now or hereafter.
      2.   Repair And Replacement Required: The village board shall, by
resolution, order property owners to replace or repair sidewalks along the
frontage of their property in the public right of way when identified as unsafe
by the village. Such sidewalks will be replaced or repaired according to the
specifications of the village and, when so ordered, done within ninety (90)
days. (Ord., 2-24-2003)
      3.   Costs: For all sidewalks laid in the village adjoining private
property, the parties owning the property shall pay one-half (1/2) the cost of
said sidewalk and the village one- half (1/2). (Ord. 92, 5-1-1912)
      4.   Injunction And Enforcement: The village may apply for an injunction
to enforce this subsection. (Ord., 2-24-2003)
   B.   Accumulation Of Snow And Ice Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any
owner or occupant of any premises within the corporate limits of the village to
permit the accumulation of snow and ice to remain upon the sidewalks for a
longer period than twenty four (24) hours in front of or along his or her
premises. Whoever violates this subsection shall, upon conviction, be fined as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, and if any person shall continue to violate after being
fined for the same, a new cause of action shall accrue, subjecting the offender
to a like penalty. (Ord. 38, 11-28-1892; amd. 2009 Code)
6-1-2: STREET DESIGNATIONS 1 :
All north-south roads shall be referred to as "streets", and all east-west
roads shall be referred to as "avenues". (Ord., 3-26-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  9-4-3K of this code.
CHAPTER 2
VILLAGE PARK
SECTION:
6-2-1: Description And Use Of Park
6-2-2: Supervision
6-2-3: Storage And Maintenance Provisions
6-2-4: Hours
6-2-5: Tables For Park Use Only
6-2-6: Signs Posted
6-2-1: DESCRIPTION AND USE OF PARK:
The corporation property bounded by Burrall Avenue, Washington Street, Schuyler
Avenue and Main Street shall be utilized as a site for the township hall, the
bandstand and a storage building for certain types of village property. The
entire property shall be set aside as and shall be known for all official
purposes as the "village park". No fences shall be utilized to enclose or
separate the village park, and the general public shall, at all times, have
free access to and from the park, subject to such rules as the village
president and park/special projects committee may prescribe. (Ord. 178, 7-25-
1955; amd. 2009 Code)
6-2-2: SUPERVISION:
The village park shall be supervised by a committee consisting of the village
president and the park/special projects committee. (Ord. 178, 7-25-1955; amd.
2009 Code)
6-2-3: STORAGE AND MAINTENANCE PROVISIONS:
No material of any unsightly or odious nature shall be stored on park grounds,
and the grounds shall be kept in a neat manner and free from tall grass and
weeds. (Ord. 178, 7-25-1955)
6-2-4: HOURS:
The following are hours the village park shall be open: Sunday through
Thursday, six o'clock (6:00) A.M. to eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M.; and Friday
and Saturday, six o'clock (6:00) A.M. to twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight. (Per
minutes dated 6-30-2003)
6-2-5: TABLES FOR PARK USE ONLY:
Park tables shall be restricted to use in the park only. (Per minutes dated 7-
26-1954)
6-2-6: SIGNS POSTED:
Signs shall be erected in the village park which state "No Digging" and "No
Motorized Vehicles" and which state the hours (all on the same sign). (Per
minutes dated 6-30-2003)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL UTILITY REGULATIONS; RATES AND CHARGES
SECTION:
7-1-1: Water And Sewer Connection Charges
7-1-2: Water Rates And Charges
7-1-3: Garbage Collection Required; Charges
7-1-4: Electrical Power Aggregation Plan
7-1-1: WATER AND SEWER CONNECTION CHARGES 1 :
The following charges will be required to bring water and sewer service to the
property line:
 
Water                    $300.00
Sewer (see also section  500.00
7-3A-1 of this title)
 
(Per minutes dated 5-23-1988)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 8-3C-1 of this code.
7-1-2: WATER RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Rates And Charges Established: There shall be and there are hereby
established rates or charges for the use of and for the service supplied by the
waterworks system of the village, as follows: (Ord., 10-26-1987; amd. 2009
Code)
      1.   Residential: For each residential user of the water service, the
monthly charge shall be a flat rate of eleven dollars fifty cents ($11.50).
(Ord., 10-26-1987; amd. per minutes dated 11-24-2008)
      2.   Commercial: For each commercial user of the water service, the
monthly charge shall be a flat rate of twelve dollars ($12.00).
      3.   Public Schools: For the public schools located in the village, the
monthly charge shall be a flat charge of fifty five dollars ($55.00).
      4.   Fire Protection District: For the fire protection district serving
the village and surrounding territory, the charge shall be four hundred dollars
($400.00) per year, payable monthly. (Ord., 10-26-1987)
      5.   Use Of Firehouse Water: A charge of two dollars ($2.00) per one
thousand (1,000) gallons will be assessed for water that is taken from the
firehouse and transported to other areas for storage and use. (Per minutes
dated 11-30-1987)
   B.   Application Of Rates And Charges:
      1.   The payment of rates described above shall cover all reasonable
usage within and upon the customer's premises, but not including irrigation or
extensive watering of gardens and lawns, or watering of livestock or other
usage which the president and board of trustees shall determine as being
unreasonable.
      2.   The rates shall apply to each single-family unit, commercial unit or
premises served as the president and board of trustees may determine exist in
apartment or multipurpose buildings. (Ord., 10-26-1987; amd. 2009 Code)
   C.   Bills For Service; Liability Of Owner:
      1.   The rates or charges for service shall be payable monthly. The owner
of the premises shall be liable to pay for the service on such premises. The
service is furnished to the premises by the village only upon the condition
that the owner of the premises shall be liable therefor to the village with the
exception of a single-family residence that is rented (see subsection C2 of
this section). Billing is rendered in advance. Bills shall be sent out on the
twentieth day of each month, and payment is due by the first day of the
following month. A penalty of five dollars ($5.00) shall be added to all bills
that are not paid by the tenth day of the month after which bills have been
rendered. (Ord., 2-28-2000; amd. 2009 Code)
      2.   In the case of a single-family residence that is rented, at the
request of the owner of the premises, in writing, to the village, the village
will send the water bill to the renter. Prior to this being done, the owner of
the premises shall sign a statement acknowledging that the owner is still
responsible for any unpaid charges should the renter fail to pay. (Ord., 2-28-
2000)
   D.   Delinquent Bills A Lien: In the event the charges for service are not
paid within forty (40) days after rendition of the bill for such monthly
service, such charges shall be deemed and are hereby declared to be delinquent,
and thereafter such delinquencies shall constitute liens upon the real estate
for which such service is supplied, and the village clerk is hereby authorized
and directed to file sworn statements showing such delinquencies in the office
of the county recorder of deeds, and the filing of such statements in the
pertinent offices shall be deemed notice for the payment of such charges for
such service. (Ord., 10-26-1987)
   E.   Discontinuance Of Service For Nonpayment; Turnoff And Turn On Fee:
There shall be a twenty five dollar ($25.00) shutoff fee and a twenty five
dollar ($25.00) turn back on fee for any water services discontinued 1 . The
village shall send a registered letter of shutoff to any person who is
delinquent for two (2) or more months. This notice shall be sent to the
landowner and to any renter pursuant to subsection C of this section. The
village shall shut off and discontinue water services on the day immediately
following the third month of delinquency. No water service shall be continued
until all charges have been paid in full. (Ord., 2-28-2000)
   F.   Administration Of Charges: It is hereby made the duty of the village
treasurer to render bills for service and for all rates and charges in
connection therewith and to collect all monies due thereon.
   G.   Revenues Separate; Disposition:
      1.   All revenues and monies derived from the operation of the waterworks
system shall be held by the village treasurer separate and apart from his
private funds and separate and apart from all other funds of the village.
(Ord., 10-26-1987; amd. 2009 Code)
      2.   The village treasurer shall receive all such revenues from the
waterworks system and all other funds and monies incident to the operation of
such system as the same may be delivered to him and deposit the same in a
separate fund designated as the "waterworks fund of the village of Scales
Mound", and the treasurer shall administer such fund in every respect in the
manner provided by the provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes, and all
laws amendatory thereof and supplementary thereto. (Ord., 10-26-1987)
   H.   Accounting: The village treasurer shall establish a proper system of
accounts and shall keep proper books, records and accounts in which complete
and correct entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the
waterworks system, and at regular annual intervals, he shall cause to be made
an audit by an independent auditing concern of the books to show the receipts
and disbursements of the waterworks system.
   I.   Notice Of Responsibility For Service: A copy of the ordinance codified
herein, properly certified by the village clerk, shall be filed in the office
of the county recorder of deeds and shall be deemed notice to all owners of
real estate of their liability for service supplied to any user of the service
of the waterworks system of the village on their properties. (Ord., 10-26-1987)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  7-2-5 of this title.
7-1-3: GARBAGE COLLECTION REQUIRED; CHARGES:
   A.   Use Of Garbage Collection Service Required: It shall be unlawful for
any person or corporation to deposit anywhere in the village any uncovered pile
of garbage or refuse. It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of any
premises to permit any uncovered piles of garbage or refuse to remain on such
premises. (Ord., 6-4-1974)
   B.   Collection Charge: All residential and business units shall pay a
garbage collection fee of nine dollars ($9.00) per unit per month, payable in
advance. The garbage collection fee shall be paid in the same manner as the
water and sewer fee and at the same time 1 . (Ord., 6-4-1974; amd. per minutes
dated 11-24-2008)
   C.   Bills For Service; Lien And Remedies; Delinquencies: The garbage
collection fee shall be billed together with the water bill, and the village
shall have a lien upon all real estate of any resident failing to pay the fee
as provided hereby. In addition to the lien created hereunder, the village may,
at its option, pursue any legal remedy now in existence or hereinafter created,
including a suit at law or in equity, suspension of any other service provided
by the village, including water, revoking of any license granted by the village
to any resident, whether used in conjunction with the property or not, as well
as any other remedy that may be appropriate. (Ord., 6-4-1974; amd. 2009 Code)
 
Notes
  1. See section
1 7-1-2 of this chapter and section
  7-3A-2 of this title.
7-1-4: ELECTRICAL POWER AGGREGATION PLAN:
The corporate authorities hereby adopt the electrical power aggregation plan of
operation and governance on file with the village and made a part hereof as if
fully set forth by this reference. (Ord. 2013-009, 4-29-2013)
CHAPTER 2
CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL
SECTION:
7-2-1: Cross Connections Restricted
7-2-2: Compliance With State Plumbing Code; Backflow Prevention Device Required
7-2-3: Surveys And Investigations
7-2-4: Entry Powers
7-2-5: Violations; Discontinuance Of Water Service; Reconnection Fee
7-2-6: Responsibility Of Consumer For Cleanup Costs
7-2-1: CROSS CONNECTIONS RESTRICTED:
No person, firm or corporation shall establish or permit to be established or
maintain or permit to be maintained any connection whereby a private, auxiliary
or emergency water supply other than the regular public water supply of the
village may enter the supply or distribution system of the village, unless such
private, auxiliary or emergency water supply and the method of connection and
use of such supply shall have been approved by the superintendent of water and
the Illinois environmental protection agency. (Ord., 3-27-1995)
7-2-2: COMPLIANCE WITH STATE PLUMBING CODE; BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE
REQUIRED:
All plumbing installed within the village shall be installed in accordance with
the Illinois plumbing code, 77 Illinois administrative code 890. If, in
accordance with the Illinois plumbing code or in the judgment of the
superintendent of water, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary
for the safety of the public water supply system, the superintendent of water
will give notice to the water customer to install such an approved device
immediately. The water customer shall, at his own expense, install such an
approved device at a location and in a manner in accordance with the Illinois
plumbing code, Illinois environmental protection agency and all applicable
local regulations, and shall have inspections and tests made of such approved
devices upon installation and as required by the Illinois plumbing code,
Illinois environmental protection agency and local regulations. (Ord., 3-27-
1995)
7-2-3: SURVEYS AND INVESTIGATIONS:
It shall be the duty of the superintendent of water to cause surveys and
investigations to be made of industrial and other properties served by the
public water supply to determine whether actual or potential hazards to the
public water supply may exist. Such surveys and investigations shall be made a
matter of public record and shall be repeated at least every two (2) years, or
as often as the superintendent of water shall deem necessary. Records of such
surveys shall be maintained and available for review for a period of at least
five (5) years. (Ord., 3-27-1995)
7-2-4: ENTRY POWERS:
The approved cross connection control device inspector shall have the right to
enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public
water supply or distribution system of the village for the purpose of verifying
the presence or absence of cross connections, and the water superintendent or
his authorized agent shall have the right to enter at any reasonable time any
property served by a connection to the public water supply or distribution
system of the village for the purpose of verifying information submitted by the
customer regarding the required cross connection control inspection. On demand,
the owner, lessees or occupants of any property so served shall furnish to the
superintendent of water any information which he may request regarding the
piping system or systems or water use on such property. The refusal of such
information, when demanded, shall, within the discretion of the superintendent
of water, be deemed evidence of the presence of improper connections as
provided in this chapter. (Ord., 3-27-1995)
7-2-5: VIOLATIONS; DISCONTINUANCE OF WATER SERVICE; RECONNECTION FEE:
The village superintendent of water is hereby authorized and directed to
discontinue, after reasonable notice to the occupant thereof, water service to
any property wherein any connection in violation of the provisions of this
chapter is known to exist, and to take such other precautionary measures as he
may deem necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water
supply distribution mains. Water service to such property shall not be restored
until such conditions have been eliminated or corrected in compliance with the
provisions of this chapter and until a twenty five dollar ($25.00) shutoff fee
and a twenty five dollar ($25.00) turn back on fee is paid to the village 1 .
Immediate disconnection with verbal notice can be effected when the
superintendent of water is assured that imminent danger of harmful
contamination of the public water supply system exists. Such action shall be
followed by written notification of the cause of disconnection. Immediate
disconnection without notice to any party can be effected to prevent actual or
anticipated contamination or pollution of the public water supply; provided,
that in the reasonable opinion of the superintendent of water or the Illinois
environmental protection agency, such action is required to prevent actual or
potential contamination or pollution of the public water supply. Neither the
public water supply, the superintendent of water nor its agents or assigns
shall be liable to any customer for any injury, damages or lost revenues which
may result from termination of said customer's water supply in accordance with
the terms of this chapter, whether or not said termination was with or without
notice. (Ord., 3-27-1995; amd. 2009 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  7-1-2E of this title.
7-2-6: RESPONSIBILITY OF CONSUMER FOR CLEANUP COSTS:
The consumer responsible for back siphoned or back pressured material or
contamination through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply
system occurs through an illegal cross connection or an improperly installed,
maintained or repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear
the cost of cleanup of the potable water supply system. (Ord., 3-27-1995)
CHAPTER 3
WASTEWATER SERVICE
SECTION:
7-3-1: Definitions
7-3-2: Use Of Public Sewers Required
7-3-3: Private Sewage Disposal Systems
7-3-4: Building Sewers And Connections
7-3-5: Use Of Public Sewers
7-3-5-1: Discharges Into System
7-3-5-2: Interceptors
7-3-5-3: Preliminary Treatment Or Flow Equalization
7-3-5-4: Control Manhole
7-3-5-5: Measurements, Tests And Analyses
7-3-5-6: Special Agreements
7-3-6: Damage To, Tampering With System
7-3-7: Powers And Authority Of Inspectors
7-3-8: Violations; Penalties
7-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of terms used
in this chapter shall be as follows:
CLARIFICATION OF WORD USAGE: "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissible.
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT:
Administrator: The administrator of the U.S. environmental protection agency.
Federal Act: The federal clean water act, 33 USC 466 et seq., as amended (pub.
l. 95-217).
Federal Grant: The U.S. government participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by title 11, "grants for
construction of treatment works", of the act and implementing regulations.
LOCAL GOVERNMENT:
Approving Authority: The village board.
Village: The village of Scales Mound.
NPDES PERMIT: Any permit or equivalent document or requirements issued by the
administrator or, where appropriate by the director, after enactment of the
federal clean water act, to regulate the discharge of pollutants pursuant to
section 402 of the federal act.
PERSON: Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any individual,
firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association, society,
institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
SEWER TYPES, AND APPURTENANCES:
Building Drain: That part of the lowest piping of a drainage system which
receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes inside the
walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer or other approved
point of discharge, beginning five feet (5') (1.5 meters) outside the inner
face of the building wall.
Building Sewer: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
Combined Sewer: A sewer which is designed and intended to receive wastewater
and storm, surface and ground water drainage.
Easement: An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by others.
Public Sewer: A sewer provided by or subject to the jurisdiction of the
village. The term shall also include sewers within or outside the village
boundaries that serve one or more persons and ultimately discharge into the
village sanitary (or combined) sewer system, even though those sewers may not
have been constructed with village funds.
Sanitary Sewer: A sewer that conveys sewage or industrial wastes, or a
combination of both, and into which storm, surface, and ground water or
polluted industrial wastes are not intentionally admitted.
Sewer: A pipe or conduit for conveying sewage or any other waste liquids,
including storm, surface and ground water drainage.
Sewerage: The system of sewers and appurtenances for the collection,
transportation and pumping of sewage.
Storm Sewer: A sewer that carries storm, surface and ground water drainage but
excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted cooling water.
Stormwater Runoff: That portion of the precipitation that is drained into the
sewers.
STATE GOVERNMENT:
Director: The director of the Illinois environmental protection agency.
State Act: The Illinois anti-pollution bond act of 1970 1 .
State Grant: The state of Illinois participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by the Illinois anti-pollution
bond act and for making such grants as filed with the secretary of state of the
state of Illinois.
TREATMENT:
Pretreatment: The treatment of wastewaters from sources before introduction
into the wastewater treatment works.
Wastewater Treatment Works: An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes, and sludge; sometimes used as
synonymous with "waste treatment plant" or "wastewater treatment plant" or
"pollution control plant".
TYPES OF CHARGES:
Basic User Charge: The basic assessment levied on all users of the public sewer
system.
Capital Improvement Charge: A charge levied on users to improve, extend or
reconstruct the sewage treatment works.
Debt Service Charge: The amount to be paid each billing period for payment of
interest, principal and coverage of (loan, bond, etc.) outstanding.
Local Capital Cost Charge: Charges for costs other than the operation,
maintenance and replacement costs, i.e., debt service and capital improvement
costs.
Replacement: Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment, accessories,
or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the treatment
works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works were
designed and constructed. The term "operation and maintenance" includes
"replacement".
Sewerage Fund: The principal accounting designation for all revenues received
in the operation of the sewerage system.
Surcharge: The assessment, in addition to the basic user charge and debt
service charge, which is levied on those persons whose wastes are greater in
strength than the concentration values established in article A of this
chapter.
Useful Life: The estimated period during which the collection system and/or
treatment works will be operated.
User Charge: A charge levied on users of treatment works for the cost of
operation, maintenance and replacement.
USER TYPES:
Commercial User: Shall include transit lodging, retail and wholesale
establishments or places engaged in selling merchandise or rendering services.
Control Manhole: A structure located on a site from which industrial wastes are
discharged. Where feasible, the manhole shall have an interior drop. The
purpose of a "control manhole" is to provide access for the village
representative to sample and/or measure discharges.
Industrial Users: Shall include establishments engaged in manufacturing
activities involving the mechanical or chemical transformation of materials of
substance into products.
Institutional/Governmental User: Shall include schools, churches, penal
institutions, and users associated with federal, state, and local governments.
Residential User: All dwelling units such as houses, mobile homes, apartments,
and permanent multi-family dwellings.
User Class: The type of user, "residential", "institutional/governmental",
"commercial", or "industrial", as defined herein.
Wastewater Service Charge: The charge per month levied on all users of the
wastewater facilities. The service charge shall be computed as outlined in
article A of this chapter and shall consist of the total or the basic user
charge, the local capital cost and a surcharge, if applicable.
WASTEWATER AND ITS CHARACTERISTICS:
BOD (Denoting Biochemical Oxygen Demand): The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five (5) days at twenty degrees Celsius (20°C), expressed in milligrams per
liter.
Effluent Criteria: Are defined in any applicable NPDES permit.
Floatable Oil: Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of "floatable oil" if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
Garbage: Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking,
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of food.
Industrial Waste: Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance discharged, permitted
to flow or escaping from any industrial, manufacturing, commercial or business
establishment or process or from the development, recovery or processing of any
natural resource as distinct from sanitary sewage.
Major Contributing Industry: An industrial user of the publicly owned treatment
works that: a) has a flow of fifty thousand (50,000) gallons or more per
average workday; or b) has a flow greater than ten percent (10%) of the flow
carried by the municipal system receiving the waste; or c) has in its waste a
toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in standards issued under section
307(a) of the federal act; or d) is found by the permit issuant authority, in
connection with the issuance of the NPDES permit to the publicly owned
treatment works receiving the waste, to have significant impact, either singly
or in combination with other contributing industries, on that treatment works
or upon the quality of effluent from that treatment works.
Milligrams Per Liter: A unit of the concentration of water or wastewater
constituent. It is 0.001 gram of the constituent in one thousand milliliters
(1,000 ml) of water. It has replaced the unit formerly used commonly, parts per
million, to which it is approximately equivalent, in reporting the results of
water and wastewater analysis.
ppm: Parts per million by weight.
pH: The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration
expressed by one of the procedures outlined in the "IEPA Division Of
Laboratories Manual Of Laboratory Methods".
Population Equivalent: A term used to evaluate the impact of industrial or
other waste on a treatment works or stream. One population equivalent is one
hundred (100) gallons of sewage per day, containing 0.17 pound of BOD and 0.20
pound of suspended solids.
Properly Shredded Garbage: The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") (1.21 centimeters)
in any dimension.
Sewage: Is used interchangeably with "wastewater".
Slug: Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which, in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds, for any
period of duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes, more than five (5) times
the average twenty four (24) hour concentration of flows during normal
operation.
Suspended Solids (SS): Solids that either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or industrial waste, and which are removable by a
laboratory filtration device. Quantitative determination of "suspended solids"
shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in the "IEPA Division Of
Laboratories Manual Of Laboratory Methods".
Unpolluted Water: Water quality equal to or better than the effluent criteria
in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water quality
standards and would not be benefited by discharge to the sanitary sewers and
wastewater treatment facilities provided.
Wastewater: The spent water of a community. From this standpoint, of course, it
may be a combination of the liquid and water carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions, together with any
groundwater, surface water, and stormwater that may be present.
Water Quality Standards: Are defined in the water pollution regulations of
Illinois.
WASTEWATER FACILITIES: The structures, equipment, and processes required to
collect, carry away, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and transport
effluent to a watercourse.
WATERCOURSE AND CONNECTIONS:
Natural Outlet: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other body
of surface or ground water.
Watercourse: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or
intermittently. (Ord., 2-27-1984; amd. 2009 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 30 ILCS 405/1 et seq.
7-3-2: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED:
   A.   Discharge Of Human And Animal Wastes: It shall be unlawful for any
person to place, deposit, or permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner on
public or private property within the village or in any area under the
jurisdiction of the village, any human or animal excrement, garbage or other
objectionable waste.
   B.   Discharges To Natural Outlet; Treatment Required: It shall be unlawful
to discharge to any natural outlet within the village, or in any area under the
jurisdiction of the village, any sewage or other polluted waters, except where
suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions
of this chapter.
   C.   Private Systems: Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful
to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or
other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage. (Ord., 2-27-1984)
   D.   Connection To Sewer System Required: The owners of all the houses,
buildings, or properties used for human occupancy, employment, recreation, or
other purposes situated within the village and abutting on any street, alley,
or right of way in which there is now located or may in the future be located
any public sanitary (or combined) sewer of the village, are hereby required at
their expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect
such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, within ninety (90) days after date of official
notice to do so; provided, that said public sewer is within three hundred feet
(300') of the property line 1 . (Ord., 2-27-1984; amd. 2009 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  9-4-7H of this code.
7-3-3: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS:
   A.   Private Systems Permitted: Where a public sanitary (or combined) sewer
is not available under the provisions of subsection
7-3-2D of this chapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this section.
   B.   Permit Requirements:
      1.   Permit Required: Before commencement of construction of a private
sewage disposal system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by
the village.
      2.   Application For Permit; Fee: The application for such permit shall
be made on a form furnished by the village (see appendix 2 of the ordinance
codified herein), which the applicant shall supplement by any plans,
specifications and other information as deemed necessary by the village. A
permit and inspection fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) shall be paid to the
village at the time the application is filed.
      3.   Inspections: A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not
become effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
village. The village shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
village when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any underground
portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within twenty four (24)
hours of the receipt of written notice by the village.
   C.   Specifications: The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private
sewage disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the state of
Illinois private sewage disposal licensing act and code 1  and with the state
of Illinois environmental protection agency. No permit shall be issued for any
private sewage disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities
where the area of the lot is less than thirty thousand (30,000) square feet
(2,787 square meters). No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to
discharge to any natural outlet.
   D.   Maintenance: The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage
disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times and at no expense to the
village.
   E.   Availability Of Public Sewer; Connection Required:
      1.   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property
served by a private sewage disposal system, as provided in subsection
7-3-2D of this chapter, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer
in compliance with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar
private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable
material.
      2.   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to said sewer within sixty (60) days, and the private sewage disposal
system shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean, bank run gravel or
dirt.
   F.   Additional Regulations: No statement contained in this section shall be
construed to interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by
the county health department. (Ord., 2-27-1984)
 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 225/1 et seq.
7-3-4: BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Permit To Connect:
      1.   Permit Required: No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any
connections with or opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or
appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the village.
      2.   Classes Of Permits; Applications: There shall be two (2) classes of
building sewer permits: a) for residential wastewater service; and b) for
commercial, institutional/governmental or industrial wastewater service. In
either case, the owner or his agent shall make application on a special form
furnished by the village (see appendix 2 of ordinance codified herein). The
permit application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other
information considered pertinent in the judgment of the village.
      3.   Permit And Inspection Fee: A permit and inspection fee of twenty
five dollars ($25.00) for a residential or commercial building sewer permit
shall be paid to the village at the time the application is filed. The
industry, as a condition of permit authorization, must provide information
describing its wastewater constituents, characteristics, and type of activity.
      4.   Conditions Of Permit: A building sewer permit will only be issued
and a sewer connection shall only be allowed if it can be demonstrated that the
downstream sewerage facilities, including sewers, pump stations and wastewater
treatment facilities, have sufficient reserve capacity to adequately and
efficiently handle the additional anticipated waste load.
   B.   Separate Building Sewers: A separate and independent building sewer
shall be provided for every building; except, that where one building stands at
the rear of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can
be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or
driveway, the building sewer from the front building may be extended to the
rear building and the whole considered as one building sewer.
   C.   Use Of Old Building Sewers: Old building sewers may be used in
connection with new buildings only when they are found, on examination and test
by the village, to meet all requirements of this chapter.
   D.   Installation And Connection Requirements:
      1.   The size, slope, alignment and materials of construction of a
building sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe,
jointing, testing, and backfilling the trench shall all conform to the
requirements of the building and plumbing codes or other applicable rules and
regulations of the village. In the absence of code provisions or in
amplification thereof, the materials and procedures set forth in appropriate
specifications of the American Society of Testing Materials, "Water Pollution
Control Federation Manual Of Practice No. 9" and "Standard Specifications For
Water And Sewer Main Construction In Illinois" shall apply.
      2.   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which
any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer,
sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by a means which
is approved in accordance with subsection E1 of this section and discharged to
the building sewer.
      3.   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing codes, or other
applicable rules and regulations of the village, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the American Society of Testing Materials, "Water
Pollution Control Federation Manual Of Practice No. 9" and "Standard
Specifications For Water And Sewer Main Construction In Illinois". All such
connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any deviation from the
prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the village before
installation.
      4.   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the village.
   E.   Prohibited Discharges:
      1.   All disposal by any person into the sewer system is unlawful except
those discharges in compliance with federal standards promulgated pursuant to
the federal act and more stringent state and local standards.
      2.   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   F.   Inspections: The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify
the village when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to
the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the
village.
   G.   Liability For Costs And Expenses: All costs and expenses incident to
the installation and connection of the building sewer shall be borne by the
owner. The owner shall indemnify the village from any loss or damage that may
directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
(Ord., 2-27-1984)
7-3-5: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS:
7-3-5-1: DISCHARGES INTO SYSTEM:
   A.   Stormwater And Surface Waters:
      1.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water, or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
      2.   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the village. Industrial cooling water or
unpolluted process waters may be discharged, on approval of the village, to a
storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural outlet.
   B.   Prohibited Discharges: No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any of the following described waters or wastes to any public
sewers:
      1.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas.
      2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids,
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant.
      3.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the sewage works.
      4.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole
or ground by garbage grinders.
   C.   Restricted Discharges:
      1.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the village that such wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage
treatment process or equipment; have an adverse effect on the receiving stream;
or can otherwise endanger life, limb or public property, or constitute a
nuisance. In forming an opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the
village will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of subject
wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of
the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage
treatment plant, and maximum limits established by regulatory agencies. The
substances prohibited are:
         a.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (65°C).
         b.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous materials, or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred milligrams per liter
(100 mg/l), or containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at
temperatures between thirty two (32) and one hundred fifty degrees Fahrenheit
(150°F) (0 and 65°C).
         c.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths (3/
4) horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the village.
         d.   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling
wastes, or concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not.
         e.   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, or
similar objectionable or toxic substances, or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the village for such materials.
         f.   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the village as necessary, after treatment of the composite
sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal, or other public
agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
         g.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the village in compliance
with applicable state or federal regulations.
         h.   Any wastes or waters having a pH in excess of 9.5.
         i.   Any mercury or any of its compounds in excess of 0.0005 milligram
per liter as Hg at any time except as permitted by the village in compliance
with applicable state and federal regulations.
         j.   Any cyanide in excess of one milligram per liter (1.0 mg/l) at
any time except as permitted by the village in compliance with applicable state
and federal regulations.
         k.    Materials which exert or cause:
            (1)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as,
but not limited to, fuller's earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate);
            (2)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye
wastes and vegetable tanning solutions);
            (3)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements
in such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works;
            (4)   Unusual volume of flow or concentrations of wastes
constituting "slugs" as defined in section
7-3-1 of this chapter.
         l.   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters.
      2.   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in subsection C1 of this section, and/or which
are in violation of the standards for pretreatment provided in 40 CFR 403, June
26, 1978, and any amendments thereto, and which, in the judgment of the
village, may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes,
equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or
constitute a public nuisance, the village may:
         a.   Reject the wastes;
         b.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
         c.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         d.   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges, under the provisions
of section
7-3-5-6 of this chapter.
      3.   If the village permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste
flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject
to the review and approval of the village, and subject to the requirements of
all applicable codes, ordinances, and laws. (Ord., 2-27-1984)
7-3-5-2: INTERCEPTORS:
Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the village, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand, or other
harmful ingredients; except, that such interceptors shall not be required for
private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type
and capacity approved by the village, and shall be located as to be readily and
easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. (Ord., 2-27-1984)
7-3-5-3: PRELIMINARY TREATMENT OR FLOW EQUALIZATION:
Where preliminary treatment or flow equalizing facilities are provided, they
shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the
owner at his expense. (Ord., 2-27-1984)
7-3-5-4: CONTROL MANHOLE:
Each industry shall be required to install a control manhole, and when required
by the village, the owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall install a suitable control manhole, together with such
necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building sewer, to facilitate
observation, sampling, and measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when
required, shall be accessibly and safely located, and shall be constructed in
accordance with plans approved by the village. The manhole shall be installed
by the owner at his expense, and shall be maintained by him so as to be safe
and accessible at all times. (Ord., 2-27-1984)
7-3-5-5: MEASUREMENTS, TESTS AND ANALYSES:
   A.   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall provide laboratory measurements, tests, and analyses of
waters and wastes to illustrate compliance with this chapter and any special
conditions for discharge established by the village or regulatory agencies
having jurisdiction over the discharge.
   B.   The number, type, and frequency of laboratory analyses to be performed
by the owner shall be as stipulated by the village, but no less than once per
year the industry must supply a complete analysis of the constituents of the
wastewater discharge to assure that compliance with the federal, state, and
local standards are being met.
   C.   The owner shall report the results of measurements and laboratory
analyses to the village at such times and in such a manner as prescribed by the
village. The owner shall bear the expense of all measurements, analyses, and
reporting required by the village. At such times as deemed necessary, the
village reserves the right to take measurements and samples for analysis by an
outside laboratory service.
   D.   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of "IEPA Division Of Laboratories Manual Of
Laboratory Methods", and shall be determined at the control manhole provided,
or upon suitable samples taken at said control manhole. In the event that no
special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be considered to
be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the
building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily
accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works
and to determine the existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. The
particular analysis involved will determine whether a twenty four (24) hour
composite of all outfalls of a premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample
or samples should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids
analyses are obtained from twenty four (24) hour composites of all outfalls,
whereas pHs are determined from periodic grab samples. (Ord., 2-27-1984)
7-3-5-6: SPECIAL AGREEMENTS:
No statement contained in this section
7-3-5 shall be construed as preventing any special agreement or arrangement
between the village and any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of
unusual strength or character may be accepted by the village for treatment,
subject to payment therefor, in accordance with article A of this chapter, by
the industrial concern, provided such payments are in accordance with federal
and state guidelines for user charge system. (Ord., 2-27-1984)
7-3-6: DAMAGE TO, TAMPERING WITH SYSTEM:
No unauthorized person shall maliciously, wilfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or equipment which
is a part of the sewage works. Any person violating this section shall be
subject to immediate arrest under the charge of disorderly conduct. (Ord., 2-
27-1984)
7-3-7: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS:
   A.   Entry Powers; Limitation On Requested Information:
      1.   The village, the Illinois environmental protection agency and the
U.S. EPA, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to
enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The
village shall have no authority to inquire into any processes, including
metallurgical, chemical, oil refining, ceramic, paper, or other industries,
beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge
to the sewers or waterway or facilities for waste treatment.
      2.   The village, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be
permitted to enter all private properties through which the village holds a
duly negotiated easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of
the sewage works lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if
any, on said easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the
duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
   B.   Safety Precautions: While performing the necessary work on private
properties referred to in subsection A1 of this section, the village, the
Illinois environmental protection agency, and the U.S. environmental protection
agency shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by
the company, and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the
village employees, and the village shall indemnify the company against
liability claims and demands for personal injury or property damage asserted
against the company and growing out of the gauging and sampling operating,
except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of the company to
maintain conditions as required in section
7-3-5-5 of this chapter. (Ord., 2-27-1984)
7-3-8: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Notice Of Violation: Any person found to be violating any provision of
this chapter, except section
7-3-6, shall be served by the village with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   B.   Revocation Of Permit: The village may revoke any permit for sewage
disposal as a result of any violation of any provision of this chapter.
   C.   Fine: Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in subsection A of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each violation. Each day in which any such violation
shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense. (Ord., 2-27-1984; amd. 2009
Code)
   D.   Liability For Violations: Any person violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall become liable to the village by reasons of such violation.
(Ord., 2-27-1984)
ARTICLE A. RATES AND CHARGES
SECTION:
7-3A-1: Sewer Connection Charge
7-3A-2: Basis For Wastewater Service Charge; Surcharge
7-3A-3: Bills For Service; Liability Of Owner
7-3A-4: Delinquent Payments; Lien Provisions
7-3A-5: Revenues
7-3A-6: Accounting
7-3A-7: Notice Of Applicable Rates
7-3A-8: Appeals
7-3A-9: Access To Records
7-3A-10: Penalty
7-3A-1: SEWER CONNECTION CHARGE 1 :
All users of the sanitary sewage system receiving service for the first time
after the effective date hereof shall pay a sewer connection charge to the
village. The one time connection charge of five hundred dollars ($500.00) is
based on the costs of processing the connection permit and conducting the
necessary inspections of the sewer connection. (Ord., 2-27-1984)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  7-1-1 of this title.
7-3A-2: BASIS FOR WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE; SURCHARGE:
The wastewater service charge for the use of and for service supplied by the
wastewater facilities for the village shall consist of a user charge for
operation and maintenance plus replacement, applicable surcharges, and a debt
service charge. (Ord., 2-27-1984)
   A.   Debt Service Charge:
      1.   The debt service charge is computed by dividing the annual debt
service of all outstanding loans and bonds by the total estimated wastewater
flow, thus apportioning the annual debt service on a cost per one thousand
(1,000) gallons basis. Until such time that water meters are installed for all
users or other appropriate means are established for determining wastewater
flow from individual users, the debt service charge is computed by assigning
residential equivalent units (REUs) to all users and dividing the annual debt
service by the total number of residential equivalent units. Through further
divisions, the monthly debt service charges are computed.
      2.   Residential equivalent units shall be assigned as follows:
 Number Of REUs
                                                  Number Of REUs
Barbershops and beauty parlors                    1
   In home                                     0.50
Bowling alleys                                    0.50/alley
Car washes                                        4
Church and parsonage                              1.50
Dentists                                          1/care station
Domestic use from industrial                      1 each 10 employees (full
                                                  time)
   Commercial establishments utilizing garbage Plus 2 additional
grinder
Duplexes                                          2
Fire station                                      1
Funeral homes                                     1
Greenhouses                                       1
Halls                                             1
Hospitals                                         0.75/bed
Hotels/motels                                     0.75/rentable unit
Laundromats                                       0.333/washing machine
Medical clinics                                   1
Mobile homes/mobile home parks                    1/dwelling unit
Multiple-family dwellings                         0.8/dwelling unit
Municipal building                                1
Nursing homes                                     0.333/sleeping room
Office buildings                                  1
Post office                                       1
Refreshment stands (carryout)                     1
Restaurants                                       1 for each 50 capacity
Retail stores, warehouses, shops, banks:           
     Where employees do not exceed 10        1
     Over 10 employees                       2
Schools:                                           
     With shower facilities                  1 each 15 students
     Without shower facilities               1 each 75 students
Seasonal dwellings                                1 per dwelling unit
Single-family dwellings                           1
Taverns                                           1 for each 50 capacity
Telephone exchange                                1
Theaters                                          2
Vacant lots                                       0
Vehicle service garages:                           
     10 employees or less                    1
     Over 10 employees                       1 each additional 10
     With car wash                           1.50
Village office                                    1
 
(Ord., 2-27-1984; amd. Ord., 1-27-1986)
      3.   The monthly debt service charge shall be applied to each lateral
installed but not in service. (Ord., 1-27-1986; amd. 2009 Code)
   B.   Basic User Charge:
      1.   A basic user charge based on the annual costs related to operation
and maintenance plus replacement of equipment shall be imposed upon all users
with wastes having the following normal domestic concentrations:
         a.   A five (5) day, twenty degree centigrade (20°C) biochemical
oxygen demand (BOD) of two hundred fifty milligrams per liter (250 mg/l).
         b.   A suspended solids (SS) content of two hundred ninety milligrams
per liter (290 mg/l).
      2.   The sewer use charge has two (2) components, as follows:
         a.   Minimum charge applied equally to all users computed by dividing
the annual costs common to all users by the number of users. (Ord., 2-27-1984)
         b.   Flow charge computed by dividing the annual flow related costs by
the total wastewater flow. Until such time that water meters are installed in
the village or other appropriate means are established for determining
wastewater flow from individual users, the flow charge shall be computed by
assigning residential equivalent units to all users and dividing the annual
flow costs by the total number of residential equivalent units. Through further
divisions, the monthly flow charge is computed. (Ord., 2-27-1984; amd. 2009
Code)
   C.   Debt Service And Sewer User Charges Established:
      1.   Debt service charge: Fourteen dollars fifty cents ($14.50) per
residential equivalent unit per month. (Ord., 1-27-1986; amd. 2009 Code)
      2.   Sewer user charge:
         a.   Minimum charge: Sixteen dollars fifty cents ($16.50) per month.
(Ord., 1-27-1986; amd. per minutes dated 11-24-2008)
         b.   Flow charge: Twenty five dollars fifty cents ($25.50) per
residential equivalent unit per month. (Per minutes dated 6-26-2000; amd. 2009
Code)
   D.   Surcharge: A surcharge will be levied to all users whose waters exceed
the normal domestic concentrations of BOD (250 mg/l). The surcharge will be
based on water usage as recorded by water meters and/or sewage meters for all
wastes which exceed the two hundred fifty milligram per liter (250 mg/l)
concentration for BOD. (Ord., 2-27-1984)
   BOD SURCHARGE COMPUTATION
Two (2) units are attributable specifically to BOD. Those are aeration in the
lagoons and the chlorination. The operational costs for the units are as
follows:
 
   BOD                                   Flow
                       Amount    Percent Amount  Percent
Power for aeration     $6,770.00    90$664.00    10
Chlorination chemicals 200.00    50      200.00     50
                      6,970.00         464.00   
 
Cost for treating BOD is as follows:
 
   $6,970.00/year            = $0.212/lb. BOD
90 lbs. BOD/day x 365 days/year   
 
The rate of surcharge for BOD5 in excess of normal domestic concentration will
be: $0.212 per pound of BOD5
(Ord., 2-27-1984; amd. 2009 Code)
   E.   Disposal Of Septic Tank Sludge And Holding Tank Sewage: Persons
obtaining permission for disposing of septic tank sludge and holding tank
sewage shall be charged as follows:
 
Septic tank sludge  $10.00/1,000 gallons
Holding tank sludge 5.00/1,000 gallons
Minimum charge      5.00
 
   F.   Annual Review Of Charges: The sewer service charges shall be reviewed
not less than annually. The review shall be performed under the direction of
the village board. Charges shall be adjusted and this article amended as
required to reflect actual costs. (Ord., 2-27-1984)
7-3A-3: BILLS FOR SERVICE; LIABILITY OF OWNER:
The rates or charges for service shall be payable on the first of each month.
The owner of the premises shall be liable to pay for the service to such
premises, and the service is furnished to the premises by the village only upon
the condition that the owner of the premises shall be liable therefor to the
village. Bills for the service shall be sent out by the village treasurer on
the twentieth day of each month. (Ord., 12-27-1999; amd. 2009 Code)
7-3A-4: DELINQUENT PAYMENTS; LIEN PROVISIONS:
   A.   Due Date; Late Fee: All sewer bills are due and payable on the first
day of each month after which they are sent out. A penalty of five dollars
($5.00) shall be added to all bills that are not paid by the tenth day after
which they have been rendered. (Ord., 12-27-1999)
   B.   Discontinuance Of Service: If the charges for such services are not
paid within three (3) months after the rendition of the bill for such services,
such services shall be discontinued without notice and shall not be reinstated
until all claims are settled.
   C.   Lien Provisions:
      1.   Notice Of Delinquency:
         a.   Whenever a bill for sewer service remains unpaid for sixty (60)
days after it has been rendered, the village treasurer shall file with the
county recorder of deeds a statement of lien claim. This statement shall
contain the legal description of the premises served, the amount of the unpaid
bill, and a notice that the village claims a lien for this amount as well as
for all charges subsequent to the period covered by the bill.
         b.   If the user whose bill is unpaid is not the owner of the premises
and the village treasurer has notice of this, notice shall be mailed to the
owner of the premises if his address be known to the treasurer, whenever such
bill remains unpaid for the period forty five (45) days after it has been
rendered.
         c.   The failure of the village treasurer to record such lien or to
mail such notice or the failure of the owner to receive such notice shall not
affect the right to foreclose the lien for unpaid bills as mentioned herein.
      2.   Foreclosure Of Lien: Property subject to a lien for unpaid charges
shall be sold for nonpayment of the same, and the proceeds of the sale shall be
applied to pay the charges, after deducting costs, as is the case in the
foreclosure of statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be by bill in equity in
the name of the village. The village attorney is hereby authorized and directed
to institute such proceedings in the name of the village in any court having
jurisdiction over such matters against any property for which the bill has
remained unpaid forty five (45) days after it has been rendered. (Ord., 2-27-
1984; amd. 2009 Code)
7-3A-5: REVENUES:
   A.   Separate And Apart: All revenues and monies derived from the operation
of the sewerage system shall be deposited in the sewerage account of the
sewerage fund. All such revenues and monies shall be held by the village
treasurer separate and apart from his private funds and separate and apart from
all other funds of the village, and all of said sum, without any deductions
whatever, shall be delivered to the village treasurer not more than ten (10)
days after receipt of the same, or at such more frequent intervals, as may from
time to time be directed by the president and board of trustees.
   B.   Disposition: The village treasurer shall receive all such revenues from
the sewerage system and all other funds and monies incident to the operation of
such system as the same may be delivered to him and deposit the same in the
account of the fund designated as the "sewerage fund of the village of Scales
Mound". The treasurer shall administer such fund in every respect in the manner
provided by statute of the revised cities and villages act, effective January
1942 1 . (Ord., 2-27-1984)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS.
7-3A-6: ACCOUNTING:
   A.   Books And Accounts: The village treasurer shall establish a proper
system of accounts and shall keep proper books, records, and accounts in which
complete and correct entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the
sewerage system, and at regular annual intervals, he shall cause to be made an
audit by an independent auditing concern of the books to show the receipts and
disbursements of the sewerage system.
   B.   Annual Audit: In addition to the customary operating statements, the
annual audit report shall also reflect the revenues and operating expenses of
the wastewater facilities, including a replacement cost, to indicate that sewer
service charges under the waste cost recovery system and capital amounts
required to be recovered under the industrial cost recovery system do in fact
meet these regulations. In this regard, the financial information to be shown
in the audit report shall include the following:
      1.   Flow data showing total gallons received at the wastewater plant for
the current fiscal year.
      2.   Billing data to show total number of gallons billed per fiscal year.
      3.   Debt service for the next succeeding fiscal year.
      4.   Number of users connected to the system.
      5.   Number of nonmetered users.
      6.   A list of users discharging nondomestic and industrial wastes and
volume of waste discharged. (Ord., 2-27-1984)
7-3A-7: NOTICE OF APPLICABLE RATES:
Each user will be notified by the village in conjunction with a regular bill of
the rate and that portion of the user charges or ad valorem taxes which are
attributable to wastewater treatment services, including the financial
information of section
7-3A-6 of this article. (Ord., 2-27-1984)
7-3A-8: APPEALS:
The method for computation of rates and service charges established for user
charges in this article shall be made available to a user within thirty (30)
days of receipt of a written request for such. Any disagreement over the method
used or in the computations thereof shall be remedied by the village within
thirty (30) days after notification of a formal written appeal outlining the
discrepancies. (Ord., 2-27-1984)
7-3A-9: ACCESS TO RECORDS:
The IEPA or its authorized representative shall have access to any books,
documents, papers and records of the village which are applicable to the
village system of user charges or industrial cost recovery for the purpose of
making audit, examination, excerpts and transcriptions thereof to ensure
compliance with the terms of the special and general conditions to any state
grant and/or federal regulations and conditions of the federal grant. (Ord., 2-
27-1984; amd. 2009 Code)
7-3A-10: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provisions of this article shall
be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (Ord., 2-27-1984; amd. 2009 Code)
TITLE 8
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE; PURPOSE; JURISDICTION; INTERPRETATION
SECTION:
8-1-1: Title
8-1-2: Purposes
8-1-3: Jurisdiction
8-1-4: Interpretation
8-1-5: Validity
8-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known as the SCALES MOUND ZONING ORDINANCE. (Amended Ord.,
2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-1-2: PURPOSES:
This title is adopted for the following general purposes:
   A.   To divide the village and such adjacent unincorporated areas, as
permitted by statute, into zoning districts and regulating within said
districts the location, erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, and
use of buildings, structures, and land.
   B.   To regulate the intensity of the use of lot areas and to control the
area of open spaces around such buildings or structures so as to provide
adequate light, air, privacy, convenience of access, and the protection of the
public health.
   C.   To protect and preserve the character, value, and stability of the
residential, business, industrial, agricultural and public areas within the
village and such adjacent unincorporated areas as may be permitted by state
statutes, and to promote the orderly and beneficial development of such areas.
   D.   To prohibit uses, buildings, or structures incompatible with, or
deleterious to, the character of development or intended uses within specified
zoning districts.
   E.   To prevent additions to, and alterations and remodeling of, existing
buildings or structures in such a way as to avoid the restrictions and
limitations lawfully imposed hereunder.
   F.   To limit congestion of public streets and protect public health,
safety, pedestrian rights, convenience and general welfare by regulating
vehicular parking areas and loading areas.
   G.   To provide for the gradual elimination of nonconforming uses of land,
buildings, and structures which are adversely affecting the character, the
intended use, or the value of desirable development as specified for each
district.
   H.   To designate public areas and land for aesthetic, cultural, and
recreational purposes for the health, welfare, comfort, safety, and enjoyment
of people, conveniently located and easily accessible to residents of all ages.
   I.   To secure safety from fire, explosives, noxious fumes, panic, and other
dangers in the interest of public health, safety, comfort, and general welfare.
   J.   To conserve the taxable value of land and buildings throughout the
village.
   K.   To provide penalties for violation of this title as may be permitted by
state statutes.
   L.   To define and limit the powers and duties of the administrative
officers and bodies as provided herein so as to ensure the rights of equal
treatment, due process, and the public interest and in accordance with state
statutes.
   M.   To attain the objectives established by the comprehensive plan for the
future development of the village.
   N.   To control floodplain uses such as fill, dumping, storage of materials,
structures, buildings, and any other works which, acting alone or in
combination with other existing or future uses, will cause damaging flood
heights and velocities by obstructing flows and reducing valley storage.
   O.   To control development which will, when acting alone or in combination
with similar development, cause flood losses if public streets, sewer, water,
and other utilities must be extended below the flood level to serve the
development.
   P.   To control development which will, when acting alone or in combination
with similar development, create an additional burden to the public to pay the
costs of rescue, relief, emergency preparedness measures, sandbagging, pumping,
and temporary dikes or levees. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-1-3: JURISDICTION:
The powers, limits, and duties established by this title may be exercised
within the corporate limits of the village and within the contiguous
unincorporated territory not more than one and one-half (11/2) miles beyond the
corporate limits of the village and in accordance with applicable state
statutes. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-1-4: INTERPRETATION:
In interpreting and applying the provisions of this title, they shall be held
to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the safety, health,
convenience, comfort, prosperity, and general welfare. It is not intended by
this title to interfere with, abrogate, amend, or repeal in any ordinance,
rules, or regulations previously adopted and not in conflict with any of the
provisions of this title or which shall be adopted pursuant to law relating to
the use of buildings or premises, nor is it intended by this title to interfere
with or abrogate or annul any easements, covenants, or other agreements between
parties; except, that where this title imposes a greater restriction upon the
use of buildings or premises or upon the height of buildings or requires larger
open spaces than are imposed or required by such other ordinances or such
easements, covenants, or other agreements, the provisions of this title shall
control. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-1-5: VALIDITY:
Should any section, clause, or provision of this title be declared by the
courts to be invalid, the same shall not affect the validity of this title as a
whole or any part hereof other than the part so declared to be invalid.
(Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
CHAPTER 2
RULES AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Scope
8-2-2: Rules Of Word Construction
8-2-3: Definitions
8-2-1: SCOPE:
In the construction of this title, the rules and definitions contained in this
chapter shall be observed and applied, except when the context clearly
indicates otherwise. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-2-2: RULES OF WORD CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Words used in the present tense shall include the future; words used in
the singular number shall include the plural number, and the plural the
singular.
   B.   The word "shall" is mandatory and not discretionary; the word "may" is
permissive.
   C.   The word "lot" shall include the words "plot", "piece", and "parcel";
the word "building" includes all other structures of every kind, regardless of
similarity to buildings; and the phrase "used for" shall include the phrases
"arranged for", "designed for", "intended for", "is maintained for", and
"occupied for". (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
ACCESSORY BUILDING OR USE: One which:
   A.   Is subordinate to and serves a principal building or principal use.
   B.   Is subordinate in area, extent or purpose to the principal building or
principal use served.
   C.   Contributes to the comfort, convenience, or necessity of occupants of
the principal building or principal use served.
   D.   Is located on the same zoning lot as the principal building or
principal use served with the single exception of such accessory off street
parking facilities as are permitted to locate elsewhere than on the same zoning
lot with the building or use served.
   E.   Occupies not more than five percent (5%) of the area of the lot on
which the main building is situated, and which is not higher than the principal
building, and in residentially zoned districts, shall not exceed fifteen feet
(15') in height.
ACCESSORY USE IN BUSINESS OR COMMERCIAL ZONING DISTRICTS: Includes, but is not
limited to, the storage of merchandise normally carried in stock on the same
lot with any retail service or business use, unless storage is excluded by the
district regulations.
ACCESSORY USE IN RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS: Includes, but is not limited to,
the following:
   A.   A children's playhouse, garden house, swimming pool, and private
greenhouse.
   B.   A garage, shed, or building for domestic storage.
   C.   Incinerators and air conditioning units incidental to residential use.
ACREAGE: Any tract or parcel of land which has not been subdivided and platted.
AGRICULTURAL BUILDING OR STRUCTURE: Any building or structure existing or
erected on land used principally for agricultural purposes, with the exception
of dwelling units.
AGRICULTURE: A. The use of land for agricultural purposes, including farming,
dairying, pasturage, apiculture, horticulture, floriculture, viticulture and
animal and poultry husbandry, and the necessary accessory uses for packing,
treating, or storing the produce; provided, however, that the operation of any
such accessory uses shall be secondary to that of the normal agricultural
activities.
   B.   "Agriculture" shall not include the commercial feeding of garbage or
offal to swine or other animals, the commercial feeding of animals on open lots
where no feed is raised on the premises, or the commercial feeding of
furbearing animals, poultry broilers, or laboratory animals such as mice,
rabbits, rats, etc.
AIRCRAFT: Any contrivance, now known or hereafter invented for use in or
designed for navigation of or flight in the air.
AIRPORT (LANDING STRIP HELIPORT OR AIRCRAFT STOP): Any premises which are used
or intended for use for the landing and taking off of aircraft; and any
appurtenant areas which are used or intended for use for buildings incidental
to aircraft services, together with all buildings and structures thereon.
ALLEY: A narrow thoroughfare upon which abuts generally the rear of premises or
upon which service entrances of buildings abut, and which is not generally used
as a thoroughfare by both pedestrians and vehicles, or which is not used for
general traffic circulation, or which is not in excess of thirty feet (30') in
width at its intersection with a street.
APARTMENT: One or more rooms in an apartment building, or combination apartment
and commercial building, arranged, intended or designed or occupied as a
dwelling unit of a single family, an individual, or a group of individuals.
APARTMENT BUILDING: A multiple-family dwelling originally designed and
constructed to accommodate one or more apartments.
AUTO REPAIR, MAJOR AND MINOR: Engine rebuilding or major or minor
reconditioning of worn or damaged motor vehicles, or trailers; collision
service, including body, frame, or fender straightening or repair, and overall
painting of vehicles.
AUTOMOBILE AND TRAILER SALES AREA: An open area, other than a street, used for
the display or sale of new or used automobiles or trailers, and where no repair
work is done except for minor incidental repair of automobiles or trailers to
be displayed and sold on the premises.
AUTOMOBILE LAUNDRY: A building, or portion thereof, containing facilities for
washing more than two (2) automobiles, using production line methods with a
chain conveyor, blower, steam cleaning device, or other mechanical devices.
AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION: Any building or premises used for the dispensing,
sale, or offering for sale at retail to the public of automobile fuels stored
only in underground tanks and located wholly within the lot lines; lubricating
oil or grease for the operation of automobiles; and the sale and installation
of tires, batteries, and other minor accessories, but not including auto
repairs, automobile wrecking, automobile sales, or automobile laundries;
provided, however, that the washing of individual automobiles where no chain
conveyor is employed may be included. When the dispensing, sale, or offering
for sale of motor fuels or oil is incidental to the conduct of a public garage,
the premises shall be classified as a "public garage". The term "automobile
service station" shall not include the sale or storage of trucks or junkers as
defined herein, except trucks used in the operation of the service station, and
shall not include a bulk plant.
AUTOMOBILE WRECKING: The dismantling or wrecking of used motor vehicles or
trailers, or the storage, sale, or dumping of dismantled, partially dismantled,
obsolete, or wrecked vehicles or their parts.
BASEMENT: A story having part but not more than one-half (1/2) of its height
below grade. A "basement" is counted as a story for the purpose of height
regulation if subdivided and used for dwelling purposes other than by a janitor
employed on the premises.
BILLBOARD: See definition of Sign, Advertising; Off Premises.
BLOCK: That property on one side of a street between two (2) adjacent streets
which intersect the street in question.
BOARD: The village board of appeals.
BOARDING HOUSE: A building or premises where meals are regularly served by
prearrangement for definite periods of compensation for three (3) or more
persons, not a family, but not exceeding twelve (12) persons, not open to
transient guests, in contradistinction to hotels or restaurants open to
transients.
BUILDABLE AREA: The space remaining on a zoning lot after the minimum open
space requirements of this title have been complied with.
BUILDING: A structure having a roof, supported by columns or walls, for the
shelter, support, or enclosure of persons, animals, or chattels; and when
separated by division walls from the ground up and without openings, each
portion of such building shall be as a separate building.
BUILDING AREA: The maximum horizontal projected area of a building and its
accessory buildings, excluding only cornices projecting not more than twenty
four inches (24"), open steps, and terraces.
BUILDING, COMPLETELY ENCLOSED: A "completely enclosed building" is a building
separated on all sides from the adjacent open space, or from other buildings or
other structures by a permanent roof and by exterior walls or party walls,
pierced only by windows and normal entrance or exit doors.
BUILDING, DETACHED: A building surrounded by open space, said open space being
on the same zoning lot as the building.
BUILDING LINE: A line between which it and any street line of a district lot,
lot, tract, or parcel of land, no buildings or parts of buildings may be
erected, altered, or maintained.
BUILDING LINE SETBACK: The distance between the building line and the street
line in a district, lot, tract, or parcel of land.
BUILDING, NONCONFORMING: See definition of Nonconforming Building.
BUILDING, PRINCIPAL: A nonaccessory building in which a principal use on the
zoning lot on which it is located is conducted.
BUILDING UNIT GROUP: Two (2) or more buildings (other than dwellings) grouped
upon a lot and held under one ownership, such as universities, hospitals,
institutions, churches and temples, and industrial plants.
BULK: The term used to indicate the size and setbacks of buildings or
structures and location of same with respect to one another and includes the
following:
   A.   Size and height of buildings;
   B.   Location of exterior walls at all levels in relation to lot lines,
streets, or to other buildings;
   C.   Gross floor area of buildings in relation to lot area (floor area
ratio);
   D.   All open spaces allocated to buildings; and
   E.   Amount of lot area per dwelling unit.
BULK PLANT: A "bulk storage plant" shall mean any place where flammable liquids
and/or hazardous materials are received by tanker, barge, pipeline, tank car or
vessel or truck and are stored or blended in bulk for the purpose of
distributing such liquids or materials by tank/truck, pipeline, tank car, tank
vessel or container.
BUS LOT: Any lot or land area used for the storage or layover of passenger
buses or motor coaches.
BUSINESS: The word "business" or the word "commerce", when used in this title,
means the engaging in the purchase, sale, barter or exchange of goods, wares,
or merchandise; or the maintenance or operation of offices or recreational or
amusement enterprises.
CAPACITY IN PERSONS: The "capacity in persons" of an establishment or use is
the maximum number of persons that can avail themselves of the services (or
goods) of such establishment, at any one time, with reasonable comfort.
CELLAR: A story having more than one-half (1/2) of its height below the curb
level or below the highest level of the adjoining land. A "cellar" shall not be
counted as a story for the purpose of height measurement.
CHANNEL: A natural or artificial watercourse of perceptible extent, with a
definite bed and banks to confine and conduct continuously or periodically
flowing water. "Channel flow" thus is that water which is flowing within the
limits of the defined channel.
CLINIC OR MEDICAL HEALTH CENTER: An establishment where patients are admitted
for special study and treatment by one or more licensed physicians and their
professional associates, practicing medicine together, with the treatment or
care in the building limited to periods of less than forty eight (48) hours in
any week.
CLOSED CUP FLASHPOINT: The lowest temperature at which a combustible liquid,
under prescribed conditions, will give off a flammable vapor which will burn
momentarily.
CLUB: An association of persons for some common purpose which is jointly
supported and meets periodically, but not including groups organized primarily
to render service which is customarily carried on as a business.
COMMISSION: The village board of the village of Scales Mound, Illinois.
CORNER LOT: See definition of Lot, Corner.
CUL-DE-SAC: A street having one open end and being permanently terminated by a
vehicle turnaround.
CURB LEVEL: The level of the established curb in front of the building measured
at the center of such front. Where a building faces on more than one street,
the "curb level" shall be the average of the levels of the curbs at the center
of the front of each street. Where no curb elevation has been established, the
mean level of the land immediately adjacent to the building shall be considered
the "curb level".
DECIBEL: A unit of measurement of the intensity (loudness) of sound. Sound
level meters which are employed to measure the intensity of sound are
calibrated to "decibels".
DEPTH OF REAR YARD: The mean horizontal distance between the rear line of the
building and the centerline of the alley, where an alley exists, otherwise, the
rear lot line.
DEVELOPMENT, CLUSTER: A "cluster development" is a planned development or
subdivision of a tract of land into residential lots. A "cluster development"
shall meet the minimum acreage requirements of planned developments. The
individual lots shall have areas no smaller than eighty seven and one-half
percent (871/2%) of the area required by the regulations of the zone in which
the land lies. However, the total number of lots shall not exceed the number
that would be permitted if the area had been developed with lot sizes as
required by the zoning district. The residential area thus created shall
consist of at least twelve and one-half percent (121/2%) of the gross area of
the tract or parcel. This residential area shall be dedicated to the village
for public use or otherwise developed as required by the village board.
DWELLING: A building or portion thereof, but not including a house trailer or
mobile home, designed or used exclusively for a residential occupancy,
including one-family dwelling units, but not including hotels or boarding or
lodging houses.
DWELLING, ATTACHED (GROUP ROW OR TOWN HOUSES): A dwelling joined to two (2)
other dwellings by party walls.
DWELLING, CONVERTED: Any building which was originally designed and constructed
as a one-, two-, or three-family dwelling, but which has been changed or
altered by the construction of additional dwelling units to provide for more
families than the original building.
DWELLING, DETACHED: A dwelling entirely surrounded by open space, said open
space being on the same zoning lot as the dwelling.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A dwelling containing three (3) or more dwelling
units, designed with more than one dwelling unit connecting to a common
corridor or entranceway, originally constructed for said purpose; and not
including converted dwellings or attached row dwellings (party wall type) as
defined herein.
DWELLING, SEMIDETACHED: A dwelling joined to one other dwelling by a party
wall.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A dwelling containing accommodations for and occupied
by one family only, either attached, detached, or semidetached.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A building designed exclusively for occupancy by two (2)
families living independently of each other.
DWELLING UNIT: One or more rooms in a dwelling or apartment- hotel designed for
occupancy by one family for living purposes and having its own permanently
installed cooking and sanitary facilities.
EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION: Public, parochial, charitable, or nonprofit junior
college, college, or university, other than trade or business schools,
including instructional and recreational uses, with or without living quarters,
dining rooms, restaurants, heating plants, and other incidental facilities for
students, teachers, and employees.
EFFICIENCY UNIT: A dwelling unit consisting of one room, exclusive of bathroom,
kitchen, hallway, closets, or dining alcove directly off the principal room,
provided such dining alcove does not exceed one hundred twenty five (125)
square feet in area.
ELEEMOSYNARY INSTITUTION: A building or group of buildings devoted to and
supported by charity.
ESTABLISHMENT, BUSINESS: A separate place of business having the following
characteristics:
   A.   The ownership and management of all operations conducted within such
establishment are separate and distinct from the ownership and management of
operations conducted within other establishments on the same or adjacent zoning
lot.
   B.   Direct public access to such "business establishment" is separate and
distinct from direct access to any other "business establishment".
FAMILY: One or more individuals occupying a dwelling unit and living as a
single household unit.
FARM DWELLING: The principal dwelling unit (see definition of Dwelling Unit) on
a parcel of land used for agriculture. This dwelling shall be occupied by the
owner or his tenant who is actively engaged in agriculture as the primary
source of income.
FARMSTEAD: That area of an agricultural use area which contains the farm
dwelling and accessory buildings or structures, but not including areas used
for crops or animal pasturage.
FLOOD: A temporary rise in stream flow or stage that results in water
overtopping its banks and inundating areas adjacent to the channel.
FLOOD FRINGE: That portion of the floodplain outside the floodway.
FLOOD PROFILE: A graph or a longitudinal profile showing the relationship of
the water surface elevation of a flood event to location along a stream or
river.
FLOODPLAIN: The land adjacent to a body of water which has been or may be
hereafter covered by floodwater including, but not limited to, the regulatory
flood.
FLOODPROOFING: A combination of structural provisions, changes, or adjustments
to properties and structures subject to flooding primarily for the reduction or
elimination of flood damages to properties, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and contents of buildings in a flood hazard area.
FLOODWAY: The channel of a stream and those portions of the floodplain
adjoining the channel that are required to carry and discharge the floodwater
or flood flows of a river or stream including, but not limited to, flood flows
associated with the regulatory flood.
FLOOR AREA (For Determining Floor Area Ratio): For the purpose of determining
the floor area ratio, the "floor area" of a building is the sum of the gross
horizontal areas of the several floors of the building measured from the
exterior faces of the exterior walls or from the centerline of walls separating
two (2) buildings. The "floor areas" of a building shall include basement floor
area when more than one-half (1/2) of the basement height is above the
established curb level or above the finished lot grade level where no curb
level has been established; elevator shafts and stairwells at each floor; floor
space used for mechanical equipment, except equipment, open or enclosed,
located on the roof; penthouses; attic space having headroom of seven feet six
inches (7'6") or more; interior balconies and mezzanines; enclosed porches; and
floor area devoted to accessory uses. However, any space devoted to off street
parking or loading shall not be included in "floor area". The "floor area" of
structures devoted to bulk storage of materials including, but not limited to,
grain elevators and petroleum storage tanks, shall be determined on the basis
of height in feet, i.e., ten feet (10') in height shall equal one floor.
FLOOR AREA (For Determining Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements): A.
The term "floor area", when prescribed as the basis of measurement for off
street parking spaces and loading berths for any use, shall mean the sum of the
gross horizontal areas of the several floors of the building, or portion
thereof, devoted to such use, including accessory storage areas located within
selling or working space such as counters, racks, or closets, and any basement
floor area devoted to retailing activities, to the production or processing of
goods, or to business or professional offices.
   B.   However, "floor area", for the purpose of measurement for off street
parking spaces, shall not include floor area devoted primarily to storage
purposes (except as otherwise noted herein); floor area devoted to off street
parking or loading facilities, including aisles, ramps, and maneuvering space;
or basement floor areas other than area devoted to retailing activities, to the
production or processing of goods, or to business or professional offices.
FLOOR AREA RATIO (FAR): The "floor area ratio" of the building or buildings on
any zoning lot is the floor area of the building or buildings on that zoning
lot divided by the area of such zoning lot, or planned developments, by the net
site area. The "floor area ratio" requirements, as set forth under each zoning
district, shall determine the maximum floor area allowable for the building or
buildings (total floor area of both principal and accessory buildings) in
direct ratio to the gross area of the zoning lot.
FREE BURNING: A rate of combustion described by a material which burns actively
and easily supports combustion.
FREQUENCY: The number of oscillations per second in a sound wave and is an
index of the pitch of the resulting sounds.
FRONTAGE: All the property fronting on one side of a street between the two (2)
nearest intersecting streets, measured along the line of the street, or if dead
ended, then all of the property abutting on one side between an intersecting
street and the dead end of the street.
GARAGE, BUS: Any building used or intended to be used for the storage of
passenger motor business or motor coaches used in public transportation,
including school buses.
GARAGE, BUS OR TRUCK: A building which is used or intended to be used for the
storage of motor trucks, truck-trailers, tractors, and commercial vehicles.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: A detached accessory building or portion of the main building
designed, arranged, used, or intended to be used for the storage of passenger
automobiles of the occupants of the premises.
GARAGE, PUBLIC: A building, other than a private garage, used for the care,
incidental servicing, and sale of automobile supplies, or where motor vehicles
are parked or stored for remuneration, hire, or sale within the structure, but
not including trucks, tractors, truck-trailers, and commercial vehicles
exceeding one and one-half (11/2) tons' capacity.
GRADE, STREET: The elevation of the established street in front of the building
measured at curb level at the center of such front. Where no street grade has
been established, the village board shall establish such street grade or its
equivalent for the purpose of this title.
GUESTHOUSE (BED AND BREAKFAST): An owner occupied dwelling providing a room or
rooms for overnight accommodations to the public, and if desired, breakfasts
may be served to the guests thereof. Rental is on a transient basis and for a
charge, meaning any form of remuneration such as cash, goods, services, barter,
donations, forgiveness of indebtedness, or other like payment. In agricultural
districts, a guesthouse/bed and breakfast may incorporate the use of accessory
buildings detached from the main house, provided such are suitable for human
habitation. For the purpose of this definition, "guestroom" shall mean a
sleeping room intended to serve not more than two (2) guests per night.
HEIGHT OF BUILDING: The vertical distance measured from the sidewalk level of
its equivalent established grade opposite the middle of the front of the
building to the highest point of the front. Where a building is located upon a
terrace or slope, the height shall be measured from the average grade at the
front of the building.
HOME OCCUPATION: The conduct of an art or profession, the offering of a
service, the conduct of a business or the handicraft manufacture of products
for gain in accordance with provisions in section
8-3B-5 of this title. There shall be no exterior display or sign except as
allowed in the sign regulations for the district in which such "home
occupation" is located, and there shall be no exterior storage of equipment or
materials used in connection with the "home occupation".
HOSPITAL OR SANITARIUM: An institution devoted primarily to the maintenance and
operation of facilities for the diagnosis, treatment or care for individuals
suffering from illness, disease, injury, deformity or other abnormal physical
conditions. The term "hospital", as used in this title, does not apply to
institutions operating primarily for treatment of insane persons, drug addicts,
liquor addicts, or other types of cases necessitating restraint of patients;
and the term "hospital" shall not include convalescent, nursing, shelter, or
boarding homes.
HOTEL: A building in which lodging or board and lodging are provided and
offered to the public for compensation and in which ingress and egress to and
from all rooms is made through an inside lobby or office supervised by a person
in charge at all hours. As such, the "hotel" is open to the public in
contradistinction to a boarding house, a lodging house, or an apartment house,
which are separately defined.
HOTEL APARTMENT: A building containing dwelling units or individual guestrooms,
the majority of which are for permanent guests. Maid and janitor service may be
provided, but kitchen facilities are not necessarily included.
HOUSEHOLDER: The occupant of a dwelling unit who is either the owner or lessee
thereof.
INCOMBUSTIBLE: Materials which do not in themselves constitute an active fuel
for the spread of combustion. A material which will not ignite nor actively
support combustion during an exposure for five (5) minutes at a temperature of
one thousand two hundred degrees Fahrenheit (1,200°F) shall be designated
"incombustible".
INNER COURT: Any court other than an "outer court" of a yard, as defined in
this section.
INSTITUTION, EDUCATIONAL: See definition of Educational Institution.
INSTITUTION, ELEEMOSYNARY: See definition of Eleemosynary Institution.
JUNK: Old or scrap copper, brass, rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash, rubber,
and debris; waste other than garbage or toxic substances; or junked,
dismantled, or wrecked motor vehicles or motorboats or parts thereof; or iron,
steel, and other old or scrap ferrous or nonferrous material.
JUNK DEALER: Any person, firm, or corporation which operates a junkyard or is
otherwise engaged in the business of buying, trading, storing, selling, or
otherwise acquiring or disposing of junk in any quantity, and from which his,
their, or its gross revenues in any fiscal year exceed one thousand dollars
($1,000.00).
JUNKYARD: An establishment or place of business which is maintained, operated,
or used for storing, keeping, buying, or selling junk; or for the maintenance
or operation of any establishment or place of business which is maintained,
used, or operated for storing, keeping, buying, or selling wrecked, scrapped,
ruined, or dismantled motor vehicles or motorboats or motor vehicle or
motorboat parts; or any establishment having facilities for processing iron,
steel, nonferrous scrap, mineral water or slag, whether by remelting or
otherwise; but said term shall not include any garbage dump or toxic waste dump
or sanitary fill.
KENNEL, COMMERCIAL: Any lot or premises or portion thereof on which more than
four (4) dogs or cats, or other household domestic animals over four (4) months
of age, are kept or on which more than two (2) such animals are boarded for
compensation or kept for sale.
LABORATORY, COMMERCIAL: A place devoted to experimental study such as testing
and analyzing. Manufacturing, assembly, or packaging of products is not
included within this definition.
LENGTH OF OUTER COURT: The mean horizontal distance between the open and closed
ends of the court.
LIMITED ACCESS HIGHWAY: A trafficway, including expressways and toll roads for
through traffic, in respect to which owners or occupants of abutting property
or lands and other persons have no legal right of access to or from the same
except at such points only and in such manner as may be determined by the
public authority having jurisdiction over such trafficway.
LOADING AND UNLOADING SPACE, OFF STREET: An open, hard surfaced area of land,
other than a street or public way, the principal use of which is for the
standing, loading, and unloading of motor trucks, tractors, and trailers, to
avoid undue interference with the public use of streets and alleys. Such space
shall be not less than twelve feet (12') in width, fifty feet (50') in length,
and fourteen feet (14') in height, exclusive of access aisles and maneuvering
space.
LODGE OR FRATERNAL ORDER: A "lodge" is a hall or meeting place of a local
branch or the members composing such a branch of a fraternal order, or society,
such as the Masons, Knights of Columbus, Moose, American Legion and other
similar organizations. It may be permissible to serve food and meals on such
premises, provided adequate dining room space and kitchen facilities are
available. The sale of alcoholic beverages to members and their guests may be
allowed, provided it is secondary and incidental to the promotion of some other
common objective by the organization, and further provided, that such sale of
alcoholic beverages is in compliance with the applicable federal, state,
county, and village laws.
LODGING OR ROOMING HOUSE: A building with not more than five (5) guestrooms
where lodging is provided for compensation pursuant to previous arrangement,
but not open to the public or to overnight guests.
LOT: A parcel of land occupied or to be occupied by one building and accessory
buildings and uses and including the open spaces required under this title. A
"lot" may be land so recorded on the records of the recorder of deeds or in the
office of the registrar of titles of Jo Daviess County, Illinois, but it may
include parts of or a combination of such ground as used for only one
improvement, and resubdivided or combined and properly recorded.
LOT, CORNER: A lot located at the intersection of two (2) streets or a lot
bounded on two (2) sides by a curbing street and any two (2) chords of which
form an angle of one hundred twenty degrees (120°) or less, measured on the lot
side.
LOT COVERAGE: The area of a zoning lot occupied by the principal building or
buildings and accessory buildings.
LOT DEPTH: The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines.
LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE: A lot having frontage on two (2) nonintersecting streets
as distinguished from a corner lot.
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot other than a corner or reversed corner lot.
LOT LINE, FRONT: The front property line of a zoning lot.
LOT LINE, INTERIOR: A side lot line common with another lot.
LOT LINE, REAR: The lot line or lot lines most nearly parallel to and most
remote from the front lot line. Lot lines other than front or rear lot lines
are side lot lines.
LOT OF RECORD: A lot which is part of a subdivision, the plat of which has been
recorded in the office of the recorder of deeds of Jo Daviess County, pursuant
to statute.
LOT WIDTH: The horizontal distance between the side lot lines measured at right
angles to the lot depth at the established front building line.
MARQUEE OR CANOPY: A roof like structure of a permanent nature which projects
from the wall of a building.
MICRON: A unit of length equal to one thousandth part of one millimeter (0.001
millimeter).
MOBILE HOME DWELLING: A detached residential dwelling unit designed for
transportation, after fabrication, on streets or highways on its own wheels or
on flatbed or other trailers, and arriving at the site where it is to be
occupied as a dwelling complete and ready for occupancy except for minor and
incidental unpacking or assembly operations, connections to utilities, and the
like. A recreation travel trailer is not to be considered as a mobile home.
MOBILE HOME PARK: Any site, lot, parcel or tract of land where one or more
mobile homes are invited or allowed to be located and shall include all
buildings or other structures thereon for use as part of the equipment,
regardless of whether or not a charge is made for such location and use.
MODERATE BURNING: A rate of combustion described by a material which supports
combustion and is consumed slowly as it burns.
MOTEL: An establishment consisting of a group of attached or detached living or
sleeping accommodations with bathroom and closet space, located on a single
zoning lot and designed for use by transient automobile tourists, with garage
attached or parking space conveniently located to each unit. A "motel"
furnishes customary hotel services such as maid service and laundering of
linen, telephone, and secretarial or desk service, and the use and upkeep of
furniture. In a "motel", less than fifty percent (50%) of the living and
sleeping accommodations are occupied or designed for occupancy by persons other
than transient automobile tourists.
MOTOR FREIGHT TERMINAL: A building in which freight, brought to said building
by motor truck, is assembled and sorted for routing by motor truck.
MOTOR TRUCK REPAIR SHOP: A premises where motor trucks, tractors, truck-
trailers and industrial and commercial vehicles in excess of one and one-half
(11/2) tons' capacity, or their bodies, are overhauled, rebuilt, or repaired.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Any passenger vehicle, truck, tractor, tractor-trailer, truck-
trailer, trailer, or semitrailer propelled or drawn by mechanical power.
NAMEPLATE: A sign indicating the name and/or address of a building or the name
of an occupant thereof and/or the practice of a permitted occupation.
NONCONFORMING BUILDING: A building or structure or portion thereof lawfully
existing at the effective date hereof, which was designed, erected, or
structurally altered for a use that does not conform to the use regulations of
the district in which it is located.
NONCONFORMING USE: A use which lawfully occupied a building or land at the
effective date hereof and which does not conform with the use regulations of
the district in which it is located.
NOXIOUS MATTER OR MATERIALS: Matter which is capable of causing injury to
living organisms by chemical reaction or is capable of causing detrimental
effects upon the physical or economic well being of individuals.
NURSERY, DAY: An institution providing care for three (3) or more children
under the age of four (4) years for periods of more than four (4) hours, but
not exceeding twenty four (24) hours.
NURSERY SCHOOL: An institution providing daycare service and schooling for
children from four (4) to six (6) years of age.
NURSING HOME OR REST HOME: See definition of Rest Home Or Nursing Home.
OBSTRUCTION: Any dam, wall, wharf, embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment,
projection, excavation, channel rectification, bridge, conduit, culvert,
building, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill, structure, or matter in,
along, across, or projecting into any channel, watercourse, or regulatory flood
hazard area which may impede, retard, or change the direction of the flow of
water, either in itself or by catching or collecting debris carried by such
water, or that is placed where the flow of water might carry the same
downstream to the damage of life or property.
OCTAVE BAND: A means of dividing the range of sound frequencies into octaves in
order to classify sound according to pitch.
OCTAVE BAND FILTER: An electrical frequency analyzer designed according to
standards formulated by the American Standards Association and used in
conjunction with a sound level meter to take measurements in specific octave
intervals.
ODOROUS MATTER: Any matter or material that yields an odor which is offensive
in any way.
OUTER COURT: A court, other than a yard, having at least one side thereof
opening onto a street, alley, or yard or other permanent open space.
PARKING AREA, PRIVATE: An open, hard surfaced area, other than a street or
alley, used for the parking of private passenger automobiles only, of occupants
of the building or buildings for which the parking area is developed and is
necessary.
PARKING AREA, PUBLIC: An open, hard surfaced area, other than a street or
public way, intended to be used for the storage of passenger automobiles and
commercial vehicles under one and one-half (11/2) tons' capacity, and available
to the public, whether for compensation, free, or as an accommodation to
clients or customers.
PARKING AREA, TRUCK: Any land used or intended to be used for the storage or
parking of trucks, tractors, and truck- trailers, and including commercial
vehicles, while not loading or unloading and which exceed one and one-half (11/
2) tons in capacity.
PARKING SPACE, AUTOMOBILE: Space within a public or private parking area of not
less than one hundred eighty (180) square feet (9 feet by 20 feet), exclusive
of access drives or aisles, ramps, columns, or office and work areas, for the
storage of one passenger automobile or commercial vehicle under one and one-
half (11/2) tons' capacity.
PARTICULATE MATTER: Material, other than water, which is suspended in or
discharged into the atmosphere in a finely divided form as a liquid or solid.
PEDESTRIANWAY, PUBLIC: Any walk, path, stairway, plaza, court, mall or other
way open to the public and used exclusively or primarily by pedestrians.
PERFORMANCE STANDARD: A criterion established to control noise, odor, smoke,
toxic or noxious matter, vibration, fire and explosive hazards, or glare or
heat generated by, or inherent in, uses of land or buildings.
PLANNED BUSINESS CENTER: Any commercial development, consisting of one or more
buildings containing two (2) or more stores or offices, which development may
be planned or developed as a coordinated unit or which development may be
characterized by an integrated arrangement of stores, offices, buildings and
facilities, shall be considered as a single unit for all purposes within the
meaning and scope of this title, and shall be permitted only by special permit
as a special use in accordance with the provisions of this title.
PLANNED DEVELOPMENT: A tract of land which is developed as a unit under single
ownership or control, which includes two (2) or more principal buildings, and
which is at least five (5) acres in area. In residential districts, said
"planned development" includes a group housing project (whether separately
located or separated only, but completely, by fire walls) where the existing or
contemplated street or streets and lot layouts make it impractical to apply the
bulk regulations of this title to the individual units in such housing project.
PORCH: A roofed over structure, projecting out from the wall or walls of a main
structure and commonly open to the weather in part.
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT: Any facility for which the village or other municipal body
may ultimately assume the responsibility for maintenance and operation or which
is constructed for general public use or benefit.
PUBLIC OPEN SPACE: Any publicly owned open area, including, but not limited to,
the following: parks, playgrounds, school sites, parkways, and streets. The
term "public" shall apply to the provision of a service to ten (10) or more
zoning lots when serving an industrial district, regardless of whether said
industrial district is in one tract or subdivision.
PUBLIC UTILITY: Any person, firm or corporation duly authorized to furnish,
under public regulation, to the public electricity, gas, steam, telephone,
telegraph, transportation, water, or sewerage systems.
PUBLIC WAY: Any sidewalk, street, alley, highway, or other public thoroughfare.
RAILROAD RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land with tracks and auxiliary facilities for
track operation, but not including depots, loading platforms, stations, train
sheds, warehouses, car shops, car yards, locomotive shops, or water towers.
RESIDUAL AREA: That part of a tract of land which remains for public parks,
schools, or recreation purposes where the subdivision or development of said
tract includes dwelling units located in a cluster or on lots which have less
area than required by the zoning district in which the development is located,
subject to the definition requirements of this title for cluster subdivisions.
REST HOME OR NURSING HOME: A private home for the care of children or the aged
or infirm. Such home does not contain equipment for surgical care or for
treatment of disease or injury and is not primarily developed for mental
patients or alcoholics.
RESTAURANT: Any land, building, or part thereof, other than a boarding house,
where meals are provided for compensation for three (3) or more persons,
including a cafe, cafeteria, coffee shop, lunchroom, tearoom, and dining room.
RINGELMANN CHART: One which is described in the U.S. bureau of mines
information circular 6888, and on which are illustrated graduated shades of
grey for use in estimating the light obscuring capacity of smoke - "smoke
density".
RINGELMANN NUMBER: The number appearing on the Ringelmann chart ascribed by the
observer to the density for the smoke emission. Where the density or light
obstructing capacity of the smoke as observed falls between two (2) consecutive
Ringelmann numbers, the lower Ringelmann number shall be considered the density
of the smoke observed.
SATELLITE ANTENNA: Any accessory structure capable of receiving, for the sole
benefit of the principal use, radio or television signals from a transmitter or
a transmitter relay located in planetary orbit. This definition includes, but
is not limited to, satellite receivers, satellite dish antennas, satellite
discs, direct broadcast systems and television reception only systems.
SCHOOL: A public or private institution which offers instructions in any of the
branches of learning and study comparable to that taught in the public schools
under the Illinois school code 1 , including prekindergarten, kindergarten,
elementary school, and junior and senior high schools, but excluding trade,
business, or commercial schools.
SETBACK: The minimum horizontal distance from the farthest protruding part of a
building and the street property line.
SIGN: A name, identification, description, display, or illustration which is
affixed to or painted or represented directly or indirectly upon a building,
structure, or piece of land and which directs attention to an object, product,
place, activity, person, institution, organization, or business.
SIGN, ADVERTISING; OFF PREMISES: A sign which directs attention to a business,
commodity, service, or entertainment conducted or offered elsewhere than upon
the premises where such sign is located or to which it is affixed.
SIGN, BUSINESS: A sign which directs attention to a business or profession
conducted or to a commodity, service, or entertainment sold or offered upon the
premises where such sign is located or to which it is affixed.
SIGN, FLASHING: An illuminated sign on which the artificial light is not
maintained stationary and constant in intensity and color at all times when
such sign is in use. For the purpose of this title, any revolving, illuminated
sign shall be considered a flashing sign.
SIGN, GROSS SURFACE AREA OF: The "gross surface area of a sign" shall be the
entire area within a single continuous perimeter enclosing the extreme limits
of such sign and in no case passing through or between any adjacent elements of
same. However, such perimeter shall not include any structural or framing
elements lying outside the limits of such sign and not forming an integral part
of the display.
SMOKE: Any visible discharge into the air caused by the release of particulate
matter.
SMOKE UNIT: The number obtained when the smoke density in the Ringelmann number
is multiplied by the time of emission in minutes. For the purpose of this
calculation, a Ringelmann density reading shall be made at least once a minute
during the period of observation. Each reading is then multiplied by the time
in minutes during which it was observed. The various products are then added
together to give the total number of smoke units observed during the entire
observation period.
SOUND LEVEL: The intensity of sound, measured in decibels, produced by such
operation or use.
SOUND LEVEL METER: An instrument standardized by the American Standards
Association for measurement of intensity of sound.
SPECIAL USE: Any use of land or buildings, or both, described and permitted
herein, subject to the provisions of this title.
STORY: That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor and
the surface of the floor next above it, or if there is not a floor above it,
then the space between the floor and the ceiling next above it. Any portion of
a story exceeding fourteen feet (14') in height shall be considered as an
additional story for each fourteen feet (14') or fraction thereof.
STORY, HALF: A "half story" is that portion of a building under a gable, hip,
or mansard roof, the wall plates of which, on at least two (2) opposite
exterior walls, are not more than four and one-half feet (41/2') above the
finished floor of such story. In the case of one-family dwellings and multiple-
family dwellings less than three (3) stories in height, a "half-story" in a
sloping roof shall not be counted as a story for the purpose of this title. In
the case of multiple-family dwellings, three (3) or more stories in height, a
"half-story" shall be counted as a story.
STREET: All property dedicated or intended for public highway, freeway, or
roadway purposes or subject to public easements thereof.
STREET LANE: The division between private property and a dedicated street or
way, usually uninterrupted from corner to corner in any given block.
STREET, PLATTED: A public easement of property dedicated or intended as a
street which has not been improved or open to vehicular traffic.
STREET WALL: That wall or part of a wall of a building or that part of the wall
or supports of a porch or other structure nearest to and most nearly parallel
with the street, extending more than four feet six inches (4'6") above the
finished grade. The front street wall shall be that wall most nearly parallel
to the shortest lot line along a street.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS: Any change in the supporting members of a building such
as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams, or girders, excepting such
alterations as may be required for the safety of the building.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires permanent
location on the ground or attached to something having a permanent location on
the ground, including, but without limiting the generality of the foregoing to,
advertising signs, billboards, backstops for tennis courts and pergolas.
SUBDIVISION, CLUSTER: See definition of Development, Cluster.
TERRACE, OPEN AND PATIO: A level plane or platform which, for the purpose of
this title, is located adjacent to one or more faces of the principal
structure.
THREE COMPONENT MEASURING SYSTEM: Instrumentation which can measure earthborne
vibrations in three (3) directions; that is, vibration occurring in a
horizontal as well as a vertical plane.
THROUGH LOT: A lot having its front and rear lot lines on adjacent and
substantially parallel streets, otherwise known as a "double frontage lot".
TOURIST COURT; TOURIST HOME: See definition of Motel.
TOXIC MATERIAL OR MATTER: Those materials which are capable of causing injury
to living organisms by chemical means when present in relatively small amounts.
TRAILER: A vehicle without motive power used or adaptable for living, sleeping,
business or storage purposes, having no foundation other than wheels, blocks,
skids, jacks, horses, or skirting, which does not meet building code
requirements and has been or reasonably may be equipped with wheels or other
devices for transporting the structure from place to place. The term "trailer"
shall include "camp car" and "housecar". A permanent foundation shall not
change its character unless the entire structure is erected in accordance with
the village building code.
TRAILER HOUSE OR MOBILE HOME: Any "trailer", as defined in this section, used
for residential purposes.
USE: The purpose for which land or a building thereon is designed, arranged, or
intended, or for which it is occupied, maintained, let or leased.
USE, PERMITTED: A use which may be lawfully established in a particular
district or districts, provided it conforms with all requirements, regulations,
and performance standards (if any) of such district.
USE, PRINCIPAL: A "principal use" is the main use of land or building as
distinguished from a subordinate or accessory use. A "principal use" may be
either permitted or special.
USE, SPECIAL: See definition of Special Use.
USED CAR LOT: A zoning lot on which used or new cars, trailers, or trucks are
displayed for sale or trade.
VIBRATION: The periodic displacement, measured in inches, of earth.
WIDTH OF LOT: See definition of Lot Width.
YARD: An open space on the same zoning lot with a principal building or group
of buildings which is unoccupied and unobstructed from its lowest level upward,
except as otherwise permitted in this title, and which extends along a lot line
and at right angles thereto to a depth or width specified in the yard
regulations for the district in which the zoning lot is located.
YARD, FRONT: A yard extending across the full width of the zoning lot in
accordance with the setback requirements of this title. (See definition of
Setback.)
YARD, REAR: An open space (unoccupied except by accessory buildings) on the
same lot with a building, between the rear line of the building and the rear
line of the lot, for the full width of the lot.
YARD, SIDE: An open space between the side of a building and the side lot line
between the front and rear yards.
ZONING LOT: A plot of ground, made up of one or more parcels, which is or may
be occupied by a use, building, or buildings, including the open spaces
required by this title.
ZONING MAP: The map or maps incorporated into this title as a part hereof,
designating zoning districts. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
 
Notes
1 1. 105 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.
CHAPTER 3
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
8-3-1: Enforcing Officer
8-3-2: Building Permit
8-3-3: Certificates Of Compliance
8-3-4: Variations
8-3-5: Appeals
8-3-6: Amendments
8-3-7: Fees
8-3-8: Violations; Penalty
8-3-1: ENFORCING OFFICER:
The mayor of the village, with the advice and consent of the village board,
shall designate a zoning administrator to be responsible for enforcing this
title. The zoning administrator shall see that the provisions of this title are
properly enforced. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-3-2: BUILDING PERMIT 1 :
   A.   Permit And Compliance Required: No building or structure shall
hereafter be erected or structurally altered until a building permit has been
issued by the village stating that the building or structure and use of land
comply with the regulations of this title.
   B.   Plat Required: All applications for building permits shall be
accompanied by a plat, in duplicate, drawn to scale, showing the actual
dimensions of the lot or lots to be built upon, the size of the building or
structure to be erected or structurally altered, its location on the lot or
lots, and such other information as may be necessary to provide for the
enforcement of this title. A careful record of such applications and plats
shall be kept in the office of the zoning administrator. (Amended Ord., 2-15-
1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  8-6-2 of this title.
8-3-3: CERTIFICATES OF COMPLIANCE:
   A.   Certificates Required:
      1.   Certificate For Occupancy: No building or structure hereafter
erected or structurally altered shall be occupied and used until a certificate
of compliance has been issued by the zoning administrator. The certificate of
compliance shall be issued only after the zoning administrator makes a finding
that the building or structure has been erected or structurally altered in
conformance with the provisions of this title and other health and building
laws and in accordance with a building permit.
      2.   Certificate For Change Of Use: No change shall be made in the use of
a building or part thereof, now or hereafter erected or structurally altered,
or in the use of land now or hereafter occupied, without a certificate of
compliance having first been issued by the zoning administrator. No such
certificate shall be issued to make such change unless it is in conformity with
the provisions of this title and amendments hereto, hereafter duly enacted.
   B.   Issuance Of And Recording Certificates: Certificates of compliance
shall be issued within ten (10) days after the erection and alteration of such
building shall have been satisfactorily completed. A record of all certificates
shall be kept on file in the office of the zoning administrator, and copies
shall be available to any person having proprietary or tenancy interest in the
building affected.
   C.   Temporary Certificate: Upon the request of the holder of a building
permit, the zoning administrator may issue a temporary certificate of occupancy
for part of, or parts of, a building; provided, that such temporary occupancy
would not constitute a hazard to life or health. Such temporary certificate of
occupancy shall not be issued to cover a period of more than six (6) months.
Upon the termination of the period for which the temporary certificate of
occupancy is issued, if the applicant does not apply for and receive a
certificate of compliance as provided for in this section, then all rights and
privileges of occupancy granted by the village shall be null and void.
   D.   Existing Uses: Nothing in this section shall prevent the continuance of
the present occupancy or lawful use of any existing building or zoning lot,
except as may be necessary for the safety of life and property. (Amended Ord.,
2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-3-4: VARIATIONS:
   A.   Permitted Variations: When a property owner or his agent shows that a
strict application of the terms of this title relating to the use, construction
or alteration of buildings or structures or the use of the land imposes upon
him practical difficulties or particular hardship in that a literal
interpretation of the provisions of this title would deprive the applicant of
rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in the same district under the
terms of this title, then the board may recommend to the village board, and the
village board may authorize by ordinance, such variations of the strict
application of the terms of this title as are in harmony with its general
purpose and intent when the board is satisfied, under the evidence heard before
it, that such variation will not merely serve as a convenience to the applicant
nor merely to allow the applicant to receive greater revenue from the use or
sale of the property, but is necessary to alleviate some demonstrable and
unique hardship or difficulty so great as to warrant a variation from the
provisions of this title, or in the following instances:
      1.   Extension Of A District: To permit the extension of a district where
the boundary line of a district divides a lot in single ownership as shown to
be on record prior to the effective date hereof.
      2.   Lessening Of Yard Requirements: To permit a front yard, a side yard,
or a rear yard less than that required by this title, but such variation shall
not exceed twenty five percent (25%) of the depth of the front yard or the
depth of the rear yard or the width of a side yard as required by this title.
      3.   Exceeding Height Or Bulk Limits: To permit a building to exceed the
height limit by not more than ten percent (10%) of the height limit established
by this title.
      4.   Lessening Of Lot Requirements: To permit the use of a lot less in
area by not more than ten percent (10%) of the lot area required by this title
unless such lot is an existing lot of record and governed by section
8-5-4 of this title.
      5.   Interpretation Of Map: To interpret the provisions of this title
where the street layout as shown on the map fixing the several districts, which
map is attached to and made a part of this title.
   B.   Criteria For Granting Variations: In considering all appeals and all
proposed variations to this title, the board shall, before recommending that
the village board grant any variation from this title in a specific case, first
determine and make a finding of fact that the proposed variation will not:
      1.   Impair an adequate supply of light and air to adjacent property.
      2.   Unreasonably increase the congestion in public streets.
      3.   Increase the danger of fire or endanger the public safety.
      4.   Unreasonably diminish or impair established property values within
the surrounding area, or in any other respect impair the public health, safety,
comfort, morals, and welfare of the inhabitants of the village.
   C.   Application For Variation: An application for variation, as above
described, shall be made as follows:
      1.   The applicant shall file a petition for variation with the village
zoning administrator, accompanied by a filing fee to be established by the
village board.
      2.   Said petition shall set forth the facts and details concerning the
proposed variation and shall have attached thereto a diagram or plan showing
the result the proposed variation would have on the subject property.
      3.   Said petition shall be filed prior to the date the notice of hearing
hereinafter specified has been published in the local newspaper.
      4.   The village zoning board of appeals, through its chair, shall set a
date, time, and place for public hearing on the petition and shall inform the
petitioner of same. Notice of the public hearing of petitioner's application is
to be given in the following manner:
         a.   By publishing the notice of the date, time and place of such
hearing in a newspaper of general circulation in the village at least fifteen
(15), but not more than thirty (30), days prior to the hearing.
         b.   By causing said notice to contain the particular location for
which the variation is requested, as well as a brief statement describing the
proposed variation. The legal description shall, in addition to the required
metes and bounds or lot and block description, contain a simple description of
the property as to area and location of such a nature to enable the ordinary
reader to accurately locate such property.
         c.   By sending copies of the notice of hearing to all property owners
of property which is adjacent to, abutting, or across the road, street, or
alley from the property in question.
   D.   Prohibited Variations: A petition for a variation for the establishment
of a use not permitted within the intended district shall not be granted.
(Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-3-5: APPEALS:
   A.   Authority To Appeal: Any person aggrieved by a ruling of the zoning
administrator charged with the enforcement of this title or by any officer,
department, board, or bureau of the village concerning the interpretation of
this title may take an appeal to the zoning board of appeals.
   B.   Time For Appeal: Such appeal shall be taken within thirty (30) days to
the zoning board of appeals and shall be taken by filing with the zoning clerk
and with the zoning board of appeals a notice of appeal specifying the grounds
thereof, together with such plats and exhibits as are reasonably necessary.
Such appeal shall be taken upon forms provided by the zoning board of appeals.
The zoning clerk shall forthwith transmit to the board all of the papers
constituting the record upon which the action appealed was taken.
   C.   Decisions Of Board:
      1.   The board may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify or
amend the order, requirement, decision, or determination appealed from to the
extent and in the manner that the board may decide to be fitting and proper in
the premises, and to that end, the board shall also have all the powers of the
officer from whom the appeal is taken.
      2.   The concurring vote of four (4) members of the board shall be
necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision, or determination of the
zoning administrator or to decide in favor of the applicant any matter upon
which it is authorized by this title to render decisions. (Amended Ord., 2-15-
1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-3-6: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Amendment By Ordinance; Requirements Generally: The regulations imposed
and the zoning districts created under this title may be amended by ordinance,
but no such amendment shall be made by the zoning board without public notice
and without a public hearing and recommendations forwarded to the village board
within thirty (30) days of the date the petition was submitted to the zoning
board of appeals, unless it is withdrawn by the petitioner.
   B.   Application For Amendment: The village board and any private petitioner
may apply for an amendment to the text of this title and to the accompanying
zoning map made a part of this title.
   C.   Fee: Any petition for an amendment by a private party shall be
accompanied by a filing fee as established by the village board, which fee
shall be deposited with the zoning clerk within fifteen (15) days after the
receipt thereof, and no part shall be returnable to the petitioner.
   D.   Notice Of Hearings: The village zoning board of appeals shall cause
notice of public hearing of petitioner's application to be given in the
following manner:
      1.   By publishing a notice of the time and place of such hearing in a
newspaper of general circulation in the village not less than fifteen (15) nor
more than thirty (30) days prior to the date of the hearing;
      2.   By causing said notice to contain the particular location for which
the amendment is requested as well as a brief statement describing the proposed
amendment; and
      3.   By notifying such property owners, groups, or organizations, as it
deems desirable, of the proposal.
   E.   Written Protest: In the event of written protest against the proposed
amendment, signed and acknowledged by the owners of twenty percent (20%) of the
frontage proposed to be altered, or by the owners of twenty percent (20%) of
the frontage immediately adjoining or across the alley or rear line therefrom,
or by the owners of twenty percent (20%) of the frontage directly opposite the
frontage proposed to be altered, as to such regulations or zoning district and
filed with the village clerk, such amendment shall not be passed except by the
favorable vote of four-fifths (4/5) of all of the elected members of the
village board.
   F.   Final Decision: The village board, without further public hearing, may
adopt or deny the report of the zoning board of appeals for any proposed
amendment or may refer the petition back to the zoning board of appeals for
further consideration. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-3-7: FEES 1 :
Fees pertaining to petitions for zoning amendments, certificates of compliance,
variations, and for appeals to the zoning board of appeals shall be established
by action of the village board from time to time. Such fees shall be paid to
the village board who shall give a receipt therefor and account for same at
regular intervals to the village board. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-
1993)
 
Notes
1 1. See also article C of this chapter.
8-3-8: VIOLATIONS; PENALTY:
   A.   Notice Of Violation; Time Limit For Correction:
      1.   The zoning administrator shall give written notification of any
violation of this title to the owner or lessor of or the trustee or other
legally responsible party for such property, stating in such notification that
he has inspected the property and has found it in violation of this title. He
shall state in the notification, in clear precise terms, a description or
explanation of the violation. The property owner, trustee, lessor, or legally
responsible party shall have thirty (30) days in which to correct such
violation or to give satisfactory evidence that he has taken steps that will
lead to correcting such violation within a stated period of time, which time
must be agreeable to the zoning administrator as being fair and reasonable.
      2.   The owner, trustee, lessor or other legally responsible party shall
be deemed to be in violation of this title if, after thirty (30) days, the
violation has not been corrected or is not in the process of being corrected
within a reasonable length of time or time in which correction will be made has
not been approved by the zoning administrator.
   B.   Misdemeanor Violation: A violation of any of the provisions of this
title shall be considered a misdemeanor and punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute
a separate offense. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
ARTICLE A. ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
SECTION:
8-3A-1: Mandated By Statute; Purpose
8-3A-2: Established; Membership; Appointment And Terms
8-3A-3: Vacancies And Removals
8-3A-4: Officers
8-3A-5: Meetings
8-3A-1: MANDATED BY STATUTE; PURPOSE:
The zoning board of appeals is required by state law and is intended to serve a
twofold purpose. First, the board hears appeals on, and either reverses or
upholds actions taken by the zoning administrator in the administration of this
title. Their decision stands unless the appeal is carried to the village board
which is the last recourse prior to the courts. The second purpose of the
zoning board of appeals is to act on requests for variations. Here, in every
case, they shall make a recommendation to the village board to deny or permit
the variation by ordinance. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-3A-2: ESTABLISHED; MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT AND TERMS:
   A.   There is hereby established a zoning board of appeals. Said board shall
consist of seven (7) members nominated by the mayor of the village and
appointed by the village board. The members of said board shall serve for the
following initial terms:
      One for one year.
      One for two (2) years.
      One for three (3) years.
      One for four (4) years.
      One for five (5) years.
      One for six (6) years.
      One for seven (7) years.
   B.   The successor of each member so appointed shall serve for a term of
five (5) years. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-3A-3: VACANCIES AND REMOVALS:
Vacancies shall be filled by the mayor, subject to confirmation by the village
board, for the unexpired term. Members may be removed by the village board for
cause after written charges have been filed and after a public hearing has been
held if demanded by the member so charged. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-
1993)
8-3A-4: OFFICERS:
   A.   Chair: One of the members of the board shall be designated by the
mayor, with the consent of the village board, as chair of said board and shall
hold said office as chair until a successor is appointed. Such chair, or in his
absence the acting chair, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of
witnesses.
   B.   Zoning Clerk: The zoning clerk is to be appointed from the zoning board
by the mayor, with consent of the village board. The zoning clerk shall make
and keep a record of all its meetings and official acts. (Amended Ord., 2-15-
1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-3A-5: MEETINGS:
   A.   Time, Place, And Notification: All meetings of the board shall be held
at the call of the chair and at such other times as the board may determine.
There shall be at least fifteen (15) days', but not more than thirty (30)
days', notice of the time and place of such meeting published in a newspaper of
general circulation in the village, said notice to contain a statement of the
particular purpose of such meeting and a brief description of the location of
the property or properties under consideration at such meetings.
   B.   Open Meetings: All meetings of the board shall be open to the public.
   C.   Record Of Meetings: The board shall keep minutes of its proceedings
showing the vote of each member upon every question or, if absent or failing to
vote, indicating such fact, and shall also keep records of its examinations and
other official actions. Findings of fact shall be included in the minutes of
each case, and the board's recommendations to the village board to grant or
deny each application shall be specified. Every rule, regulation, and every
order, requirement, decision, or determination of the board shall immediately
be filed in the office of the zoning clerk and shall be a public record.
   D.   Rules Of Procedure: The board shall adopt its own rules of procedure, a
copy of which and all recommendations thereto to be filed in the office of the
zoning clerk. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
ARTICLE B. SPECIAL USES
SECTION:
8-3B-1: Intent And Purpose
8-3B-2: Authority
8-3B-3: Enumeration Of Permitted Special Uses
8-3B-4: Conditions Of Approval
8-3B-5: Procedure
8-3B-6: Planned Developments
8-3B-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
The intent and purpose of this article is to provide the mechanism whereby
certain structures and/or uses that are necessary and desirable but are of a
unique, special, or nonrecurring nature may be permitted within any zoning
district. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-3B-2: AUTHORITY:
The village board may permit special uses of land and/or structures within any
district subject to conditions contained herein if it finds that the proposed
location and establishment of any such special use will be desirable or
necessary to the public convenience or welfare and will be harmonious and
compatible with other uses adjacent to and in the vicinity of the selected site
or sites and will further community development in accordance with the
comprehensive plan. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-3B-3: ENUMERATION OF PERMITTED SPECIAL USES:
The following is a general list of the kinds of uses that may be given a
special use classification:
Airport, landing field, or landing strip.
Antique and gift shops, art and craft studios, tourist homes, guesthouse, bed
and breakfast, and other tourist oriented structures or uses within the AG
(agricultural) district or the GR (general residential) district.
Areas for the dumping or disposal of trash or garbage.
Art galleries, libraries, museums, or similar structures.
Auditorium, stadium, arena, armory, gymnasium, and other similar places for
public events.
Bus terminal, railroad passenger station, freight terminal, or any other public
transportation terminal facilities.
Cemeteries, crematories, or mausoleums.
Church.
Extraction of gravel, sand, or other raw materials.
Golf courses, public or private.
Historically conforming special uses (see section
8-9-7 of this title).
Hospitals or sanitariums, public or private.
Medical or dental offices or clinics.
Municipal or privately owned recreation buildings or community center.
Off street public or commercial parking areas and garages.
Permitted expansion of nonconforming uses (see section
8-9-6 of this title).
Planned developments (as defined in section
8-2-3 of this title).
Police station, fire station, village hall, or courthouse.
Public or private park or playground.
Public utility facilities, i.e., filtration plant, water reservoir or pumping
station, heat or power plant, transformer station, and other similar
facilities.
Publicly owned and operated fairgrounds.
Radio and television transmitting or antenna towers (commercial) and other
electronic equipment requiring outdoor structure and including antenna towers
used for the sending of private messages.
Railroad right of way.
Rest homes and nursing homes.
Schools, elementary, high, and college, public or private.
Sign clusters or sign malls.
Telephone exchanges, antenna towers, and other outdoor equipment essential to
the operation of the exchange.
Undertaking establishments.
Other uses similar to the above uses provided that the intent of this article
is followed.
Mobile home park in residential and conservation districts. (Amended Ord., 2-
15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-3B-4: CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL:
The zoning board of appeals and/or the village board may recommend and impose
such restrictions upon the height, bulk and area of occupancy of any structure
so approved as a special use as may be reasonable under the particular
circumstances; provided, that such restrictions and stipulations shall not be
more restrictive than the requirements established for the district in which
such structure is proposed to be located or as may be required in any other
municipal code. Off street parking facilities as well as off street loading and
unloading spaces may also be stipulated in the order permitting the special
use. Recommendations and approval shall follow the procedures established in
section
8-3B-5 of this article. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-3B-5: PROCEDURE:
The procedure to be followed in considering applications for special uses and
for the addition to or enlargement of nonconforming structures as permitted in
chapter 9 of this title shall be as follows:
   A.   Application For Special Use: An application verified by the owner or
authorized agent of the owner of the property involved shall be filed with the
zoning administrator for the attention of the zoning board of appeals upon a
form prescribed therefor which shall contain or be accompanied by all required
information.
   B.   Public Hearing: Upon receipt of such verified application, the zoning
administrator shall notify the chair of the zoning board of appeals, or in his
absence, the vice chair, and shall give notice of a public hearing in the same
manner as provided for hearings on the reclassification of property as
contained in section
8-3-6 of this chapter. A record of pertinent information presented at the
public hearing shall be made and maintained by the zoning board of appeals as
part of the permanent record relative to the application.
   C.   Recommendation And Decision: The zoning board of appeals shall then
make its findings and recommendations known within thirty (30) days following
the date of public hearing on each application. The village board may then
authorize a special use as defined herein or the addition or enlargement of a
nonconforming structure, provided the evidence presented is such as to
establish:
      1.   That the proposed use or expansion at the particular location
requested is necessary or desirable to provide a service or a facility which is
in the interest of public convenience and will contribute to the general
welfare of the neighborhood or community and shall further community
development in accordance with the comprehensive plan.
      2.   That such use or expansion will not, under the circumstances of the
particular case, be detrimental to the health, safety, morals, or general
welfare of persons residing or working in the vicinity or injurious to property
values or improvements in the vicinity.
      3.   That the proposed use or expansion will comply with the regulations
and conditions specified in this title for such use or expansion and with the
stipulations and conditions made a part of the authorization granted by the
village board. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-3B-6: PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS:
   A.   General Requirements: Planned developments, as defined in section
8-2-3 of this title, are of such substantially different character from other
special uses that specific and additional standards and exceptions are hereby
set out to govern the recommendations of the village board. Recommendations and
approval shall follow the procedures established in section
8-3B-5 of this article.
   B.   Use Exceptions: In the case of residential, business, or manufacturing
planned developments, the village board may authorize that thereto, in part of
the area of such development and for the duration such development, specified
uses not permitted by the use regulations of the district in which said
development is located, provided it is found:
      1.   That the uses permitted by such exception are necessary or desirable
and are appropriate with respect to the primary purpose of the development;
      2.   That the uses permitted by such exception are not of such a nature
or so located to exercise a detrimental influence on the surrounding
neighborhood;
      3.   That not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the ground area or
of the gross floor area of such development is to be devoted to the uses
permitted by said exception; and
      4.   That in a manufacturing planned development, such additional uses
allowed by exception shall conform with the performance standards of the
district in which the development is located.
   C.   Bulk Regulations: In the case of any planned development, the zoning
board of appeals and/or the village board may recommend and authorize
exceptions to the applicable bulk and site planning regulations of this title
within the boundaries of such development, provided it is found:
      1.   That such exception shall be solely for the purpose of promoting an
integrated site plan no less beneficial to the residents or occupants of such
development as well as of neighboring properties than would be the case under
the bulk regulations of this title for buildings developed on separate zoning
lots;
      2.   That the overall height of buildings of the development shall not
exceed that prescribed in this title for the district in which it is located;
      3.   That the minimum lot area per dwelling unit requirements of this
title shall be adhered to in any such development containing residential uses,
and that access to such open space as this affords shall be made available to
the occupants of all dwelling units within the development;
      4.   That spacing between principal buildings shall be at least
equivalent to such spacing as would be required between buildings similarly
developed under the terms of this title on separate zoning lots, due
consideration being given to the openness normally afforded by intervening
streets and alleys; and
      5.   That along the periphery of such planned developments, yards shall
be provided as required by the regulations of the district in which said
development is located. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
ARTICLE C. FEE SCHEDULE 1
SECTION:
8-3C-1: Zoning Fee Schedule
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  8-3-7 of this chapter.
8-3C-1: ZONING FEE SCHEDULE:
Accessory building permit                            $ 75.00 (plus cost1)
Additions to existing dwellings permit               75.00 (plus cost1)
Commercial permit                                    200.00 (plus cost1)
Detached garage permit                               75.00 (plus cost1)
Driveways, patios, antennas and miscellaneous permit 40.00 (plus cost1)
Dwelling permit                                      200.00 (plus cost1)
Fencing or protruding obstructions permit            50.00 (plus cost1)
Performance and environmental bond                   500.00 (returnable)
Reissue of expired permit                            50.00 (plus cost1)
Wastewater connection (see also section              500.00
7-1-1 of this code)
Water connection (see also section                   300.00
7-1-1 of this code)
Zoning hearings (all petitions)                      50.00 (plus cost1)
 
Notes:
   1.    Cost may include, but is not limited to, necessary professional fees,
administrative fees, and any expense to properly give notice, advertise, post,
and conduct a hearing.
(Per document, eff. 6-1-2007)
CHAPTER 4
ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
SECTION:
8-4-1: Districts Established
8-4-2: Zoning Map
8-4-3: Determination Of District Boundaries
8-4-4: Zoning Of Annexed Land
8-4-1: DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
The village is hereby divided into the following zoning districts:
Residential districts:
      
 SR Single-family residential district
 LR Low density residential district
 GR General residential district
      
Business districts:
      
 GB General business district
 AB Automobile oriented business district
      
Industrial districts:
      
 GI General industrial district
 IP Industrial park district
      
Conservation districts:
      
 AG Agricultural district
 RE Recreation district
 HD Historic district
 
(Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993; amd. Ord. 2015-001, 3-30-2015)
8-4-2: ZONING MAP:
The locations and boundaries of the districts established herein are shown upon
the zoning map which is hereby incorporated into this title. The zoning map,
together with all notations, references, and other information shown thereon,
and all amendments thereto, shall be a part of this title and shall have the
same force and effect as if the zoning map, together with all notations,
references and other information shown thereon, were fully set forth and
described herein. The village shall publish the zoning map, together with all
notations, references, and other information shown thereon, annually unless
there have been no changes affecting the information shown thereon since the
last publication. The map published by the village shall be the official zoning
map, and if changes or amendments are made prior to the annual publication, a
certified, corrected official zoning map, which shall be the final authority as
to the current zoning status of any area, building, structure, or use within
the village and its zoning limits. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-4-3: DETERMINATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of districts as shown on the
zoning map, the following rules shall apply:
   A.   Centerlines: Boundaries indicated as approximately following the
centerlines of streets, alleys, public ways, or highways shall be interpreted
as following such centerlines.
   B.   Lot Lines: Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot
lines shall be construed as following such lot lines.
   C.   Corporate Limits: Boundaries indicated as approximately following the
corporate limits of the village shall be construed as following such limits.
   D.   Lot Of Record: Where a district boundary line divides a lot of record
in existence at the effective date hereof, the entire lot may be construed as
being within the less restricted district. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-
1993)
8-4-4: ZONING OF ANNEXED LAND:
Land hereafter annexed to the village that is not classified or otherwise
regulated by this title shall be classified as SR (single-family residential)
until such time as the village board designates the permitted classification of
the land in accordance with the provisions of this title. (Amended Ord., 2-15-
1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
CHAPTER 5
GENERAL ZONING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
8-5-1: Intent And Purpose
8-5-2: Issuance Of Permits And Certificates
8-5-3: Maintenance Of Required Space
8-5-4: Lot Area And Dimensions
8-5-5: Access To Buildings
8-5-6: Buildings Under Construction
8-5-7: Accessory Buildings
8-5-8: Satellite Antennas
8-5-9: Fences, Boundary Markers And Other Protrusions
8-5-10: Off Premises Furnaces And Boilers
8-5-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
The intent and purpose of this chapter is to establish basic recommendations
which apply to the interpretation and administration of this title and which
apply to construction and/or use of land within all zoning districts. (Amended
Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-5-2: ISSUANCE OF PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES:
No application for any permit or certificate established and/or required by
this title shall be granted or issued in a manner contrary to the provisions of
this title or for the erection, construction, moving, alteration, demolition,
or occupancy of any building or land contrary to the provisions of this title.
(Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-5-3: MAINTENANCE OF REQUIRED SPACE:
   A.   Transfer Of Space: No space allocated to a building for the purpose of
complying with the yard, open space, or lot area requirements of this title
shall thereafter, by reason of change in ownership or for any other reason, be
used to satisfy the yard, open space, or lot area requirements of any other
building or group of buildings unless in so doing all buildings or groups of
buildings involved have sufficient yard, open space, or lot areas remaining to
satisfy this title.
   B.   Reduction Of Space: No usable open space, off street loading space
existing or provided hereafter for any building shall be reduced below the
minimum requirements hereinafter set for such usable open space, parking space,
or loading space, nor further reduced if already less than said minimum
requirements. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-5-4: LOT AREA AND DIMENSIONS:
   A.   Combination Of Lots: When two (2) or more lots or parcels of land, each
of which lacks adequate area and dimensions to qualify for a permitted use
under the requirements of the use district in which they are located, are
contiguous and are held in one ownership, they shall be combined as one or more
zoning lots of proper size.
   B.   Use Of Undersized Lots: Any single lot of record or parcel of land not
contiguous to others in the same ownership which was of record at the effective
date hereof that does not meet the requirements for minimum lot width, depth,
or area, may be utilized; provided, that the yards or usable open space are not
less than seventy five percent (75%) of the minimum required.
   C.   Two Or More Buildings On A Lot: If two (2) or more buildings, other
than in a planned unit development, as defined in section
8-3B-6 of this title, are built upon a single lot or parcel of land, each
building shall satisfy the requirements of this title in the same manner and
degree as if they were on two (2) or more separate lots or parcels.
   D.   Modifications And Exceptions: The zoning board of appeals will forward
its recommendation to the governing body on all requests for modification and
exception to the strict requirements of this title where it can be shown that
compliance therewith would work an undue hardship upon the petitioner. (Amended
Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-5-5: ACCESS TO BUILDINGS:
Except as otherwise provided for in this title, every building shall be
constructed or erected upon a lot or parcel of land which abuts upon a public
street or permanent easement and shall have a minimum width of twenty five feet
(25') unless an easement of lesser width was of record prior to the effective
date hereof. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-5-6: BUILDINGS UNDER CONSTRUCTION:
Nothing in this title shall be deemed to require any change in the plans,
construction or designated use of any building or structure upon which actual
construction was lawfully begun prior to the effective date hereof and upon
which building or structure actual construction has been diligently carried on,
and provided further, that such building or structure shall be completed within
one year from the effective date hereof. If such structure, when completed and
occupied, is in conflict with any section of this title, it shall be classified
as a nonconforming structure subject to the regulations of chapter 9 of this
title. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-5-7: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:
An accessory building shall not be constructed nearer than ten feet (10') to
any side or rear lot line, unless the rear lot line is congruent with the right
of way line of a public alley or unless such building is directly connected by
a party wall to an adjacent structure or another lot, then the building shall
not be constructed nearer than five feet (5') from the rear lot line. An
accessory building shall not be constructed nearer any front street right of
way line than is the principal building on the lot, and not to exceed fourteen
feet (14') from ground level to the highest point of the building. (Amended
Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-5-8: SATELLITE ANTENNAS:
Any satellite antenna must be within twenty feet (20') of the rear lot line and
shall be no closer than ten feet (10') from either side lot line. (Amended
Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-5-9: FENCES, BOUNDARY MARKERS AND OTHER PROTRUSIONS 1 :
No fence, boundary markers, or other objects, permanent or temporary, which
protrude from ground level shall be placed within fifteen feet (15') from the
edge of any public road surface and not nearer than five feet (5') from any
public alley road surface. No fence shall be constructed nearer than two feet
(2') from adjoining property lines unless a joint building permit is received
from all adjoining property owners. (Ord., 3-1-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  8-10-2 of this title.
8-5-10: OFF PREMISES FURNACES AND BOILERS:
   A.   Definition: When used in this section, the term "off premises furnace
or boiler" shall mean any appliance used to provide heat to a dwelling which is
placed separate from the dwelling.
   B.   Outdoor Furnaces And Boilers Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to
install, place, store, or operate an outdoor furnace or boiler in the village.
   C.   Furnaces Within Accessory Buildings: Furnaces may be allowed within
accessory buildings provided the following requirements are met:
      1.   The furnace or boiler must exhaust through the roof of the building.
Appliances fueled with liquefied petroleum gas or natural gas are exempt from
this requirement.
      2.   The minimum height of the vent is seventeen feet (17'). Appliances
fueled with liquefied petroleum gas or natural gas are exempt from this
requirement.
      3.   A maximum of three feet (3') of vent stack may be visible from the
exterior of the building. Appliances fueled with liquefied petroleum gas or
natural gas are exempt from this requirement. The accessory building housing
the furnace or boiler must be a permanent structure.
      4.   Accessory buildings housing furnaces or boilers using fuel other
than liquefied petroleum gas or natural gas must be located no closer than
twenty five feet (25') from any side lot line and no closer than fifty feet
(50') from any front or rear lot line.
      5.   Accessory buildings housing furnaces or boilers fueled with
liquefied petroleum gas or natural gas must meet all requirements of the zoning
district in which they are located.
   D.   Exemptions: Any off premises furnace or boiler lawfully permitted by
the village and installed prior to the effective date hereof shall be exempt
from the regulations of this section.
   E.   Penalty: Any person violating any provision of this section shall be
fined in accordance with section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord., 8-25-2008)
CHAPTER 6
BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
8-6-1: Compliance With State Building Code; Nonliability Of Village
8-6-2: Permit Requirements
8-6-3: Setbacks
8-6-4: Off Site Construction
8-6-5: Unsafe Buildings And Structures
8-6-6: Enforcement
8-6-1: COMPLIANCE WITH STATE BUILDING CODE; NONLIABILITY OF VILLAGE:
The village requires, as a condition to issuing all building permits, that all
applicable building codes in the state of Illinois be complied with by the
applicant. The village shall be held harmless from any violations of the state
building code and any actions arising therefrom. The village zoning
administrator shall only be responsible for inspecting the building line
setbacks of each building project, and the burden of the inspection of the
remainder of the project shall be the responsibility of the applicant. (Amended
Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-6-2: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS 1 :
   A.   Permits Required:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to construct, add to, relocate, alter, remove
or demolish, or to commence the construction, addition, alteration, removal or
demolition of a building, structure, or other amenities, including, but not
limited to, septic systems, without first filing with the village board an
application in writing and obtaining a formal permit. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993,
eff. 2-26-1993)
      2.   Dish antennas, solar panels, fences, boundary markers or other
similar objects or devices that are not part of a residence will require a
separate building permit. (Ord., 3-1-2004)
   B.   Application For Permit:
      1.   A permit application available from the village board is required
for any and all construction. An application for a permit shall be submitted in
such form as the village may prescribe.
      2.   Application shall be made by the owner or lessee, or agent of
either, or the architect, engineer or builder employed in connection with the
proposed work.
      3.   Such application shall contain the full names and addresses of the
applicant and of the owner and, if the owner is a corporate body, of its
responsible officer. The application shall also describe briefly the proposed
work, and additional information shall be given as may be required by the
village for an intelligent understanding of the work proposed.
      4.   Suitable plans should be presented to the village for its approval.
      5.   An application requires the following items:
         a.   Three (3) sets of sanitary system drawings, drawn to scale,
showing setbacks and side lines and dimensioned according to restrictions, all
prepared by licensed professional engineers, licensed to practice in the state
of Illinois. Any design must have prior approval and a valid permit number
issued from the county board of health. The county code may be less stringent
than that of the village board. In such a case, the county permit does not
ensure approval under requirements of this title.
         b.   Three (3) sets of site plans. This information may be included in
the complete set of construction drawings.
         c.   Three (3) sets of the construction drawings and specifications,
be it residence, garage and outbuilding construction. (A separate permit number
is issued by the county for residence construction, and verification of same
must be indicated on the permit form.)
         d.   Completed permit application with all blanks filled in to the
satisfaction of the administrator.
         e.   A check made out to the village board covering filing, permit and
inspection fees.
   C.   Recorded Property: At the time of applying for a permit for the
erection of, alteration of, additions to, or moving of any building or
structure, all lot corner posts must be located and flagged to show the
boundaries of the lot and the position to be occupied by the proposed building,
or by the building to be altered or added to, or by the building to be moved
thereon, and the position of any building or buildings that may be on the lot.
   D.   Water Supply And Sewage Treatment: No permit may be issued until
satisfactory proof has been submitted that approved water supply and sewage
treatment facilities will be utilized.
   E.   Checklist: As a supplement to the permit, a checklist is available to
assist in the preparation of all documents and to serve as a checklist prior to
submittal. Specific standards are called out. All items may not apply to each
project.
   F.   Action On Application:
      1.   The village shall examine applications of permits within a
reasonable time, not to exceed thirty (30) days after the following scheduled
meeting of the village, the exception being a water facility permit. If, after
examination for applicable regulations, the village finds no objections to the
same and it appears that the proposed work will be in compliance with the laws
and ordinances applicable thereto and the proposed construction or work will be
safe, the village shall approve such application and issue a permit for the
proposed work. If the examination reveals otherwise, the village shall reject
such application and notify the applicant.
      2.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the village
from issuing a permit for the construction of part of a building or structure
before the entire plans and detailed statements of said building or structure
have been submitted or approved, provided adequate information and detailed
statements have been submitted for the same and have been found to comply with
this chapter.
   G.   Term Of Permit; Continuation: Where no work has been started within
three hundred sixty (360) days after the issuance of a permit, such permit
shall be void. A new permit must be obtained before any work may begin. A fee
according to the fee schedule in section
8-3C-1 of this title shall be charged for the issuance of the new permit.
   H.   Transfer Of Permit: A permit may not be transferred by the person to
whom it is issued to another person without the written approval of the village
board. A fee according to the fee schedule in section
8-3C-1 of this title shall be charged when such a transfer is effected.
   I.   Demolition Permits:
      1.   In the case of demolition, the plot plan shall show the buildings or
structures to be demolished and the buildings or structures on the same lot
that are to remain.
      2.   Details and methods used for demolition and removal including noise,
debris and smoke developed shall be included.
      3.   Any foundation, concrete or otherwise, must be removed.
      4.   The lot must be leveled, graded and seeded.
   J.   Revocation Of Permit: The village may revoke a permit or approval
issued in case there has been any false statement or misrepresentation as to a
material fact in the application or plans on which the permit or approval was
based.
   K.   Reducing Or Diminishing Lot Area: It shall be unlawful to reduce or
diminish the area of a lot or plot of which a plot plan has been filed and has
been used as the basis for a permit, unless a revised plot plan showing the
proposed changes in conditions shall have been filed and approved; provided,
that this shall not apply when the lot is reduced by reason of a street opening
or widening or other public improvement. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-
1993)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  8-3-2 of this title.
8-6-3: SETBACKS:
   A.   All building line setbacks as well as the sanitary system installation
setbacks must be maintained as shown on the recorded plat of the subdivision.
   B.   Front setback from any overhanging projection or foundation of any
building or structure shall be a minimum of twenty seven feet (27') from the
front lot line. This would include both sides of a corner lot. Roof overhangs
and decks of any dwelling or accessory building must be at least ten feet (10')
inside of any side and rear property line. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-
1993)
8-6-4: OFF SITE CONSTRUCTION:
Off site construction of components, sections, modules and buildings is
permitted for installation within the village if the following criteria have
been met:
   A.   The manufacturer submits detailed plans and specifications on each
component of the total assembly in accordance with the section concerning
information for permit application.
   B.   The manufacturer shall provide a certificate that the approved plans
were followed.
   C.   The manufacturer agrees upon request to open wall sections or other
concealed areas as necessary for inspection on the site.
   D.   Method for on site installation shall be approved by the village board.
(Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-6-5: UNSAFE BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES:
   A.   Definition: The term "unsafe building or structure" shall apply to
buildings or structures, or portions thereof, existing or hereafter erected, as
follows:
      1.   Those deemed structurally unsafe; unstable; unsanitary; inadequately
provided with exit facilities; constituting a fire hazard; unsuitable or
improper for the use or occupancy to which they are put; constituting a hazard
of health or safety because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation or
abandonment; or otherwise dangerous to life or property.
      2.   Vacant buildings or structures or portions thereof deemed to
constitute a hazard.
   B.   Repair Or Removal Required: When a building or structure, or any
portion thereof, is found unsafe upon inspection by the village board, they
shall order such building or structure, or any portion thereof, to be made safe
or secured or taken down and removed.
   C.   Restoration: A building or structure, or part thereof, declared unsafe
by the village board may be restored to safe condition, if said reconstruction
or restoration shall be made to conform with respect to materials and type of
construction and to the requirements of this chapter; but no change of use or
occupancy shall be compelled by reason of such reconstruction or restoration.
   D.   Notice Of Unsafe Building Or Structure: Upon determining that a
building or structure, or portion thereof, is unsafe, the administrator shall
serve or cause to be served upon the owner, or some one of the owners,
executors, administrators, agents, lessees or other persons who may have a
vested or contingent interest in the same, written notice containing a
description of the building or structure, or portion thereof, which has been
declared unsafe, and an order requiring the same to be made safe and secure or
removed, as may be deemed necessary. If the person to whom such notice and
order is addressed cannot be found after diligent search, then such notice and
order shall be sent by certified or registered mail to the last known address
of such person, and a copy of such notice shall be posted in a conspicuous
place on the premises to which it relates. Such mailing and posting shall be
deemed adequate service.
   E.   Failure To Comply: If the person served with a notice or order to
remove or repair an unsafe building or structure, or portion thereof, should
fail, within a reasonable time, to comply with the requirements thereof, the
village board shall assess the facts in the case and shall institute an
appropriate action in the courts to compel compliance.
   F.   Emergencies:
      1.   In case there shall be, in the opinion of the village board, actual
immediate danger of failure or collapse of a building or structure, or portion
thereof, so as to endanger life or property, the village board shall employ
such labor and cause the necessary work to be done and render said building or
structure, or portion thereof, temporarily safe, whether the procedure
prescribed in this section has been instituted or not.
      2.   When a building or structure, or portion thereof, is in an unsafe
condition so that life is endangered thereby, the village board shall order and
require the occupants to vacate the same forthwith. They shall, when necessary
for the public safety, temporarily close sidewalks, streets, buildings,
structures and places adjacent to such building or structure and prohibit the
same from being used.
      3.   The village board shall institute proper action against the owner of
premises for the recovery of costs incurred by the village in the performance
of emergency work. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-6-6: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Enforcement of these restrictions and this chapter shall be by any
proceeding at law or in equity against any person, firm, company or corporation
who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with or who
resists the enforcement of any of said provisions.
   B.   In case any building or structure is erected, constructed,
reconstructed, altered, converted, or maintained, or any building, structure or
land is used in violation of this chapter, the proper authorities of the
village, or any person, the value or use of whose property is or may be
affected by such violation, may, in addition to other remedies, institute any
appropriate action or proceedings in equity to prevent such unlawful erection,
construction, reconstruction, alteration, conversion, maintenance or use to
restrain, correct, or abate such violation, to prevent the occupancy of said
building, structure, or land or to prevent any illegal act, conduct, business
or use in or about the premises.
   C.   Whenever, in the opinion of the village board, by reason of defective
or illegal work in violation of a provision or requirement of this chapter, the
continuance of a building operation is contrary to public health, safety or
welfare, the village board shall order, in writing, all further work to be
stopped and may require suspension of all work until the condition in violation
has been corrected. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
CHAPTER 7
JUNKYARDS 1
SECTION:
8-7-1: Intent
8-7-2: Special Use; Compliance Required
8-7-3: Operations Within Village Limits
8-7-4: Operations Outside Village Limits
8-7-5: Prohibited Operations
8-7-6: Enforcement And Penalties
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 2, chapter 3 of this code.
8-7-1: INTENT:
The intent of establishing restrictions for junkyards and junk dealers is to
recognize that a junkyard operation may be unsuitable for residential and other
land uses. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-7-2: SPECIAL USE; COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
No junkyard shall be permitted except such that is specifically approved by the
village board in a special use in accordance with chapter 3, article B of this
title as well as the guidelines in this chapter. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff.
2-26-1993)
8-7-3: OPERATIONS WITHIN VILLAGE LIMITS:
In order to obtain a special use permit, an applicant within the boundaries of
the village must fully comply with title 2, chapter 3 of this code. (Amended
Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-7-4: OPERATIONS OUTSIDE VILLAGE LIMITS:
Property outside the boundaries of the village are required to comply with the
following:
   A.   Enclosed Premises; Fencing Requirements: The junkyard shall be enclosed
by a fence of not less than eight feet (8') nor more than ten feet (10') in
height and constructed of such material and in such manner as to screen from
sight by any person outside said junkyard and at ground level all junk located
therein.
   B.   Location: No junkyard shall be located within one hundred fifty feet
(150') of any residence other than that of the operating junk dealer.
   C.   Ineligibility Of Licensee: No person, firm, or corporation shall be
licensed as a junk dealer who has been convicted of any of the following
offenses: (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
      1.   Theft, as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/16-1.
      2.   Violation of any penal provision of the copper purchase registration
law, 815 Illinois Compiled Statutes 325/1 et seq.
      3.   The purchasing or receiving of any goods from a minor, as prohibited
by 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 345/1 and 345/2. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993,
eff. 2-26-1993; amd. 2009 Code)
      4.   Any felony, the commission of which involved the operation or
ownership of a junkyard or the dismantling or wrecking of a motor vehicle or
motorboat or part thereof.
   D.   Violations By Licensee:
      1.   Any license issued or renewed contrary to the provisions of sections
2-3-3 and
2-3-5 of this code shall be null and void from date of issuance or renewal.
      2.   Any licensee convicted of any offense listed in subsection C of this
section shall surrender said license within three (3) days of said conviction,
and said license shall be null and void from date of said conviction. (Amended
Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-7-5: PROHIBITED OPERATIONS:
   A.   No junkyard shall be used for the storage, keeping or dumping of any
garbage, sanitary fill, live animals, dead animals, toxic wastes, or other
noxious or harmfully or dangerously odorous material.
   B.   No junk shall be located within a junkyard in such manner as to extend
over, above, or beyond the fencing thereof.
   C.   No sign, poster, placard, picture, notice, or other billboard shall be
attached to the outside of said fencing other than a sign placed there by the
junk dealer for the sole purpose of identifying said junkyard.
   D.   No junk dealer shall allow the burning of any junk within a junkyard
other than wood or paper within a suitable container.
   E.   No junk dealer shall buy, trade, barter, or otherwise acquire any
goods, items, or articles of value from any person who is legally incompetent
or is a notorious thief or intoxicated person, or is a minor who does not have
the written consent of his or her parent or guardian to do business with said
junk dealer. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-7-6: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Entry Powers: Any peace officer or investigating agent of any
government concerned with the operation or ownership of a junkyard shall be
allowed to enter upon, inspect, and otherwise examine the premises of any
junkyard, and any junk dealer or owner of a junkyard who prohibits, prevents,
or otherwise refuses to allow such entry, inspection, or examination shall
thereupon surrender said license to the appropriate village authorities.
   B.   Concealing Items: No junk dealer shall conceal or secrete any goods,
items, or articles of value purchased, received, or otherwise acquired by him
for the purpose of preventing identification thereof by any peace officer or
investigating agent of any government concerned with the operation or ownership
of a junkyard. Any junk dealer or owner of a junkyard convicted of a violation
of this subsection shall, in addition to any other penalty imposed by law,
thereupon surrender said license to the appropriate village authorities.
   C.   Penalty: Any junk dealer or owner of a junkyard shall, upon conviction
of any offense under this chapter or upon violation of or refusal to comply
with any provision of this chapter, be subject to a fine of not less than two
hundred dollars ($200.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00).
   D.   Additional Remedies: The village may, in addition to any other
remedies, initiate an appropriate action in any court of competent jurisdiction
to prevent the unlawful operation, maintenance, or ownership of a junkyard by a
junk dealer which is not in compliance with this chapter, or to restrain,
correct, or abate any illegal act, conduct, business, or use in or about the
premises of such junkyard.
   E.   Costs A Lien: For the cost of enforcing any order of court obtained by
the village pursuant to subsection D of this section, including any court
costs, attorney fees, and expenses of suit involved in obtaining said order of
court, the village hereby has a lien upon the real estate of said junkyard and
upon the personal and real estate of any junk dealer whose act, conduct,
business, or use is the subject of such suit, said lien to be enforced and
collected in such manner as provided in the case of judgments. (Amended Ord.,
2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
CHAPTER 8
OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING
SECTION:
8-8-1: Intent And Purpose
8-8-2: Definitions
8-8-3: General Parking And Loading Provisions
8-8-4: Additional Parking Regulations
8-8-5: Schedule Of Parking Requirements
8-8-6: Design And Maintenance Of Loading Berths
8-8-7: Schedule Of Loading And Unloading Facilities
8-8-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
The intent and purpose of this chapter is to require a specified number of
adequately sized and located off street parking and loading spaces for new and/
or expanded buildings or uses to prevent congestion and hazards in the public
streets. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
FLOOR AREA: In the case of office, merchandising, or service types of use,
shall mean the gross floor area of a building or structure used or intended to
be used for service to the public as customers, patrons, clients, patients, or
tenants including areas occupied by fixtures and equipment used for display or
sale of merchandise. The term shall not include any area used for:
   A.   Storage accessory to the principal use of a building;
   B.   Incidental repairs;
   C.   Processing or packaging of merchandise;
   D.   Show windows or offices incidental to the management or maintenance of
a store or building;
   E.   Restrooms;
   F.   Utilities; and
   G.   Dressing, fitting or alteration rooms.
GROUND AREA: That area of a building site or lot actually occupied by all
buildings or structures on the site except for the following:
   A.   Parking garages;
   B.   Carports;
   C.   Covered or enclosed parking or loading areas; and
   D.   Parking structures. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-8-3: GENERAL PARKING AND LOADING PROVISIONS:
   A.   Information Required On Application For Building Permit: An application
for a building permit for a new or enlarged building, structure, or use shall
include a plat plan, drawn to scale and fully dimensioned, showing any parking
or loading facilities to be provided in compliance with the requirements of
this title.
   B.   Parking And Loading Facilities Required:
      1.   All buildings and structures erected or enlarged and uses of land
initiated after the effective date hereof shall provide accessory off street
parking or loading facilities as required hereinafter; except, that a building
or structure for which a building permit has been issued prior to the effective
date hereof shall not be required to furnish parking or loading facilities if
construction is begun thereon within six (6) months of the effective date
hereof and diligently prosecuted to completion.
      2.   A specific number of parking and loading facilities shall not be
required for the remodeling, rehabilitation, or putting to use of an existing
building or structure; provided, that: a) the ground area covered by the
existing building or structure shall not be increased; b) any existing parking
and/or loading facilities shall be continued and maintained; and c) any area of
the lot suitable for the development of approved off street parking facilities
shall be so developed. Remodeling, rehabilitation, or use which does increase
the ground area covered by such existing structure shall be subject to the same
requirements as new construction.
   C.   Decrease In Parking And Loading Facilities Permitted: When a building
or structure erected or enlarged prior to or after the effective date hereof
shall undergo a decrease in number of dwelling units, gross floor area, seating
capacity, number of employees, or other unit of measurement specified
hereinafter for required parking or loading facilities, and further, when said
decrease would result in a requirement for fewer total parking or loading
spaces through application of the provisions of this title thereto, parking and
loading facilities may be reduced accordingly; provided, that existing parking
or loading facilities shall be so decreased only when the facilities remaining
would at least equal or exceed the parking or loading requirements resulting
from application of the provisions of this title to the entire building or
structure as modified.
   D.   Increase In Parking And Loading Facilities Required: When the ground
area covered by an existing building or structure shall be increased, and
further, when said increase would result in a requirement for additional total
parking or loading spaces through application of the provisions of this title
thereto, parking and loading facilities may be increased accordingly; provided,
that existing parking or loading facilities shall be so increased that the
total facilities would at least equal or exceed the parking or loading
requirements resulting from application of the provisions of this title to the
entire building or structure as modified.
   E.   Excess Parking And Loading Facilities: Nothing in this chapter shall
prevent the establishment of off street parking or loading facilities to serve
any existing use of land or buildings or to prevent the establishment of
facilities in excess of those required.
   F.   Damage Or Destruction Of Building: Any building, structure or use which
is in existence on the effective date hereof and which subsequently shall be
damaged or destroyed by fire, collapse, explosion, or other cause may be
reconstructed, reestablished, or repaired with or without off street parking or
loading facilities; except, that parking or loading facilities equivalent to
any maintained at the time of such damage or destruction shall be replaced or
continued in operation. However, it shall not be necessary to restore or
maintain parking or loading facilities in excess of those required by this
title for equivalent new construction. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-
1993)
8-8-4: ADDITIONAL PARKING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Joint Parking Facilities: Off street parking facilities for different
buildings, structures, or uses, or for mixed uses, may be provided collectively
in any zoning district, and in accordance with subsection B of this section, in
which separate parking facilities for each constituent use would be permitted;
provided, that the total number of spaces so located together shall not be less
than the sum of the separate requirements for each use.
   B.   Control And Location Of Off Site Facilities: All off street parking
facilities shall be located on the same lot, or on a lot adjacent to or across
a public street or alley from, the building, structure, or use which they are
required to serve. When such facilities are provided elsewhere than on the lot
on which the principal use served is located, they shall be in the same
possession, either by deed or long term lease, as the property occupied by such
principal use. The required number of parking spaces must be maintained during
the existence of said principal use.
   C.   Design And Maintenance: Standards for the design and maintenance of off
street parking facilities shall be as follows:
      1.   Parking Spaces:
         a.   Description: A required off street parking space shall be an area
of not less than ten feet (10') wide by nineteen feet (19') long exclusive of
access drives or aisles, ramps, columns, or office and work area; accessible
from streets or alleys or from private driveways or aisles leading to streets
or alleys; and to be used for the storage or parking of passenger automobiles
or commercial vehicles under one and one-half (11/2) tons' capacity.
         b.   Calculation: When determination of the number of required off
street parking spaces results in a requirement of a fractional space, any
fraction up to and including one-half (1/2) shall be disregarded, and any
fraction over one-half (1/2) shall be interpreted as one parking space.
      2.   Access: Parking facilities shall be designed with appropriate means
of vehicular access to a street or alley in such a manner as will least
interfere with the movement of traffic. No driveway or curb cut in any district
shall exceed twenty five feet (25') in width.
      3.   Signs In Residential Districts: No signs shall be displayed in any
parking area within any residential district except such as may be necessary
for the orderly use of the parking facilities.
      4.   Required Setbacks: No off street parking lot or area, other than a
residential driveway, established on the same lot with a building shall be
located within a required front yard. No parking lot or area, or portion
thereof, established on a lot without a building shall be located closer to any
street line than the established building line on adjacent properties nor
closer than the front yard setback required for the district in which the
parking lot is located.
      5.   Surfacing: All open off street parking areas and driveways, except
those accessory to single-family dwellings, shall be improved by constructing
with either:
         a.   Six inches (6") of compacted gravel base surfaced with two inches
(2") of asphaltic concrete or a seal coat.
         b.   Six inches (6") of concrete laid over a firm base.
      6.   Screening And Landscaping: Within or adjacent to a residential
district, all open off street parking areas for six (6) or more cars shall be
effectively screened by a wall, a solid fence, or a densely planted compact
hedge along any side which is adjacent to property in residential use unless
that use is across a public street or alley from such parking area.
      7.   Lighting: Any lighting used to illuminate an off street parking area
shall be so arranged as to reflect the light away from adjoining property.
   D.   Special Use Public Parking Areas: Any automobile parking area developed
for transient trade, and not accessory to specific main uses or groups of uses
for which parking is required by this title, shall be treated as a "special
use", as defined in chapter 3, article B of this title, and as approved by the
village board. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-8-5: SCHEDULE OF PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
Type Of Use Number Of Parking Spaces
Type Of Use                             Number Of Parking Spaces
Airports, railroad passenger stations,  Such spaces as the village board shall
bus depots, or other passenger terminal deem to be adequate for employees,
facilities (special uses)               passengers, spectators, visitors, and
                                        others
Banks, businesses or professional       1 for each 400 square feet of floor
offices, or public administration       space
buildings
                                        2 for each alley, plus 1 for each 300
Bowling alleys                          feet of floor area devoted to
                                        affiliated uses such as bars,
                                        restaurants and the like
Church, school, or other auditoriums    1 for each 12 seats provided in said
                                        buildings or structures
Dance halls, skating rinks, assembly    1 for each 100 square feet of floor
halls, exhibition halls, or other       area used for assembly
places of assembly
Establishments handling the sale and
consumption on the premises of
alcoholic beverages, food or            1 for each 300 square feet of floor
refreshments having more than 1,500     area over 1,500 square feet
square feet of floor area under 1 roof
for such use or uses
Furniture and appliance stores, motor
vehicle sales, wholesale stores,
household equipment or furniture repair 1 for each 600 square feet of floor
shops, or machinery sales having more   area over and above 2,000 square feet
than 2,000 square feet of floor area
under 1 roof
                                        1 for each 3 hospital beds, plus 1
Hospitals                               additional space for each staff or
                                        visiting doctor
                                        Parking space for each guestroom,
                                        sleeping room or suite, plus 1
                                        additional space for the owner or
Hotels, tourist homes, cabins, or       manager, plus 1 such additional space
motels                                  as shall be deemed necessary because of
                                        any supplementary parking generative
                                        activities such as bars, ballrooms,
                                        dining rooms, nightclub facilities, and
                                        the like
Housing for the elderly                 1 for each 2 apartments, plus 1
                                        additional space for each staff member
                                        1 for each 4 guests, plus 1 additional
Lodging, rooming, and boarding houses   space for the owner or manager if
                                        resident on the premises
Manufacturing and industrial uses;
research and testing laboratories;      1 for each 4 employees based upon the
laundry and dry cleaning plants;        maximum number of persons to be
printing, binding, publishing, and      employed at any 1 work period during
issuing of newspapers, periodicals,     the day or night, plus such additional
books, and other reading matter;        parking facilities as shall be required
warehouses and storage buildings;       for all vehicles used in the conduct of
assembly of materials and products; and the enterprise
other similar uses
Medical or dental clinics               3 per doctor engaged at the clinic
                                        5 for each room used as a chapel or
Mortuaries or funeral parlors           parlor, plus 1 for each funeral vehicle
                                        maintained on the premises, plus 1 for
                                        each family residing on the premises
Private clubs or lodges (without        Spaces equal in number to 25 percent of
sleeping rooms)                         the total membership
Residential buildings                   2 for each family dwelling unit
Retail stores and service shops having  1 for each 300 square feet of retail
a total floor area of 2,000 or more     floor area over and above 2,000 feet
square feet devoted to retail sales
Sanitariums, convalescent homes, or     1 for each 6 patient beds, plus 1
homes for the aged                      additional space for each staff or
                                        visiting doctor
Theaters:                                
     Indoor                        1 for each 10 seats up to 500, plus 1
                                        for each 5 seats above 500
     Outdoor                       Reservoir space equal to 10 percent of
                                        the capacity
 
(Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-8-6: DESIGN AND MAINTENANCE OF LOADING BERTHS:
   A.   Description: An off street loading berth shall be a hard surfaced area
of land, either open or enclosed, other than a street or public way, used
principally for the standing, loading or unloading of motor trucks, tractors,
and trailers so as to avoid undue interference with the public use of streets
and alleys. A required loading space shall be not less than ten feet (10') in
width, forty five feet (45') in length, and fourteen feet (14') in height,
exclusive of access aisles and maneuvering space, except as otherwise
specifically dimensioned hereafter.
   B.   Calculation: When determination of the number of required off street
loading berths results in a requirement of a fractional berth, any fraction up
to and including one-half (1/2) shall be disregarded and fractions over one-
half (1/2) shall be interpreted as one loading berth.
   C.   Location: No permitted or required loading berth shall be closer than
fifty feet (50') to any property in a residential district unless completely
enclosed by building walls or a solid fence or wall or any combination thereof
not less than six feet (6') in height. No permitted or required loading berth
shall be located within twenty five feet (25') of the nearest point of
intersection of any two (2) streets. Loading berths open to the sky may be
located in any required yards.
   D.   Surfacing: All open off street loading berths shall be improved by
construction with a weatherproof and dustproof surface equal to the paving
material of the street onto which it opens. If a berth opens into two (2) or
more streets, the more substantial paving material shall be used. (Amended
Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-8-7: SCHEDULE OF LOADING AND UNLOADING FACILITIES:
In all districts where property uses include the loading and unloading of
materials or merchandise from vehicles, off street loading and unloading
facilities shall be provided in accordance with the following requirements:
 
Type Of Use                              Number Of Spaces
Banks, business, or professional
offices, or public administration        1
buildings containing more than 10,000
square feet of floor area
Buildings containing furniture and
appliance stores, motor vehicles sales,
wholesale stores, household equipment,   1
or machinery sales and having more than
4,000 square feet of floor area
Buildings containing manufacturing uses;
research and testing laboratories;
laundry and dry cleaning establishments;
printing, binding, publishing, and
issuing of newspapers, periodicals,
books, and other reading matter;         1, plus 1 additional space for each
warehouse and storage facilities;        additional 30,000 square feet of gross
assembly of materials and products;      floor area in excess of 20,000 square
processing and distribution of materials feet
and products; and other similar uses
having more than 5,000 square feet of
gross floor area, exclusive of basement
area, and less than 20,000 square feet
of gross floor area
Hospitals or sanitariums containing more 1
than 4,000 square feet of floor area
Hotels or apartment-hotel buildings
containing more than 4,000 square feet
of floor area within which are operated  1
restaurants, office facilities, or
retail shops
 
(Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
CHAPTER 9
NONCONFORMITIES
SECTION:
8-9-1: Intent And Purpose
8-9-2: Continuance
8-9-3: Discontinuance
8-9-4: Changes
8-9-5: Termination And Removal
8-9-6: Damage Or Destruction
8-9-7: Additions Or Enlargements
8-9-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
The intent and purpose of this chapter is to recognize the fact that certain
structures or uses were established prior to the effective date hereof that
would not be permitted by this title. This chapter defines these structures or
uses and sets up regulations as to how these particular situations may be
continued, altered or expanded. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-9-2: CONTINUANCE:
   A.   Nonconforming Use: Any lawfully established use of a building,
structure, or land in existence at the effective date hereof, or of amendments
hereto, that does not conform to the use regulations for the district in which
it is located shall be deemed to be a nonconforming use and may be continued
except as provided herein.
   B.   Nonconforming Structure: Any lawfully established building or other
structure in existence at the effective date hereof, or of amendments hereto,
that does not conform to the height, bulk, area, setback, or other regulations
for the district in which it is located shall be deemed to be a nonconforming
structure and may continue to be used or occupied, except as otherwise provided
herein.
   C.   Nonconforming Projects: Any building or structure for which a permit
has been lawfully granted prior to the effective date hereof, or of amendments
hereto, may be completed in accordance with the approved plans, provided
construction is started within six (6) months and diligently prosecuted to
completion. Such building, structure, or use shall, thereafter, be a
nonconforming use, and such building or structure may be continued except as
otherwise provided herein.
   D.   Exceptions: The following exceptions to subsections A, B and C of this
section are hereby established:
      1.   Any building or structure constructed prior to the year 1990 and
remaining essentially unchanged since that date shall not be classified as a
nonconforming structure, but shall be classified as a conforming structure.
      2.   Any legal use of a building or structure constructed or adapted for
its use prior to the year 1990 and remaining essentially unchanged from that
date shall not be classified as to, or enlarged in the same manner as any other
special use and in accordance with the procedures set forth in section
8-3B-5 of this title. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-9-3: DISCONTINUANCE:
   A.   Vacation, Discontinuance Or Abandonment Of Buildings: Whenever a
nonconforming use of a building, structure, or part thereof has been
discontinued for a period of sixty (60) consecutive days whenever there is
evident a clear intent on the part of an owner to abandon a nonconforming use,
such use, after being so discontinued or abandoned, shall not be reestablished
except in conformity with the regulations of the district in which it is
located, and a letter of intent must be filed with the village board.
   B.   Abandonment Of Land: Whenever a nonconforming use of land has been
discontinued for a period of six (6) months, it shall be considered as an
abandoned use and shall not be reestablished except in conformity with the
regulations of the district in which the land is located. (Amended Ord., 2-15-
1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-9-4: CHANGES:
   A.   Change To Same Or Less Restricted Use: A nonconforming use of any
building, structure, or part thereof may be changed to a use of the same or of
a more restricted character, but may not be changed to any less restricted use.
   B.   Reversion To Nonconforming Use: Whenever any part of a building,
structure, or land occupied by a nonconforming use is changed to, or replaced
by, a conforming use, such premises shall not thereafter be used or occupied by
any nonconforming use. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-9-5: TERMINATION AND REMOVAL:
   A.   The period of time during which the following nonconforming situations
may continue or remain shall be limited to three (3) years from the effective
date hereof, or of any amendment hereto, which causes them to become
nonconforming:
      1.   Any nonconforming building or structure having an assessed valuation
not in excess of five hundred dollars ($500.00) on the effective date hereof.
      2.   Any nonconforming use of land where no enclosed buildings are
involved, or where the only buildings employed are accessory or incidental to
such use.
   B.   The nonconforming situations in subsection A of this section shall be
altered so as to become conforming or shall be completely removed from the
premises at the expiration of the three (3) year period and after proper
notification by the zoning administrator. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-
1993)
8-9-6: DAMAGE OR DESTRUCTION:
   A.   Rebuilding Regulated: If a building or other structure containing a
nonconforming use or if a nonconforming structure or any nonconforming sign,
billboard, or other outdoor advertising structure is damaged or destroyed by
any means to the extent of sixty percent (60%) (according to fire officials) or
more of its replacement value at the time, the building or structure may be
rebuilt or used thereafter only for a conforming use and only in compliance
with all other requirements for the district in which it is located.
   B.   Repair Permitted: If a building or other structure containing a
nonconforming use or if a nonconforming structure is damaged by any means to an
extent less than sixty percent (60%) (according to fire officials) of its
replacement value at that time, it may be repaired, and the previous use may be
continued.
   C.   Prompt Repair Required: Repair of a damaged building or other
structure, as permitted in subsection B of this section, must be started within
a period of ninety (90) days from the occurrence of the damage and diligently
prosecuted to completion. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-9-7: ADDITIONS OR ENLARGEMENTS:
   A.   Extension Or Enlargement Of Nonconforming Structure: A nonconforming
structure may be extended or enlarged in any manner that is in conformity with
the regulations established for the district in which it is located; provided,
that the extension or enlargement does not increase or intensify the original
nonconforming situation.
   B.   Expansion Of Nonconforming Use: A building occupied by a nonconforming
use may be extended, enlarged, or added to, or additional buildings may be
constructed on the same or adjacent property; provided, that this construction
does not result in either creating a nonconforming structure or increasing or
intensifying an original nonconforming structure; and provided, that the
building area occupied by the nonconforming use shall not exceed by more than
fifty percent (50%) the building area in such nonconforming use at the
effective date hereof or of pertinent amendments hereto.
   C.   Approval Of Additions Or Enlargements: Approval of additions or
enlargements as provided in subsections A and B of this section shall be in
accordance with the procedures set forth in section
8-3B-5 of this title. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
CHAPTER 10
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
8-10-1: Purposes
8-10-2: Fences, Boundary Markers And Other Protrusions
8-10-1: PURPOSES:
The residential districts set forth herein are established in order to protect
public health and to promote public safety, convenience, comfort, morals,
prosperity, and welfare. These general goals include the following specific
purposes:
   A.   To protect residential areas against fire, explosion, noxious fumes,
offensive noise, smoke, dust, vibrations, odors, heat, glare and other
objectionable factors.
   B.   To protect residential areas to the extent possible and appropriate in
each area against unduly heavy traffic, especially through traffic, and to
alleviate congestion by promoting off street parking.
   C.   To protect residential areas against undue congestion of public streets
and other public facilities by controlling the density of population through
regulation of the bulk of buildings.
   D.   To protect and promote the public health and comfort by providing for
ample light and air to buildings and the windows thereof.
   E.   To promote public comfort and welfare by providing for usable open
space on the same lot with residential development.
   F.   To promote public convenience by permitting certain neighborhood
commercial facilities to be established and operated.
   G.   To provide sufficient space in appropriate locations to meet the need
for necessary and desirable services in the vicinity of residences which
increase safety and amenity for residents and which do not exert any
objectionable influences.
   H.   To promote the best use and development of residential land in
accordance with a comprehensive land use plan, to promote stability of
residential development and protect the character and desirable development and
to strengthen the economic base of the village. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff.
2-26-1993)
8-10-2: FENCES, BOUNDARY MARKERS AND OTHER PROTRUSIONS 1 :
Objects which protrude from ground level, such as, but not limited to, fences,
walls, hedges and boundary markers, shall not be over five feet (5') in height
and shall not be nearer than two feet (2') from any adjoining property line
unless a joint building permit application is received from all adjoining
landowners. Commercial fencing shall not be permitted within any residential
district. (Ord., 3-1-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  8-5-9 of this title.
ARTICLE A. SR SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-10A-1: Intent
8-10A-2: Permitted Uses
8-10A-3: Site Planning And Bulk Requirements
8-10A-4: Allowable Obstructions
8-10A-1: INTENT:
The intent of establishing a single-family residential district is to delimit
certain areas for the construction of new housing of a more spacious and
substantial nature and to ensure that high environmental standards are
encouraged and maintained. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-10A-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted within the single-family residential district:
Farmsteads and family operations, if on a parcel of land five (5) acres or
larger and in accordance with all applicable village and state regulations.
Single-family residential and accessory buildings; except, that attached
single-family units are not permitted except as part of an approved planned
development.
Special uses as regulated by chapter 3, article B of this title.
Temporary buildings used for construction purposes for a period not to exceed
one year. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-10A-3: SITE PLANNING AND BULK REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Building Height: No building within the SR district may be constructed,
altered, added to, or moved into the district that would be higher than two and
one-half (21/2) stories or thirty feet (30'), measured at the customary front
of the building, unless specifically approved by the village board as being
reasonable and necessary.
   B.   Minimum Lot Size: No principal building shall be constructed or located
upon a lot or parcel of land smaller than five thousand (5,000) square feet in
area if that lot or parcel of land was a lot or parcel of record on January 1,
1990. Minimum lot size for lots or parcels developed after January 1, 1990,
shall be a minimum of six thousand (6,000) square feet in area.
   C.   Minimum Yard Requirements: No building shall be constructed, altered,
added to, or moved into the SR district unless the following yards are provided
and maintained:
      1.   Front Yard: Each lot shall have a front yard of not less than twenty
seven feet (27') in depth, except in such areas of the village where the
predominant number of existing buildings have front yard setbacks of either
greater or less than twenty seven feet (27'). In such areas, the setback shall
equal the average setback of those existing buildings. In no case shall a front
yard setback of more than fifty feet (50') be required.
      2.   Side Yards: Each lot shall have a side yard on each side of a
principal structure equal to not less than ten feet (10') of the width of the
lot. The side yard facing a street on a corner lot shall meet the same
requirements as for a front yard in subsection C1 of this section.
      3.   Rear Yard: Each lot shall have a rear yard equal to not less than
ten percent (10%) of the lot depth. An accessory building may be constructed or
altered within this rear yard in accordance with section
8-5-7 of this title.
   D.   Waivers And Modifications: The standards of this section may be waived
or modified in accordance with section
8-3-4 of this title when special conditions such as topography, soil
conditions, or landscaping are such as to substantially limit the use of the
lot if the requirements of this section were to be followed exactly. (Amended
Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-10A-4: ALLOWABLE OBSTRUCTIONS:
The following shall not be considered as obstructions when located within or
over required yards:
Arbors or trellises.
Awnings or canopies.
Bay or oriel windows.
Breezeways or open porches (rear and side yards only).
Chimneys.
Fences, walls, or hedges not over five feet (5') in height; except, that any
fence, wall, or hedge (unless open for through visibility) located within or
around any required front yard shall not be over five feet (5') in height.
Flagpoles.
Open parking areas in accordance with chapter 8 of this title.
Permitted signs in accordance with chapter 11 of this title relating to signs.
Roof overhangs if not in excess of three feet (3').
Steps or stairways.
Terraces. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
ARTICLE B. LR LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-10B-1: Intent
8-10B-2: Permitted Uses
8-10B-3: Site Planning And Bulk Requirements
8-10B-1: INTENT:
The intent of establishing a low density residential district is to permit the
construction of a limited number of new single-family homes outside the area
served by municipal sewer and water systems. Such areas must be assured of
adequate space for the proper performance of septic systems and individual
wells. Even though such development is permitted, it is not the intent of this
article to encourage the redevelopment of agricultural areas for residential
purposes or to alter the character of traditionally agricultural areas.
(Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-10B-2: PERMITTED USES:
All uses permitted within the single-family residential district are permitted
within the low density residential district. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-
26-1993)
8-10B-3: SITE PLANNING AND BULK REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Building Height: Same as for the single-family residential district.
   B.   Minimum Lot Size: No principal building shall be constructed or located
upon a lot or parcel of land smaller than thirty thousand (30,000) square feet
in area.
   C.   Minimum Yard Requirements: Same as for the single-family residential
district. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
ARTICLE C. GR GENERAL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-10C-1: Intent
8-10C-2: Permitted Uses
8-10C-3: Site Planning And Bulk Requirements
8-10C-1: INTENT:
The intent of establishing a general residential district is to encourage
adequate new construction and rehabilitation activities in those older sections
of the village that are a mixture of old and new buildings. (Amended Ord., 2-
15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-10C-2: PERMITTED USES:
All uses permitted within the single-family residential district are permitted
within the general residential district including the following additional
uses:
Apartment buildings or townhouse structures containing dwelling units for not
more than four (4) families and located on a lot or parcel of land not smaller
than two thousand (2,000) square feet per dwelling unit unless such
construction is part of a planned development as defined in section
8-3B-6 of this title. Apartment buildings or townhouse structures shall not be
constructed on any lot or parcel of land smaller than six thousand (6,000)
square feet.
As additional special uses, subject to chapter 3, article B of this title,
antique and gift shops, art or craft studios, private museums, tourist homes,
and other tourist oriented activities subject to the same limitations and
regulations as are neighborhood commercial facilities and as set forth in
chapter 11 of this title. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-10C-3: SITE PLANNING AND BULK REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Building Height: Same as for the single-family residential district
(subsection 8-10A-3A of this chapter).
   B.   Minimum Lot Size: No principal building shall be constructed on a lot
or parcel of land smaller than six thousand (6,000) square feet in area unless
such lot or parcel was in existence at the effective date hereof and is not
contiguous with other vacant lots or parcels in the same ownership.
   C.   Minimum Yard Requirements: Same as for the single-family residential
district. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
ARTICLE D. MOBILE HOMES AND MOBILE HOME PARKS
SECTION:
8-10D-1: Mobile Homes Outside Mobile Home Parks
8-10D-2: Removal Of Transporting Devices
8-10D-3: Storage And Parking Of Mobile Homes
8-10D-4: Mobile Homes As Offices
8-10D-5: Mobile Home Parks
8-10D-1: MOBILE HOMES OUTSIDE MOBILE HOME PARKS:
It shall be unlawful for persons to keep, park, store or maintain a mobile home
in the village outside of a mobile home park which is duly licensed hereunder,
except as herein specifically permitted. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-
1993)
8-10D-2: REMOVAL OF TRANSPORTING DEVICES:
Removal of the wheels or other transporting device, except the temporary
detachment of a towing unit, from any mobile home shall not be construed as
converting the same into a permanent structure. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff.
2-26-1993)
8-10D-3: STORAGE AND PARKING OF MOBILE HOMES:
A mobile home may be parked or stored in the village regardless of the other
provisions hereof; provided, that it shall not be used for living or sleeping
purposes during such time as it is so stored or parked; and provided moreover,
that it shall not be a nuisance and does not constitute a fire hazard, and if
such trailer is parked within a mobile home park, it shall be parked in the
same location as occupied mobile homes. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-
1993)
8-10D-4: MOBILE HOMES AS OFFICES:
No mobile home shall be maintained in the village as a permanent office. Such
office use as is compatible with the demonstration and sale of such articles or
services as may be readily transported in a mobile home by a distributor or
salesman may be permitted in a mobile home on a legally located parking lot
within the business or industrial area of the village for a period of time not
to exceed seven (7) days, provided such mobile home is not used for sleeping or
living purposes during such time. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-10D-5: MOBILE HOME PARKS:
   A.   Compliance Required; Location: Any person seeking to establish a mobile
home park within the village shall do so in the manner herein prescribed and at
a location where each boundary of the mobile home will be at least two hundred
feet (200') away from any permanent residential building, public park, public
building, hospital or school located outside the mobile home park unless the
persons owning property within the two hundred foot (200') area consent in
writing to the establishment of the mobile home park.
   B.   General Requirements: Requirements for all mobile home parks shall be
as follows:
      1.   Drainage: They shall be well drained and so located that drainage of
the park area will not endanger any water supply, be free from any nuisances
and health hazards and shall present a pleasing well kept appearance.
      2.   Minimum Area For Mobile Home Site: The site on which each mobile
home shall be accommodated shall have a minimum area of one thousand (1,000)
square feet, clearly defined by appropriate markers so that its boundary lines
can be easily seen and determined, and said area unit shall be so graded and
maintained as to provide adequate and proper drainage.
      3.   One Mobile Home Per Site: Each mobile home shall be parked within
one area unit.
      4.   Location Of Mobile Home On Site: No mobile home, including all
accessory equipment or facilities, except one towing unit and an ornamental
boundary fence of not more than three feet (3') in height, shall be permitted
to park closer than five feet (5') to the side lot lines of the park, or closer
than ten feet (10') to a public street, alley or building, nor shall it be so
parked that it is closer than ten feet (10') to any other mobile home or any
building, awning or shed located in the mobile home park.
      5.   Driveways And Accesses: All area units shall be systematically
arranged and shall, along one side, abut upon a continuous driveway of not less
than twenty four feet (24') in width, which shall have at all times not less
than fourteen feet (14') of unobstructed access of ingress and egress to a
public street, alley or highway. All driveways shall be graded and surfaced
with cinders, gravel, crushed rock or other suitable material as to afford year
round travel, shall be well marked in the daytime and lighted at night with
twenty five (25) watt lamps at intervals of one hundred feet (100') located
approximately fifteen feet (15') from the ground.
      6.   Towing Units: All towing units for mobile homes within the mobile
home park shall be parked either entirely within the area unit or parked
parallel along the side of the drive and partly within the area unit. All such
parking shall be done in a manner so as to provide the aforesaid fourteen foot
(14') unobstructed driveway passage.
   C.   Sanitation Requirements: The following sanitation requirements shall be
followed:
      1.   An adequate supply of water of safe, sanitary quality approved by
the department of public health shall be furnished at each mobile home park.
      2.   Water shall be supplied from faucets or other approved type drinking
fountains only. Faucets or drinking fountains shall not be further in distance
than eighty feet (80') from any area unit.
   D.   Fire Extinguishers: Every mobile home park shall be equipped at all
times with at least one fire extinguisher of at least two and one-half (21/2)
gallons' capacity, of a foam type, in good working order at all times, and
adequately protected from freezing, for every ten (10) units, or fraction
thereof. Such extinguishers shall be located as to be not further than one
hundred feet (100') from any area unit.
   E.   License Requirements:
      1.   License Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to establish,
maintain or operate within the corporate limits of the village any mobile home
park unless such person first secures and properly possesses a license therefor
as herein provided.
      2.   Application For License:
         a.   Any person desiring to establish or maintain a mobile home park
shall file with the village written plans setting forth:
            (1)   The full name and address of the applicant or applicants, or
names and addresses of the partners if the application is a partnership, or the
names and addresses of the officers if the applicant is a corporation, and the
present or last occupation of the applicant at the time of the filing of the
application.
            (2)   The location and legal description of the tract of land upon
which the mobile home park is proposed to be operated and maintained.
            (3)   The proposed and existing facilities in the mobile home park
for water supply, garbage and waste disposal, sewage, fire protection, and the
proposed alterations therein and the maintenance thereof.
            (4)   The proposed method of lighting the structures and land upon
which the mobile home park is to be located.
         b.   An affidavit of the applicant as to the truth of the matters
contained in the application shall be attached thereto.
      3.   License Fee: Each application for an operating license shall be
accompanied by a license fee as follows:
         a.   Capacity of ten (10) trailers or less: One hundred dollars
($100.00).
         b.   Capacity of eleven (11) to and including twenty (20) trailers:
Two hundred dollars ($200.00).
         c.   Capacity of twenty one (21) or more trailers: Two hundred dollars
($200.00), plus six dollars ($6.00) per area unit in excess of twenty (20).
      4.   Issuance Of License: The village shall issue a license for the
operation of a mobile home park upon a showing that all requirements are
complied with and upon payment of the proper fee as herein provided.
      5.   Expiration Of License; Fee Prorated; Renewals: Each such license
shall expire at the end of the fiscal year in which issued, but in the event a
license is issued more than a month after the beginning of any fiscal year, the
fee to be paid shall be reduced in proportion to the full calendar months which
have expired in said fiscal year. Before any license shall be renewed, the
premises shall be inspected to determine whether full compliance has taken
place.
      6.   Posting License: The license required by this subsection shall be
conspicuously posted on the premises of the mobile home park at all times.
      7.   Violations; Revocation Of License: If at any time a mobile home park
is found to be in violation of the provisions of this title, the licensee of
such mobile home park shall be notified of such condition. If the violation is
not corrected within a reasonable time after notification, the license for such
mobile home park may be revoked by the village board of trustees. (Amended
Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
ARTICLE E. GUESTHOUSES
SECTION:
8-10E-1: Definitions
8-10E-2: Existing Establishments
8-10E-3: License Requirements
8-10E-4: Fire Prevention And Protection
8-10E-5: Food Service Inspection
8-10E-6: Enforcement
8-10E-7: Penalties
8-10E-1: DEFINITIONS:
Definitions applicable to this article are as provided in chapter 2 of this
title. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-10E-2: EXISTING ESTABLISHMENTS:
Bed and breakfast establishments operating prior to the effective date hereof
shall comply with this title. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-10E-3: LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   License Required: Only those persons who comply with the requirements
of this title shall be entitled to hold and retain a license to operate a bed
and breakfast establishment in the county.
   B.   Application For License: Persons desiring to operate a bed and
breakfast establishment shall make written application for license on forms
provided by the licensing agency. Such application shall include information
pertaining to the requirements specified in the act. In addition, when the
establishment is not serviced by a public sewer and/or water facility, the
applicant shall submit documentation that: 1) the water supply is from a source
constructed and operated according to law; and 2) the sewage disposal system is
constructed and operating in conformance with the applicable state and local
ordinances and regulations, and is of sufficient size to adequately treat the
sewage produced.
   C.   License Fee: The licensing fee for the initial year of operation shall
be seventy five dollars ($75.00) for establishments with one or two (2)
guestrooms, and one hundred dollars ($100.00) for establishments with three (3)
to five (5) guestrooms. License fees for subsequent years shall be sixty
dollars ($60.00) for all bed and breakfast establishments. The licensing period
shall be January 1 through December 31.
   D.   Liability Insurance: Each licensee shall maintain a minimum of one
hundred fifty thousand dollars ($150,000.00) liability insurance. A certificate
of insurance shall be tendered by license applicant at the time of application.
(Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-10E-4: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION:
The applicable local fire department is authorized to inspect the premises of
the proposed bed and breakfast facility for conformance with the following
regulations. A written report shall be furnished by the fire department to the
health department indicating approval or disapproval of the facility for use as
a bed and breakfast establishment.
   A.   Minimum Requirements: Bed and breakfast establishments shall meet the
requirements for one- and two-family dwellings set out in chapter 22 of the
NFPA 101 life safety code, and the additional requirements set forth in this
section.
   B.   Smoke Detectors:
      1.   Smoke detectors must be either permanently wired into the bed and
breakfast structure's AC power line, with battery backup, or be otherwise
interrelated so as to comprise a system that is, in the judgment of the local
fire chief, of equal or greater value.
      2.   In the event that a smoke detector system is once approved by the
local chief of the fire department, it shall thereafter be deemed to be a
system that complies with the requirements of this section.
      3.   Multistation units shall be interconnected so that the activation of
one detector will activate all of the detectors in the bed and breakfast or
will activate other centrally located warning devices in the bed and breakfast.
Smoke detectors shall be installed as follows: one in each guestroom used for
sleeping purposes; one in each main hallway or corridor on each floor; one in
each living room or lounge area; one in each dining room; and one in each
basement and in each workshop area. There shall be at least one smoke detector
on each floor of the bed and breakfast, but excluding unoccupied attics.
      4.   The bed and breakfast owner shall provide such periodic written
reports relating to smoke detector testing and maintenance as shall be required
by the fire prevention bureau.
   C.   Guestrooms Above Second Floor Or In Basement:
      1.   All guestrooms located above the second floor or in the basement
must have two (2) exits approved by the applicable local fire department. All
vertical openings to any such floor or basement in which a guestroom is located
shall be enclosed with enclosures continuous from floor to ceiling, which
enclosures shall be by fire barriers such as walls or partition assemblies.
Fire barriers shall have a minimum of one hour fire resistance rating.
      2.   Passageways used for exiting from any occupied floor or basement,
and stairways used for exiting from any occupied floor or basement, shall be
enclosed by materials that have a minimum of one hour fire resistance rating.
      3.   Self-closing doors approved by the fire department shall be used in
any stairway used for exiting from any occupied floor or basement.
   D.   Workshop Areas: Any workshop or other area determined by the local fire
department to contain equipment or materials constituting a potential fire
hazard shall be enclosed with fire resistant materials.
   E.   Interior Finishes: All interior finishes and floor coverings in the bed
and breakfast shall meet life safety code regulations so as to restrict the
spread of fire. Cellulose, foam, plastic and other similar material shall not
be used for interior finishes.
   F.   Exit Regulations And Floor Plan:
      1.   All hallways, corridors and stairways used as exits shall be
adequately lighted at all times. Emergency lighting shall meet section 5-9 of
the NFPA 101 life safety code.
      2.   A kitchen exit shall not be considered as an approved fire exit in a
bed and breakfast where breakfast is served.
      3.   All interior and exterior exits shall open from the inside without
the use of a key or special knowledge. All such exits shall be the width of a
normal door and shall not be blocked or obstructed at any time.
      4.   A floor plan of the bed and breakfast shall be maintained in each
guestroom, which plan shall show the location of each such guestroom and the
exit locations to be used for such guestroom in the event of fire.
   G.   Access Roads: All access roads serving bed and breakfast establishments
shall be of sufficient width and construction to accommodate emergency
vehicles. Local fire departments shall designate minimum acceptable width
required for access roads, but in no case shall the width be less than ten feet
(10'). (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-10E-5: FOOD SERVICE INSPECTION:
Upon receipt of the completed application and appropriate fee, the health
authority shall make inspection of the bed and breakfast establishment to
determine compliance with the provision of this title and compliance with the
Illinois state bed and breakfast act 1 . When the inspections reveal that the
applicable requirements have been met, a license shall be issued. Licenses
shall not be transferable from one person to another person or place.
Additional inspections shall be made annually for license renewal, and as often
as necessary during the period of operation to assure there is compliance with
this chapter. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
 
Notes
1 1. 50 ILCS 820/1 et seq.
8-10E-6: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Right Of Entry: The health authority shall be permitted to enter any
bed and breakfast establishment within Jo Daviess County for the purpose of
making inspection to determine compliance with this title.
   B.   Notice Of Violation:
      1.   Whenever the health authority determines that there are reasonable
grounds to believe that there has been a violation of any provision of the act
or the rules and regulations issued, the health authority shall give notice of
such violation to the licensee. Such notice shall:
         a.   Be in writing.
         b.   Include a statement of the reasons for issuance of the notice.
         c.   Contain an outline of the remedial action which is required to
effect compliance with this title.
         d.   Allow reasonable time as determined by the health authority for
performance of any act required.
      2.   Notices provided for under this subsection shall be deemed to have
been properly served when such notice has been delivered personally to the
licensee or such notice has been sent by registered or certified mail, return
receipt requested, to the last known address. A copy of such notice shall be
filed with the records of the health department.
   C.   Conditional License: If the health authority finds the bed and
breakfast establishment is not in compliance with all provisions of this act,
but the establishment can operate without undue harm to the occupants and the
public, the authority may issue a conditional license setting forth the
conditions on which the license is issued, the manner in which the
establishment fails to comply with the act and shall set forth the time, not to
exceed six (6) months. The health authority shall not issue two (2) consecutive
conditional licenses.
   D.   Hearings:
      1.   County Health Authority:
         a.   Any person affected by order or notice issued by the county
health department in connection with the enforcement of any section of this
article may file in the office of the county health department a written
request for a hearing before the health authority.
         b.   The health authority shall hold a hearing at a time and place
designated thereby within thirty (30) days from the date on which the written
request was filed. The petitioner for the hearing shall be notified of the time
and place of the hearing not less than five (5) days prior to the date on which
the hearing is to be held.
         c.   If, as a result of the hearing, the health authority finds that
strict compliance with the order or notice would cause undue hardship on the
petitioner, and that the public health would be adequately protected and
substantial justice done by varying or withdrawing the order or notice, the
health authority may modify or withdraw the order to make requirements which
are additional to those prescribed in this article for the purpose of properly
protecting the public health.
         d.   The health authority shall render a decision within ten (10) days
after the date of the hearing which shall be reduced to writing and placed on
file in the office of the county health department as a matter of public
record.
         e.   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the health authority may
seek relief therefrom through a hearing before the county board of health.
      2.   Board Of Health:
         a.   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the health authority
rendered as the result of a hearing held in accordance with this subsection may
file in the office of the county health department a written request for a
hearing at a time and place designated by the secretary of the board of health
within thirty (30) days of the date on which the request was filed.
         b.   The petitioner for the hearing shall be notified of the time and
place of the hearing not less than five (5) days prior to the date on which the
hearing is to be held.
         c.   If, as a result of facts elicited as a result of the hearing, the
county board of health finds that strict compliance with the decision of the
health authority would cause undue hardship on the petitioner and that the
public health would be adequately protected and substantial justice done by
granting a variance from the decision of the administrator or acting
administrator, the county board of health may grant a variance and, as a
condition for such variance, may, where it deems necessary, make requirements
which are additional to those prescribed by this article, all for the purpose
of properly protecting the public health.
         d.   The county board of health shall render a decision within ten
(10) days after the date of the hearing which shall be reduced to writing and
placed on file in the office of the county health department, and copy thereof
shall be served on the petitioner by certified mail. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993,
eff. 2-26-1993)
8-10E-7: PENALTIES:
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this article shall be
guilty of a petty offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a
fine of not more than two hundred dollars ($200.00). In addition thereto, such
persons may be enjoined from continuing such violation. (Amended Ord., 2-15-
1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
CHAPTER 11
BUSINESS DISTRICTS
SECTION:
8-11-1: Purpose And Objectives
8-11-1: PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES:
The business districts set forth herein are established to protect public
health; to promote public safety, comfort, convenience, and general welfare;
and to protect the economic base of the village and the value of property.
These general purposes include, among others, the following specific
objectives:
   A.   To promote the most desirable use of land so that adequate space is
provided in appropriate locations for the various types of business uses,
thereby protecting and strengthening the economic base of the village.
   B.   To place in separate districts those businesses which may create noise,
odors, hazards, or unsightliness, or which may generate excessive traffic.
   C.   To encourage the grouping in appropriate locations of compatible
business uses which will tend to draw trade that is mutually interchangeable
and so promote public convenience and business prosperity and contribute to the
alleviation of traffic and pedestrian congestion.
   D.   To provide for the establishment of off street parking facilities so as
to alleviate traffic congestion and so promote shipping convenience and
business prosperity. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
ARTICLE A. GB GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-11A-1: Intent
8-11A-2: Permitted Uses And Conditions
8-11A-3: Enclosed Activities; Exceptions
8-11A-4: Site Planning And Bulk Requirements
8-11A-1: INTENT:
The intent of establishing a general business district is to delimit certain
areas for the construction and/or operation of conventional, nonauto oriented
commercial activities that would best function within a central business
district or downtown location. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-11A-2: PERMITTED USES AND CONDITIONS:
The following uses are permitted within the general business district:
Commercial establishments, subject to all other pertinent state and local
regulations, including, but not necessarily limited to, the following:
Entertainment and amusement services, such as motion picture theaters or
bowling alleys.
Lodging services, such as hotels or motels.
Personal services, such as laundry, dry cleaning, barber, beauty, and shoe
repair shops and photography studios.
Professional services, such as medical and dental clinics and attorney offices.
Repair services, such as automobile, jewelry, and radio and television shops.
Retail establishments, such as grocery, hardware, drug, clothing, and furniture
stores; and eating and drinking places.
Dwellings, provided they are located above the street unless the entry to such
dwelling faces a residential district.
Facilities for automobile drive-up or drive-through service in conjunction with
a permitted use may be permitted by the village board as a special use
following the procedures outlined in chapter 3, article B of this title.
Off street parking and loading facilities in accordance with chapter 8 of this
title.
Public and semipublic buildings such as post office or village hall.
Signs, limited to the following:
   A.   One permanent pole or ground sign per establishment; and/or
   B.   One permanent sign for each public entry to an establishment; provided,
that not more than one such sign per establishment shall be permitted on a
building facade.
   C.   Business signs, billboards, or other outdoor advertising structures
which conform to the following regulations:
      1.   Maximum square feet facing one direction: One sign, fifteen (15)
square feet per side, maximum two (2) sides.
      2.   Spacing between signs facing in the same direction:
         a.   Within the corporate limits of the village: One hundred feet
(100').
         b.   Outside the corporate limits of the village: Three hundred feet
(300').
      3.   Lighting: At no time shall light on any sign create an unsafe
situation by conflicting with traffic lights or signs.
   D.   In a residential district, one unlighted, harmonious professional sign
not more than one foot by three feet (1' x 3') long.
Special uses, as defined in chapter 3, article B of this title.
Tourist attractions, such as historic structures and sites. (Amended Ord., 2-
15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-11A-3: ENCLOSED ACTIVITIES; EXCEPTIONS:
All activities shall be conducted wholly within an enclosed building with the
exception of the following:
   A.   Automobile servicing, but not repair.
   B.   Periodic retail promotional activities when specifically approved by
the village board.
   C.   Periodic tourist oriented retail activities when specifically approved
by the village board and when confined to a specific area.
   D.   Off street parking and loading activities.
   E.   Display of merchandise. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-11A-4: SITE PLANNING AND BULK REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Building Height: No building or structure shall be constructed,
erected, altered, or added to so as to exceed a height of three (3) stories or
thirty six feet (36'). Parapet walls, chimneys, cooling towers, elevator
bulkheads, stacks, and necessary mechanical appurtenances may be erected over
and above the maximum height, provided they are constructed in accordance with
all other pertinent village ordinances.
   B.   Setback Requirements: The following setback requirements are hereby
established:
      1.   No front setback is required except as necessary to provide a
sidewalk between the building and the street of not less than eight feet (8').
This shall be required of all sides of a lot or parcel of land that are
adjacent to an improved public street.
      2.   Adjacent buildings shall be separated by a space not less than ten
feet (10') from wall to wall unless such buildings are to be joined at a
fireproof party wall.
      3.   Unless a rear lot line is congruent with the line of a public right
of way, a rear yard of not less than ten feet (10') is required. (Amended Ord.,
2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
ARTICLE B. AB AUTOMOBILE ORIENTED BUSINESS DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-11B-1: Intent
8-11B-2: Permitted Uses And Conditions
8-11B-3: Enclosed Activities; Exceptions
8-11B-4: Encroachments Prohibited
8-11B-5: Site Planning And Bulk Requirements
8-11B-1: INTENT:
The intent of establishing an automobile oriented business district, including
farm machinery and heavy equipment, is to delimit certain areas for the
construction and/or operation of those commercial activities which serve or
attract an excessive amount of automobile traffic and which, because of this,
are more suitable in a noncentral business district or downtown location.
(Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-11B-2: PERMITTED USES AND CONDITIONS:
The following uses are permitted within the automobile oriented business
district:
Commercial establishments requiring large sites for outdoor display such as
farm implement sales, mobile home sales and building material sales.
Commercial establishments which are oriented to the motorist or to the highway
such as drive-in restaurants, filling stations, auto repair and body shops, car
washes, motels, truck stops, or truck terminals.
Accessory uses incidental to the foregoing principal uses including signs as
regulated hereby. Off premises signs shall conform to the regulations as set
forth in section
8-11A-2 of this chapter. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-11B-3: ENCLOSED ACTIVITIES; EXCEPTIONS:
All activities shall be conducted wholly within an enclosed building with the
exception of the following:
   A.   Automobile or truck servicing, but not repair.
   B.   Sales activities in outdoor display areas.
   C.   Off street parking and loading activities. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993,
eff. 2-26-1993)
8-11B-4: ENCROACHMENTS PROHIBITED:
No principal or accessory use shall encroach upon a public right of way.
(Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-11B-5: SITE PLANNING AND BULK REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Building Height: No building or structure shall be constructed,
erected, altered, or added to so as to exceed a height of two (2) stories or
twenty four feet (24'). Parapet walls, chimneys, cooling towers, elevator
bulkheads, stacks, and necessary mechanical appurtenances may be erected over
and above the maximum height, provided they are constructed in accordance with
all other pertinent village ordinances.
   B.   Setback Requirements:
      1.   To allow for the provision of adequate off street parking and
loading, the following setback requirements are established:
         a.   The front setback shall not be less than fifty percent (50%) of
the depth of the lot; except, that a front setback in excess of fifty feet
(50') shall not be required nor shall a front setback of less than thirty feet
(30') be permitted.
         b.   Adjacent buildings shall be separated by a space not less than
ten feet (10') from wall to wall unless such buildings are to be joined at a
fireproof party wall.
         c.   Unless a rear lot line is congruent with the line of a public
right of way, a rear yard of not less than ten feet (10') is required.
      2.   Parking lots are permitted within any of these setback areas in
accordance with chapter 8 of this title, and provided, that use of such parking
lot does not require backing out into a public street. (Amended Ord., 2-15-
1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
CHAPTER 12
INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
8-12-1: Purpose And Objectives
8-12-2: Performance Standards
8-12-1: PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES:
The industrial districts set forth herein are established to protect the public
health, safety, comfort, convenience, and general welfare and to protect the
economic base of the village as well as the value of land by regulating
manufacturing development in appropriate locations. These general objectives
include, among others, the following specific objectives:
   A.   To protect established residential areas and the health of families
living therein by restricting those nearby manufacturing activities which may
create offensive noise, vibration, smoke, dust, odors, heat, glare, fire
hazards, excessive traffic, and other objectionable influences to those areas
which are appropriate therefor.
   B.   To provide adequate space in appropriate locations for most types of
manufacturing and related activities so that the economic structure of the
community may be found in the interest of public prosperity and welfare.
   C.   To provide more space for manufacturing activities in locations
accessible to transportation so that the movement of raw materials, finished
products, and employees can be carried on efficiently and with a minimum of
danger to public life and property.
   D.   To establish proper standards of performance which will restrict
obnoxious manufacturing activities while at the same time encourage and permit
the manufacturing activities which have adopted facilities for the processing
of finished products without adversely affecting the health, happiness, safety,
convenience, and welfare of the people living and working in nearby areas.
   E.   To protect manufacturing districts from incompatible uses of land by
prohibiting the use of such space for new residential development, thereby
preserving the land for a more appropriate use in accordance with plans for
village improvement and development.
   F.   To promote the most desirable use of land in accordance with a well
considered plan of land use for all of the village; to conserve the use of
property; to promote stability of manufacturing activities and related
development in each area of the community; to enhance and stabilize the value
of land; and to protect the tax base of the village. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993,
eff. 2-26-1993)
8-12-2: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
   A.   Noise: The creation of noise at levels sufficient to create a general
nuisance to occupants of the same or adjoining districts shall be prohibited.
   B.   Smoke And Particulate Matter: The emission of smoke or dusts in an
amount sufficient to create a general nuisance to occupants of adjoining
properties or to the occupants in the general area wherein the use is located
shall be prohibited.
   C.   Odors: No offensive odors shall be emitted by any use permitted in this
district in such quantities as to be readily detectable by the average observer
at any point on the boundary line of the nearest residential or business
district.
   D.   Noxious Gases: Processes and operations of permitted uses capable of
dispersing gases or toxic particulates into the atmosphere must be hooded or
otherwise suitably enclosed. The emission of such toxic gases or particulate
matters shall be from a stack not less than twenty five feet (25') in height.
   E.   Glare And Heat: Operations producing intense light or heat, when
adjacent to a residential or business district, shall be performed within an
enclosed building and not be visible beyond the boundary separating the subject
premises from any adjoining residential or business district.
   F.   Vibrations: There shall be no uses which create heavy, earth shaking
vibrations which are noticeable at any residential or business district other
than necessary and temporary construction operations. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993,
eff. 2-26-1993)
ARTICLE A. GI GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-12A-1: Intent
8-12A-2: Permitted Uses
8-12A-3: Site Planning And Bulk Requirements
8-12A-1: INTENT:
The intent of establishing a general industrial district is to delimit areas in
which necessary industrial activities may function in such a manner as to be
unobtrusive to adjacent nonindustrial uses and in which industrial activities
will be able to have the adequate space, transportation, and storage facilities
that they require. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-12A-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted within the general industrial area:
All fabricating, manufacturing, processing, or storage of goods and products;
provided, that no activities involving the storage, utilization, or manufacture
of materials, goods, or products which could decompose by detonation shall be
permitted except such that are specifically approved by the village board.
Wholesaling and terminal activities.
Accessory uses incidental to the foregoing principal uses.
Signs, limited to not more than two (2) per establishment, other than
incidental signs necessary for the safe and efficient use of the premises. Off
premises signs shall conform to the regulations as set forth in section
8-11A-2 of this title. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-12A-3: SITE PLANNING AND BULK REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Building Height: No building shall be constructed, erected, altered or
added to so as to exceed a height of three (3) stories or thirty six feet
(36'). Parapet walls, chimneys, cooling towers, elevator bulkheads, stacks, and
necessary mechanical appurtenances may be erected over and above the maximum
height, provided they are constructed in accordance with all other pertinent
village ordinances.
   B.   Setback Requirements: Yards, where there shall be no structure of any
kind, no open storage of materials or equipment, and no parking other than for
automobiles, shall be provided as follows:
      1.   Front Yard: There shall be a front yard not less than thirty feet
(30') in depth.
      2.   Side Yards: There shall be an unobstructed side yard of not less
than fifteen feet (15') on both sides of any building or, if located on the
same lot or parcel, a distance between buildings equal to the average height of
the two (2) buildings.
      3.   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard of not less than fifteen feet
(15') at the rear of any building. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
ARTICLE B. IP INDUSTRIAL PARK DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-12B-1: Intent
8-12B-2: Permitted Uses
8-12B-3: Site Planning And Bulk Requirements
8-12B-1: INTENT:
The intent of establishing an industrial park district is to delimit areas in
which necessary industrial activities of a light nature and certain commercial
activities that require excessive exterior space for storage or equipment
parking may be located and/or operated. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-
1993)
8-12B-2: PERMITTED USES:
An industrial park shall be considered as a planned unit development, and the
following uses shall be permitted therein:
All uses permitted within the general industrial district are permitted in the
industrial park district subject to the conditions enumerated under section
8-12-2 of this chapter, and subject to the following additional conditions:
   A.   Uses that require the harboring of live animals other than in enclosed
buildings are prohibited.
   B.   This title shall not preclude the establishment of additional
requirements or conditions by the developers of an industrial park that are
more stringent than those contained herein.
   C.   In addition to the sign regulations in section
8-12A-2 of this chapter, the industrial park may be identified by not more than
one sign at each entry thereto.
In addition to the above permitted uses, the following special uses may be
permitted by the village board in accordance with chapter 3, article B of this
title:
Residential uses limited to facilities for caretakers, watchmen or on call
service personnel.
Retail uses intended to serve only the employees of the industrial park such as
a restaurant or coffee shop.
Retail uses that require extensive outdoor storage facilities such as an
automobile or farm implement dealership.
Accessory uses incidental to the foregoing principal uses. (Amended Ord., 2-15-
1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-12B-3: SITE PLANNING AND BULK REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All building bulk and site planning requirements within the industrial
park district shall be the same as for the general industrial district. This
does not preclude the establishment of more stringent standards by the
developers or managers of the industrial park.
   B.   The procedure for establishing special building bulk and site planning
requirements is as set forth in section
8-3B-6 of this title regarding planned unit developments. (Amended Ord., 2-15-
1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
CHAPTER 13
CONSERVATION DISTRICTS
SECTION:
8-13-1: Purposes
8-13-1: PURPOSES:
The conservation districts set forth herein are established in order to protect
the public health and to promote public safety, convenience, comfort, morals,
prosperity, and welfare. These general goals include the following specific
purposes:
   A.   To allow maximum freedom of operation for agricultural uses and to
protect such uses from encroachment by potentially conflicting uses.
   B.   To provide for healthful, safe, nonfarm housing in a pleasant, rural
environment.
   C.   To protect the natural amenities of the Scales Mound area from harmful
exploitation.
   D.   To prevent excessive damage to structures caused by normal flooding.
(Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
ARTICLE A. AG AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-13A-1: Permitted Uses
8-13A-2: Site Planning And Bulk Requirements
8-13A-1: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted within the agricultural district:
Farmsteads and agricultural operations, including farm dwellings.
Home occupations as regulated in chapter 3, article B of this title.
Kennels and veterinary establishments.
Logging and sawmill operations subject to the performance standards of
industrial districts as outlined in section
8-12-2 of this title.
Nurseries and greenhouses.
Signs, off premises, as approved by the administrator and not more than one
permitted sign for each nonresidential establishment.
Special uses as permitted by chapter 3, article B of this title and the
following:
Family dwellings which are not farm dwellings.
Mobile home for each permanent residential structure located on a farm of a
minimum size of forty (40) acres.
Structures for the commercial storage of farm crop products.
Other uses, similar in nature to the above uses, and which, in the opinion of
the village board, would not be detrimental to the intent and purpose of the
agricultural district. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-13A-2: SITE PLANNING AND BULK REQUIREMENTS:
Where applicable, the building bulk and site planning requirements shall be the
same as for the lower density residential district; except, that a minimum
fifty foot (50') front yard setback is required for all structures. (Amended
Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
ARTICLE B. RE RECREATION DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-13B-1: Permitted Uses
8-13B-2: Site Planning And Bulk Requirements
8-13B-1: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted within the recreation district:
Parks and playgrounds.
Recreation facilities of a commercial or semipublic nature such as a golf
course, sportsmen's clubs, resorts, and transient camping areas including
associated restaurant facilities subject to pertinent village, county and state
regulations.
Swimming pools. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
8-13B-2: SITE PLANNING AND BULK REQUIREMENTS:
Where applicable, the building bulk and site planning requirements shall be the
same as for the single-family residential district; except, that a minimum
fifty foot (50') front yard setback is required for all structures. (Amended
Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
CHAPTER 14
HISTORICAL STRUCTURES AND AESTHETICS
SECTION:
8-14-1: Statement Of Purpose
8-14-2: Definitions
8-14-3: Permit Required
8-14-4: Ordinary Maintenance
8-14-5: Maintenance And Repair Required
8-14-6: Remedying Of Disrepair Or Dangerous Conditions
8-14-7: Natural Destruction Or Demolition
8-14-8: Acquisition Of Appropriate Protective Interests
8-14-9: Penalty
8-14-1: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to preserve those structures, sites and
neighborhoods in the village that have historic, architectural and aesthetic
significance, and to preserve and maintain them for current and future
residents by encouraging renovation, rehabilitation, repair and adaptive reuse
that is consistent with their historic, architectural and aesthetic character.
(Ord. 2015-001, 3-30-2015)
8-14-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words or phrases shall have the meanings ascribed to them below:
ALTERATION: Any act or process other than demolition that changes the exterior
architectural features of a structure, including, but not limited to, the
erection, construction, reconstruction, or removal of any structure.
CONSTRUCTION: The act of adding an addition to a structure or the erection of a
new principal and/or accessory structure on a lot or property.
CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY: A property within a designated historic district that
has characteristics and features that relate to the historic context and
historic significance of the district and that has been specified in the
designation as contributing.
DEMOLITION: Any act or process which destroys in part or in whole a landmark,
building, structure or improvement site that has been designated for
preservation under this chapter.
DEMOLITION BY NEGLECT: Neglect in the maintenance of any landmark, building,
structure or improvement within a historic district which creates a hazardous
or unsafe condition as determined by the village of Scales Mound, or creates a
condition that will allow natural degradation to occur to the landmark,
structure, building, or improvement to the extent that it causes the landmark,
structure, building, or improvement to become at risk of collapse or total
loss.
EXTERIOR ARCHITECTURAL APPEARANCE: The architectural character and general
composition of the exterior of a building or structure, including, but not
limited to, the kind, color, and texture of the building material, foundations,
walls, and roof structures and the type, design, and character of all windows,
doors, light fixtures, signs and appurtenant elements.
HISTORIC DISTRICT: The area within the village of Scales Mound designated as a
"historic district" in 1990 by the United States department of the interior and
the village board and which may contain within definable geographic boundaries
one or more landmarks and which may have within its boundaries other properties
or structures which while not of such historic and/or architectural
significance to be designated as landmarks, nevertheless contribute to the
overall visual characteristics of the landmarks located within the historic
district.
HISTORIC SIGNIFICANCE: Character, interest, or value as part of the
development, heritage, or culture of the community, state, or nation; as the
location of an important local, state, or national event; or through
identification with a person or persons who make important contributions to the
development of the community, state, or nation.
IMPROVEMENT: Any structure, work of art, place, parking facility, fence, gate,
wall or other object constituting a physical addition to real property, or any
part of such addition.
LANDMARK: Any building, structure, or site that has been designated as a
landmark by the village board, pursuant to procedures prescribed herein, that
is worthy of recognition, rehabilitation, restoration, and preservation because
of its historic and/or architectural significance.
NONCONTRIBUTING PROPERTY: A property within the boundaries of a designated
historic district that lacks the architectural characteristics relating to the
historic context and historic significance of the district and that has been
identified in the designation as noncontributing.
NOT IN PRESENT STATE: A property within the boundaries of a designated historic
district that currently lacks the architectural characteristics relating to the
historic context and historic significance of the district and that has been
identified in the designation as not in present state. A property designated as
not in present state does not noticeably detract from the historic district's
sense of time, place and historical development and with the appropriate
rehabilitation could be reclassified as a contributing property.
OBJECT: A material or natural thing of functional, architectural, cultural,
historical, aesthetic, or scientific value that may be, by nature or design,
movable yet related to a specific setting or environment.
OWNER: The person, corporation, or other legal entity in whose name the
property appears on the records of the Jo Daviess County recorder of deeds.
REHABILITATION: The process of returning a structure, building, object, or site
to a state of utility, through repair, construction, or alteration, which makes
possible an efficient contemporary use while preserving those portions and
features of the property which are significant to its historic, architectural,
and cultural values.
REMOVAL: Any relocation of a structure, object or artifact within or on the
site or to another site.
REPAIR: Any change that is not construction, alteration, demolition, or removal
and is necessary or useful for continuing normal maintenance and upkeep.
RESTORATION: The process of restoring, repairing, or reconstruction of
property, through repair, construction, or alteration, to a former or original
condition that enhances those portions and features of the property that are
significant to its historic, architectural, and cultural values.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires permanent
or temporary location on or in the ground or attached to something having a
permanent location on or in the ground.
UNBUILDABLE: A lot, plot or parcel of land which construction or placement of a
building, structure or any improvement is not allowed by natural restriction or
by a restrictive order of a governing body. (Ord. 2015-001, 3-30-2015)
8-14-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
A permit issued by the village shall be required for moving, demolition (in
part, or as a whole), altering, extending, or any repairs which will produce a
major change in the exterior appearance of any landmark, building, structure,
site, improvement or part thereof in the historic district. Such major changes
include, but are not limited to, windows, siding, doors, roofing, additions,
alterations, reconstruction, rehabilitation, renovation or repair. This
includes any construction, alteration, demolition (in part, or as a whole) or
removal affecting any significant exterior architectural feature of any
designated historic landmark or any building, structure or site or part thereof
in the historic district. (Ord. 2015-001, 3-30-2015)
8-14-4: ORDINARY MAINTENANCE:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the ordinary maintenance
or repair of any exterior feature of any landmark, building, structure, site,
improvement or part thereof located within the historic district which does not
involve change in such improvement's design or materials, or in any exterior
architectural feature of the improvement. (Ord. 2015-001, 3-30-2015)
8-14-5: MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR REQUIRED:
Neither the owner of nor the person in charge of a landmark, building,
structure, site, improvement or part thereof located within the historic
district shall permit such improvement to fall into a state of disrepair which
may result in the deterioration of any exterior appurtenance or architectural
feature so as to produce or tend to produce a detrimental effect upon the
character of the historic district as a whole or the life and character of the
improvement in question, including, but not limited to:
   A.   The deterioration of exterior walls or other vertical supports.
   B.   The deterioration of roofs or other horizontal members.
   C.   The deterioration of exterior chimneys.
   D.   The deterioration or crumbling of exterior plaster or mortar.
   E.   The ineffective waterproofing of exterior walls, roofs and foundations,
including windows or doors.
   F.   The deterioration of any feature so as to create or permit the creation
of any hazardous or unsafe condition or conditions. (Ord. 2015-001, 3-30-2015)
8-14-6: REMEDYING OF DISREPAIR OR DANGEROUS CONDITIONS:
The village board, upon its discretion and at its cost, may order necessary
repairs to preserve or make safe any designated historic landmark, building,
structure, site, improvement or part thereof in the historic district that
falls into disrepair or is deemed to be suffering from demolition by neglect,
or which creates a dangerous condition. The village may then collect the cost
of such repairs through any legal means including, but not limited to, the lien
process. (Ord. 2015-001, 3-30-2015)
8-14-7: NATURAL DESTRUCTION OR DEMOLITION:
In the case of partial or complete natural destruction or demolition of a
designated historic landmark or any building, structure or site or part thereof
in the historic district, the owner will be required to obtain a permit from
the village prior to reconstruction. Although exact duplication of the previous
structure may not be required, the exterior design of the property shall be in
harmony with:
   A.   The exterior design of the landmark, building, structure, site or
improvement prior to damage; and
   B.   The character of the historic district and the neighborhood in which
the landmark, building, structure, site, or improvement is located. (Ord. 2015-
001, 3-30-2015)
8-14-8: ACQUISITION OF APPROPRIATE PROTECTIVE INTERESTS:
The village may acquire, by purchase, donation or condemnation, appropriate
protective interests in any landmark, building, structure, site, improvement or
part thereof located within a historic district within the corporate boundaries
of the village, wherever and to the extent that the village board determines
that the acquisition will be in the public interest. For the purpose of this
section, an "appropriate protective interest" means any right or interest in or
title to an improvement, including, but not limited to, fee title, or any
easement, restriction, covenant, or condition running with the land, designated
to preserve, maintain or enhance all or part of the existing state of
improvements of historic, architectural or aesthetic significance, or
acquisition of which is determined by the village board to be necessary and
appropriate for the effectuation of the purposes of this chapter. (Ord. 2015-
001, 3-30-2015)
8-14-9: PENALTY:
Any person who undertakes or causes an alteration, construction, demolition or
removal of any landmark, building, structure, site, improvement or part thereof
located within the historic district without a permit shall be guilty of an
ordinance violation and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined as set forth
in title 1, chapter 4 of this code. In addition, the village may deem the
property on which said landmark, building, structure, site, or improvement was
located "unbuildable" for a term of up to ten (10) years. Every day such
violation shall continue to exist shall constitute a separate violation. The
village may institute any appropriate action or proceeding to enjoin, correct
or abate any violation of this chapter. (Ord. 2015-001, 3-30-2015)
TITLE 9
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL SUBDIVISION PROVISIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Jurisdiction; Subdivision Approval Required
9-1-2: Compliance, Application And Interpretation
9-1-3: Rules And Definitions
9-1-4: Determination Of Subdivision; Exemptions
9-1-5: Land Unsuitable For Subdividing
9-1-6: Requirements Generally
9-1-7: Review Of Subdivisions Within Extraterritorial Jurisdiction
9-1-8: Dedication Of Land For Public Use
9-1-9: Reservation Of Public Spaces And Sites
9-1-10: Vacation Of Plat Of Subdivision
9-1-11: Sanitary Sewers And Water Mains
9-1-1: JURISDICTION; SUBDIVISION APPROVAL REQUIRED:
Whenever any subdivision of land shall hereafter be laid out within the
incorporated limits of the village or within contiguous territory not more than
one and one-half (11/2) miles beyond the incorporated boundary of the village,
the developer thereof or his agent shall submit both a preliminary and a final
subdivision plat to the president and board of trustees for its approval. The
subdivision plats and all procedures relating thereto shall in all respects be
in full compliance with this title. Until plats and plans for the subdivision
are approved:
   A.   No land shall be subdivided, nor any street laid out, nor any
improvements made to the natural land.
   B.   No lot, tract or parcel of land within any subdivision shall be offered
for sale nor shall any sale, contract for sale, or option be made or given.
   C.   No improvements such as sidewalks, water supply, stormwater drainage,
sanitary sewerage facilities, gas service, electrical service, lighting,
grading, paving, or surfacing of streets shall hereafter be made by any owner
or owners or his or their agent, or by any public service corporation at the
request of such owner or owners or his or their agent. (Ord., 12-27-2007)
9-1-2: COMPLIANCE, APPLICATION AND INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Compliance With State Law: This title, wherever possible, shall be
construed consistent with 765 Illinois Compiled Statutes 205/0.01 et seq. (also
known as the "plat act"). In case of conflict, the plat act shall take
precedence. (Ord., 12-27-2007; amd. 2009 Code)
   B.   Minimum Requirements:
      1.   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this
title shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the
public health, safety, and general welfare, and to further the orderly layout
and use of land.
      2.   The provisions of this title and rules and regulations promulgated
pursuant to this title, shall be held to be the minimum requirements which a
developer shall meet.
   C.   More Restrictive Provisions Apply: Where the conditions imposed by any
provisions of this title upon the subdivision of land are either more
restrictive or less restrictive than comparable conditions imposed by any other
provisions of this title or of any other applicable law, ordinance, resolution,
rule or regulation of any kind, the regulations which are more restrictive and
impose higher standards or requirements shall govern.
   D.   Other Easements, Covenants, Agreements Or Permits: This title is not
intended to repeal or impair any easement, covenant, or any other private
agreement, or permits previously adopted or issued pursuant to the ordinances
or resolutions of the village and the state statutes; provided, that where the
regulations of this title are more restrictive or impose higher standards or
regulations than such easements, covenants, or other private agreements, the
requirements of this title shall govern.
   E.   Unlawful Subdivisions: A subdivision of land which was not lawfully
existing at the effective date hereof shall not be made lawful solely by reason
of the adoption of this title, and to the extent that said subdivision of land
is in conflict in any manner with the requirements of this title, said
subdivision of land remains unlawful hereunder.
   F.   Severability: It is hereby declared to be the intention of the village
board of trustees that the several provisions of this title be severable in
that, if any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge any provision of
this title to be invalid, such judgment shall not affect any other provision of
this title not specifically included in said judgment. (Ord., 12-27-2007)
9-1-3: RULES AND DEFINITIONS:
In interpreting this title, the rules and definitions contained in this section
shall be observed and applied, except when the context clearly indicates
otherwise.
   A.   Words used in the present tense shall include the future, and words use
in singular number shall include the plural number, and the plural the
singular.
   B.   The word "shall" is mandatory and not discretionary.
   C.   The word "may" is permissive.
   D.   The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter.
ALLEY: A public or private right of way primarily designed to serve as
secondary access to the side or rear of those properties whose principal
frontage is on some other street.
BLOCK: A tract of land bounded by streets, or by a combination of streets and
public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights of way, shorelines of waterways or
boundary lines of the village.
BUILDING: Any structure built for the support, shelter, or enclosure of
persons, animals, chattels or movable property of any kind and which is
permanently affixed to the land.
BUILDING SETBACK LINE: A line within a lot or other parcel of land so
designated on the recorded plat, between which line and the adjacent boundary
of the street the erection of a building is prohibited.
COLLECTOR RESIDENTIAL STREET: A street which carries traffic from minor streets
to the primary street system, including the principal entrance streets of a
residence development.
CUL-DE-SAC: A local street with only one outlet and having an appropriate
terminal for the safe and convenient reversal of traffic movement.
DEVELOPER: Any person or corporation or duly authorized agent who undertakes
the subdivision of land as defined herein.
EASEMENT: A grant by a property owner for the use of a strip of land by the
general public, a corporation, or a certain person or persons for a specific
purpose or purposes.
FINAL PLAT: A map and any accompanying material prepared by the developer and
approved by the village, in accordance with the provisions of chapter 3,
article B of this title, to be recorded as a subdivision.
FRONTAGE: The length of the front property line of the lot, lots or tract of
land abutting a public street, road, highway, or rural right of way.
GRADE: The slope of a road, street, or other public way, specified in percent
and shown on the street profile plans as required herein.
IMPROVEMENT, PUBLIC: Any sanitary sewer, storm sewer, drainage ditch, water
main, roadway, parkway, sidewalk, bike path, pedestrianway, planting strip, off
street parking area, or other facility for which the village may ultimately
assume the responsibility for maintenance and operation.
LIMITED ACCESS HIGHWAY: A state route with access control under the authority
of the Illinois department of transportation.
LOT: A portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land with access to a public
street intended for transfer of ownership for building development.
MINOR RESIDENTIAL STREET: A street intended primarily as access to abutting
properties.
OWNER: Any person, group of persons, firm or firms, corporation or
corporations, or any other legal entity having legal title to the land sought
to be subdivided under this title.
PRELIMINARY PLAT: The drawings and documents presented for tentative approval.
A "preliminary plat" may be either for a planned unit development or for a
subdivision.
RATIONAL METHOD: A formula for calculating peak stormwater flow for watersheds.
Q=CIA: Accumulated concentrated flow (Q) at the outlet of a designated drainage
area (A<50 acres) during a rainfall of intensity (I, inch/hour). C = a constant
based on surface condition of the drainage area.
RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a street,
crosswalk, railroad, electric transmission line, oil or gas pipeline, water
main, sanitary or storm sewer main, or for another special use. The use of the
term "rights of way" for land platting purposes in Scales Mound shall mean that
every right of way is to be separate and distinct from the lots or parcels
adjoining such right of way, and not included with the dimensions or areas of
such lots or parcels. "Rights of way" intended for streets, crosswalks, water
mains, sanitary sewers, storm drains, or any other use involving maintenance by
a public agency shall be dedicated to public use by the maker of the plat on
which such right of way is established.
ROADWAY: A surfaced portion of the street available for vehicular traffic.
SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM, INDIVIDUAL: A septic tank seepage tile sewage disposal
system or any other sewage treatment device approved and in accordance with the
rules of the Jo Daviess County health department.
SIDEWALK: That portion of the street or crosswalkway, paved or otherwise
surfaced, and shall be for pedestrian use only.
STREET: A public right of way which affords a primary means of vehicular access
to abutting properties, whether designated as a street, avenue, highway, road,
boulevard, land, or throughway, or however otherwise designated, but excepting
an alley or driveway to buildings.
STREET, HALF: A street bordering one or more property lines of a tract of land
in which the developer has only allocated a part of the ultimate right of way
width and is not permitted by this title.
SUBDIVISION: The division of any parcel of land into two (2) or more parts, any
of which parts is less than five (5) acres, for the purpose of ownership
transfer or building development, or if a new street is involved, any division
of a parcel of land. The term includes any division of land that attempts to
avoid the requirements of this title. Where appropriate to the context, the
term shall relate to the process of subdividing or to the land subdivided.
TR-55 METHOD: "Technical release 55 (TR-55)" presents simplified procedures to
calculate storm runoff volume, peak rate of discharge, hydrographs, and storage
volumes required for floodwater reservoirs.
ZONING ORDINANCE: The village zoning ordinance and subsequent amendments
thereto. (Ord., 12-27-2007)
9-1-4: DETERMINATION OF SUBDIVISION; EXEMPTIONS:
The provisions of this title apply to any division of land into two (2) or more
parts, any of which is less than five (5) acres in area, the plat of which
includes new public streets or easements or the widening of existing public
streets or easements for access or utility purposes; provided, however, that
the following shall not be considered a subdivision and shall be exempt from
the requirements herein:
   A.   The division or subdivision of land into parcels or tracts of five (5)
acres or more in size which does not involve any new streets or easements of
access.
   B.   The division of lots or blocks of less than one acre in any recorded
subdivision which does not involve any new streets or easements of access;
provided, further, that the width of the lot at the building setback line will
not be less than that of other recorded lots fronting on the same street within
the same block.
   C.   The sale or exchange of parcels of land between owners of adjoining and
contiguous land.
   D.   The conveyance of parcels of land or interests therein for use as right
of way for railroads or other public utility facilities which does not involve
any new streets or easements of access.
   E.   The conveyance of land owned by a railroad or other public utility
which does not involve any new streets or easements of access.
   F.   The conveyance of land for highway or other public purposes or grants
or conveyances relating to the dedication of land for public use or instruments
relating to the vacation of land impressed with a public use.
   G.   Conveyances made to correct descriptions in prior conveyances. (Ord.,
12-27-2007)
   H.   The preparation of a plat for wind energy devices under section 10-620
of the property tax code 1 . (2009 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 200/10-620.
9-1-5: LAND UNSUITABLE FOR SUBDIVIDING:
   A.   Lots subject to flooding and lots deemed by the president and board of
trustees to be uninhabitable shall not be platted for residential occupancy nor
for such other uses which may increase danger to health, life, or property or
aggravate the flood hazard. Such land within the plat shall be set aside for
such uses that shall not be endangered by periodic or occasional inundation or
shall not produce unsatisfactory living conditions.
   B.   No land shall be subdivided for residential use which is held by the
village, after an investigation by the village engineer, to be unsuitable for
such use by reason of flooding or bad drainage, adverse earth or rock formation
or topography, or any other feature likely to be harmful to the health, safety,
or welfare of the future residents in the proposed subdivision or of the
community. However, the subdivision of land which is subject to stream overflow
may be permitted if the special requirements described in chapter 3, article B
of this title have been completed or proper assurance given that they will be
completed subject to approval by the village engineer. (Ord., 12-27-2007)
9-1-6: REQUIREMENTS GENERALLY:
   A.   The village president and board of trustees, in the examination of
subdivision plats for approval and in the application of this title, shall take
into consideration the requirements of the community and the best use of the
land being subdivided. Particular attention shall be given to width and
location of streets, suitable sanitary utilities, surface drainage, and lot
sizes and arrangements, as well as local requirements such as parks and
playgrounds, schools and recreation sites, and other public uses.
   B.   At such time as the village institutes a comprehensive land use plan,
the village shall require that all subdivisions conform in general to the
provisions and conditions of the village comprehensive land use plan for future
development of the village. Plat approval may be withheld if a subdivision is
not in conformity with provisions of said plan.
   C.   The village shall not recommend for approval any plat of subdivision
which does not make adequate provisions for stormwater or floodwater runoff
channels or basins.
   D.   In all subdivisions, due regard shall be given to the preservation of
natural features such as large trees, watercourses, historical, and similar
features.
   E.   In all subdivisions, due regard shall be given to the variation of
design of homes to be located in the subdivision, and appropriate lot size for
the type of subdivision to be platted. Approval shall not be given for
subdivisions incorporating a uniform design for all homes to be located therein
or for the location of identical or nearly identical homes within the same
block.
   F.   The village shall not recommend for approval any plat of subdivision
which does not make adequate provisions for municipal water and sewer service
as provided in section
9-1-11 of this chapter.
   G.   The village shall not recommend for approval any plat of subdivision
which does not make adequate provision for the impact of the subdivision on the
village infrastructure, including, but not limited to, transportation, traffic
flow, parking, curbs and gutters, and sidewalks.
   H.   The village shall not recommend for approval any plat of subdivision
which does not make adequate provisions for the transportation of excess
stormwaters.
   I.   No lot, tract, or parcel of land within any subdivision shall be
offered for sale nor shall any sale, contract for sale, or option be made or
given until such subdivision plans have been finally approved by the president
and board of trustees.
   J.   Where a tract of land proposed for subdivision is part of a larger,
logical subdivision unit in relation to the village as a whole, the president
and board of trustees may, before approval, cause to be prepared a plan for the
entire area or neighborhood, such plan to be used by the village board as an
aid to evaluate the merit and the impact of the proposed plat. The village
board shall have authority to require adjustments in the plat or plan which are
deemed to be in the best interest of the village and the impact of the
subdivision on village facilities and infrastructure. (Ord., 12-27-2007)
9-1-7: REVIEW OF SUBDIVISIONS WITHIN EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION:
The village shall make use of all extraterritorial jurisdiction granted by
Illinois law and shall examine all subdivision plats within the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the village. The intent of such examination
will be to assure that subdivisions located in the extraterritorial
jurisdiction of the village conform to current village standards for
subdivision of land. (Ord., 12-27-2007)
9-1-8: DEDICATION OF LAND FOR PUBLIC USE:
   A.   All offerings or dedications of land to the village for use as streets,
alleys, highways, schools, parks, playgrounds, or other public use shall be
referred to the president and board of trustees for review and recommendation
before being accepted by the village board of trustees.
   B.   When a final plat of a subdivision has been approved by the village
board of trustees and all other required approvals are obtained and the plat is
recorded, that approval shall constitute acceptance for the purpose designated
on the plat of all lands shown on the plat as dedicated to the public,
including street dedication.
   C.   Whenever a preliminary plat includes a proposed dedication of land to
public use and the village finds that such land is not required or not suitable
for public use, the village may either refuse to approve such dedication or
require the rearrangement of lots in the proposed subdivision to include such
land. (Ord., 12-27-2007)
9-1-9: RESERVATION OF PUBLIC SPACES AND SITES 1 :
   A.   Preliminary Plat To Accommodate Planned Public Spaces: Whenever a tract
to be subdivided includes a proposed street, highway or parkway or proposed
site for a playground, school, or other public use as indicated on the official
map of the village, such space shall be suitably incorporated by the developer
into his subdivision plat after proper determination of its necessity by the
village and/or other public agency involved in the acquisition and use of each
such site.
   B.   Requirements For Floodplain Areas: The village board of trustees may,
when it deems it necessary for the health, safety or welfare of the present and
future population of the area and necessary to the conservation of water,
drainage, and sanitary facilities, prohibit subdivision of any portion of the
property which lies within the floodplain of any stream or drainage course.
These floodplain areas shall be preserved from any and all destruction or
damage resulting from clearing, grading or dumping of earth, waste material or
stumps.
   C.   Acquisition Of Land For Public Use: The village shall consider all
preliminary plats and adopted or proposed studies related thereto to determine
the need for acquisition for public use of any of the land included in the
preliminary plat. Land may be acquired for: public school site parks,
playgrounds or other public recreation areas or other public purposes available
for acquisition as provided by law.
      1.   Referral To Public Body: The village shall refer the plat to the
public body concerned with the acquisition for its consideration and report.
The village may propose alternate areas for such acquisition and shall allow
the public body or agency thirty (30) days to reply. The agency's
recommendation, if affirmative, shall include a map showing the boundaries and
area of the parcel to be acquired and an estimate of the time required to
complete the acquisition.
      2.   Notice To Property Owner: Upon receipt of an affirmative report, the
village shall notify the property owner and shall designate on preliminary and
final plats that area proposed to be acquired and an estimate of the time
required to complete the acquisition.
      3.   Duration Of Land Reservation: The acquisition of land reserved by a
public agency on the preliminary or final plat shall be initiated within twelve
(12) months of notification, in writing, from the owner that he intends to
develop the land. Such letter of intent shall be accompanied by a sketch plan
of the proposed development and a tentative schedule of construction. Failure
on the part of the public agency to initiate acquisition within the prescribed
twelve (12) months shall result in the removal of the "reserved" designation
from the property involved and the freeing of the property for development.
(Ord., 12-27-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  9-4-10 of this title.
9-1-10: VACATION OF PLAT OF SUBDIVISION:
   A.   Any plat or any part of a plat may be vacated by the owner of the
premises, at any time before the sale of any lot therein, by a written
instrument, to which a copy of such plat shall be attached, declaring the same
to be vacated.
   B.   Such an instrument shall be approved by the village board of trustees
in like manner as plats of subdivisions. The village board of trustees may
reject any such instrument which abridges or destroys any public rights in any
of its streets or alleys. Such an instrument shall be executed, acknowledged or
approved, and recorded or filed in the like manner as plats of subdivision and,
being duly recorded or filed, shall operate to destroy the force and effect of
the recording of the plat so vacated, and to divest all public rights in the
streets, alleys, and public grounds, and all dedications laid out or described
in such plat. (Ord., 12-27-2007)
   C.   When lots have been sold, the plat may be vacated in the manner herein
provided by all the owners of lots in such plat joining the execution of such
writing. The provisions of 765 Illinois Compiled Statutes 205/0.01 et seq.,
"Plats And Surveys", are also applicable. (Ord., 12-27-2007; amd. 2009 Code)
9-1-11: SANITARY SEWERS AND WATER MAINS 1 :
   A.   Public Facilities Available:
      1.   Where public facilities are available, water mains, sanitary sewers
and all required appurtenances shall be installed in all subdivisions. Sanitary
sewers shall meet or exceed all requirements of the village engineer and the
"Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer Construction In Illinois", latest
edition.
      2.   Interceptors, force mains, lift stations, booster pumps, wells and
water main pumps shall be installed in all new subdivisions where required by
the village engineer.
   B.   Public Facilities Not Available: Where public facilities are not
available, sanitary sewers, water mains and all appurtenances necessary to
extend and provide effective, efficient, safe and potable public water and
sewer service to the development, as determined by the village engineer, shall
be installed at the cost of the developer. (Ord., 12-27-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. See also sections
  9-4-7, 9-4-8 and 9-4-9 of this title.
CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
9-2-1: Administrative Officials
9-2-2: Field Inspections
9-2-3: Variations And Exceptions
9-2-4: Amendments
9-2-5: Deposit Required
9-2-6: Enforcement And Penalty
9-2-1: ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIALS:
The following provisions shall be administered by the following village
officials: (Ord., 12-27-2007; amd. 2009 Code)
   A.   Village Board Of Trustees: The village board of trustees reserves to
itself the following functions:
      1.   Approval or disapproval of all preliminary and final plats referred
to the board of trustees. (Ord., 12-27-2007)
      2.   Approval or disapproval of all variations and exceptions recommended
to the board of trustees. (Ord., 12-27-2007; amd. 2009 Code)
      3.   Amendment of this title when necessary and desirable, as hereinafter
provided.
      4.   Enforcement of this title's provisions.
      5.   Administration of this title's provisions (until such time as a
village planning and zoning board plats committee and plats officers are
appointed).
   B.   President And Board Of Trustees: The president and board of trustees
(the village planning and zoning commission) shall administer the provisions of
this title and shall:
      1.   Receive all preliminary plats (together with applications);
      2.   Forward copies of the preliminary plat to appropriate officers and
agencies for their recommendations, evaluations and reports;
      3.   Receive all final plats and verify compliance with the preliminary
plat, together with any changes to the preliminary plat;
      4.   Forward all preliminary and final plats with recommendations to the
village board of trustees;
      5.   Make all determinations required by the regulations set forth herein
or promulgated pursuant hereto, and establish permanent files for all
preliminary and final plats; and
      6.   Maintain records of all applications, proceedings and
determinations.
   C.   Plats Officer:
      1.   A plats officer shall be appointed by the village president, subject
to the approval of the village board of trustees. The plats officer shall have
the following responsibilities:
         a.   Advise engineers, developers, and the public regarding local
procedures, standards, and actions of the board of trustees and/or zoning board
of appeals regarding plat reviews and requirements.
         b.   Act as technical administrator and coordinator to the village
board and/or the zoning board of appeals and a liaison to the village engineer.
         c.   Notify the village board of trustees whenever any provisions of
this title have been violated.
         d.   Collect all plat fees due the village and transfer said fees to
the village clerk for deposit in the general fund.
      2.   The village engineer shall serve as plats officer (until that
officer is appointed and assumes his or her duties).
   D.   Village Engineer: The village engineer shall review all preliminary and
final subdivision plats and make determinations regarding design standards and
engineering specifications as set forth herein. His determinations and
recommendations shall be forwarded in writing to the president and board of
trustees and to the village attorney prior to consideration of any preliminary
or final plat approval. The village engineer shall also monitor the
installation of improvements as set forth in section
9-2-2 of this chapter. (Ord., 12-27-2007)
9-2-2: FIELD INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Inspections Required: All public improvements to be made under the
provisions or this title shall be inspected on a regular basis by the
developer's engineer. The frequency and duration of such inspections shall be
adequate to specifications approved by the village. The developer's engineer
shall provide written certification that all improvements have been properly
installed.
   B.   Notice Of Inspection: The village's designated officer or employee in
charge of public works and the village engineer shall be notified whenever
construction is being done so that they may conduct independent inspections as
deemed necessary.
   C.   Construction Record Drawings:
      1.   The developer shall provide three (3) copies of construction record
drawings to the village of all improvements completed. These drawings shall be
accurately dimensioned. Sanitary sewer manhole rims and invert elevations,
water main locations, water service and sanitary sewer service locations shall
be shown on the construction record drawings.
      2.   The construction record drawings shall be a condition of final
acceptance of the improvements and release of the surety bond or letter of
credit. (Ord., 12-27-2007)
9-2-3: VARIATIONS AND EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Authority; Findings Of Fact: Where the president and board of trustees
finds that extraordinary hardships or particular difficulties may result from
strict compliance with this title, they may recommend variations or exceptions
to the regulations; provided, that such variations or exceptions shall not have
the effect of nullifying the intent and purpose of this title; and further
provided, the village board shall not recommend variations or exceptions to
this title unless it shall make findings based upon the evidence presented to
it in such specific case that:
      1.   The granting of the variation will not be detrimental to the public
safety, health, or welfare or injurious to other property or improvements in
the neighborhood in which the property is located.
      2.   The conditions upon which the request for a variation is based are
unique to the property for which the variation is sought and are not
applicable, generally, to other property.
      3.   Because of the particular physical surroundings, shape or
topographical conditions of the specific property involved, a particular
hardship to the owner would result, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience,
if the strict letter of the regulations was carried out.
      4.   Cost to the developer of strict or literal compliance with this
title shall not be the sole reason for granting a variation or exception.
   B.   Conditions For Granting Variance: In recommending variations, the
village board may require such conditions as will, in its judgment, secure
substantially the objectives of the standards or requirements of this title.
   C.   Procedure: A petition for any variation shall be submitted in writing
by the developer at the time when the preliminary plat is filed for the
consideration of the president and the board of trustees. The petition shall
fully detail the grounds for the application and all of the facts taken into
consideration by the petitioner.
   D.   Recommendations And Approval: Variations and exceptions as may be
recommended by the village board shall be in writing, substantiating the
recommended variations and/or exceptions. The village board may approve such
variations or exceptions from the requirements of this title in specific cases
as listed on the final plat, which, in the board's opinion, do not adversely
affect the intent and purpose of this title. (Ord., 12-27-2007)
9-2-4: AMENDMENTS:
For the purpose of promoting the public health, safety, and general welfare,
the village board may from time to time amend the regulations imposed by this
title. Public hearings on all proposed amendments shall be held by the village
board in the manner prescribed by law. (Ord., 12-27-2007)
9-2-5: DEPOSIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Amount Of Deposit: In order to cover the costs of plat examination and
other expenses incidental to the approval of a subdivision, the developer shall
pay to the village a deposit of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) at the time
of application for approval of a tentative plat.
   B.   Use Of Deposit: The village shall not commence review of the
application until said deposit is paid by the developer. The actual costs or
fees that the village incurs in reviewing the developer's application,
including, but not limited to, engineering, consulting, attorney or other
profession fees, filing, recording, or publication costs shall be deducted from
said deposit. The balance of the deposit, less the amounts deducted by the
village for actual fees and costs incurred in the course of reviewing the
application, shall be refunded to the developer upon approval of the final
plat, or the last portion thereof, or at such time as the developer withdraws
the application. Upon request, the village shall provide to the developer
copies of receipts for any amounts deducted from the deposit.
   C.   Additional Deposit: During the course of the application review
process, the developer may be required to provide the village with an
additional deposit if the review of the application has resulted in, or
reasonably will result in, the village incurring fees or expenses that exceed
the initial deposit provided by the developer. The village shall not continue
with the review of the application until said additional deposit is paid by the
developer. (Ord., 12-27-2007)
9-2-6: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTY:
   A.   Penalty; Notice Of Violation; Failure To Comply: A person who disobeys,
omits, neglects or refuses to comply with or resists the enforcement of any of
the provisions of this title shall be fined not less than fifty dollars
($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). Upon written
notification that a violation of this title exists, the person notified shall
have fifteen (15) days to eliminate such violation and/or comply with this
title. Each day such violation or failure to comply is permitted to exist after
the expiration of such fifteen (15) day period shall constitute a separate
offense. The village board of trustees may extend such fifteen (15) day period
in such case as it deems necessary. (Ord., 12-27-2007; amd. 2009 Code)
   B.   Approved And Recorded Plats Required: The village shall defer permit
requests for improvements on property until such time as the plat for such
property has been approved and recorded in the manner provided by this title.
No building permit shall be granted except for improvements on land for which a
plat has been approved and recorded according to the requirements of this title
or on those parcels of property platted or recorded as separate parcels of
property prior to the effective date hereof.
   C.   Unlawful Subdivisions; No Assessment Or Taxing Of Lots: The village
clerk and the township assessors are hereby instructed not to divide for
assessment or taxing purposes any properties that are being subdivided contrary
to the rules and regulations as herein set forth until such time as the village
board and the village attorney have been notified and their recommendations
made known. (Ord., 12-27-2007)
CHAPTER 3
SUBDIVISION PLATS AND PROCEDURES
SECTION:
9-3-1: General Requirements
9-3-2: Preliminary Consultation
9-3-3: Preliminary Plat Procedures
9-3-4: Final Plat Procedures
9-3-1: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
Any person hereafter subdividing any parcel of land, block, lot or sublot, or
any part thereof, in the village, or outside its corporate limits but within
one and one-half (11/2) miles thereof, shall make a map or plat thereof, and
before recording the same in the county recorder's office, shall submit it,
with a duplicate thereof, to the president and board of trustees for approval
or rejection. No such map or plat shall be approved as aforesaid until the same
shall have been properly certified by a surveyor and acknowledged by the owner.
If approved, such approval shall be certified thereon, and signed by the
president and attested by the clerk, and no such map or plat shall be valid or
entitled to record until it shall have been approved as aforesaid. In planning
and developing a subdivision within the corporate limits of the village, the
developer shall respect the procedure of this chapter. (Ord., 12-27-2007)
9-3-2: PRELIMINARY CONSULTATION:
Prior to the submission of a preliminary plat of any proposed subdivision
within the jurisdiction of the village, the developer shall make known his
intentions to the village president and board of trustees. During this
preliminary or preapplication stage, the following actions shall be taken:
   A.   Action By Developer: The developer shall meet informally with the
president and/or village engineer for the purpose of presenting a general
outline of his proposal, including, but not limited to:
      1.   Written notification of "letter of intent" from the developer to the
village, establishing the developer's intentions as to development of the land.
      2.   A sketch of plans and ideas regarding land use, street and lot
arrangement, and tentative lot sizes.
      3.   Tentative proposals regarding water supply, sewage disposal, surface
drainage, and street improvements.
      4.   Evidence of consultation with, and tentative approval of, public
utility companies concerned.
   B.   Action By President And/Or Village Engineer: The president and/or
village engineer shall discuss the proposed subdivision with the developer and
advise him of procedural steps, design and improvement standards, and general
plat requirements, after which the president and/or village engineer shall
proceed with the following investigations:
      1.   Advise the developer of existing village plans which might affect
the proposed subdivision.
      2.   Check the existing zoning of the tract and make recommendations if a
zoning change is necessary or desirable.
      3.   Determine the adequacy of existing or proposed schools, parks, and
other public spaces.
      4.   Inspect the site or otherwise determine its relationship to major
streets, utility systems and adjacent land uses, and determine any unusual
problems in regard to topography, utilities, flooding, etc.
      5.   Consult with the village engineer regarding improvements and
standards.
   C.   Action By Village: Upon receipt of the letter and official
acknowledgment of same, and upon certification by the president and/or village
engineer that the discussions and investigations described in subsection B of
this section have been completed, the village shall authorize the developer, in
writing, to prepare and submit his preliminary plat. (Ord., 12-27-2007)
9-3-3: PRELIMINARY PLAT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Filing Preliminary Plat: The developer shall prepare a preliminary plat
of the proposed subdivision in accordance with the requirements of article A of
this chapter, and shall file with the president and/or village engineer an
application in writing for the tentative approval of said plat accompanied by a
reproducible subdivision drawing and five (5) black and white prints or other
acceptable reproductions at least twenty (20) days prior to the meeting of the
village board at which action is desired.
   B.   Action By President And/Or Village Engineer: The president and/or
village engineer shall transmit copies of the preliminary plat to the village
engineer and other village officials and other agencies as deemed necessary by
the village board for their recommendations. These recommendations in respect
thereto shall be submitted to the village board no later than five (5) days
before the meeting at which the preliminary plat will be reviewed.
   C.   Action By Village Board:
      1.   A preliminary plat shall be reviewed by the village board to
determine its conformity to this title, the comprehensive land use plan (once
created and enacted), and all other ordinances and regulations in force which
affect subdivisions.
      2.   Upon submission of the preliminary plat to the village board, the
village board shall schedule a public hearing giving not less than fifteen (15)
days' notice. Each hearing shall be conducted and the records of the
proceedings and hearing shall be made and preserved in a manner and according
to such procedures as the village board shall prescribe from time to time by
its rules.
      3.   The village board shall, within forty five (45) days of the receipt
of an application for the approval of a preliminary plat, approve or disapprove
the plat, or approve it with modifications, noting thereon any changes that
will be required. If agreed to by the developer, the time may be extended for
no more than thirty (30) days, after which one copy shall be returned to the
developer with the date of the approval or disapproval, and the reason
therefor, accompanying the plat.
      4.   If the preliminary plat as originally submitted, or as changed or
modified, as required by the village board, meets the requirements of this
title, the village board shall give tentative approval. Within thirty (30) days
of receipt of the preliminary plat, the village board shall approve or
disapprove the plat. If the preliminary plat is disapproved, objections thereto
shall be noted, and it shall be returned to the developer. If it is approved,
the village clerk shall affix his signature thereto with the notation that it
has received village board approval, and it shall then be returned to the
developer for compliance with final approval requirements.
   D.   Rights Of Applicant: Preliminary approval by the village board shall
give the applicant the following rights for a twelve (12) month period from the
date of approval:
      1.   That the general terms and conditions under which the preliminary
approval was granted will not be changed by the village.
      2.   That the applicant may submit on or before the expiration date the
whole or parts of the preliminary approved plat for final approval. (Ord., 12-
27-2007)
9-3-4: FINAL PLAT PROCEDURES:
After approval of the preliminary plat, the developer may prepare and submit to
the village board the final plat incorporating all required modifications to
the preliminary plat. There shall be no delinquent taxes or assessments against
the property within the subdivision at the time the plat is approved. During
the final stage, the following actions shall be taken:
   A.   Filing Of Final Plat: After he has entered into a contract with the
village board, guaranteed by a bond, by which he agrees to provide utilities
and improvements to the satisfaction of the village engineer and village board,
the developer shall file with the village president, within twelve (12) months
of the date of approval or conditional approval of the preliminary plat, unless
such period is extended by the village board, the final plat and three (3)
reproductions thereof, which shall conform to the requirements of article B of
this chapter, and three (3) copies of documents, plans and specifications
meeting the requirements of said article B. A drainage report conforming to
section
9-4-9 of this title shall accompany said plat. The president shall forthwith
transmit all copies of the final plat to the village board and village
engineer.
   B.   Action By Village Board:
      1.   The village board of trustees shall approve or disapprove the final
plat and accept or reject the areas preserved for or dedicated to the public
within sixty (60) days of its submission to the village board unless the
developer is notified of objections to the plat or the time is extended by
agreement with the developer.
      2.   After the final plat has been approved by the village board of
trustees, the president, the village engineer, and the village clerk shall sign
the plat and return it to the developer. Copies of the plat shall also be
transmitted to the village board, village attorney, village engineer, and
village clerk for their files.
   C.   Action By Developer: Upon receipt of the final plat approval by the
village board of trustees, the developer shall record the plat with the county
recorder's office within ninety (90) days of the date of the village board of
trustees' action and provide proof of recording to the village clerk. Failure
to record the final plat within ninety (90) days will void the village board of
trustees' action and necessitate reinstitution of the final plat procedure in
accordance with the provisions of this section. (Ord., 12-27-2007)
ARTICLE A. PRELIMINARY PLAT
SECTION:
9-3A-1: Submission
9-3A-2: Application For Approval
9-3A-3: Contents
9-3A-1: SUBMISSION:
Every proposed subdivision shall be submitted to the president and board of
trustees (village board) for tentative or conditional approval in the form of a
preliminary plat and must be prepared in such form as not to be confused with a
final plat. Its purpose is to show graphically all facts needed to enable the
village board and other public bodies to determine whether the proposed layout
of the land in question is satisfactory from the standpoint of the public
interest. The preliminary plat shall be prepared by a registered professional
engineer. The graphic and descriptive items of this article are normally
required to be shown on the preliminary plat and the accompanying application
for approval. The lack of information under any item specified herein, or
improper information supplied by the applicant, shall be cause for disapproval
of a preliminary plat. (Ord., 12-27-2007)
9-3A-2: APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL:
The owner or his agent shall file a "declaration of intent to subdivide" on
forms furnished by the village board, and this shall be accompanied by the
preliminary plat which contains the following information.
   A.   Declaration Of Intent: The declaration of intent to subdivide shall
take the following form:
I,                         owner/sponsor/optionee of a parcel of land described
as follows:
(General description, subdivision name, location by section, township and
range, reference to roads)
hereby formally announce my intention to subdivide said property and to submit
preliminary plat of the subdivision to the Village Board within six (6) months
of this date.
Signed this            day of                 , 20     .
Signature                                    .
   B.   Name For File Identification:
      1.   Name of subdivision if property is within an existing subdivision.
      2.   Proposed name if not within a previously platted subdivision. The
proposed name shall not duplicate the name of any plat previously recorded in
the county.
      3.   Name of property if no subdivision name has been chosen. (This is
commonly the name by which the property is locally known.)
   C.   Location And Description Of Property: Location of property by
government lot, section, township, range and county.
   D.   Basic Facts And Proposals Pertaining To Property:
      1.   Size of tract in gross and net acres. Existing lots, if any, in
square feet.
      2.   Existing zoning classification of property and any rezoning proposed
to be requested.
      3.   Number of lots proposed in the subdivision.
      4.   Area of lots proposed: minimum, average, and maximum.
      5.   Linear feet of streets in the subdivision.
      6.   Proposed type of water and sewer facilities.
      7.   Any other proposals, such as parcels of land intended to be
dedicated, conveyed, or reserved for public use, and the conditions proposed
for such disposal and use.
   E.   Information As To Ownership, Preparation Of Plat And Submission
Thereof:
      1.   Name and address, including telephone number, of legal owner or
agent of property and citation of last instrument conveying title to each
parcel of property involved in the proposed subdivision, giving grantor,
grantee, date, and land records reference.
      2.   Citation of any existing legal rights of way or easements affecting
the property.
      3.   Existing covenants on the property, if any.
      4.   Name and address, including telephone number of: a) the registered
professional engineer of Illinois responsible for the design of the subdivision
and the public improvements; and b) the registered professional land surveyor
of Illinois responsible for surveys. (Ord., 12-27-2007)
9-3A-3: CONTENTS:
Five (5) copies and one reproducible copy of the preliminary plat shall be
submitted to the village board. These may be blue line or black line prints at
a scale of not more than one hundred feet to the inch (100' = 1"), and shall
show correctly on its face the following information:
   A.   Date, scale and north point.
   B.   The proposed subdivision name (must be same as that specified in the
application).
   C.   The name and address of the owner, the developer, and the surveyors
responsible for surveys.
   D.   Location of the subdivision by government lot, quarter section,
section, township, range, and county.
   E.   A vicinity sketch or small scale drawing of the section or area within
which the subdivision lies, with the location of the subdivision indicated
thereon.
   F.   The exact length and bearing of the exterior boundaries of the
subdivision. Dimensions shall be expressed in feet and decimals of a foot.
   G.   Location and names of adjacent subdivisions and owners of adjoining
parcels of unsubdivided land.
   H.   Zoning on and adjacent to the subdivision.
   I.   Location, width, and names of all existing and platted streets, alleys,
and other public ways and easements, railroad and utility rights of way, parks,
cemeteries, watercourses, drainage ditches, permanent buildings, bridges, and
other pertinent data as determined by the village board.
   J.   The water elevations of adjoining lakes or streams at the date of the
survey and the approximate high and low water elevations of such lakes or
streams. All elevations shall be referred to the USGS datum plane.
   K.   If the subdivision borders a lake, river, or stream, the distances and
bearings of a meander line established not less than twenty feet (20') back
from the ordinary high water mark of such waterway.
   L.   If a major course lies adjacent to or transverses the property, it
should be necessary for the registered engineer to submit cross section,
drainage easements, building setback lines and supporting calculations based
upon 100-year flood history.
   M.   Layout, width, grades and proposed names of all new streets and rights
of way, including alleys, highways, easements for sewers and water mains, and
other public utilities.
   N.   Existing sewers, water mains, culverts, and other underground
structures within the tract or immediately adjacent thereto. The location and
size of the nearest water main and sanitary and storm sewers are to be
indicated in a general way upon the preliminary plat.
   O.   Plans of proposed utility layouts (water, sewers and storm drains)
showing connections to any existing or proposed utility systems.
   P.   Approximate dimensions and areas of lots. All lots over one acre in
size shall have the area marked within the lot.
   Q.   Proposed building setback lines.
   R.   Approximate radii of all curves, length of tangents, and central angles
on all streets.
   S.   Approximate location and area of all property proposed to be dedicated
or reserved for public use or to be reserved by deed covenant for use of all
property owners in the subdivision, with the conditions, if any, of such
dedication or reservation.
   T.   Contours at vertical intervals of not more than two feet (2').
   U.   The dimensions of all lots, subdivisions and resubdivisions of lots
shall be indicated.
   V.   The proposed use of each lot, or group of lots, or subdivision, shall
be indicated. No lot shall be proposed for use of a classification other than
as permitted in the zoning ordinance. (Ord., 12-27-2007)
ARTICLE B. FINAL PLAT
SECTION:
9-3B-1: Composition
9-3B-2: Application For Approval
9-3B-3: Contents
9-3B-4: Recording Final Plat
9-3B-1: COMPOSITION:
A final plat may constitute only a portion of the area contained in the
approved preliminary plat; provided, that the public improvements constructed
in the area covered by the plat are sufficient by and of themselves to
accomplish a proper development and to provide adequately for the health,
safety, and convenience of the proposed residents therein and for adequate
access to contiguous areas. (Ord., 12-27-2007)
9-3B-2: APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL:
Written application by the owner or his agent for approval, on forms furnished
by the village board, shall accompany each final plat and contain the following
information:
   A.   Name of subdivision (which is subject to approval by the village board
of trustees and should be cleared with the village board prior to submission of
the plat) and description of blocks and lots included on the plat.
   B.   Location of the subdivision by government lot, section, township,
range, and county.
   C.   Name, date of approval, and file number of the preliminary plat upon
which the final plat is based.
   D.   Zoning classification of the property.
   E.   Total number of lots and/or parcels included on the plat.
   F.   Total area (gross area) shown on the plat, including streets, and total
area dedicated to public use, if any.
   G.   Existing or proposed covenants, if any. Reference shall be made to any
private restrictions, and plats shall contain proper acknowledgments of owners
and mortgagees accepting said platting and restrictions.
   H.   Name and address, including telephone number, of the owner or his agent
and the surveyor responsible for the survey. (Ord., 12-27-2007)
9-3B-3: CONTENTS:
The final plat shall be drawn with waterproof nonfading black ink, at a scale
of not more than one hundred feet to the inch (100' = 1"), on Mylar or its
equivalent, seventeen inches (17") wide by twenty two inches (22") long. When
more than one sheet is used for any plat, each sheet shall be numbered
consecutively and shall contain notation giving the total number of sheets in
the plat and showing the relation of that sheet to the other sheets, and each
sheet shall bear the name of the subdivision. Each plat shall show correctly on
its face the following information:
   A.   Map And Engineering Information:
      1.   Date, scale and north point.
      2.   The exterior boundaries of the land surveyed and divided.
      3.   All monuments erected, corners and other points established in the
field in their proper places. The material of which the monuments, corners or
other points are made shall be noted at the representation thereof or by
legend; except, that lot corners need to be shown. The legend for metal
monuments shall indicate the diameter and length of the monuments.
      4.   The exact length and bearing of the exterior boundaries, the
boundary lines of all blocks, public grounds, streets and alleys, and all lot
lines; except, that when the lines in any tier of lots are parallel, it shall
be sufficient to make the bearings of the outer lines on one tier thereof.
Easements shall be shown by centerline and width when lines are parallel to a
boundary, otherwise boundary bearings and distances shall be shown. Where the
exterior boundary lines show bearings or lengths which vary from those recorded
in abutting plats or certified surveys, there shall be the following note
placed along such lines: "recorded as (show recorded bearing or length or
both)".
      5.   Blocks, if designated, shall be consecutively numbered, or lettered
in alphabetical order. The blocks in numbered additions to subdivisions bearing
the same name shall be numbered or lettered consecutively through the several
additions.
      6.   All lots in each block shall be consecutively numbered. Outlots
shall be lettered in alphabetical order. If blocks are numbered or lettered,
outlots shall be lettered in alphabetical order within each block.
      7.   The length of boundary lines of all streets, alleys, blocks, lots,
parcels, public grounds, easements, and rights of way or enough information so
that the length of these lines can be derived by simple calculations. Where a
boundary line is an arc of a circle, the length of the chord shall be shown.
      8.   The widths of all streets, alleys, easements and rights of way.
      9.   a. A graphic presentation of the minimum building setback lines on
all lots and parcels and a notation of the distance between such lines and the
street right of way line. (Ord., 12-27-2007)
         b.   All building line setbacks as well as the sanitary system
installation setbacks must be maintained as shown on the recorded plat of the
subdivision. (Amended Ord., 2-15-1993, eff. 2-26-1993)
      10.   The area of each lot or parcel containing an area of one acre or
more.
      11.   The words "Private Road" clearly marked on all streets shown on the
plat which are not dedicated to public use.
      12.   Abutting street lines of adjoining subdivisions, shown in their
correct locations by dashed lines.
      13.   The exact width of all easements, streets, and alleys.
      14.   All lake or stream shore meander lines established by the surveyor
in accordance with subsection D of this section, the distance and bearings
thereof and the distance between the point of intersection of such meander
lines with lot lines and the ordinary high water mark.
      15.   The number of degrees and minutes in all exterior boundary and
block angles. When such angles are between a curve and its tangent, the angle
shown shall be that between the tangent and the main chord of the curve; when
between curves of different radii, the angle between the main chord.
      16.   When strict compliance with a provision of this section will entail
undue or unnecessary difficulty or tend to render the plat more difficult to
read, and when the information on the plat is sufficient for the exact
retracement of the measurements and bearings or other necessary dimensions, the
village board, upon the recommendations of the village engineer, may waive such
strict compliance.
   B.   Name, Location And Position: The name of the subdivision shall be
printed on the plat in prominent letters, and the following information
relating to the position and location of the subdivision shall be shown
thereon:
      1.   The location of the subdivision by government lot recorded private
claim, quarter section, section, township, range, and county noted immediately
under the name given the subdivision.
      2.   The exact location of the subdivision, indicated by distances and
bearings, with reference to a corner or corners established in the U.S. public
land survey.
      3.   The names of adjoining streets, state highways and subdivisions
shown in their proper location.
      4.   Abutting street and state highway lines of adjoining plats shown in
their proper location by dotted lines. The width of these streets and highways
shall be given also.
   C.   Roads And Public Spaces:
      1.   The name of each road or street in the plat shall be printed therein
in prominent letters.
      2.   All lands dedicated to public use except roads and streets shall be
clearly marked "Dedicated To The Public".
      3.   All roads or streets shown on the plat which are not dedicated to
public use shall be clearly marked "Private Road", or "Private Street", or
"Private Way".
      4.   Each lot within the plat must have access to a public or private
street unless otherwise provided by local ordinance.
   D.   Site Conditions And Topography:
      1.   All existing buildings.
      2.   All watercourses, drainage ditches, and other existing features
pertinent to proper subdivision.
      3.   Certification of the special flood hazard zone (the 100-year
floodplain elevation) by the federal emergency management agency (FEMA) on the
flood insurance rate map and panel number by the developer's registered
professional land surveyor. (Ord., 12-27-2007)
9-3B-4: RECORDING FINAL PLAT:
To entitle the final plat to be entered in the proper record books in the
office of the county recorder, the following certificates, together with the
certificate of approval of the village board of trustees, shall accompany the
plat. These certificates shall be lettered or printed legibly on the face of
the final plat. The following certificates and affidavits shall appear on the
final plat. They must be duly signed by the appropriate person before the plat
is entitled to record.
   A.   Certification By Surveyor:
I, a Professional Land Surveyor in the State of Illinois, hereby certify that,
at the request of                                           have caused an
accurate survey to be made of the property described above as
                                                   . I further certify that a
5/8 inch reinforcing bar has been placed at each lot corner, at each block
corner and points of curve in the street, and that concrete monuments have been
set or found at the locations indicated on the plat. I further certify that the
accompanying plat is a true and correct representation of said survey, and the
dimensions shown are given in feet and decimals of a foot upon said plat.
I hereby further certify that is located in the Special Flood Hazard Zone
         identified for the Village of Scales Mound, Illinois, by the Federal
Emergency Management No.         , dated                   .
Signed at                 , Illinois this                day of               ,
A.D., 20      .
         Illinois Professional Land Surveyor
         No.    
   B.   Certification Of Dedication By Owner Of Land:
As owner, I hereby certify that I have caused the land described in the
foregoing affidavit of the surveyor, to be surveyed, divided, and mapped as
presented on this Plat. All streets, alleys, walkways, parks, playgrounds and
school sites shown on this Plat are hereby dedicated to the public for public
purpose, and all easements shown are subject to the Easement Provisions hereon.
Owner       
Address:       
   C.   Certification By Notary Public:
I, a Notary Public in and for the County of Jo Daviess in the state of
Illinois, do hereby certify that                                personally
known to me to be the same person(s) whose name(s) is (are) subscribed to the
foregoing instrument, appeared before me this day in person and (several)
acknowledge that he (they) signed, sealed and delivered said instrument as his
(their) free and voluntary act for the uses and purposes therein set forth.
Given under my hand and Notarial Seal this                day of
               , 20     ,
Signature      Seal
   D.   Certification By County Clerk:
I                              , County Clerk of Jo Daviess County in the state
of Illinois, do hereby certify that I find no delinquent general taxes, unpaid
current general taxes, delinquent special assessments or unpaid current special
assessments against the lands embraced within the tract of land described and
platted in the accompanying plat.
In witness thereof I have hereunto set my hand and seal of the County of Jo
Daviess this                 day of                , 20      .
Signature      Seal
   E.   Easement Provision:
An easement is hereby reserved for and granted governmental bodies and other
public utilities and their respective successors and assigns within the area as
shown by dotted lines on the plat and marked "Easement", to install, lay,
construct, renew, operate and maintain storm and sanitary sewers, pipes,
conduits, cables, poles and wires, overhead and underground, with all necessary
braces, guys, anchors and other equipment for the purpose of serving the
subdivision and other property with telephone, electric and other utility
service; also hereby granted the right to use the streets for said purpose, the
right to overhead lots with aerial service wires to serve adjacent lots, the
right to enter upon the lots at all times to install, lay, construct, renew,
operate and maintain within the said easement area said storm and sanitary
sewers, pipes, conduits, cables, poles, wires, braces, guys, anchors, and other
equipment; and finally the right is hereby granted to cut down and remove or
trim and keep trimmed any trees, shrubs or saplings that interfere or threaten
to interfere with any of the said public utility equipment installed on said
easement, but same may be used for gardens, shrubs, landscaping and other
purposes that do not then or later interfere with the aforesaid uses or the
rights therein granted.
If the grade of the subdivided property must be so altered or if storm and
sanitary sewer facilities require that the underground utility be moved or
otherwise altered, the owners, their respective successors and assigns, shall
reimburse the utility company for the necessary expense involved.
   F.   Certification By Village Engineer:
All required improvements including but not limited to streets, sidewalks,
sanitary sewers, storm sewers, water mains and drainage structures have been
built as required, or have been provided for by bond contract or irrevocable
letter of credit to my approval.
Approved this                 day of                , 20     .
Signature      Seal
   G.   Certification By President:
This is to certify that the Village Board of the Village of Scales Mound did,
at its meeting on the                  day of               , 20      A.D.
approve the Plat.
                                     
President
(Ord., 12-27-2007)
   H.   Certification By Village Clerk:
This is to certify that the Village Board of Trustees of the Village of Scales
Mound did, at its meeting on the                    day of                A.D.,
20     , approve the Plat and authorize it to be recorded.
In witness whereof, I                         , Village Clerk of the Village of
Scales Mound hereunto set my hand and affixed the seal of said Village of
Scales Mound, this                   day of                A.D., 20     .
I hereby further certify that the drainage report required by 765 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 205/1 and 205/2 is on file in my office.
Village Clerk      Seal
(Ord., 12-27-2007; amd. 2009 Code)
   I.   Form For Certification Of Recording Official:
STATE OF ILLINOIS      )
               )SS
COUNTY OF JO DAVIESS   )
This instrument                   was filed for record in the Recorder's Office
of Jo Daviess County, Illinois,                                        on the
             day of              , A.D., 20     , at                  o'clock
        M., and was recorded in Book           of Plats on Page           .
                              
   Recorder of Deeds
   J.   Certification Of Road Access:
This plat has been approved with respect to roadway access pursuant to 765 ILCS
205/2, as amended.
                                    
Village President
   K.   Certification For Registered Professional Engineer; Drainage Of Surface
Waters:
We hereby state that to the best of our knowledge and belief, the drainage of
surface waters will not be changed by the construction of this subdivision or
any part thereof or, that if such surface water drainage will be changed,
reasonable provision has been made for the collection and diversion of such
surface waters into public areas, or drains which the divider has the right to
use, and that such surface waters will be planned for in accordance with
generally accepted engineering practices so as to reduce the likelihood of
damage to the adjoining property because of the construction of the
subdivision.
Approved this                         day of             , 20     .
Owner:       
Owner's Engineer:    
(Ord., 12-27-2007)
CHAPTER 4
IMPROVEMENTS AND DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
9-4-1: Approval Of Improvements Required
9-4-2: Compliance With Applicable Rules And Regulations
9-4-3: Streets, Alleys And Sidewalks
9-4-4: Easements
9-4-5: Blocks
9-4-6: Lots
9-4-7: Sanitary Sewers
9-4-8: Water System
9-4-9: Stormwater Drainage System
9-4-10: Public Grounds
9-4-1: APPROVAL OF IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED:
No improvements, including, but not limited to, water supply, drainage, sewage
disposal, gas services, electric service or lighting, grading, paving or
surfacing of streets shall be made within any such subdivision, by any owner or
owners or his or their agent, or by any public service corporation at the
request of such owner or owners or his or her or their agent, until the plans
for the subdivision, and also the plans for such improvements, have been
formally approved by the president and board of trustees (village board).
(Ord., 12-27-2007)
9-4-2: COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE RULES AND REGULATIONS:
In addition to the design standards established herein, all subdivision plats
shall comply with the following laws, ordinances, rules and regulations: (Ord.,
12-27-2007)
   A.   The provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes. (Ord., 12-27-2007;
amd. 2009 Code)
   B.   The village zoning ordinance and all other applicable ordinances of the
appropriate jurisdictions.
   C.   The requirements of the county health department and the state
department of public health in relation to lot size and lot elevation if the
subdivision is not served by public water or by a public sewer, and provision
for one or both of these services if such has not been made.
   D.   The rules of the Illinois department of transportation relating to
safety of access and the preservation of the public interest and investment in
the streets if the subdivision or any lot contained therein abuts a state trunk
highway or connecting street. (Ord., 12-27-2007)
9-4-3: STREETS, ALLEYS AND SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Design And Location: Streets shall be designed and located, in relation
to existing and planned streets, to topographical conditions and natural
terrain features such as streams and existing tree growth, to public
convenience and safety, and in appropriate relation to the proposed uses of
land to be served by such streets.
   B.   Arrangement:
      1.   All streets shall be properly integrated with the existing and
proposed systems of thoroughfares and dedicated rights of way as established on
the official map of the village.
      2.   All thoroughfares shall be properly related to special traffic
generators such as industries, business districts, schools, churches, and
shopping centers; to population densities; and to the pattern of existing and
proposed land uses.
      3.   Streets shall be laid out to conform as much as possible to the
topography, to discourage use by through traffic, to permit efficient drainage
and utility systems, and to require the minimum number of streets necessary to
provide convenient, safe access to property.
      4.   The rigid rectangular gridiron street pattern need not necessarily
be adhered to, and the use of curvilinear streets, cul-de-sacs, or V-shaped
streets shall be encouraged where such use will result in a more desirable
layout.
      5.   Proposed streets shall be extended to the boundary lines of the
tract to be subdivided, unless, by topography or other physical conditions, or
unless, in the opinion of the president and board of trustees, such extension
is not necessary or desirable for the coordination of the layout of the
subdivision with the existing layout or the most advantageous future
development of adjacent tracts.
      6.   The arrangement of streets in new subdivisions shall make provisions
for the direct continuation of the principal existing streets in adjoining
subdivisions (or their proper projection where adjoining property is not
subdivided) insofar as they may be necessary for public requirements. In
general, such streets shall be a width at least as great as the existing
streets. The street and alley arrangement must also be such as to provide
opportunity for access and use by adjoining property owners. Wherever a street
is stub ended so that it will not at that end open into another street, an
adequate turnaround shall be provided.
      7.   In business and industrial developments, the street and other
accessways shall be planned in connection with the grouping of buildings,
location of rail facilities, and the provision of alleys, truck loading and
maneuvering areas, fire protection and walks and parking areas so as to
minimize conflict of movement between the various types of traffic, including
pedestrian.
   C.   Railroads And Highways: Railroad rights of way and limited access
highways, where so located as to affect the subdivision of adjoining lands,
shall be treated as follows:
      1.   In residential districts, a buffer strip at least twenty five feet
(25') in depth, in addition to the normal depth of the lot required in the
district, shall be provided adjacent to the railroad right of way or limited
access highway. This strip shall be part of the platted lots and shall be
designated on the plat: "This strip is reserved for the planting of trees and
shrubs by the owner. The placement of structures hereon is prohibited."
      2.   In districts zoned for business, commercial or industrial uses, the
nearest street extending parallel or approximately parallel to the railroad
shall, wherever practicable, be at a sufficient distance therefrom to ensure
suitable depth for commercial or industrial sites.
      3.   Streets parallel to the railroad when intersecting a street which
crosses the railroad at grade shall, to the extent practicable, be at a
distance of at least one hundred fifty feet (150') from the railroad right of
way. Such distance shall be determined with due consideration of the minimum
distance required for future separation of grades by means of appropriate
approach gradients.
   D.   Access To Major Streets: Where a subdivision borders on or contains an
existing or proposed major street, the village board may require that access to
such streets be limited. The number of residential streets entering a major
street shall be kept to a minimum.
   E.   Residential Streets:
      1.   All improvements shall conform to the best engineering standards.
Due consideration shall be given throughout to the appearance of the
subdivision and the various features thereof within its own boundaries, and
also in its environment in the village. (Ord., 12-27-2007)
      2.   The following minimum standards shall apply to the design of
residential streets:
 Urban
                                    Urban
Right of way                        66 feet
Pavement width                      36 feet
Type of curb                        1
Sidewalk width                      5 feet
Sidewalk distance from right of way within 1 foot
Minimum centerline radius           250 feet
Design speed (mph)                  30
 
Notes:
      1. Combination concrete curb and gutter, IDOT standard M-6.18.
(Ord., 12-27-2007; amd. 2009 Code)
   F.   Grades Of Streets: The grade of major streets shall not exceed five
percent (5%) unless necessitated by exceptional topography and approved by the
village board. The grade of all other streets shall not exceed six percent
(6%). The minimum grade of all streets shall be one percent (1%).
Pedestrianways or crosswalks shall not exceed twelve percent (12%) grade unless
steps of an approved design are to be constructed. Curb ramps at intersections
shall conform to IDOT standard 2356-2, "Curb Ramps Accessible To The Disabled".
   G.   Tangents: A tangent at least one hundred feet (100') in length shall be
introduced between reverse curves on major arterials and collector streets.
   H.   Cul-De-Sacs, Dead End Streets, Stub Streets:
      1.   A cul-de-sac shall not be longer than six hundred feet (600') in
residential subdivisions, as measured from the center of the intersection to
the center point of the cul-de- sac.
      2.   The diameter of a cul-de-sac turnaround (measured at the outside
right of way) shall not be less than one hundred twenty feet (120') with a
pavement diameter of not less than one hundred feet (100').
      3.   Dead end streets or stub streets shall not be permitted. Temporary
dead end streets or stub streets due to staged development may be permitted
upon approval by the village, and if approved, shall be provided with a sixty
foot (60') hammerhead turnaround design, or other acceptable design approved by
the village. The temporary hammerhead turnaround shall be installed by the
developer at his/her own expense.
   I.   Half Streets: Street systems in new subdivisions shall be laid out so
as to eliminate or avoid half streets. Where a new subdivision abuts an
existing street of inadequate right of way width, additional right of way width
may be required to be dedicated by the developer to meet the requirements of
this section.
   J.   Street Intersections:
      1.   Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as possible
at right angles. A proposed intersection of two (2) new streets at an angle of
less than seventy degrees (70°) shall not be acceptable. Not more than two (2)
streets shall intersect at any one point unless specifically approved by the
village board.
      2.   Proposed new intersections along one side of an existing street
shall, wherever practicable, coincide with an existing intersection on the
opposite side of such street. Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than
one hundred twenty five feet (125') shall not be permitted, except where the
intersected street has separated dual drives without median breaks at either
intersection. Where streets intersect major streets, their alignment shall be
continuous.
      3.   Minimum curb radius shall be twenty five feet (25'). In any case,
where more dedication is deemed necessary to provide safe sight distance or for
traffic channelization, the village board may specify a greater cutoff than the
normal cited above. Alley intersections and abrupt changes in alignment within
a block shall have the corners cut off in accordance with standard engineering
practices, to permit safe vehicular movement.
      4.   Where the grade of any street at the approach of an intersection
exceeds five percent (5%), a leveling area shall be provided having not greater
than four percent (4%) grade a distance of twenty five feet (25'), measured
from the nearest right of way line of intersecting street.
      5.   Intersections shall be designed with a flat grade wherever
practical. In no case shall the vertical alignment within the intersection area
exceed four percent (4%).
      6.   Where any street intersection will involve earth banks or existing
vegetation inside any lot corner that would create a traffic hazard by limiting
visibility, the developer shall cut such ground and/or vegetation (including
trees) in connection with the grading of the public right of way to the extent
deemed necessary to provide an adequate sight distance.
   K.   Names Of Streets 1 : All street names are to be approved by the village
board and the U.S. post office prior to final map approval. No street names
shall be used which will duplicate or be confused with the names of existing
streets. New streets which are extensions of or obviously in alignment with
existing streets shall bear the name of the existing streets.
   L.   Paving:
      1.   Designated surface treatments shall meet the specifications of the
Illinois department of transportation. All construction methods and materials
shall conform to the applicable sections of the "Standard Specifications For
Road And Bridge Construction In Illinois", latest edition.
      2.   Proper grade and detailed standards for construction shall be
approved by the village engineer. Frost free, bank run sand and gravel, or
comparable granular material, shall be used for a minimum of one year, or such
greater time as may be specified by the village engineer before an impervious
surface is applied over a road bed.
   URBAN CROSS SECTION
 
Item                             Minimum      Comments
                                 Thickness
                                           In 5 inch lifts (maximum), using 5
                                           inches of new CA-2 in the bottom
                                           half and 5 inches of new CA-10 in
Compacted aggregate base course,           the top half per the "Standard
type B                           10 inches Specifications For Road And Bridge
                                           Construction", Illinois department
                                           of transportation (IDOT), latest
                                           edition, or current state of
                                           Illinois and village requirements.
                                           The binder course shall be class I,
                                           bituminous concrete, and bituminous
                                           matter AC 100-120, type II, mix B
                                           shall be used for the surface
                                           course, including a separate prime
Bituminous surface course        3 inches  coat applied to the aggregate
                                           surface, per the "Standard
                                           Specifications For Road And Bridge
                                           Construction", Illinois department
                                           of transportation (IDOT), latest
                                           edition, or current state of
                                           Illinois and village requirements.
 
   M.   Alleys: Alleys shall not be required in residential areas.
   N.   Sidewalks:
      1.   Specifications: Concrete sidewalks of a width not less than five
feet four inches (5'4") thick shall be installed on both sides of all streets
and thoroughfares except in subdivisions with lots of not less than twenty
thousand (20,000) square feet in area, where the installation of sidewalks or
minor streets may be waived. Where sidewalks cross drives, the sidewalks shall
be six inches (6") thick reinforced.
      2.   Perimeter Sidewalks And/Or Bike Paths: The developer shall install
and pay for perimeter sidewalks and/or bike paths along all public routes as
part of the required public improvements. The location, design and installation
of perimeter sidewalks are to be approved by the village. Perimeter sidewalks
shall be either constructed of concrete five feet (5') wide, not less than four
and one-half inches (41/2") thick, or of two inches (2") of bitumin over a
minimum of eight inches (8") of aggregate and ten feet (10') wide. A cash
equivalent, subject to acceptability and approval of the village, may be
substituted in lieu of the perimeter sidewalks. (Ord., 12-27-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  6-1-2 of this code.
9-4-4: EASEMENTS:
In all new residential subdivisions, all utilities, community action cables,
electrical and telephone distribution systems, or any other commercial service
shall be laid underground, including storm, water, gas, drainage and sewer.
   A.   Easements for electrical, telephone, gas and cable television services
shall be a minimum of ten feet (10') wide and be established where practicable
at the rear of each lot and along other such lot lines as to provide continuity
of alignment from block to block and shall be installed underground within
easements or dedicated public ways. Sanitary sewer and water main easements
shall be twenty feet (20') wide. Underground streetlight supply lines should be
designated on the plat and necessary easements provided to furnish access to
such positions. Easement provisions as set forth in subsection 9-3B-4E of this
title should appear on the face of each final plat.
   B.   Easements not less than five feet (5') wide for all utilities other
than sanitary sewer and water, and ten feet (10') wide for sanitary sewer and
water should be provided on each side of all rear lot lines and, where
necessary, along side lot lines. An easement provision, as set forth in
subsection 9-3B-4E of this title shall appear on the face of each final plat.
   C.   Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainageway, channel
or stream, there shall be provided a stormwater easement or drainage right of
way conforming substantially to the lines of such watercourse and of such width
or construction, or both, as will be adequate for the purpose. Wherever
possible, it is desirable that the drainage be maintained by an open channel
with landscaped banks and adequate width for maximum potential volume of flow.
(Ord., 12-27-2007)
9-4-5: BLOCKS:
   A.   Residential Blocks:
      1.   Blocks shall have sufficient width to provide for two (2) tiers of
lots of appropriate depths. Exceptions to this prescribed block width shall be
permitted in blocks adjacent to major streets, railroads, or waterways.
      2.   The lengths, widths, and shapes of blocks shall be such as are
appropriate for the locality and the type of development contemplated, but
block length in residential areas shall not exceed one thousand two hundred
feet (1,200') nor be less than four hundred feet (400'). Blocks over eight
hundred feet (800') in length shall have one crosswalk, not less than ten feet
(10') in width, situated near the center of the block.
   B.   Nonresidential Blocks: Blocks designed for business, commercial, or
industrial uses shall be of such length and width as may be determined suitable
by the village board for the prospective use. (Ord., 12-27-2007)
9-4-6: LOTS:
   A.   In general, the size, shape, and orientation of lots shall be
appropriate for the location of the subdivision and for the type of development
and use contemplated. Lot dimensions shall conform to the requirements of the
village zoning ordinance. However, in any residential district, on a lot of
record on the effective date hereof, a single-family dwelling may be
established regardless of the size of the lot, provided there is compliance
with all the requirements of this title. Lot dimensions shall conform to the
village zoning ordinance and in no case, in a residential district, shall a lot
contain less than thirteen thousand (13,000) square feet of area, measured at
the building line. (Ord., 12-27-2007; amd. 2009 Code)
   B.   Depth and width of properties reserved or laid out for business,
commercial, or industrial purposes shall be adequate to provide for the off
street parking and loading facilities required for the type of use and
development contemplated, as established in the village zoning ordinance.
   C.   Every lot shall front on or abut a public street. Lots with access only
to private drives or streets shall be permitted only with the approval of the
village board.
   D.   Lots shall be laid out so as to provide positive drainage away from all
buildings, and individual lot drainage shall be coordinated with the general
stormwater drainage pattern for the area. Drainage shall be designed so as to
avoid concentration of storm drainage water from each lot to adjacent lots.
   E.   Side lot lines shall be approximately at right angles or radial to
street lines.
   F.   Corner lots for residential use shall have extra width to permit
appropriate building setback from and orientation to both streets.
   G.   No lots shall be subdivided nor indicated for sale as business lots or
industrial lots except at places designated for these uses in the zoning
ordinance or general development plan of the village, and the front street line
of all such business lots shall be placed not less than fifty four feet (54')
from the center of the street on which they front.
   H.   At important intersections and at all acute corners, the property
corner shall be rounded or cut off. (Ord., 12-27-2007)
9-4-7: SANITARY SEWERS 1 :
Sanitary sewers serving all lots shall be provided. They shall have sufficient
capacity to serve the needs of the areas being developed and of all adjacent
areas that would logically be served by extensions of such sewers. They shall
be located and constructed so as to form part of an integrated system.
   A.   Material: Sewers shall be constructed using current state of Illinois
and village standards and requirements. Any substitutions shall be approved by
the village engineer prior to approving the plans.
   B.   Minimum Size: Sewer mains, eight inches (8"); sewer service lines, four
inches (4") for single-family residential, six inches (6") for all others.
   C.   Depth: Sanitary sewers shall be installed at such depth as to give not
less than five feet (5') of cover. They shall be deep enough to provide gravity
drainage from basements where practicable. (Ord., 12-27-2007)
   D.   Location: Sanitary sewers shall normally be located at or near the
center of a traffic lane. At the time the main line sewer is laid, the sewer
service lines shall be installed to serve all lots in the subdivision. Sewer
service lines shall be extended three feet (3') beyond the property line and
shall normally be located near the middle/center of the lot's front width, and
maintain an eighteen inch (18") vertical and ten foot (10') horizontal
separation from the water service line. They shall be laid at a minimum of one
percent (1%), but not more than nine percent (9%), slope. All sanitary sewers
shall conform to the specifications and requirements of the village and shall
extend to the farthest extent of the development plat or public right of way.
   E.   Backflow Prevention Valves: Existing topographical features may require
the need for backflow prevention valves. At the time of preliminary plat
submittal, the village engineer will determine whether backflow prevention
valves shall be required. If required, a backflow preventer valve shall be
installed on sanitary sewer service lines for each lot by a properly licensed
plumbing contractor. A cleanout shall be installed on the street side of the
valve. Also, no driveway shall be built over the sewer service line. (Ord., 12-
27-2007; amd. 2009 Code)
   F.   Manholes: Manholes shall be of standard design. They shall be spaced
not more than four hundred feet (400') apart.
   G.   Lift Stations: Existing topographical features may require the need for
a lift station(s). All lift station design shall be in compliance with
applicable and current statutes of the state of Illinois, via an IEPA
construction permit, and shall be approved by the village engineer. All costs
for design, permitting, and construction of the lift station shall be borne by
the developer. Upon final acceptance of the developer's constructed
improvements, the village will assume ownership and future maintenance. (Ord.,
12-27-2007)
   H.   Existing Sanitary Sewers: All new subdivisions shall connect to the
existing sanitary system if existing sanitary sewers are within three hundred
feet (300') of the subdivision 2 , or determination has been made by the board
of trustees that an interim central sewage disposal facility is necessary
pending future expansion of sanitary sewer lines. (Ord., 12-27-2007; amd. 2009
Code)
   I.   Construction: The sanitary sewers shall be installed to comply with the
regulations and specifications of the state of Illinois and the village, and at
the developer's expense. The developer will be required, at his/her own
expense, to provide postconstruction mandrel and pressure testing prior to
final inspection and acceptance of sewer improvements by the village. (Ord.,
12-27-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  9-1-11 of this title.
2 1. See also subsection
  7-3-2D of this code.
9-4-8: WATER SYSTEM 1 :
Water mains, fire hydrants, and water services serving all lots shall be
provided. They shall have sufficient capacity to serve the needs of the areas
being developed and of all adjacent areas that would logically be served by
extension of such lines and features. They shall be located and constructed so
as to form part of an integrated system.
   A.   Material: Water mains shall be constructed using current state of
Illinois and village standards and requirements. Any substitutions shall be
approved by the village engineer prior to approving the plans.
   B.   Minimum Size: Water mains, six inches (6"); water service lines, one
inch (1") copper for single-family residential. Water service sizes for other
developments shall be determined by the village engineer. All water mains shall
correspond in size with village mains.
   C.   Depth: Water mains shall be installed at such depth as to give not less
than five and one-half feet (51/2') of cover.
   D.   Location: Water mains shall normally be located as to maintain an
eighteen inch (18") vertical and a ten foot (10') horizontal separation from
the sanitary sewer main line. At the time the water main is laid, the water
service lines shall be installed to serve all lots in the subdivision. Water
service lines shall be extended three feet (3') beyond the property line and
shall normally be located near the middle/center of the lot's front width, and
maintain an eighteen inch (18") vertical and ten foot (10') horizontal
separation from the sanitary sewer service line. They shall be laid as to
maintain five and one half feet (51/2') of cover. All water mains shall conform
to the specifications and requirements of the village and shall extend to the
farthest extent of the development plat or public right of way.
   E.   Fire Hydrants: Fire hydrants shall be located so as to be within two
hundred feet (200') of all homes and shall be of manufacture approved by the
village with auxiliary valves and boxes.
   F.   Valve Boxes: Water service valve boxes are to be located at the back of
the sidewalk and inside the property line, wherever possible, or at a location
approved by the village in advance of installation. All valves (except hydrant
auxiliary valves) shall be enclosed in the valve boxes.
   G.   Existing Water Mains: All new subdivisions shall connect to existing
water main systems if existing water mains are within one thousand feet
(1,000') of the subdivision, or determination has been made by the board of
trustees that an interim central water supply facility is necessary pending
future expansion of water main lines.
   H.   Construction: The water mains, hydrants, and water services shall be
installed to comply with the regulations and specifications of the state of
Illinois and the village, and at the developer's expense. (Ord., 12-27-2007)
 
Notes
1 2. See also section
  9-1-11 of this title.
9-4-9: STORMWATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM 1 :
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to diminish threats to the
public health, safety and welfare caused by runoff of excessive stormwater from
new development and redevelopment. This excessive stormwater could result in
the inundation of damageable properties, the erosion and destabilization of
downstream channels, and the pollution of valuable stream and lake resources.
   B.   Compliance With Other Rules And Regulations: All drainage design shall
be in compliance with applicable and current statutes of the state of Illinois
and with the applicable and current ordinances of the county. Where this
section is more restrictive than those references, the requirements of this
section shall govern.
   C.   Storm Sewer Design: The storm sewer system shall be separate and
independent of the sanitary sewer system. All storm sewers shall be designed by
the rational method on the basis of a minimum of a ten (10) year recurrence
frequency storm and shall be sized to adequately carry flows from the tributary
areas. Inlets shall be provided so that surface water is not carried across or
around any intersection in the gutter. Surface water drainage patterns shall be
shown for each and every lot and block. Copies of the design computations,
together with drawings showing the storm sewer layout and drainage areas, shall
be submitted to the village engineer for review.
   D.   Detention Pond Design; Inflow Hydrograph: For tributary areas of less
than or equal to fifty (50) acres, the rational method may be used. The soil
conservation services "Urban Hydrology For Small Watersheds (TR-55)" may be
used for areas up to fifty (50) acres and shall be used for areas greater than
fifty (50) acres. Rainfall data shall be taken from the Illinois state water
survey, bulletin 70, latest edition.
   E.   Stormwater Runoff Release Rate:
      1.   The stormwater release rate from all on site land development for
the 2-year 24-hour, 10-year 24-hour, and 100-year 24-hour storm events shall be
limited to the calculated peak discharge for the undeveloped site condition for
the 2-year 24-hour storm event.
      2.   The pond outlet structure shall be designed to meet the criteria
outlined above. A detailed drawing of the structure shall be provided. Routing
calculations shall be provided to confirm the basis of design. The structure
shall include a weir (or similar device) to allow flows up to and including the
100-year storm to be directed to the main outlet pipe to ensure that the pond
berm is not overtopped. The structure shall include orifices, weirs or similar
devices to achieve the release rate requirements for the 2-year, 10-year, and
100-year storms as required above.
      3.   The pond berm shall have an emergency spillway designed to allow
storm events in excess of the 100-year storm to be discharged without causing
erosion to any part of the pond berm.
   F.   Off Site Tributary Areas:
      1.   The stormwater drainage system for all off site land development and
improvements shall be designed with adequate bypass capacity to convey the
stormwater runoff flow from all tributary watershed areas through the land
development area to the existing drainage outlet. When possible, stormwater
runoff from upstream tributary areas shall be routed around the detention
facilities for the site being developed. The bypass transport systems shall be
designed to carry the peak flow from the 100-year storm. An allowance will be
made for upstream detention storage when such upstream storage and runoff
release rate has previously been approved by the village and has been
constructed.
      2.   If it is necessary to route off site storm flows into a detention
pond, it is acceptable to design the outlet structure to pass this incremental
portion of the flow through the pond without reducing the calculated peak. That
is, this peak flow can be added to the allowable release rates described above.
   G.   Detention Pond Design Details:
      1.   Concrete low flows channels shall be provided from each inlet point
to the outlet structure point.
      2.   The minimum pond bottom slope shall be one percent (1%) unless the
village engineer determines that a lesser value is acceptable.
      3.   The emergency spillway and the downstream end of the outlet pipes
and the inlet pipes shall have riprap or concrete aprons to prevent erosion.
   H.   Stormwater Drainage Report: A stormwater drainage report shall be
submitted showing the details of the overall stormwater design as detailed
above. The report shall be neat, typed, and signed by a registered professional
engineer. (Ord., 12-27-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  9-1-11 of this title.
9-4-10: PUBLIC GROUNDS 1 :
   A.   An area of at least three and one-half percent (31/2%) of the total and
unimproved residential area to be subdivided shall be designated as public site
or open space and indicated on the preliminary plat of any residential
subdivision. A cash equivalent, subject to acceptability and approval of the
village, may be substituted in lieu of land requirements. (Ord., 12-27-2007;
amd. 2009 Code)
   B.   Each subdivision plat shall designate such areas as may be needed for
school sites, park sites, or other public lands as from time to time determined
by the president and board of trustees. Land so designated cannot be used for
any other purpose for one year following the approval of the plat; if such land
is not acquired by purchase or condemnation by the appropriate board or
commission within one year after approval, it may be used in any manner
consistent with the ordinances applicable thereto.
   C.   Natural features such as trees, brooks, hilltops and views shall be
preserved wherever reasonable.
   D.   Parks situated in the interior of blocks shall have direct and public
access to surrounding streets and shall be covered by agreements as to
maintenance. (Ord., 12-27-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  9-1-9 of this title.
