VILLAGE CODE
of
SENECA, ILLINOIS
1994
Code current through:
Ord. 25-14, passed 4-7-2025
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This code of the Village of Seneca, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to
and including ordinance 25-14, passed April 7, 2025. Ordinances of the Village
adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the Village
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 94-24
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE VILLAGE CODE OF SENECA, ILLINOIS
   BE IT ORDAINED by the Mayor and Commissioners of the Village of Seneca,
LaSalle and Grundy Counties, Illinois, an Illinois Municipality:
   SECTION 1: From and after the date of passage of this Ordinance, the Village
code of the Village of Seneca, LaSalle and Grundy Counties, Illinois, prepared
by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., containing the compilation of all ordinances of a
general nature together with the changes made to said ordinances, under the
direction of the governing body of the Village, shall be accepted in all courts
without question as the Official Code and Law of the Village as enacted by the
Mayor and Commissioners.
   SECTION 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the Official Village Code is identified by the proper catchline and is
inserted in the proper place in each of the official copies, three (3) copies
of which shall be maintained in the office of the Village Clerk, certified as
to correctness and available for inspection at any and all times that said
office is regularly open.
   SECTION 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this Official
Village Code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision
and the fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the
governing body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous
effectiveness of ordinances included in said Official Village Code. All
ordinances of a special nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances,
franchises, vacating ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in
full force and effect unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of
the Village Code. Such ordinances are not intended to be included in the
Official Village Code.
   SECTION 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such Code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the Village to be
misrepresented thereby.
   SECTION 5: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   SECTION 6: This Ordinance and the Code adopted by the same shall be in full
force and effect from and after its passage and approval in accordance with
law, as printed and published in book form by order of the Mayor and
Commissioners.
Dated:  September 20, 1994
[image]
   MAYOR VINCENT J. GROBER
ATTEST:
[image]
VILLAGE CLERK
AYES:  3
NAYS:  0
Absent:  2
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL VILLAGE CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the Village Council, this Village Code is hereby declared
to be and shall hereafter constitute the official Village Code of Seneca. This
Village Code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the SENECA VILLAGE CODE
and is hereby published by authority of the Council and shall be supplemented
to incorporate the most recent legislation of the Village as provided in
Section
1-1-3 of this Chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this Village Code by title in any legal documents. (1994 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The Village Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of
this State as the ordinances of the Village of general and permanent effect,
except the excluded ordinances enumerated in Section
1-2-1 of this Title. (1994 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the Village Code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this Village Code. All
such amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this Village Code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the Village Code. (1994 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this Village Code in such a manner that
the meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages
may be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by
the Village Council. The Village Clerk shall see that the replacement pages are
properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the Clerk.
Any person having in his custody a copy of the Village Code shall make every
effort to maintain said Code current as to the most recent ordinances passed.
He shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such
are delivered to him or made available to him through the office of the Village
Clerk. Said Code books, while in actual possession of officials and other
interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the Village and shall
be returned to the office of the Village Clerk when directed so to do by order
of the Village Council. (1994 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways and Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the Village passed prior to the adoption of this
Village Code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this Village
Code or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to
the saving clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the
following ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances;
appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations;
franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
Village; and all special ordinances. (1994 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this Village Code or by virtue of the
preceding Section, excepting as the Village Code may contain provisions for
such matters, in which case, this Village Code shall be considered as amending
such ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (1994 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former
ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any
offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable, if any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   This Section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be construed as abating any
action now pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the Village
herein repealed, and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this
Code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the
same provisions; nor shall this Chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person or as waiving any right of the Village under any
ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the adoption of this
Village Code. (1994 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this Village Code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this Code, or any part thereof. The Village Council
hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (1994 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Whenever any word in any section of this Village Code importing the
plural number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or
persons, any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included,
although distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter,
party or person is referred to in this Village Code by words importing the
singular number only, or the masculine gender, several matters, parties or
persons and females as well as males and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be
included; provided, that these rules of construction shall not be applied to
any section of this Village Code which contains any express provision excluding
such construction or where the subject matter or context may be repugnant
thereto.
   B.   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the Village has
been changed in the content of this Village Code to "Title", "Chapter",
"Section" and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to the Village's ordinances is not
meant to amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (1994
Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
CODE: The Municipal Code of the Village of Seneca.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a Village employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the
Village of Seneca".
FEE: A sum of money charged by the Village for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MAY: Referred to as permissive.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the Village, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to premises, includes any person holding a written or oral
lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the premises, alone or
with others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this Code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this Code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a Village officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the Village
of Seneca".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
POLICE OFFICER: Policemen employed and in the service of the Municipality.
Police force shall be construed to include such persons in the employ of the
Municipality as members of the Department of Police, who are or shall hereafter
be appointed and sworn in as policemen.
PREMISES: As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
PROPERTY: Includes real, personal, mixed estates and interest.
SIDEWALK: That portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
STREET: Includes alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a premises, includes any person holding a written or oral
lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the premises, alone or
with others.
VILLAGE: The Village of Seneca, Counties of LaSalle and Grundy, State of
Illinois.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case he is unable to write, by his proper
mark. (1994 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the Village Code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, they shall be so
deemed when any of such section, including the catchlines, are amended or re-
enacted. (1994 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY 1 :
   A.   Unless specifically provided elsewhere, any person found to have been
in violation of any of the terms and provisions of this code shall be fined in
an amount not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00). No imprisonment or
failure to pay such fine, penalty or cost shall exceed six (6) months for each
offense. Each day that a violation continues shall be deemed to be a separate
offense. A penalty for each offense may include a requirement that the
offending party perform some reasonable public service work such as, but not
limited to, picking up litter in public parks or upon public highways or
performing maintenance of public facilities. A violation hereof may be
established by a preponderance of the evidence.
   B.   If, by the terms of an ordinance, an act that would be consistent with
the criminal laws of the state, is declared to be a misdemeanor, the penalty
therefor shall be for a period of incarceration in a penal institution other
than the penitentiary not to exceed six (6) months. The matter shall be
prosecuted under the rules of criminal procedure of the state, and the village
shall be required to establish guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. (1994 Code)
   C.   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection A of this section, or of
any other section or provision of this code, the following penalty provision
and procedure shall apply to all violations of this code except violations
under title 6, chapters 2 and 3 of this code:
      1.   A written notice of violation shall be issued to the individual or
person or entity who has been alleged to have violated any provision of the
code of ordinances. The notice of violation shall contain the name and address
of the violator; the section of the code alleged to be violated; the date, time
and location of violation; the make, license number, and other relevant
information for any motor vehicle involved; the name and identification of the
complainant; a specific due date and final notice date; together with a
statement that the penalty for said violation is thirty five dollars ($35.00)
if paid before the due date and seventy five dollars ($75.00) if paid after the
due date and before the final notice date.
      2.   The penalty for said ordinance violations shall be the sum of thirty
five dollars ($35.00) if paid before the due date or the sum of seventy five
dollars ($75.00) if paid after the due date and prior to the final notice date.
The penalty for all such violations not paid on or before the final notice date
shall be the penalty as specifically provided for such violation or as provided
by subsection C1 of this section. A receipt shall be issued for all money
received, and such money shall be promptly turned over to the village
treasurer. This section shall not apply to persons parking a vehicle so as to
obstruct the entrance or exit of any place where police department apparatus or
other emergency equipment is kept or housed, or so as to block an emergency
entrance in a hospital; nor shall this section apply to any person charged with
parking a vehicle so as to entirely obstruct traffic in any street or alley, or
parking in such a way as to reduce traffic on an arterial street to one-way
traffic only; nor to any person who refuses to move a vehicle illegally parked
at the request of any member of the police department. (Ord. 01-13, 6-19-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1 and 5/1-2-1.1.
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every
section of this code the same as though it were a part of each and every
separate section.
   B.   In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this code, the prosecuting officer may elect
under which to proceed, but not more than one recovery shall be had against the
same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or
permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other
penalty being enforced.
   C.   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes
a breach of any section or provision of this code and there shall be no fine or
penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of this chapter
shall apply. (1994 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the village council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee
is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (1994
Code)
CHAPTER 5
VILLAGE GOVERNMENT
SECTION:
1-5-1: Council Composition; Election And Terms
1-5-2: Disposition Of Executive And Administrative Powers And Duties
1-5-3: Council Meetings
1-5-4: Bonds
1-5-5: Salaries
1-5-6: Duties Of The Mayor
1-5-7: Commissioners And Departments
1-5-8: Assignment To More Than One Department
1-5-9: Presentation of Reports
1-5-10: Ordinances, Resolutions, Motions And Contracts
1-5-11: Remote Attendance At Meetings
1-5-12: Procedures For Public Discussion At Public Meetings
1-5-1: COUNCIL COMPOSITION; ELECTION AND TERMS:
The council shall consist of a mayor and four (4) commissioners elected for
four (4) year terms as provided by law 1 . The council shall be the governing
body of the municipality and shall have the powers and duties prescribed by
statute 2 . (Ord. 86-08, 8-5-1986)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/4-3-1.
2 2. 65 ILCS 5/4-5-1.
1-5-2: DISPOSITION OF EXECUTIVE AND ADMINISTRATIVE POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   The executive and administrative powers and duties of the municipality
shall be distributed among five (5) departments, as follows:
      Department of public affairs.
      Department of accounts and finances.
      Department of public health and safety.
      Department of streets and public improvements.
      Department of public property.
   B.   The mayor shall be superintendent of the department of public affairs,
and the four (4) commissioners shall be allotted to the four (4) other
departments by the council as is provided by law 1 . (Ord. 86-08, 8-5-1986)
   C.   The village attorney and all other officers and employees of the
village who are not specifically assigned to any other department are hereby
assigned to the department of public affairs. (Ord. 86-08, 8-5-1986; amd. Ord.
02-02, 5-7-2002)
   D.   Each commissioner shall have the authority to make rules and
regulations to govern the conduct of the officers and employees assigned to the
department of which he is superintendent. Such rules shall be binding on and
obeyed by all such officers and employees, until and unless the same are
revoked or altered by the council or by said commissioner. (Ord. 86-08, 8-5-
1986)
   E.   The village attorney and village engineer shall be hired and discharged
by a majority of the council. (1994 Code)
 
Notes
1 3. 65 ILCS 5/4-5-3.
1-5-3: COUNCIL MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The regular meetings of the village council shall be
held in the village hall building, Seneca, Illinois, at half after five o'clock
(5:30) P.M. on the first and third Mondays of each month; provided, that when
the first or third Monday of any said months are state or national holidays,
then the regular meeting of said council shall be held at the same time and
place on the following business day, unless otherwise provided.
   B.   Presiding Officer: The mayor shall preside at all regular and special
meetings of the council; provided, that in the absence of the mayor, the
commissioner of accounts and finances shall be the presiding officer as is
provided by law 1 . (Ord. 86-08, 8-5-1986; amd. Ord. 258, 10-20-1969; 1994
Code; Ord. 20-20, 12-15-2020; Ord. 24-09, 4-16-2024)
 
Notes
1 2. 65 ILCS 5/4-4-2.
1-5-4: BONDS:
The mayor and each commissioner shall give a bond in such sum as to be
determined by the council, such bond to be not less than three thousand dollars
($3,000.00) and to be approved by a judge of the circuit court, as provided by
law 1 , and filed with the county clerk. (Ord. 86-08, 8-5-1986)
 
Notes
1 2. 65 ILCS 5/4-4-2.
1-5-5: SALARIES:
   A.   The following are annual salaries for the mayor and commissioners of
the village:
 
Mayor                 $12,000.00
Commissioners         8,000.00
Liquor commissioner 3 3,000.00
 
      1.   Compensation increases shall not take effect until the new council
is elected in the year 2003.
      2.   The compensations set above are the maximum compensations council
members may receive. Any council member may elect to receive less. (Ord. 02-09,
9-18-2002; amd. Ord. 21-06, 2-16-2021)
 
Notes
3 3. See also section
  3-8-3 of this code.
1-5-6: DUTIES OF THE MAYOR:
   A.   Commissioner Of Public Affairs: The mayor shall be commissioner of
public affairs and shall be superintendent of the department of public affairs
and shall report to the council for its action and all matters requiring the
attention of any department.
   B.   Executive Officer: The mayor shall have and exercise all the powers and
perform all the duties that are or may be prescribed by law or by village
ordinance. He shall be the chief executive officer and representative of the
municipality, and he shall sign all contracts and warrants on behalf of the
village and all licenses issued by the village; he shall cause to be prepared
and published all statements and reports required to be prepared and published
by law or by ordinance or resolution of the council. (Ord. 86-08, 8-5-1986)
1-5-7: COMMISSIONERS AND DEPARTMENTS:
   A.   Accounts And Finance:
      1.   Duties Of Commissioner: The commissioner of the department of
accounts and finance shall have charge of and supervision over all accounts and
records of the village, and all officers, boards or departments required to
keep, or make, accounts, records or reports. He/she shall inspect or cause to
be inspected all records or accounts required to be kept in any of the offices
or departments of the village and shall cause proper accounts and records to be
kept and proper reports to be made.
      2.   Keep Records: Cause proper accounts and records to be kept and
proper reports to be made by the officers and/or departments of the village,
insofar as the accounts and finances of the village are concerned.
      3.   Audits: The commissioner of the department of accounts and finances
shall audit or cause to be audited, at frequent intervals, the accounts and
records of every officer or employee of the village who may receive or disburse
money and see to it than an annual audit required by statute is made.
      4.   Purchases. The commissioner of the department of accounts and
finance shall have charge of the purchase, care and distribution of all
supplies and other articles not otherwise provided by law or ordinance.
      5.   Claims. The commissioner of the department of accounts and finance
shall examine or cause to be examined, and report to the council upon all
bills, accounts, payrolls, demands and claims before they are acted upon or
allowed, unless otherwise provided by law.
      6.   Collection of Fees. The commissioner of the department of accounts
and finance shall collect, or cause to be collected, all claims, demands,
license fees, inspection fees, franchise taxes, fines, penalties, forfeitures,
rentals or money which may be due or become due to the village, except as
otherwise provided for by statute and all amendments thereto and except as
otherwise provided by law. He/she shall report to the council any failure to
make reports or to pay moneys due to the village, with such recommendation in
relation thereto as he/she may deem proper.
      7.   Inspection. Inspect, or cause to be inspected, all records or
accounts required to be kept in any of the offices or departments of the
village, insofar as the accounts and finances of the village are concerned and,
at least once in every month, report the results of such inspection to the
council, with such recommendations as he/she shall see fit to make.
      8.   Composition And Supervision Of Department: The village treasurer,
the village collector and their respective offices and departments, all
officers, assistants and employees therein, all clerical employees in the
village hall and all bookkeepers and accountants are hereby distributed and
assigned to the department of accounts and finance and shall be under the
supervision and direction of the commissioner thereof.
      9.   Vice President of Council. The commissioner of the department of
accounts and finance shall also be the vice-president of the council, and, in
the absence of the mayor, or his inability to act, shall preside over the
council, and shall perform all the usual duties of the mayor and head of the
department of public affairs.
   B.   Streets And Public Improvements:
      1.   Duties Of Commissioner: The commissioner of the department of
streets and public improvements shall be superintendent of the department of
streets and public improvements and shall have authority over and charge of all
public work, the cleaning, sprinkling, and repair of of streets, avenues,
alleys and public places; the construction and reconstruction of all street
improvements, sidewalks, crosswalks, drains, ditches, gutters, culverts,
crossing bridges, viaducts, subways and other improvements, and of the repair
thereof, unless otherwise provided by law or ordinance, except when such
improvements or repairs are paid for by special assessment. He/she shall have
charge of the purchase of apparatus and supplies of the department of streets
and public improvements.
      2.   Control Of Motor Fuel Tax: All repairs, construction or
reconstruction of any and all streets and of all adjuncts and appurtenances
thereto which may be made, in whole or part, out of money received by the
village from the state as its share of the motor fuel tax shall be under the
control of the commissioner of streets and public improvements.
      3.   Composition And Supervision Of Department: Any engineers and all
persons employed by the municipality in the maintenance, construction or repair
of the streets and sidewalks located within the right of way of any street are
hereby assigned to the department of streets and public improvements and shall
be under the supervision of the commissioner of streets and public
improvements.
   C.   Public Health And Safety:
      1.   Duties Of Commissioner: The commissioner of public health and safety
shallbe superintendent of the department of public health and safety and have
charge, supervision and direction over the police chief and police department,
and all officers and employees hereinafter assigned to said department.?
      2.   Enforce or cause to be enforced the laws of the state and the
ordinances of the village relating to public health and safety, civil defense
and all building and zoning ordinances.
      3.   Composition Of Department: The police department and all officers,
assistants and employees therein are hereby distributed and assigned to the
department of public health and safety.
   D.   Public Property:
      1.   Duties Of Commissioner: The commissioner of public property shall be
superintendent over the department of public property and shall have charge and
supervision over all officers and employees assigned thereto.
      2.   Waterworks And Sewerage System Operation: Have custody of and be
charged with the operation of the waterworks and wastewater treatment plant and
have supervision of all officers and employees assigned to these activities. In
addition thereto, he/she shall have charge of and supervision over and
direction of all water and sanitary sewer main maintenance and repairs,
including all storm sewers located upon the right of way of any public street.
Furthermore, he/she shall have charge of the issuance of all permits pertaining
to the installation of water and sewer mains and/or connections within the
public right of way of any street and for the enforcement of all requirements
and regulations pertaining thereto whether by this chapter or any other
ordinance of the village.
      3.   Village Owned Buildings And Property: Have the custody of and be
responsible for the maintenance and repair of the village hall, all police
stations, the village garage and storage houses and all other village owned
buildings and property.
      4.   Inventory Of Public Property: Keep an accurate inventory of all
public property of the municipality used or controlled by any department
thereof and keep accurate maps, plats and records of all public works, lands or
property owned by the village. (Ord. 86-08, 8-5-1986; amd. 1994 Code; Ord. 23-
07, 3-21-2023)
1-5-8: ASSIGNMENT TO MORE THAN ONE DEPARTMENT:
Notwithstanding any provision herein to the contrary, the council may require
any officer or employee to perform duties in two (2) or more departments. (Ord.
86-08, 8-5-1986)
1-5-9: PRESENTATION OF REPORTS:
All reports, communications, ordinances, resolutions, contract documents or
other matters to be submitted to the village council shall, at least two (2)
days prior to each council meeting or as otherwise stated in subsection C9 of
this section, be delivered to the village clerk, whereupon the village clerk,
with the mayor's approval, shall immediately arrange a list of such matters
according to the order of business and furnish each member of the council with
a copy of the same prior to the council meeting and as far in advance of the
meeting as time for preparation will permit. In addition, if any matter relates
to village attorney business or the village engineer, the clerk shall also send
copies to them. None of the foregoing matters shall be presented to the council
by administrative officials except those of an urgent nature, and the same,
when so presented, shall have the written approval of the mayor before
presentation. (1994 Code; amd. Ord. 10-18, 12-21-2010)
   A.   Roll Call: Before proceeding with the business of the council, the
village clerk or his or her deputy shall call the roll of the members, and the
names of those present shall be entered in the minutes.
   B.   Order Of Business: All meetings of the village council shall be open to
the public. Promptly at the hour set herein, the members of the council, the
village clerk and the village attorney shall proceed with the following:
      1.   Roll call;
      2.   Reading, corrections, if any, and the approval of the minutes of the
previous meeting;
      3.   Approval of the bills for the period immediately preceding the date
of such meeting;
      4.   Consideration of the monthly financial report; (1994 Code)
      5.   Communications, petitions, reports, additional agenda items and
citizen participation; (1994 Code; amd. Ord. 10-18, 12-21-2010)
      6.   Consideration of old business;
      7.   Consideration of new business;
      8.   Commissioners' reports, if any; the village engineer report, if any;
village attorney report, if any;
      9.   Adjournment.
   C.   Rules Of Debate:
      1.   Presiding Officer May Debate And Vote: The mayor or such other
member of the village council as may be presiding may move, second and debate
from the chair, subject only to such limitations of debate as are by these
rules imposed, and all members shall not be deprived of any of the rights and
privileges of a council member by reason of his acting as the presiding
officer.
      2.   Getting The Floor; Improper References To Be Avoided: Every member
desiring to speak shall address the chair and, upon recognition by the mayor,
shall confine himself to the question under debate, avoiding all personalities.
      3.   Interruptions: Any member, once recognized, shall not be interrupted
while speaking unless it be to call him to order or as herein otherwise
provided. If a member, while speaking, is called to order, he shall cease
speaking until the question of order be determined, and, if in order, he shall
be permitted to proceed.
      4.   Privileges Of Closing Debate: The council member who moves the
adoption of an ordinance or a resolution shall have the privilege of closing a
debate.
      5.   Motion To Reconsider: A motion to reconsider any action taken by the
council may be made only on the same day such action was taken. It may be made
either immediately during the same session or at a recessed or adjourned
session thereof. Such motion must be made by one of the prevailing sides but
may be seconded by any member and may be made any time and have precedence over
all other motions or while a member has the floor; it shall be debatable.
Nothing herein shall be construed to prevent any member of the council from
making or remaking the same or any other motion at a subsequent meeting of the
council.
      6.   Remarks Of The Council Members; When Entered In Minutes: A council
member may request, through the mayor, the privilege of having an abstract of
his statement or any other subject under consideration by the council entered
in the minutes. If the council consents thereto, such statement shall be
entered in the minutes.
      7.   Synopsis Of Debate; When Entered In Minutes: The village clerk may
be directed by the mayor, with consent of the council, to enter in the minutes
a synopsis of its discussion on any question submitted before the council.
      8.   Addressing The Council After Motion Made: After a motion is made by
the village council, no person shall address the council without first securing
the permission of the mayor to do so. (1994 Code)
      9.   Citizen Participation:
         a.   Compliance: It shall be unlawful for any person to address or
attempt to address any meeting of the village council or village board except
in compliance with limitations and restrictions imposed as provided herein.
Citizen participation shall be permitted as follows:
            (1)   Public forum.
            (2)   Agenda participation.
            (3)   Public hearing.
            (4)   Invited speakers.
         b.   Limitations: The mayor or the chairperson of a village board may
impose reasonable limitations on the citizen participation at village council
meetings or village board meetings such as barring repetitious, irrelevant,
immaterial, or inappropriate comments or testimony. He or she reserves the
right to halt or suspend the public forum/hearing to a later date if the rules
are not being followed.
         c.   Persons Wishing To Speak: Persons wishing to speak during any
portion of a village council or village board meeting shall sign in before the
start of the meeting stating name, address and topic to be discussed. All
speakers shall comply with these rules, which shall be posted at the speaker
sign in desk, and rulings of the presiding officer. Speakers shall be called by
name to approach the podium by a member of staff designated by the village
mayor.
         d.   Speakers: Speakers will identify themselves and provide their
current address at the podium before beginning their comments. Speakers will
state their position on the issue, and provide supporting documentation and/or
evidence. The speaker shall refrain from engaging in debates, directing
threats, or personal attacks at council or village board, staff, other speakers
or members of the audience.
         e.   Timer: A timer shall be used to notify the speaker when the time
allotted has expired. The speaker will then be informed that his/her time has
expired, and shall stop speaking and step down from the podium, unless a
majority of the village council or village board grants additional time. If
necessary, the mayor or chairperson shall take action to enforce this rule.
         f.   Audience: Members of the audience shall refrain from applauding,
cheering, or booing during or at the conclusion of remarks made by any speaker,
staff member, council member, or board member.
         g.   Representative Speakers: Groups of residents should, whenever
possible, consolidate their comments and avoid repetition through the use of
representative speakers.
         h.   Public Forum: The purpose of the public forum is to allow
residents an opportunity to address the village council or board on issues of
concern to them, which are not part of the agenda.
            (1)   The public forum shall be limited to five (5) minutes in
total, unless extended for a time certain by a majority vote of the village
council or board.
            (2)   All speakers will limit their comments to no more than five
(5) minutes.
         i.   Agenda Participation (Nonpublic Hearing): Citizen participation
on agenda items will be as follows:
            (1)   The petitioner of an agenda item is a person or entity with a
financial or ownership interest in a zoning matter or other village council or
village board decision. The petitioner may proceed with a brief presentation of
the petition for no more than ten (10) minutes.
            (2)   The citizen participation portion of the agenda item shall be
subject to a thirty (30) minute limitation, unless extended for a time certain
by a majority vote of the village council or village board. If an item is
tabled after citizen participation has occurred and the item contains no
significant changes on the subsequent meeting date, there will not be a citizen
participation portion for the agenda item.
            (3)   The petitioner shall have no more than five (5) minutes to
reply to the comments or questions asked. Public participation after the
petitioner's reply shall be prohibited unless the village council or village
board directs otherwise.
            (4)   Council members or board members may, but need not, ask
questions of the petitioner and speakers at the conclusion of their comments.
            (5)   The village council or village board may then deliberate upon
the petition in accordance with council rules. No additional comment may be
made by citizens or the petitioner except upon the express permission of the
council or village board.
            (6)   All speakers, except the petitioner, will limit their
comments to no more than five (5) minutes.
         j.   Public Hearing: The rules applicable to public forum shall
generally apply to public hearings.
         k.   Invited Speakers: Any citizen may address the village council or
village board by invitation of the mayor or chairperson or a majority of the
council or board members present. Speakers invited to participate shall be
subject to such limitations as the mayor or chairperson or majority of the
council or board shall prescribe. In the absence of other restrictions, such
speakers shall be governed by the same rules which govern public forum. (Ord.
10-18, 12-21-2010)
      10.   Decorum; Enforcement:
         a.   Decorum: While the village council is in session, the members
must preserve order and decorum, and a member shall neither, by a conversation
or otherwise, delay or interrupt proceeding or the peace of the council nor
disturb any member while speaking or refuse to obey the orders of the council
or its presiding officer, except as otherwise herein provided.
         b.   By Persons: Any person making personal, impertinent or slanderous
remarks or who shall become vociferous while addressing the council shall be
forthwith by the mayor barred from further audience before the council, unless
permission to continue be granted by the majority vote of the council.
         c.   Enforcement Of The Decorum: The chief of police or such member or
members of the police department as may be designated, shall be the sergeant at
arms of the council meetings. He shall carry out all orders and instructions
given by the presiding officer for the purpose of maintaining order and decorum
at the council meeting. Upon instructions of the mayor, it shall be the duty of
the sergeant at arms or any officer present to place any person who violates
the order or the decorum of the meeting under arrest and cause him to be
prosecuted under the provisions of this code, the complaint to be signed by the
mayor. (1994 Code)
1-5-10: ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, MOTIONS AND CONTRACTS:
   A.   Preparation Of Ordinances: All ordinances shall be reviewed by the
village attorney. No ordinance shall be prepared for presentation to the
village council unless ordered by a majority vote of the council.
   B.   Passage Of Ordinances:
      1.   Ordinances, resolutions and other matters are subject to requiring
an action by the council and must be introduced and sponsored by a member of
the council, except that the village attorney may present ordinances,
resolutions and other matters which are subject to council action, and any
council member may assume sponsorship thereof by moving that such ordinances,
resolutions and matters or subjects be adopted; otherwise, they shall not be
considered.
      2.   No ordinance shall be passed on the same day in which it was
introduced unless it receives unanimous approval of the council.
      3.   No ordinance shall relate to more than one subject, which shall be
clearly expressed in its title. No ordinance, or section thereof, shall be
amended or repealed unless the new ordinance contains title of the ordinance or
section amended or repealed and, when practical, all ordinances shall be
introduced as amendments to existing ordinances or sections thereof. (1994
Code)
1-5-11: REMOTE ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS:
   A.   Rules Statement. Any member of the Village Council may attend any open
or closed meeting of the Village Council via electronic means (such as by
telephone, video or internet connection) provided that such attendance is not
otherwise prohibited and is in compliance with these rules and any applicable
laws.
   B.   Prerequisites. A member of the Village Council may attend a meeting
electronically if the member meets the following conditions:
      1.   The member must notify the Clerk at least 24 hours before the
meeting, unless impractical, so that necessary communications equipment can be
arranged. Inability to make the necessary technical arrangements will result in
denial of a request for remote attendance.
      2.   The member must assert one of the following three reasons why he or
she is unable to physically attend the meeting:
         a.   The member cannot attend because of personal illness or
disability; or
         b.   The member cannot attend because of employment purposes or the
business of the Village; or
      3.   The member cannot attend because of a family or other emergency.
   C.   Authorization to Participate. The Clerk, after receiving the electronic
attendance request, shall inform the Village Council of the request for
electronic attendance. After establishing that there is a quorum physically
present at a meeting where a member of the Village Council desires to attend
electronically, the presiding officer shall state that (i) a notice was
received by a member of the Village Council in accordance with these Rules, and
(ii) the member will be deemed authorized to attend the meeting electronically
unless a motion objecting to the member's electronic attendance is made,
seconded, and approved by two-thirds of the members of the Village Council
physically present at the meeting. If no such motion is made and seconded or if
any such motion fails to achieve the required vote by the members of the
Village Council physically present at the meeting, then the request by the
member to attend the meeting electronically shall be deemed approved by the
Village Council and the presiding officer shall declare the requesting member
present. After such declaration by the presiding officer, the question of a
member's electronic attendance may not be reconsidered.
   D.   Adequate Equipment Required. The member participating electronically
and other members of the Village Council must be able to communicate
effectively, and members of the audience must be able to hear all
communications at the meeting site. Before allowing electronic attendance at
any meeting, the Village shall provide equipment adequate to accomplish this
objective at the meeting site.
   E.   Minutes. Any member attending electronically shall be considered an
off-site attendee and counted as present electronically for that meeting if the
member is allowed to attend. The meeting minutes shall also reflect and state
specifically whether each member is physically present or present by electronic
means.
   F.   Rights of Remote Member. A member permitted to attend electronically
will be able to express his or her comments during the meeting and participate
in the same capacity as those members physically present, subject to all
general meeting guidelines and procedures previously adopted and adhered to.
The member attending electronically shall be heard, considered, and counted as
to any vote taken. Accordingly, the name of any member attending electronically
shall be called during any vote taken, and his or her vote counted and recorded
by the Clerk and placed in the minutes for the corresponding meeting. A member
attending electronically may leave a meeting and return as in the case of any
member, provided the member attending electronically shall announce his or her
leaving and returning.
   G.   Committees, Boards and Commissions. These rules shall apply to all
committees, boards and commissions established by authority of the Village.
   H.   Participation While Driving Prohibited. Members permitted to attend a
meeting electronically may not participate while driving unless said members
are in compliance with all state driving laws regarding cell phone use.
   I.   Limited Participation Rights. Nothing herein shall prohibit an official
who does not meet the prerequisites of Subsection B from participating in the
meeting remotely, without voting rights, if the audio or video equipment is
available and a majority of those present do not vote against the
participation. Costs in such circumstances shall not be reimbursable. (Ord.
2020-07, 6-2-2020)
1-5-12: PROCEDURES FOR PUBLIC DISCUSSION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS:
In accordance with the requirements of Section 2.06(g) of the Illinois Open
Meetings Act (5 ILCS 120/2.06(g)), any person attending a public meeting of any
Village Council meeting or meeting of a Village board, committee, subcommittee
or commission shall be permitted to address the public officials during the
public comment period, which shall be reserved for each meeting, subject to the
following regulations.
   A.   A period of time not to exceed thirty (30) minutes will be devoted to
public comment at each meeting, unless the public officials, by a majority vote
at the meeting, agree to allow the public comment period to exceed thirty (30)
minutes for that particular meeting.
   B.   Public comment shall be limited to five minutes per speaker. The five-
minute time limit shall apply unless the public officials, by a majority vote,
set a lower or higher time limit for public comment at a particular meeting or
on a particular subject which shall apply to all speakers addressing the
specified subject.
   C.   Speakers may address the public officials when recognized by the Mayor
or presiding officer and shall state their name to the public body at the start
of his or her public comment.
   D.   Each person may provide pre-prepared copies of his or her public
comments to the public body prior to, during or after his or her public comment
session.
   E.   A group of three (3) or more individuals speaking on the same topic are
asked to designate a single spokesperson to present the group's public
comments.
   F.   Abusive, foul or other inappropriate language or conduct and/or
personal attacks are not permitted when addressing the public officials and
shall be deemed out-of-order by the Mayor or the presiding officer and the
speaker's public comment session may be terminated.
   G.   Public comment shall be allowed in a similar manner at all committee
meetings or meetings of subsidiary bodies of the Village. (Ord. 2019-08, 6-4-
2019)
CHAPTER 6
VILLAGE OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Village Clerk
1-6-2: Village Treasurer
1-6-3: Personnel Policy
1-6-4: Office Of Special Projects
1-6-5: Salaries
1-6-6: Indemnification Of Officers And Employees
1-6-7: Residency Requirements
1-6-8: Treasurer's Bond
1-6-9: Paid Leave Policy
1-6-1: VILLAGE CLERK:
   A.   Appointment: The Village Clerk shall be appointed by the Mayor, with
the advice and consent of the Council. The appointment shall become effective
commencing at the first regularly scheduled meeting following the general
municipal election for Mayor in the Village and shall be for a term of four (4)
years.
   B.   Custody Of Seal And Records: The Village Clerk shall be the keeper and
custodian of the Corporate Seal of the Village; and shall carefully preserve in
his office, all books, records, papers, maps and effects of every description
belonging to the Village or pertaining to its officers and upon expiration of
his official term, he shall deliver all such records, books, papers, maps and
effects to his successor in office.
   C.   Minutes; Notices: The Village Clerk shall attend all meetings of the
Village Council and shall keep in a suitable book to the style of the journal
of the Village Council a full and favorable record of its proceedings. He shall
issue or cause to be served upon the Council members notices of all special
meetings of the Council.
   D.   Recording Of Ordinances: The Village Clerk shall record and properly
index, in a book kept for that purpose, all ordinances passed by the Council,
within five (5) days after passage and approval by the Council, and at the
first of each ordinance so recorded he shall make a memorandum showing dates of
passage, approval, posting of publication and the page on which it is recorded.
He shall attest and affix the Village Seal to each original copy.
   E.   Other Responsibilities: In addition to the duties as stated in this
section and the Illinois Compiled Statutes, the Village Clerk is hereby
assigned to the Department of Public Affairs, Department of Streets and Public
Improvements, and Department of Public Property. The Village Clerk shall
perform the tasks of those departments as may be requested by the Mayor and
Commissioners including, but not limited to, the secretarial functions. (1994
Code; amd. Ord. 02-02, 5-7-2002; Ord. 21-09, 3-2-2021)
1-6-2: VILLAGE TREASURER:
   A.   Appointment: There is hereby created the Office of Village Treasurer.
The Village Treasurer shall be appointed by the Mayor, with the advice and
consent of the Council. The appointment shall become effective commencing at
the first regularly scheduled meeting following the general municipal election
for Mayor in the Village and shall be to a term of four (4) years.
   B.   Powers and Duties: The Village Treasurer shall have all the powers and
perform all the duties now or hereafter provided by the laws of the State of
Illinois and the ordinances of the Village. The Village Treasurer shall, among
other things, have the following duties:
      1.   Monies: Receive all monies due or belonging to the Village.
      2.   Warrants: Keep and pay all orders or warrants, including special
assessments, other bonds and interest coupons authorized by the Village Council
and duly executed by the proper officers of the Village. Each warrant must have
a description that includes the date, amount, number, the fund from which it is
paid, the date when paid, and the payee.
      3.   Books of Accounting: Keep suitable books of account of the Village
financial transactions, including from whom and on what account funds have been
received and a record of all monies paid out, including to whom and on what
account or fund and for what purpose the payment was made. The books shall be
balanced at least monthly and shall be at all times open to examination by the
Mayor or Commissioners.
      4.   Accounts: Keep a separate account with each fund or appropriation
stating at the head of each account the amount appropriated and giving the
several debits and credits.
      5.   General Ledger: Keep a general ledger by funds showing the
activities and transactions affecting each fund including the necessary
accruals for annual reports and other purposes.
      6.   Water and Sewer Accounts: Keep proper records and accounts in which
complete and correct entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the
water and sewerage system. The annual audit shall be made by an independent
auditing concern of the books to show the receipts and disbursements of the
water and sewerage system.
      7.   Reports: File a monthly report under oath to the Mayor and Village
Council. The report shall include the total receipts and disbursements for each
account or fund from commencement of the fiscal year to date. The report shall
be filed in the Office of the Village Clerk and a summary provided to the
Village Council. All canceled vouchers and invoices covering all transactions
set forth in the report shall be retained by the Village Treasurer.
      8.   Annual Review: Provide, within one hundred eighty (180) days of the
end of the fiscal year, an annual review of a full and detailed account of all
receipts and disbursements during the preceding fiscal year to the Village
Council for approval. The account shall show the state of the Treasury at the
close of the fiscal year. The account shall also show the aggregate revenues
received during the fiscal year in each fund and will also show the aggregate
disbursements for each fund and each budget category within a fund. Such
account shall be provided to the Village Clerk for publication and to file for
public inspection in the Office of the Village Clerk or as required by law.
      9.   Other Duties: Perform such other duties and functions as may be
required by ordinance of the Village or laws of the State of Illinois.
   C.   Deposit of Funds: The Village Treasurer shall review and approve the
deposit of Village funds in such depositories as may be selected from time to
time as provided by law or by Village ordinance. The Treasurer shall review and
approve procedures for the handling of Village funds to assure that Village
monies are kept separate and distinct from the monies of any individual and to
assure that no individual may make private or personal use of any Village
monies.
   D.   Special Assessment Funds: All monies received on any special assessment
shall be placed in a special fund to be applied only to the principal and
interest payment of the improvement, bond or vouchers for which they were
received. The monies shall be used for no other purpose unless to reimburse the
Village for the monies expended for such improvement. Payment on bonds or
vouchers shall be made in accordance with the laws of the State of Illinois.
The Treasurer shall review the books and accounts to assure that proper
prorations in payments of principal and interest can be made and ascertained
and unpaid receivable balances calculated.
E.   Access to Financial Records: Any agency of the State of Illinois or member
of the Village Council shall have access to and be able to review and examine
any financial books, documents, papers and records of the Village except those
precluded by law. (Ord. 21-09, 3-2-2021; amd. Ord. 23-20, 10-3-2023)
1-6-3: PERSONNEL POLICY:
   A.   Best Efforts Of Employee: The employee shall, at all times, faithfully,
industriously, and to the best of his or her ability, experience and talents,
perform all of the duties that may be required of him or her pursuant to the
express and implicit terms of this section to the reasonable satisfaction of
the Village.
   B.   Overtime:
      1.   All Employees: All employees shall be paid time and a half for all
hours worked over forty (40) hours. When an employee has not worked the actual
forty (40) hours because of taking time off for holidays, vacations, and sick
times, and is asked to work nonscheduled days, then the employee shall be paid
time and a half for the nonscheduled time over forty (40) hours in a week.
   C.   Mileage: Whenever an employee uses his or her own vehicle, said
employee shall be paid that amount that is set and allowed by the Internal
Revenue Service as a mileage allowance.
   D.   Holidays:
      1.   Except as may otherwise be provided in any collective bargaining
agreement to which the Village is a party, the employee shall receive, with
pay, the following holidays:
         New Year's Day
         Martin Luther King, Jr. Day
         Presidents’ Day
         Good Friday
         Memorial Day
         July 4
         Labor Day
         Veterans Day
         Thanksgiving
         Day after Thanksgiving
         December 24
         Christmas Day
      2.   All full time employees shall receive time and a half for days
worked on holidays.
      3.   Holiday pay shall be as follows:
         a.   "Holiday" shall be defined as starting at seven o'clock (7:00)
P.M. the day of the holiday and ending seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. the next
morning.
         b.   If an employee is scheduled to work the holiday and has to work
they will be paid eight (8) hours holiday pay at straight time and one and one-
half (11/2) times hourly pay for the time they work.
      4.   If the holiday falls on Saturday, all employees who are scheduled
from Monday through Friday shall have the preceding Friday off. If the holiday
falls on a Sunday, all employees who are scheduled from Monday through Friday
shall have off the following Monday. For all employees who are scheduled to
work the weekends, they shall celebrate the actual weekend holiday.
   E.   Vacations:
      1.   It is the policy of the Village to provide each full-time employee
(other than those employees covered by union contract) with vacation time on a
periodic basis. The amount of vacation to which an employee becomes entitled is
determined by the employee's length of service as of his or her employment
anniversary date. For full-time employees, vacation accrues as follows:
         a.   At the end of the six (6) months of service, but less than four
(4) years, two (2) weeks, or eighty (80) hours, of vacation.
         b.   After four (4) years or more but less than eight (8) years of
service, three (3) weeks, or one hundred twenty (120) hours, of vacation per
year.
         c.   After eight (8) years or more but less than twelve (12) years of
service, four (4) weeks, or one hundred sixty (160) hours, of vacation per
year.
         d.   After twelve (12) years of service, five (5) weeks, or two
hundred (200) hours of vacation per year.
      2.   Vacation does not accrue between employment anniversary dates and
may not be taken until it is earned. Vacation time must be used in the
anniversary year after which it is earned and may not be carried over past the
employee's next anniversary date, with the exception of one (1) week which may
be carried over. For example, an employee with two (2) weeks' vacation as of
his or her third-anniversary date must use the two (2) weeks prior to his or
her fourth anniversary date (with the exception of the one (1) week which may
be carried over).
      3.   Our "vacation year" is based upon each employee's anniversary year.
This means that each employee's vacation year begins on the date such employee
was hired by the Village and runs until the day before that date in the next
calendar year.
   F.   Personal Days: All employees (except those covered by union contract)
shall receive three (3) personal days. Request for leave shall be made to the
Commissioner of that employee's department, or his designee, at least two (2)
days prior to the desired onset of such leave, provided that in an emergency
such application may be made at a later time with an explanation of such
emergency. Personal leave shall not be taken immediately preceding or following
vacation or holidays, unless specifically approved by the Commissioner of the
employee's department. Personal days shall not be cumulative from year to year,
nor shall they be carried over to future years.
   One personal day shall equal eight (8) hours for forty (40) hours per week
full time employees. Employees considered full time who work less than forty
(40) hours per week shall be paid hours equal to the number of weekly hours
divided by the number of days worked.
   G.   Bereavement: All full time employees shall have bereavement time off
with pay, not to exceed three (3) days, for a death in the immediate family.
Bereavement time off shall not include any days after burial.
   For purposes of this contract "immediate family" shall include parents,
spouse, brothers, sisters, children, grandchildren, grandparents, parents-in-
law, brothers-in-law, sisters-in-law, sons-in-law and daughters-in-law.
   H.   Sick Days And Pay:
      1.   For all full time nonunion employees, sick pay shall be paid at one
hundred percent (100%) of the employee wage for twenty-six (26) days per year
beginning January 1. Unused sick days, in any given year, shall not be
compensated for by either voluntary termination or termination by the Village.
Any unused sick time will be rolled into the new year and can be accumulated
during the course of the employee's employment.
      2.   Sick time must be taken in four (4) hour increments for the purpose
of attending doctor's appointments.
      3.   Further, if the employee is receiving workers' compensation, sick
pay shall not be paid. If an employee is injured outside his or her employment
and is off work, the Village shall be subrogated to the rights of that employee
to be reimbursed by a person or entity that may be responsible for the employee
being unable to work. If the employee collects from such third person
compensation for lost workdays, that employee shall reimburse the Village of
all monies paid to the employee by the Village, pursuant to this section.
      4.   As a condition precedent to the Village's obligation to pay for sick
days and the employee taking sick days, and if the employee is off more than
three (3) consecutive days, the employee shall furnish the Village with a
physician's written diagnosis that the employee is unable to work because of
sickness or illness. Further, if the employee is off for two (2) weeks or more,
the employee shall provide another written diagnosis that the employee is
unable to work for such period, and for each two (2) week period thereafter.
The Village may require that the employee shall be examined by a physician of
their choice. If that physician determines that the employee's condition is
such that he or she is able to work, then such employee shall return to work or
forfeit his or her right to receive sick pay. If any disagreement arises
between the Village and the employee on whether the employee is entitled to
sick pay, the Village's sole decision shall control as to whether the employee
is entitled to sick pay. Any employee may be discharged at the option of the
Village Council if the employee is unable to work for one hundred eighty (180)
consecutive days.
      5.   An employee will earn one month of service credit for every twenty
(20) days of unused, unpaid sick time at retirement, plus one month of service
credit for any fraction thereof. The maximum amount of sick days an employee
can convert to service credit is two hundred and forty (240).
   I.   Insurance:
      1.   The Village of Seneca will pay one hundred percent (100%) of an
unmarried employee's cost of insurance. For unmarried employees requiring
dependent coverage, the village will pay eighty percent (80%) of dependent
coverage.
      2.   The Village of Seneca will pay eighty percent (80%) of a married
employee's cost of insurance. For married employees requiring dependent
coverage, the village will pay eighty percent (80%) of dependent coverage.
      3.   Medical coverage shall begin upon employment for all employees.
   J.   Grievance Procedure: Any grievance involving the interpretation,
application or alleged violation of this section shall be disposed of in the
following manner:
      1.   The aggrieved employee shall present his grievance directly to his
immediate supervisor, who shall render his decision within two (2) working
days. A written record of that decision shall be made by the employee and the
supervisor shall sign and date it to indicate that the written decision is as
he gave it to the employee. The employee shall also sign and date this
notation. No precedent will be established by the settlement of grievances in
this step.
      2.   Grievances not satisfactorily adjusted in the first step shall, at a
mutually agreed time within three (3) working days after the days of appeal to
this step, be discussed between the employee and the Commissioner of that
particular department, who shall render a decision within two (2) working days.
A written record of that decision shall be made by the employee and the
Commissioner shall sign and date it to indicate that the written decision is as
he gave it to the employee. The employee shall also sign and date this
notation. No precedent will be established by the settlement of grievances in
this step.
      3.   If the grievance is not satisfactorily adjusted in the second step,
the employee shall present the grievance in writing to the Village Council at
their next meeting. The Village shall render its decision in writing. The
decision of the Council shall be final and binding upon all parties to the
dispute, and both parties will promptly comply with its decision.
      4.   If the grievance involves an alleged harassment by a Commissioner,
the individual should report such conduct to the Village Mayor, and the full
Council shall handle the grievance pursuant to this section.
   K.   Termination: Employees are at-will employees. Further, in the event of
any violation by an employee of any of the terms of this section, the Village
may also terminate employment.
   L.   Performance Evaluation And Salary Review:
      1.   It is the policy of the Village that all employees receive a
performance evaluation and an annual salary review.
      2.   The employee, Commissioner and/or department head will each fill out
a performance review and development form. The department head and/or
Commissioner will go over the form with each employee. Whether or not increases
are granted, and the amount of increase, are based upon individual performance
factors, such as attendance, punctuality, volume of judgment, initiative,
ability to work with others, and appearance. The Commissioner and/or department
head will determine the level of performance and review the employee's salary
accordingly. Any salary increase is then sent to the Mayor for review and
approval by the Council.
      3.   Raises and reviews will be in effect for all employees April 1,
annually.
   M.   Employee Classifications:
      1.   Full-Time: All office personnel normally scheduled to work thirty
five (35) hours per week on a permanent basis with hours eight o'clock (8:00)
A.M. until four o'clock (4:00) P.M. and all other personnel forty (40) hours
per week as scheduled by their respective departments are eligible for all
employee benefits. (Full-time status does not guarantee a minimum number of
hours each week or permanent employment. Department heads may reduce hours at
any time.)
      2.   Part-Time: Normally scheduled to work an average of less than twenty
(20) hours per week or one thousand (1,000) hours per year are ineligible for
employee benefits. Part-time employees working over one thousand (1,000) hours
per year may become eligible for benefits.
         a.   An employee changing from part-time to full-time will be treated
like new employees for purposes of benefits.
         b.   Full-time employees who change to a part-time status will be
dropped from all benefit plans.
         c.   Council must be notified of all changes.
         d.   Timecards will be kept by all employees for Village permanent
Payroll Department records. In addition, all applications for employment shall
be retained for a minimum period of six (6) months.
   N.   New Employee Evaluation Program:
      1.   It is the policy of the Village that all new full-time and part-time
employees be on a ninety (90) day performance evaluation period.
      2.   Increases, if any, as well as the amount of the increase, will be
determined based upon individual performance factors at the end of the
performance evaluation period. The supervisor will complete a performance
review and development form and review it with the employee at that time.
      3.   At the end of the probationary period, a full-time employee will be
entitled to the following:
         a.   Sick days;
         b.   Vacation days;
         c.   Bereavement days;
         d.   Personal days;
         e.   Health insurance; and
         f.   Holiday pay.
      4.   Any deviation of this policy must be approved by the Mayor and the
Council.
   O.   Probation: The first one year of employment for both full-time and
part- time employees at the Village is a probationary period. Employees may be
terminated at any time during this period if the Council feels he or she is not
able to perform the duties of his or her job adequately. The probation policy,
excluding the loss of benefits, also applies when an employee changes jobs
within the Village. The department head and/or Commissioner shall complete an
evaluation prior to the one year of employment and make recommendations to the
Village Council.
   P.   Employee Privacy: Employees are also residents of the Village and have
the same right to confidentiality as other residents.
      1.   When sending any correspondence to employees regarding their
personal business, use sealed envelopes marked "Personal and Confidential".
      2.   Discuss employee's personal transactions only with the employee and
those who need to know for business reasons.
      3.   When working with an employee, make sure that no paperwork is left
unattended for others to see.
   Q.   Personnel Records:
      1.   An employee's personnel folder is the Village's continuing record of
personal information. The personnel folder shall be kept by the Village Clerk.
The employee shall keep the Village informed of any changes in his or her home
address, telephone number, the address and telephone number of the person to be
notified in case of an emergency, marital status and number of dependents and
of any additional education completed.
      2.   Access to personnel information by Village personnel will be allowed
where it is necessary to fulfill an assigned responsibility. In accordance with
all legal requirements, an employee will be permitted to inspect his or her
personnel records provided an employee has submitted a prior written request to
do so. Personnel information contained in an employee's file which is found to
be inaccurate shall be promptly corrected.
   R.   Confidentiality: Officers and employees of the Village are in daily
contact with and have access to confidential and privileged information about
residents, businesses, officers and other employees. An employee shall never
divulge or otherwise improperly use, confidential information. A breach of that
trust is forbidden and is cause for dismissal.
   S.   Dismissal:
      1.   Acts of misconduct which are of an extremely serious nature may be
dealt with by dismissal.
      2.   Causes for dismissal include, but are not limited to:
         a.   Falsification of employment application or unsatisfactory
employment references.
         b.   Incorrect handling of cash, securities, confidential information
or other Village assets.
         c.   Jeopardizing Village security.
         d.   Two (2) consecutive unreported absences.
         e.   Insubordination; refusal to perform assigned work.
         f.   Rudeness towards a customer.
         g.   Theft of cash or property on Village premises.
         h.   Misrepresentation of absence.
         i.   Falsification of time and attendance records.
         j.   Neglectful or wilful destruction of Village property.
         k.   Use, possession or being under the influence of unauthorized
drugs/narcotics/alcohol preceding or during work hours and meal periods.
         l.   Unauthorized use or possession of firearms or other weapons on
Village premises.
         m.   Use of threatening, abusive or obscene language.
         n.   Fighting on Village property.
         o.   Sleeping during working time.
         p.   Sexual harassment.
         q.   Discussion of confidential matters pertaining to Village business
and/or its customers and/or its employees with unauthorized personnel.
         r.   Performance or comments, both internal and external, which are
detrimental to the organization or consistently critical of its policies.
         s.   Misappropriation of Village funds.
         t.   Kickbacks.
         u.   Consumption of alcoholic beverages by underage employees at
Village functions.
      3.   The previous year-to-year contracts with each employee shall
terminate effective December 31, 1993, and this section shall control the terms
and conditions of employment.
   T.   Anti-Harassment Statement:
      1.   Harassment:
         a.   Statement Of Purpose: An environment of mutual respect for the
rights of others must prevail if the Village is to fulfill its objectives and
maintain the decorum and the dignity of its officials, officers, and other
employees. Although individuals are free to hold their own beliefs and
opinions, the individual rights of every person must be respected and all
individuals must be able to work in an environment which is free from any form
of harassment.
         b.   Prohibited Conduct Defined: Conduct prohibited under this policy
shall be defined as verbal, written and/or physical behavior which either
expressly or impliedly causes the following:
            (1)   Harassment, retaliation, coercion, interference, or
intimidation of any individual due to that individual's or a group's race,
color, ethnic background, religion, gender, sex, sexual orientation, age,
national origin, or mental or physical disability;
            (2)   Involves a threat to personal safety; or
            (3)   Interference with an individual's work performance or ability
to report to and remain at work during scheduled work hours.
         c.   Harassment Prohibited: The Village will not tolerate any form of
harassment in the work place. All forms of harassment, retaliation, coercion,
interference, intimidation and threats are strictly prohibited by the Village
as well as by State and Federal law. In addition to incurring any liability
under State or Federal law, any person making unwelcome comments or actions, or
other such verbal or physical conduct, which creates an intimidating, hostile,
or offending working environment may be terminated.
         d.   Report Harassment Immediately: Any individual who feels that he
or she is being subjected to harassment or any other form of conduct prohibited
by this policy should notify his or her Commissioner immediately. In the event
that the Commissioner is unavailable, or is the individual engaged in such
conduct, the individual should report such conduct to the Village Mayor
immediately. Upon receipt of such information, the Village shall conduct an
investigation and, if warranted, at the Village's discretion, take immediate
disciplinary action, including discharge, against the offending employee. Any
individual filing or reporting conduct prohibited by this policy shall not
suffer any form of retaliation and his or her name and report shall remain
confidential to the extent permissible during the investigation. After
completing the investigation and taking any corrective actions as a result
thereof, the Village shall keep all records of each incident in a confidential
investigative file. (Ord. 94-01, 1-22-1994; amd. Ord. 98-22, 11-17-1998; Ord.
98-24, 12-15-1998; Ord. 99-13, 5-4-1999; Ord. 00-02, 5-2-2000; Ord. 10-10, 8-
17-2010, eff. 1-1-2011; Ord. 15-06, 8-18-2015; Ord. 19-07, 3-19-2019; Ord. 22-
16, 11-15-2022; Ord. 22-17, 12-6-2022; Ord. 23-08, 4-4-2023; Ord. 23-09, 4-4-
2023)
1-6-4: OFFICE OF SPECIAL PROJECTS:
   A.   Office Created: There is hereby created the Office of Special Projects
which is hereby assigned to the Department of Public Affairs.
   B.   Appointment: The Office of Special Projects shall be filled by
appointment by the Mayor with the consent of the Council.
   C.   Compensation: The compensation to be paid the Special Project Officer
shall be as set by the Council.
   D.   Duties And Responsibilities: The duties and responsibilities of the
Office of Special Projects shall include those special projects as may be, from
time to time, defined by the Mayor and shall include such other duties and
responsibilities as designated by the Council, from time to time. (Ord. 87-05,
6-2-1987; amd. 1994 Code)
1-6-5: SALARIES:
The salaries of all Village employees shall be as set by the Council. (1994
Code)
1-6-6: INDEMNIFICATION OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES:
   A.   The Village shall indemnify, hold harmless and defend or incur the cost
of defense of the members of the Village Council, as such members or
individually, and the officers and employees of the Village from the payment of
any sum or sums of money to any persons whomsoever on account of all claims,
actions or suits growing out of injuries to persons or property from any act or
omission of a member of the Village Council, a Village official or Village
employee occurring within the scope of the individual's employment or official
capacity.
   B.   The indemnification offered by subsection A of this section shall be
applicable only to the extent that the liability insurance of the Village does
not provide coverage and where any such claims or action is in excess of such
liability coverage.
   C.   No present or former members of the Council, officer or employee shall
be required to pay any deductible or retention amount required by the liability
insurance of the Village.
   D.   If any claim or action is instituted against any member of the Village
Council or former member of the Village Council or any officer or former
officer of the Village or any employee or former employee of the Village based
on injury allegedly arising out of any act or omission occurring within the
scope of his authority or employment as a Council member, officer or employee,
the Village shall do the following:
      1.   Appear and defend against the claim or action;
      2.   Indemnify him for his court costs incurred in the defense of such
claim or action;
      3.   Pay, or indemnify him for a judgment based on such claim or action;
or
      4.   Pay, or indemnify him for a compromise or settlement of such a claim
or action. (Ord. 86-02, 2-4-1986)
1-6-7: RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All officers, excepting the Village Attorney, Village Engineer,
appointed Village Clerk, appointed Village Treasurer, appointed Village
Collector, any part- time employee, or other officers who require technical
training or knowledge, are required, as a condition of their employment, to
have their place of abode within the Village and to be bona fide residents
therein; except that the Chief of Police may reside within a fifteen (15) mile
radius of the Village. A bona fide resident, for the purpose of this
subsection, is a person having a permanent domicile within the Village and one
which has not been adopted with the intention of again taking up or claiming a
previous residence acquired outside of the Village limits. (Ord. 83-05, 5-17-
1983; amd. Ord. 15-07, 8-18-2015; Ord. 18-04, 4-3-2018)
   B.   This section shall apply prospectively and only to an individual
appointed or employed by the Village after the effective date hereof.
   C.   The failure of any officer or employee, except as otherwise provided
herein, to comply with this section shall be cause for his removal or
discharge. (Ord. 83-05, 5-17-1983)
1-6-8: TREASURER'S BOND:
The Treasurer's bond shall be an amount of money that is not less than three
(3) times the latest Federal census population or any subsequent census figures
used for Motor Fuel Tax purposes 1 . (1994 Code)
 
Notes
1     65 ILCS 5/3-14-3.
1-6-9: PAID LEAVE POLICY:
   A.   Defining Paid Leave Time. Paid Leave Time, pursuant to the Act, shall
be defined as paid time off for any reason, taken as the employee so desires.
Paid Leave Time shall not be considered to be the same as vacation time,
personal time or sick time.
   B.   Earning Paid Leave Time. On and after January 1, 2024, all Village
employees shall earn paid leave time at the rate of one hour of paid leave time
for every forty (40) hours worked up to a maximum of forty (40) hours of paid
leave. Paid leave time not used in a calendar year may be carried over to the
following year but accrued paid leave time may never exceed forty (40) hours.
   C.   Use of Paid Leave Time. Employees may begin to use paid leave time
ninety (90) days after beginning employment. Employees working for the Village
on January 1, 2024, may begin to use paid leave time on or after March 30,
2024. Paid leave time may be taken in periods of time increments not less than
two (2) hours.
   Employees may take paid leave time for any reason of employee's choosing. An
employee is normally expected to provide seven (7) calendar days advance
written notice to their supervisor or to the Village Treasurer identifying that
date and time off work and the date and time returning to work. If paid leave
time use is not foreseeable, the employee shall provide oral or written notice
as soon as is practicable.
   D.   Paid leave under this this Section will be denied if paid leave is:
      1.   Requested after the start of a shift or not in conformance with the
notice requirements set forth above,
      2.   Attempted to be used to excuse a no-call, no-show; or
      3.   Based upon the Employer's reasonable work force requirements.
   E.   Supervisors. A supervisor shall not request a reason for why an
employee desires use of any leave. A supervisor may not require, as a condition
of providing paid leave time, a requirement that the employee shall search for
or find a replacement worker to cover paid leave time off. A supervisor shall
not threaten or take any adverse action against an employee who exercises
rights under the PAID LEAVE FOR ALL WORKERS ACT. Use or promotion of paid leave
time shall not be a negative factor in any employment action that involves
evaluating, promoting, or disciplining an employee.
   F.   No Payment on Termination. Upon an employee's employment termination
from the village as a result of an employee's termination, resignation,
retirement, or other separation, no compensation is due an employee from the
Village for accrued paid leave time not used upon termination.
   G.   Village Treasurer Record Keeping. The Village Treasurer shall make and
preserve records documenting hours worked, paid leave accrued and taken, and
the remaining paid leave balance for each employee. Records may be maintained
for a period of not less than three (3) years. (Ord. 23-26, 12-19-2023)
CHAPTER 7
MUNICIPAL FINANCES
SECTION:
1-7-1: Contracts
1-7-2: Fire Protection Tax
1-7-3: Rates For Use Of Village Personnel And Equipment
1-7-4: Wage Rates For Public Works Employees
1-7-5: Public Funds Investment Policy
1-7-6: Ambulance Service Tax
1-7-7: Working Cash Fund
1-7-1: CONTRACTS:
The Council shall make or authorize the making of all contracts to which the
Village may be a party, and no contracts shall be entered into on behalf of or
be binding on the Village unless it is entered into by ordinance or resolution
or is reduced to writing and approved by the Council or expressly authorized by
ordinance or resolution. No such ordinance or resolution shall be passed until
it has remained on file at least one week as required by law 1 . (Ord. 86-08,
8-5-1986)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/4-5-13.
1-7-2: FIRE PROTECTION TAX:
A tax is hereby imposed for the purpose of fire protection in this Village at
the rate of 0.05 percent of the value, as equalized or assessed by the
Department of Revenue, of all the taxable property therein for the first year
in which this tax is levied and at a rate of 0.075 percent of the value as
equalized or assessed by the Department of Revenue for all taxable property
therein in all succeeding years, all in accordance with the provisions of
section 5/11-7-3 of the Illinois Municipal Code. (Ord. 280, 6-19-1973; amd.
1994 Code)
1-7-3: RATES FOR USE OF VILLAGE PERSONNEL AND EQUIPMENT:
The following rates shall be charged for the use of Village personnel and
equipment:
 
Back hoe with operator          $150.00 per hour
Dump truck with operator        85.00 per hour
Personnel (per man)             55.00 per hour
Skid steer with operator        140.00 per hour
Tractor and mower with operator 85.00 per hour
Vac truck with operator         150.00 per hour
$75.00 per hour per man for all hours other than normal working hours for
Village personnel, with a minimum of 2 hours
 
(Ord. 17-19, 12-19-2017)
1-7-4: WAGE RATES FOR PUBLIC WORKS EMPLOYEES:
   A.   To the extent and as required by "an Act regulating wages of laborers,
mechanics and other workers employed in any public works by State, county, city
or any public body or any political subdivision or by anyone under contract for
public works", approved June 26, 1941, as amended 1 , the general prevailing
rate of wages in this locality for laborers, mechanics and other workers
engaged in construction of public works coming under the jurisdiction of the
Village of Seneca is hereby ascertained to be the same as the prevailing rate
of wages for construction work in the LaSalle and Grundy County area as
determined by the Department of Labor of the State of Illinois as of June of
the current year; a copy of that determination being on file in the Village and
incorporated herein by reference. As required by said Act, any and all
revisions of the prevailing rate of wages by the Department of Labor of the
State of Illinois shall supersede the department's June determination and apply
to any and all public works construction undertaken by the Village of Seneca.
The definition of any terms appearing in this section which are also used in
aforesaid Act shall be the same as in said Act.
   B.   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to apply said general
prevailing rate of wages as herein ascertained to any work or employment except
public works construction of the Village of Seneca to the extent required by
the aforesaid Act.
   C.   The Village Clerk shall publicly post or keep available for inspection
by any interested party in the main office of the Village of Seneca this
determination or any revisions of such prevailing rate of wage. A copy of this
determination of prevailing rate of wages then in effect shall be attached to
all contract specifications.
   D.   The Village Clerk shall mail a copy of this determination to any
employer, and to any association of employers and to any person or association
of employees who have filed their names and addresses, requesting copies of any
determination stating the particular rates and the particular class of workers
whose wages will be affected by such rates. (Ord. 18-06, 5-1-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. 820 ILCS 130/0.01 et seq.
1-7-5: PUBLIC FUNDS INVESTMENT POLICY:
   A.   Policy: It is the policy of the Village to invest public funds in a
manner, which will provide the highest investment return, with maximum security
for the investments. The policy must also meet the daily cash flow demands of
the entity, while conforming to all State and local statutes governing the
investment of public funds.
   B.   Scope: This policy includes all funds governed by the Treasurer, Board
of Commissioners, and Mayor of the Village.
   C.   Prudence: The standard of prudence to be used by investment managers
shall be the "prudent person" standard and shall be applied in the context of
managing the overall portfolio.
   D.   Investment Objective: The primary objectives, in priority order, shall
be:
      1.   Safety of principal.
      2.   Planned liquidity.
      3.   Maximize role of return.
      4.   Maximize the public trust.
The portfolio should be reviewed periodically to assure effectiveness in
meeting the entity's needs and compliance with the State's investment
objectives.
   E.   Delegation Of Authority: The Village Treasurer will represent the
Village's interest in the management and administrative responsibility for the
Investment Program. They will work with the Investment Manager who will timely
provide required information. The Treasurer will establish internal controls
and procedures.
   F.   Ethics And Conflict Of Interest: Officers and employees involved in the
investment process shall refrain from personal business activity that could
conflict with the proper execution and management of the Investment Program, or
could impair their ability to make impartial decisions.
   G.   Authorized Depositories: The Village, as it has in the past, will
designate depositories for its funds. The Village should have on file an annual
report and/or any other financial information regarding the depositories that
it is doing business with.
   H.   Authorized Investments: All investments will be in complete compliance
with Illinois Compiled Statutes, Public Fund Investment Act 1 .
   I.   Collateralization: Funds deposited in financial institutions, where
applicable in excess of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) limit
of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00), must be secured by some form of
collateral assignment, witnessed by a written agreement and held by the
Treasurer or Investment Manager. The amount of collateral will not be less than
one hundred ten percent (110%) of the fair market value of the net amount of
the investment being secured. An independent third party depository as
witnessed on the collateral agreement shall hold pledged collateral in
safekeeping.
   J.   Safekeeping In Custody: All security transactions, by the Investment
Manager, will be conducted on a delivery versus payment basis. On a monthly
basis, the Investment Manager will provide the Village a statement of the
account displaying all the investments held by the account. The account shall
be clearly titled in the name of the Village.
   K.   Investments; Diversification: The entity shall diversify its
investments to the best of its ability based on the type of funds invested,
cash flow needs, and the investment objective of the account. As cited within
the State Statutes, no more than thirty three percent (33%) of the then market
value of the account can be held in commercial paper investments.
   L.   Maximized Maturities: The village, through a cash flow analysis, shall
determine the need for liquidity to pay expenses. The balance of the funds can
be invested to attempt to match future cash flow needs. The village shall keep
the average maturity of the portfolio at thirty (30) months or less, and will
not purchase investments scheduled to mature more than five (5) years from the
date of purchase.
For those funds designated towards a use, the investments can be matched to
that cash flow need.
   M.   Performance Standards: The investment portfolio will be managed in
accordance with the parameters specified within this section. The portfolio
should obtain a comparable rate of return during a market/economic environment
of stable interest rates. Portfolio performance should be compared to
benchmarks that are consistent with the investment objectives for maturity,
liquidity, and credit quality.
   N.   Internal Control: The village treasurer is responsible for establishing
and maintaining an internal control structure designated to ensure that the
assets of the village are protected from loss, theft, or misuse. The concept of
reasonable assurance recognizes that the cost of the control should not exceed
the benefits likely to be derived. Accordingly, the treasurer shall establish a
process for an annual independent review by an external auditor to assure
compliance with policies and procedures. The internal controls shall address
the following:
      1.   Control of collusion.
      2.   Separation of transaction authority from accountant.
      3.   Custodial safekeeping.
      4.   Written confirmation of telephone transactions for transfers.
   O.   Investment Policy Adoption: The committee or board of commissioners of
the village shall adopt the investment policy. This section shall be reviewed
on an annual basis, and any modifications made thereto must be approved by the
commissioners. (Ord. 99-15, 6-1-1999)
 
Notes
1 1. 30 ILCS 235.
1-7-6: AMBULANCE SERVICE TAX:
A tax is hereby imposed for the purpose of providing ambulance service in the
village. Such tax rate is based on the value of all taxable property within the
village as equalized or assessed by the department of revenue. (Ord. 07-14, 11-
6-2007)
1-7-7: WORKING CASH FUND:
A tax is hereby imposed for the purpose of creating and maintaining a working
cash fund to meet demands for ordinary and necessary expenditures within the
village as equalized or assessed by the department of revenue. (Ord. 11-10, 9-
6-2010)
CHAPTER 8
EQUAL EMPLOYMENT AND NONDISCRIMINATION POLICY
SECTION:
1-8-1: Equal Employment Opportunity
1-8-2: Sexual Harassment 1  (Rep. by Ord. 18-01, 1-2-2018)
1-8-3: Nondiscrimination
1-8-4: Implementation
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 15 of this title.
1-8-1: EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY:
The Village of Seneca hereby declares to uphold all laws related to equal
employment opportunity including, but not limited to, the following:
   A.   Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 which prohibits discrimination
in the participation in or benefits of programs or activities receiving Federal
financial assistance on the basis of race, color or national origin.
   B.   Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 which prohibits
discrimination because of race, color, religion, sex or national origin in all
employment practices including hiring, firing, promotions, compensation, and
other terms, privileges and conditions of employment.
   C.   Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 which prohibits
discrimination in Federally assisted education programs.
   D.   The Equal Pay Act of 1963 which covers all employees who are covered by
the Fair Labor Standards Act. The Act forbids pay differentials on the basis of
sex.
   E.   The Age Discrimination Act of 1967 which prohibits discrimination
because of age against anyone between the ages of forty (40) and sixty five
(65).
   F.   Federal executive order 11246 which requires every contract with
Federal financial assistance to contain a clause against discrimination because
of race, color, religion, sex or national origin.
   G.   Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and DOL implementing
regulations at 29 CFR 32 which prohibits any discrimination based on handicap.
   H.   Section 167 of JTPA and the U.S. DOL regulations at 29 CFR parts 31 and
32 which provide that no person in the United States shall be excluded from
participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination
on the basis of race, color, or national origin, under any program or activity
receiving Federal financial assistance from the Department of Labor.
   I.   Chapter 68, article I, section 17-19 of the Illinois Constitution which
prohibits discrimination based on race, color, creed, national ancestry,
handicap and sex in the hiring and promotion practices of any employer.
   J.   Article 2 of the Illinois Human Rights Act 1 .
   K.   Americans With Disabilities Act (42 USC 12101 et seq.) and the
regulations thereunder (28 CFR 35.130) (ADA) which prohibit discrimination
against persons with disabilities in the provision of any aid, benefit or
service. (Ord. 08-06, 4-15-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. 775 ILCS 5/2, 1994 State Bar edition.
1-8-2: SEXUAL HARASSMENT 1 :
(Rep. by Ord. 18-01, 1-2-2018)
 
Notes
1 2. See chapter 15 of this title.
1-8-3: NONDISCRIMINATION:
   A.   The Village of Seneca will assure nondiscriminatory employment
practices in recruitment, recruitment advertising, employment, placement,
layoff or termination, promotion, demotion or transfer, rate of pay or other
forms of compensation and use of facilities.
   B.   The Village of Seneca will not contract with other agencies, banks,
businesses, vendors, etc., who practice or establish a pattern of
discrimination based on sex, color, race, religion, age, developmentally
disabled/handicapped, national origin, political affiliation or belief.
   C.   The Village of Seneca assures that it will actively provide
nondiscriminatory outreach, selection and service to all individuals.
   D.   Efforts will be made to hire minority individuals for all job
categories so that minority employment in all categories of the work force will
represent a proportionate share of minority populations in the Village of
Seneca as well as surrounding areas.
   E.   The Village of Seneca will provide accommodations to the best of its
ability for developmentally disabled/handicapped employees contingent on budget
and structural limitations. (Ord. 08-06, 4-15-2008)
1-8-4: IMPLEMENTATION:
   A.   All Village of Seneca employees are expected to adhere to the above
policy and to work actively for its implementation both internally and in
carrying out Village program activities.
   B.   The Village of Seneca designates the Village Mayor and Village Council
to carry out the EEO/ADA plan. (Ord. 08-06, 4-15-2008)
CHAPTER 9
FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT
SECTION:
1-9-1: Information Requests
1-9-2: Records Retrieval
1-9-3: Fees
1-9-4: Information Available
1-9-5: Information Redacted
1-9-6: Public Records
1-9-1: INFORMATION REQUESTS:
For all public records the village clerk and the police chief are hereby
designated as the freedom of information officers. The duty of the freedom of
information officer is to comply with all requests pursuant to the freedom of
information act, and each officer is required to maintain a file on every
document request received, unless the request is immediately honored. (Ord. 10-
02, 1-5-2010)
1-9-2: RECORDS RETRIEVAL:
Any records which are the subject of a request under the freedom of information
act shall be retrieved from such place as they are stored, by the village clerk
or police chief, or by an employee of the village acting under the direction of
the clerk or police chief. In no event shall records be retrieved by the party
requesting them or by a person who is not employed by the village. All requests
must be honored and responded to within five (5) days. The five (5) working day
response time line begins the day after any employee or official of the public
body receives the request for information. Employees and officials of a public
body must immediately forward all requests for information to the FOIA officers
to maximize the response time. A "business day" or "working day" is a regular
day of the week (Monday through Friday) when public offices and most businesses
are open. Saturdays, Sundays and state holidays are not business days and
cannot be counted in the five (5) business day time period. The time period may
be extended for an additional five (5) business days from the date of the
original due date if:
   A.   The requested information is stored at a different location;
   B.   The request requires the collection of a substantial number of
documents;
   C.   The request requires an extensive search;
   D.   The requested records have not been located and require additional
effort to find;
   E.   The requested records need to be reviewed by staff who can determine
whether they are exempt from FOIA;
   F.   The requested records cannot be produced without unduly burdening the
public body or interfering with its operations; or
   G.   The request requires the public body to consult with another public
body that has substantial interest in the subject matter of the request. (Ord.
10-02, 1-5-2010)
1-9-3: FEES:
The amount of fees to be charged a requester shall be those fees under the
state freedom of information act, which shall be the first fifty (50) pages of
black and white photocopies must be supplied free of charge. Any additional
pages over fifty (50) pages shall be fifteen cents ($0.15) per page. For color
copies, abnormal size copies, or electronic copies, the charge shall be the
actual cost of copying. (Ord. 10-02, 1-5-2010)
1-9-4: INFORMATION AVAILABLE:
The freedom of information officers shall promptly display at his or her office
and make available the names of the freedom of information officers;
information on how to submit a freedom of information act request; and a brief
description of the offices, including its purpose, budget, and number of
employees. Further, the village clerk or that person who maintains the
village's website, shall post the above information on the village's website.
(Ord. 10-02, 1-5-2010)
1-9-5: INFORMATION REDACTED:
Although there may be legitimate reasons to redact or withhold certain types of
information, the only information that shall be redacted are the home
addresses, home/private telephone numbers and social security numbers of
employees noted on certified payroll records that are required to be submitted
to a public body under the prevailing wage act. (Ord. 10-02, 1-5-2010)
1-9-6: PUBLIC RECORDS:
"Public records" are defined in FOIA as "all records, reports, forms, writings,
letters, memoranda, books, papers, maps, photographs, microfilms, cards, tapes,
recordings, electronic data processing records, electronic communications,
recorded information and all other documentary materials pertaining to the
transaction of public business, regardless of physical form or characteristics,
having been prepared by or for, or having been or being used by, received by,
in the possession of, or under the control of any public body". A few examples
of public records available under FOIA are: orders; rules; reports or studies;
contracts; names, titles and salaries of public employees; and the voting
records of public bodies. Information can be available in electronic as well as
paper format. (Ord. 10-02, 1-5-2010)
CHAPTER 10
ETHICS
SECTION:
1-10-1: Definitions
1-10-2: State Regulations Adopted
1-10-3: Gifts
1-10-4: Political Activities
1-10-5: Penalties
1-10-6: Extent Of Repeal
1-10-7: Future Amendments
1-10-8: Future Declaration Of Unconstitutionality
1-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the terms "officer" and "employee" shall be
defined as set forth in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/70-5(c). (Ord. 04-09,
6-1-2004)
1-10-2: STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
The regulations of section 5-15 1  and article 10 2  of the state officials and
employees ethics act, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/1-1 et seq.,
(hereinafter referred to as the "act" in this chapter) are hereby adopted by
reference and made applicable to the officers and employees of the village to
the extent required by 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/70-5. (Ord. 04-09, 6-1-
2004)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 430/5-15.
2 2. 5 ILCS 430/10-10 – 10-40.
1-10-3: GIFTS:
   A.   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited or
accepted under the act, by any officer or any employee of the village, is
hereby prohibited.
   B.   The offering or making of gifts prohibited to be offered or made to an
officer or employee of the village under the act, is hereby prohibited. (Ord.
04-09, 6-1-2004)
1-10-4: POLITICAL ACTIVITIES:
The participation in political activities prohibited under the act, by any
officer or employee of the village, is hereby prohibited. (Ord. 04-09, 6-1-
2004)
1-10-5: PENALTIES:
The penalties for violations of this chapter shall be the same as those
penalties set forth in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/50-5 for similar
violations of the act. (Ord. 04-09, 6-1-2004)
1-10-6: EXTENT OF REPEAL:
This chapter does not repeal or otherwise amend or modify any existing
ordinances or policies which regulate the conduct of village officers and
employees. To the extent that any such existing ordinances or policies are less
restrictive than this chapter, however, the provisions of this chapter shall
prevail in accordance with the provisions of 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/
70-5(a). (Ord. 04-09, 6-1-2004)
1-10-7: FUTURE AMENDMENTS:
Any amendment to the act that becomes effective after the effective date hereof
shall be incorporated into this chapter by reference and shall be applicable to
the solicitation, acceptance, offering and making of gifts and to prohibited
political activities. However, any amendment that makes its provisions optional
for adoption by municipalities shall not be incorporated into this chapter by
reference without formal action by the corporate authorities of the village.
(Ord. 04-09, 6-1-2004)
1-10-8: FUTURE DECLARATION OF UNCONSTITUTIONALITY:
   A.   If the Illinois supreme court declares the act unconstitutional in its
entirety, then this chapter shall be repealed as of the date that the Illinois
supreme court's decision becomes final and not subject to any further appeals
or rehearings. This chapter shall be deemed repealed without further action by
the corporate authorities of the village if the act is found unconstitutional
by the Illinois supreme court.
   B.   If the Illinois supreme court declares part of the act unconstitutional
but upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of the act, or does not
address the remainder of the act, then the remainder of the act as adopted by
this chapter shall remain in full force and effect; however, that part of this
chapter relating to the part of the act found unconstitutional shall be deemed
repealed without further action by the corporate authorities of the village.
(Ord. 04-09, 6-1-2004)
CHAPTER 11
LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITY
SECTION:
1-11-1: Title
1-11-2: Scope
1-11-3: Definitions
1-11-4: Notices
1-11-5: Late Payment
1-11-6: Payment
1-11-7: Certain Credits And Refunds
1-11-8: Audit Procedure
1-11-9: Appeal
1-11-10: Hearing
1-11-11: Interest And Penalties
1-11-12: Abatement
1-11-13: Installment Contracts
1-11-14: Statute Of Limitations
1-11-15: Voluntary Disclosure
1-11-16: Publication Of Tax Ordinance
1-11-17: Liens
1-11-18: Application
1-11-19: Severability
1-11-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as, and may be cited as, the LOCALLY IMPOSED AND
ADMINISTERED TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITY ORDINANCE. (Ord. 01-01, 2-20-2001)
1-11-2: SCOPE:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the village's procedures in
connection with all of the village's locally imposed and administered taxes.
(Ord. 01-01, 2-20-2001)
1-11-3: DEFINITIONS:
Certain words or terms herein shall have the meanings ascribed to them as
follows:
ACT: The "Local Government Taxpayers' Bill of Rights Act".
CORPORATE AUTHORITIES: The village's mayor and village council.
LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR: The village's treasurer, is charged with the
administration and collection of the locally imposed and administered taxes,
including staff, employees or agents to the extent they are authorized by the
local tax administrator to act in the local tax administrator's stead. The
local tax administrator shall have the authority to implement the terms of this
chapter to give full effect to this chapter. The exercise of such authority by
the local tax administrator shall not be inconsistent with this chapter and the
act.
LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX OR TAX: Each tax imposed by the village
that is collected or administered by the village not an agency or department of
the state. It does not include any taxes imposed upon real property under the
property tax code or fees collected by the village other than infrastructure
maintenance fees.
NOTICE: Each audit notice, collection notice or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the village's locally imposed and
administered taxes.
TAX ORDINANCE: Each ordinance adopted by the village that imposes any locally
imposed and administered tax.
TAXPAYER: Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered tax
and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax is
placed and with respect to consumer taxes includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
village.
VILLAGE: The village of Seneca, Illinois. (Ord. 01-01, 2-20-2001)
1-11-4: NOTICES:
Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given, the notice
is to be in writing mailed not less than seven (7) calendar days prior to the
day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit or other scheduled act of the local
tax administrator. The notice shall be sent by the local tax administrator as
follows:
   A.   First class or express mail, or overnight mail, addressed to the
persons concerned at the persons' last known address, or
   B.   Personal service or delivery. (Ord. 01-01, 2-20-2001)
1-11-5: LATE PAYMENT:
Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required to be made to the
village pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered late unless it is: a)
physically received by the village on or before the due date, or b) received in
an envelope or other container displaying a valid, readable U.S. postmark dated
on or before the due date, properly addressed to the village, with adequate
postage prepaid. (Ord. 01-01, 2-20-2001)
1-11-6: PAYMENT:
Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be applied in the
following order: a) first to the tax due for the applicable period; b) second
to the interest due for the applicable period; and c) third to the penalty for
the applicable period. (Ord. 01-01, 2-20-2001)
1-11-7: CERTAIN CREDITS AND REFUNDS:
   A.   The village shall not refund or credit any taxes voluntarily paid
without written protest at the time of payment in the event that a locally
imposed and administered tax is declared invalidly enacted or unconstitutional
by a court of competent jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer shall not be deemed
to have paid the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked knowledge of the facts
upon which to protest the taxes at the time of payment or if the taxpayer paid
the taxes under duress.
   B.   The statute of limitations on a claim for credit or refund shall be one
year after the end of the calendar year in which payment in error was made. The
village shall not grant a credit or refund of locally imposed and administered
taxes, interest, or penalties to a person who has not paid the amounts directly
to the village.
   C.   The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest or penalties paid in error shall be as follows:
      1.   The taxpayer shall submit to the local tax administrator in writing
a claim for credit or refund together with a statement specifying:
         a.   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
         b.   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
         c.   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the canceled
check or receipt for the payment;
         d.   The taxpayer's recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
         e.   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest and penalties overpaid, and,
as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however, that
there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer owes
any monies to the village.
      2.   Within ten (10) days of the receipt by the local tax administrator
of any claim for a refund or credit, the local tax administrator shall either:
         a.   Grant the claim; or
         b.   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement as
to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
      3.   In the event the local tax administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate of six percent (6%) per annum, based on
a year of three hundred sixty five (365) days and the number of days elapsed,
from the date of the overpayment to the date of mailing of a refund check or
the grant of a credit. (Ord. 01-01, 2-20-2001)
1-11-8: AUDIT PROCEDURE:
Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any local administered tax shall
comply with the notice requirements of this chapter.
   A.   Each notice of audit shall contain the following information:
      1.   The tax;
      2.   The time period of the audit; and
      3.   A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the auditor.
   B.   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours and if the
date and time selected by the local tax administrator is not agreeable to the
taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer within thirty
(30) days after the originally designated audit and during normal business
hours.
   C.   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted not less than seven (7) days nor more
than thirty (30) days from the date the notice is given, unless the taxpayer
and the local tax administrator agreed to some other convenient time. In the
event taxpayer is unable to comply with the audit on the date in question, the
taxpayer may request another date within the thirty (30) days, approved in
writing, that is convenient to the taxpayer and the local tax administrator.
   D.   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the taxpayer's
business or activities, including original source documents and books of entry
denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given rise to any
tax liability, exemption or deduction. All books shall be kept in the English
language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by the village.
   E.   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make available
its books and records for inspection by the village. If the taxpayer or tax
collector fails to provide the documents necessary for audit within the time
provided, the local tax administrator may issue a tax determination and
assessment based on the tax administrator's determination of the best estimate
of the taxpayer's tax liability.
   F.   If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a locally
imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice of the
amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within thirty (30) days of
the village's determination of the amount of overpayment.
   G.   In the event a tax payment was submitted to the incorrect local
governmental entity, the local tax administrator shall notify the local
governmental entity imposing such tax. (Ord. 01-01, 2-20-2001)
1-11-9: APPEAL:
   A.   The local tax administrator shall send written notice to a taxpayer
upon the local tax administrator's issuance of a protestable notice of tax due,
a bill, a claim denial, or a notice of claim reduction regarding any tax. The
notice shall include the following information:
      1.   The reason for the assessment;
      2.   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
      3.   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
      4.   The obligations of the village during the audit, appeal, refund and
collection process.
   B.   A taxpayer who receives written notice from the local tax administrator
of a determination of tax due or assessment may file with the local tax
administrator a written protest and petition for hearing, setting forth the
basis of the taxpayer's request for a hearing. The written protest and petition
for hearing must be filed with the local tax administrator within forty five
(45) days of receipt of the written notice of the tax determination and
assessment.
   C.   If a timely written notice and petition for hearing is filed, the local
tax administrator shall fix the time and place for hearing and shall give
written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be scheduled for a date
within fourteen (14) days of receipt of the written protest and petition for
hearing, unless the taxpayer requests a later date convenient to all parties.
   D.   If a written protest and petition for hearing is not filed within the
forty five (45) day period, the tax determination, audit or assessment shall
become a final bill due and owing without further notice.
   E.   Upon the showing of reasonable cause by the taxpayer and the full
payment of the contested tax liability along with interest accrued as of the
due date of the tax, the local tax administrator may reopen or extend the time
for filing a written protest and petition for hearing. In no event shall the
time for filing a written protest and petition for hearing be reopened or
extended for more than ninety (90) days after the expiration of the forty five
(45) day period. (Ord. 01-01, 2-20-2001)
1-11-10: HEARING:
   A.   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under section
1-11-9 of this chapter, the local tax administrator shall conduct a hearing
regarding any appeal.
   B.   No continuances shall be granted except in cases where a continuance is
absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of preparation
shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted shall not
exceed fourteen (14) days.
   C.   At the hearing the local tax administrator shall preside and shall hear
testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax determination, audit or
assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall not apply.
   D.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the local tax administrator shall
make a written determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the
hearing. The taxpayer or tax collector shall be provided with a copy of the
written decision. (Ord. 01-01, 2-20-2001)
1-11-11: INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
In the event a determination has been made that a tax is due and owing, through
audit, assessment or other bill sent, the tax must be paid within the time
frame otherwise indicated.
   A.   Interest: The village hereby provides for the amount of interest to be
assessed on a late payment, underpayment, or nonpayment of the tax, to be five
percent (5%) per annum, based on a year of three hundred sixty five (365) days
and the number of days elapsed.
   B.   Late Filing And Payment Penalties: If a tax return is not filed within
the time and manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance, a late filing
penalty, of five percent (5%) of the amount of tax required to be shown as due
on a return shall be imposed; and a late payment penalty of five percent (5%)
of the tax due shall be imposed. If no return is filed within the time or
manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance and prior to the village
issuing a notice of tax delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a failure
to file penalty shall be assessed equal to twenty five percent (25%) of the
total tax due for the applicable reporting period for which the return was
required to be filed. A late filing or payment penalty shall not apply if a
failure to file penalty is imposed by the controlling ordinance. (Ord. 01-01,
2-20-2001)
1-11-12: ABATEMENT:
The local tax administrator shall have the authority to waive or abate any late
filing penalty, late payment penalty or failure to file penalty if the local
tax administrator shall determine reasonable cause exists for delay or failure
to make a filing. (Ord. 01-01, 2-20-2001)
1-11-13: INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS:
The village may enter into an installment contract with the taxpayer for the
payment of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance. The local tax
administrator may not cancel any installment contract so entered unless the
taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing. Upon written notice by the
local tax administrator that the payment is thirty (30) days delinquent, the
taxpayer shall have fourteen (14) working days to cure any delinquency. If the
taxpayer fails to cure the delinquency within the fourteen (14) day period or
fails to demonstrate good faith in restructuring the installment contract with
the local administrator, the installment contract shall be canceled without
further notice to the taxpayer. (Ord. 01-01, 2-20-2001)
1-11-14: STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS:
The village, through the local tax administrator, shall review all tax returns
in a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due and
owing. The taxpayer shall have forty five (45) days after receiving notice of
the reviewed tax returns to make any request for refund or provide any tax
still due and owing.
   A.   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than four (4)
years after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later.
   B.   If any tax return is not filed or if during any four (4) year period
for which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the
village, the tax paid was less than seventy five percent (75%) of the tax due,
the statute of limitations shall be six (6) years maximum after the end of the
calendar year in which return for the applicable period was due or end of the
calendar year in which the return for the applicable period was filed.
   C.   No statute of limitations shall apply if a fraudulent tax return was
filed by the taxpayer. (Ord. 01-01, 2-20-2001)
1-11-15: VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE:
For any locally imposed and administered tax for which a taxpayer has not
received a written notice of an audit, investigation, or assessment from the
local tax administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an application with the
local tax administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the tax due. A taxpayer
filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to pay the amount of tax
due, along with interest of one percent (1%) per month, for all periods prior
to the filing of the application but not more than four (4) years before the
date of filing the application. A taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure
application may not be liable for any additional tax, interest, or penalty for
any period before the date the application was filed. However, if the taxpayer
incorrectly determined and underpaid the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is
liable for the underpaid tax along with applicable interest on the underpaid
tax, unless the underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the
taxpayer, in which case the application shall be deemed invalid and void. The
payment of tax and interest must be made by no later than ninety (90) days
after the filing of the voluntary disclosure application or the date agreed to
by the local tax administrator. However, any additional amounts owed as a
result of an underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under this
section must be paid within ninety (90) days after a final determination and
the exhaustion of all appeals of the additional amount owed or the date agreed
to by the local tax administrator, whichever is longer. (Ord. 01-01, 2-20-2001)
1-11-16: PUBLICATION OF TAX ORDINANCE:
Any locally administered tax ordinance shall be published via normal or
standard publishing requirements. The posting of a tax ordinance on the
internet shall satisfy the publication requirements. Copies of all tax
ordinances shall be made available to the public upon request at the village
clerk's office. (Ord. 01-01, 2-20-2001)
1-11-17: LIENS:
The local tax administrator shall establish an internal review procedure
regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for unpaid taxes. Upon a
determination by the local tax administrator that the lien is valid, the lien
shall remain in full force and effect. If the lien is determined to be
improper, the local tax administrator shall:
   A.   Timely remove the lien at the village's expense;
   B.   Correct the taxpayer's credit record; and
   C.   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien. (Ord. 01-
01, 2-20-2001)
1-11-18: APPLICATION:
This chapter shall be liberally construed and administered to supplement all of
the village's tax ordinances. To the extent that any tax ordinance is in
conflict with or inconsistent with this chapter, this chapter shall be
controlling. (Ord. 01-01, 2-20-2001)
1-11-19: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, paragraph or provision of this chapter shall be held to be
invalid or unenforceable for any reason, the invalidity or unenforceability of
such section, paragraph or provision shall not affect any of the remaining
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 01-01, 2-20-2001)
CHAPTER 12
IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION PROGRAM
SECTION:
1-12-1: Adoption
1-12-2: Purpose
1-12-3: Scope
1-12-4: Definitions
1-12-5: Administration Of The Program
1-12-6: Identity Theft Prevention Elements
1-12-6-1: Identification Of Relevant Red Flags
1-12-6-2: Detection Of Red Flags
1-12-6-3: Response To Detected Red Flags
1-12-7: Program Management And Accountability
1-12-7-1: Initial Risk Assessment; Covered Accounts
1-12-7-2: Program Updates; Risk Assessment
1-12-7-3: Training And Oversight
1-12-8: Other Legal Requirements
1-12-1: ADOPTION:
This identity theft prevention program is hereby adopted by the village of
Seneca, Illinois, pursuant to and in compliance with the identity theft rules
of the federal trade commission (FTC), part 681 of title 16 of the code of
federal regulations (16 CFR part 681). (Ord. 09-04, 1-20-2009)
1-12-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Seneca municipal utility identity theft prevention program
(program) is to protect customers of the municipality's utility services from
identity theft. The program is intended to establish reasonable policies and
procedures to facilitate the detection, prevention and mitigation of identity
theft in connection with the opening of new covered accounts and activity on
existing covered accounts. (Ord. 09-04, 1-20-2009)
1-12-3: SCOPE:
This program applies to the creation, modification and access to identifying
information of a customer of one or more of the utilities operated by the
municipality (water, wastewater, and any new utility that may be established by
the village of Seneca) by any and all personnel of the municipality, including
management personnel. This program does not replace or repeal any previously
existing policies or programs addressing some or all of the activities that are
the subject of this program, but rather it is intended to supplement any such
existing policies and programs. (Ord. 09-04, 1-20-2009)
1-12-4: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this program, the following terms have the meanings set forth
opposite their names, unless the context clearly requires that the term be
given a different meaning:
COVERED ACCOUNT: An account that the municipality offers or maintains,
primarily for personal, family, household purposes, or a business that is
supported from an individual person, that involves or is designed to permit
multiple payments of transactions (16 CFR 681.2(b)(3)(i)). A utility account is
a "covered account". The term "covered account" also includes other accounts
offered or maintained by the municipality for which there is a reasonably
foreseeable risk to the municipality or its customers from identity theft (16
CFR 681.2(b)(3)(ii)).
IDENTIFYING INFORMATION: Any name or number that may be used, alone or in
conjunction with any other information, to identify a specific person,
including any name, social security number, date of birth, official state or
government issued driver's license or identification number, alien registration
number, government passport number, employer or taxpayer identification number.
Additional examples of "identifying information" are set forth in 16 CFR
section 603.2(a).
IDENTITY THEFT: A fraud committed or attempted using the identifying
information of another person without authority (16 CFR sections 681.2(b)(8)
and 603.2(a)).
RED FLAG: A pattern, practice or specific activity that indicates the possible
existence of identity theft.
Certain terms used but not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings
given to them in the FTC's identity theft rules (16 CFR part 681) or the fair
credit reporting act of 1970 (15 USC section 1681 et seq.), as amended by the
fair and accurate credit transactions act of 2003 passed into law on December
4, 2003 (public law 108-159). (Ord. 09-04, 1-20-2009)
1-12-5: ADMINISTRATION OF THE PROGRAM:
The initial adoption and approval of the identity theft prevention program
shall be by ordinance of the village council. Thereafter, changes to the
program of a day to day operational character and decisions relating to the
interpretation and implementation of the program may be made by the village
clerk. Major changes or shifts of policy positions under the program shall be
reported to the village council.
Development, implementation, administration and oversight of the program will
be the responsibility of the program administrator. The program administrator
may, but shall not be required to, appoint a committee to administer the
program. The program administrator shall be the head of any such committee. The
program administrator will report any changes made annually to the village
council regarding compliance with this program.
Changes to be addressed in the identity theft prevention report include:
   A.   Significant incidents involving identity theft and management's
response.
   B.   Recommendations for material changes to the program, if needed. (Ord.
09-04, 1-20-2009)
1-12-6: IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION ELEMENTS:
1-12-6-1: IDENTIFICATION OF RELEVANT RED FLAGS:
The municipality has considered the guidelines and the illustrative examples of
possible red flags from the FTC's identity theft rules and has reviewed the
municipality's past history with instances of identity theft, if any. The
municipality hereby determines that the following are the relevant red flags
for purposes of this program given the relative size of the municipality and
the limited nature and scope of the services that the municipality provides to
its citizens:
   A.   Alerts, notifications, or other warnings received from other agencies
or service providers.
   B.   The presentation of suspicious documents.
      1.   Documents provided for identification appear to have been altered or
forged.
      2.   The photograph or physical description on the identification is not
consistent with the appearance of the applicant or customer presenting the
identification.
      3.   Other information on the identification is not consistent with
information provided by the person opening a new covered account or customer
presenting the identification.
   C.   The presentation of suspicious personal identifying information, such
as a suspicious address change.
      1.   Personal identifying information provided is associated with known
fraudulent activity as indicated by internal or third party sources used by the
municipality. For example:
         a.   The address on an application is the same as the address provided
on a fraudulent application; or
         b.   The phone number on an application is the same as the number
provided on a fraudulent application.
      2.   Personal identifying information provided is of a type commonly
associated with fraudulent activity as indicated by internal or third party
sources used by the municipality. For example:
         a.   The billing address on an application is fictitious, a maildrop,
or a prison; or
         b.   The phone number is invalid, or is associated with a pager or
answering service.
      3.   The person opening the covered account or the customer fails to
provide all required personal identifying information on an application or in
response to notification that the application is incomplete.
      4.   Personal identifying information provided is not consistent with
personal identifying information that is on file with the municipality.
      5.   If the municipality uses challenge questions, the person opening the
covered account or the customer cannot provide authenticating information
beyond that which generally would be available from a wallet or consumer
report.
      6.   A new utility account is used in a manner commonly associated with
known patterns of fraud patterns. For example: the customer fails to make the
first payment or makes an initial payment but no subsequent payments.
      7.   A covered account with a stable history shows irregularities.
      8.   Mail sent to the customer is returned repeatedly as undeliverable
although usage of utility products or services continues in connection with the
customer's covered account.
      9.   The municipality is notified that the customer is not receiving any
statements.
      10.   The municipality is notified of unauthorized usage of utility
products or services in connection with a customer's covered account.
   D.   The unusual use of, or other suspicious activity related to, a covered
account.
   E.   Notice of possible identity theft.
      1.   The municipality is notified by a customer, a victim of identity
theft, a law enforcement authority, or any other person that it has opened a
fraudulent account for a person engaged in identity theft. (Ord. 09-04, 1-20-
2009)
1-12-6-2: DETECTION OF RED FLAGS:
The employees of the municipality that interact directly with customers shall
have the responsibility for monitoring the information and documentation
provided by the customer and any third party service provider in connection
with the opening of new accounts and the modification of or access to existing
accounts and the detection of any red flags that might arise. Management shall
see to it that all employees who might be called upon to assist a customer with
the opening of a new account or with modifying or otherwise accessing an
existing account are properly trained such that they have a working familiarity
with the relevant red flags identified in this program so as to be able to
recognize any red flags that might surface in connection with the transaction.
An employee who is not sufficiently trained to recognize the red flags
identified in this program shall not open a new account for any customer,
modify any existing account or otherwise provide any customer with access to
information in an existing account without the direct supervision and specific
approval of a management employee. Management employees shall be properly
trained such that they can recognize the relevant red flags identified in this
program and exercise sound judgment in connection with the response to any
unresolved red flags that may present themselves in connection with the opening
of a new account or with modifying or accessing of an existing account.
Management employees shall be responsible for making the final decision on any
such unresolved red flags.
The program administrator shall have a written policy setting forth the manner
in which a prospective new customer may apply for service, the information and
documentation to be provided by the prospective customer in connection with an
application for a new utility service account, the steps to be taken by the
employee assisting the customer with the application in verifying the
customer's identity and the manner in which the information and documentation
provided by the customer and any third party service provider shall be
maintained. Such policy shall be generally consistent with the spirit of the
customer identification program rules (31 CFR 103.121) implementing section 326
(a) of the USA PATRIOT act but need not be as detailed. The program
administrator shall establish from time to time a written policy setting forth
the manner in which customers with existing accounts shall establish their
identity before being allowed to make modifications to or otherwise gain access
to existing accounts. (Ord. 09-04, 1-20-2009)
1-12-6-3: RESPONSE TO DETECTED RED FLAGS:
If the responsible employees of the municipality as set forth in the previous
section are unable, after making a good faith effort, to form a reasonable
belief that they know the true identity of a customer attempting to open a new
account or modify or otherwise access an existing account based on the
information and documentation provided by the customer and any third party
service provider, the municipality shall not open the new account or modify or
otherwise provide access to the existing account as the case may be.
Discrimination in respect to the opening of new accounts or the modification or
access to existing accounts will not be tolerated by employees of the
municipality and shall be grounds for immediate dismissal.
The program administrator shall establish from time to time a written policy
setting forth the steps to be taken in the event of an unresolved red flag
situation. Consideration should be given to aggravating factors that may
heighten the risk of identity theft, such as a data security incident that
results in unauthorized access to a customer's account, or a notice that a
customer has provided account information to a fraudulent individual or
website. Appropriate responses to prevent or mitigate identity theft when a red
flag is detected include:
   A.   Monitoring a covered account for evidence of identity theft.
   B.   Contacting the customer.
   C.   Changing any passwords, security codes, or other security devices that
permit access to a covered account.
   D.   Reopening a covered account with a new account number.
   E.   Not opening a new covered account.
   F.   Closing an existing covered account.
   G.   Not attempting to collect on a covered account or not selling a covered
account to a debt collector.
   H.   Notifying law enforcement.
   I.   Determining that no response is warranted under the particular
circumstances. (Ord. 09-04, 1-20-2009)
1-12-7: PROGRAM MANAGEMENT AND ACCOUNTABILITY:
1-12-7-1: INITIAL RISK ASSESSMENT; COVERED ACCOUNTS:
Utility accounts for personal, family and household purposes are specifically
included within the definition of "covered account" in the FTC's identity theft
rules; therefore, the municipality determines that with respect to its
residential utility accounts it offers and/or maintains covered accounts. The
municipality also performed an initial risk assessment to determine whether the
utility offers or maintains any other accounts for which there are reasonably
foreseeable risks to customers or the utility from identity theft. In making
this determination the municipality considered: a) the methods it uses to open
its accounts, b) the methods it uses to access its accounts, and c) its
previous experience with identity theft, and it added business accounts
supported by an individual as "DBA" or sole proprietorship to its definition of
a "covered account". (Ord. 09-04, 1-20-2009)
1-12-7-2: PROGRAM UPDATES; RISK ASSESSMENT:
The program, including relevant red flags, is to be updated or reviewed as
often as necessary but at least annually to reflect changes in risks to
customers from identity theft. Factors to consider in the program update
include:
   A.   An assessment of the risk factors identified above.
   B.   Any identified red flag weaknesses in associated account systems or
procedures.
   C.   Changes in methods of identity theft.
   D.   Changes in methods to detect, prevent, and mitigate identity theft.
   E.   Changes in business arrangements, including mergers, acquisitions,
alliances, joint ventures, and service provider arrangements. (Ord. 09-04, 1-
20-2009)
1-12-7-3: TRAINING AND OVERSIGHT:
All staff and third party service providers performing any activity in
connection with one or more covered accounts are to be provided appropriate
training and receive effective oversight to ensure that the activity is
conducted in accordance with policies and procedures designed to detect,
prevent, and mitigate the risk of identity theft. (Ord. 09-04, 1-20-2009)
1-12-8: OTHER LEGAL REQUIREMENTS:
Awareness of the following related legal requirements should be maintained:
   A.   31 USC 5318(g) - Reporting of suspicious activities.
   B.   15 USC 1681 c-1(h) - Identity theft prevention; fraud alerts and active
duty alerts - limitations on use of information for credit extensions.
   C.   15 USC 1681 s-2 - Responsibilities of furnishers of information to
consumer reporting agencies.
   D.   15 USC 1681 m - Requirements on use of consumer reports. (Ord. 09-04,
1-20-2009)
CHAPTER 13
ELECTRIC AGGREGATION PROGRAM
SECTION:
1-13-1: Introduction
1-13-2: Definitions
1-13-3: Duties Of The Village
1-13-4: Supplier Services
1-13-5: Price And Terms
1-13-6: Eligibility And Opt Out Disclosures
1-13-7: Moving Within The Limits Of The Village
1-13-8: Moving Outside The Limits Of The Village
1-13-9: Enrolling After The Opt Out Period
1-13-10: Renewal
1-13-11: Contract Between The Supplier And The Aggregation Member
1-13-12: Billing
1-13-13: Credit, Collections And Deposits
1-13-14: Concerns And Complaints
1-13-15: Education
1-13-1: INTRODUCTION:
The Illinois power agency act (the "act") was amended by public act 96-0176 to
add 20 Illinois Compiled Statutes 3855/1-92 (the "aggregation statute"), which
allows the corporate authorities of a municipality to adopt an ordinance under
which it may aggregate the residential and small commercial retail electrical
loads located within its boundaries, to enter into service agreements to
facilitate for those loads the sale and purchase of electricity and related
services. (Ord. 12-16, 10-2-2012)
1-13-2: DEFINITIONS:
AGGREGATION MEMBER: Those residential and small commercial customers: a)
located within the limits of the village, b) are permitted to participate
according to the aggregation statute and any applicable utility rules, c) do
not opt out of the aggregation program, d) are not at the time of the
enrollment process served by an ARES, and e) are not on bundled hold with the
utility.
AGGREGATION PROGRAM: The program developed by the village, acting as
facilitator pursuant to the aggregation statute, to provide residential and
small commercial customers within the limits of the village with retail
electricity supply from an ARES for those potential aggregation members that do
not opt out.
ALTERNATIVE RETAIL ELECTRIC SUPPLIER OR ARES: An entity certified by the
Illinois commerce commission to offer electricity for sale, and shall include,
without limitation, resellers, aggregators and power marketers but shall not
include the utility or the village.
BUNDLED HOLD: The time required by the utility to remain on utility supply
service after an account has returned to the utility's supply service after
having switched to an ARES prior to returning to the utility.
OPT OUT: The process by which a customer who would be included in the
aggregation program chooses not to participate in the aggregation and notifies
the supplier of such choice as described in the opt out notice with the
supplier.
UTILITY: Commonwealth Edison. (Ord. 12-16, 10-2-2012)
1-13-3: DUTIES OF THE VILLAGE:
The village shall submit to the utility in writing, a warrant demonstrating the
passage of the aggregation program ordinance, the adoption of this plan by the
corporate authorities, and a request for the identification of retail and small
commercial electric customer account information and generic load profiles.
Customer information will be maintained in a confidential manner as required by
law and the village will use that information only for purposes of its
aggregation program. Customer account information will be considered
confidential and will not be disclosed to unauthorized entities or under the
freedom of information act. The village: a) will select or has selected an ARES
to serve as the electricity supplier to aggregation members ("supplier"), b)
will negotiate or has negotiated the terms and conditions of the supply, and c)
will communicate or has communicated with utility and supplier concerning
enrollment data. (Ord. 12-16, 10-2-2012)
1-13-4: SUPPLIER SERVICES:
The supplier will: a) draft customer communications for village's review,
including an opt out notice to potential aggregation members describing how to
remove themselves from the aggregation program and a welcome letter to those
who become aggregation members, b) provide electricity supply to aggregation
members, c) mail informational materials and terms and conditions to potential
aggregation members, d) at the option of village, establish a postreferendum
website landing page to support the aggregation program, e) assist with the
completion of the government authority aggregation form and communications with
the utility surrounding data exchange, f) maintain a secure database of
potential aggregation members who elect to opt out and of aggregation members,
and g) invoice aggregation members via the utility's purchase of receivables
program, and h) provide periodic reports to the village. (Ord. 12-16, 10-2-
2012)
1-13-5: PRICE AND TERMS:
The village has the right to negotiate a price, product type, and term with the
supplier or may choose not to implement an aggregation program. Additional
potential aggregation members may be allowed to enroll with the supplier after
the opt out period, however they may pay a different rate than those who join
during a planned program enrollment period due to changing market conditions
and to potentially different term from the initial offering. (Ord. 12-16, 10-2-
2012)
1-13-6: ELIGIBILITY AND OPT OUT DISCLOSURES:
The utility, in accordance with the aggregation statute and its tariffs, will
provide the village with the generic load profile (or estimated aggregated
usage) and names and addresses of the potential aggregation members by rate
class. Those eligible to be aggregation members are those who are permitted to
participate according to the aggregation statute, are not at the time of the
enrollment process served by an ARES, and are not on bundled hold. The village
must keep this information confidential, and provide it to the supplier for the
sole purpose of negotiating a price for the aggregation program, administering
the opt out notice process, and enrolling and serving the aggregation members.
The supplier, with assistance from the village, will prepare and mail an opt
out notice to each potential aggregation member identified as eligible by the
utility. The opt out notice will inform the eligible aggregation member that
the village has formed an aggregation program, the price for electric supply
and other terms and conditions of service, and explain how the potential
aggregation member can opt out of the aggregation.
The supplier will receive all opt out requests and adjust the list of
aggregation members accordingly. In addition, if any opt out notices are
returned by mail to supplier marked as undeliverable, those potential
aggregation members will be removed from the aggregation program as well. Upon
completion of the opt out period (the length of which will be negotiated and
agreed upon between the village and supplier), the supplier, with assistance
from the village, will notify the utility of the accounts that will form the
aggregation, and, enroll the aggregation. Upon enrollment, each participant
will receive an enrollment notice from the utility. Each aggregation member
will also receive a welcome letter from the supplier. An aggregation member may
rescind its participation in the aggregation by contacting the utility or the
supplier within the utility's applicable rescission period.
The supplier shall repeat the opt out enrollment process whenever the price
changes at the end of an agreed upon term (as agreed upon by the village and
supplier) and accordingly aggregation members will have the opportunity to
decline participation at that time without paying an early termination fee.
(Ord. 12-16, 10-2-2012)
1-13-7: MOVING WITHIN THE LIMITS OF THE VILLAGE:
Aggregation members who move from one location to another within the limits of
the village and retain the same account number, will remain an aggregation
member and will receive the same price and term they would have received if
their location had not moved. Aggregation members who move from one location to
another within limits of the village and are assigned a new account number may
enroll their new account in the aggregation program and receive the same price
as they would have received if they had not moved while served by supplier
(other than for any intervening billing periods in which the account is served
by the utility), provided the new account is eligible for aggregation.
Aggregation members who move and receive a new account number may be dropped
from the aggregation by the utility, but they will not be charged an early
termination fee by the supplier. If an aggregation member is dropped from the
aggregation program due to a move within the village, the aggregation member
should contact the supplier to be reenrolled at the earliest possible date.
(Ord. 12-16, 10-2-2012)
1-13-8: MOVING OUTSIDE THE LIMITS OF THE VILLAGE:
Aggregation members that move out of the village limits will no longer be
eligible to participate in the aggregation program, but they will not be
charged an early termination fee from the supplier. Except as described above
for relocation, an early termination fee may apply if an aggregation member
terminates its contract with the supplier after the opt out and rescission
periods have ended and prior to the end of the current term. (Ord. 12-16, 10-2-
2012)
1-13-9: ENROLLING AFTER THE OPT OUT PERIOD:
Residential and small business accounts located within the village limits that
are eligible to join the aggregation but initially chose to opt out of the
aggregation, or otherwise were not included in the aggregation program, may
become aggregation members after the expiration of the applicable opt out
period by contacting the supplier. The price and/or term of those joining after
the expiration of the opt out period may be different from the price negotiated
for the aggregation. (Ord. 12-16, 10-2-2012)
1-13-10: RENEWAL:
The village and the supplier will attempt to achieve a renewal price and term
before the expiration of an agreed upon term. However, if mutually agreeable
price and terms are not reached, the agreement between village and the supplier
may be terminated by either the village or supplier, without penalty, at the
end of any agreed upon term by providing written notice to the other party at
least thirty (30) days prior to the end of the term. (Ord. 12-16, 10-2-2012)
1-13-11: CONTRACT BETWEEN THE SUPPLIER AND THE AGGREGATION MEMBER:
The electricity supply contract negotiated by the village for the aggregation
members (the "contract") shall be for firm, all requirements electric supply
service including capacity, transmission, energy, losses and various ancillary
services. The contract shall be between each individual aggregation member and
the supplier. Each aggregation member will be individually bound to the
supplier by the contract, and will be solely responsible for payment and
performance. All electricity supply charges will be fully and prominently
disclosed in consumer enrollment materials (such as the opt out notice),
available on the supplier's website, and available by calling the supplier's
toll free customer service telephone number. The contract will include an early
termination fee for those that leave the aggregation program prior to the end
of any agreed upon term. (Ord. 12-16, 10-2-2012)
1-13-12: BILLING:
Aggregation members will each receive a single, monthly bill from the utility,
which will include charges from the supplier for its electricity supply, as
well as the ordinary utility charges, which includes delivery services, taxes,
and other charges. Aggregation members will be billed according to their
utility billing cycle. (Ord. 12-16, 10-2-2012)
1-13-13: CREDIT, COLLECTIONS AND DEPOSITS:
The utility's credit and collection policy and policies regarding deposits will
apply to the aggregation members and shall be administered by the utility.
Neither the village, nor the supplier will implement additional policies with
respect to credit, deposits and collections. (Ord. 12-16, 10-2-2012)
1-13-14: CONCERNS AND COMPLAINTS:
Aggregation members will have multiple means of expressing concerns and
reporting complaints. As a general rule, concerns regarding service reliability
and billing should be directed to the utility. The utility will continue to
read meters, handle billing, and generally have the most information about the
physical service to a location or account. Questions regarding the
administration of the aggregation should be directed to the supplier. The
supplier's customer service center shall be available by telephone twenty four
(24) hours per day, seven (7) days per week. Any unresolved disputes should be
directed to the Illinois commerce commission and/or the citizens' utility
board. As a convenience, below is a list of helpful toll free telephone
numbers:
 
Nature Of Concern/Complaint   Contact                   Phone Number
Downed wires/outage           Utility                   800-334-7661
Service turn on/off           Utility                   800-334-7661
Billing disputes              Utility                   800-334-7661
Price/joining/leaving program Supplier customer service 888-634-3545
Program regulatory questions  Supplier customer service 888-634-3545
 
(Ord. 12-16, 10-2-2012)
1-13-15: EDUCATION:
The supplier and the village will work cooperatively to develop a plan to help
educate the community with respect to:
   A.   Aggregation, including the opt out notices,
   B.   Any demand management or efficiency measures (if any) offered by the
supplier or promoted by the village,
   C.   Renewable energy attributes (if any) associated with the supply that
are above and beyond the attributes required by law, and
   D.   Projects (if any) that will be funded as a byproduct of the
aggregation. (Ord. 12-16, 10-2-2012)
CHAPTER 14
TRAVEL AND EXPENSE POLICY
SECTION:
1-14-1: Applicability And Authority
1-14-2: Reimbursable Travel Expenses
1-14-3: Reimbursement Of Living Expenses
1-14-4: Reimbursement Requests
1-14-5: Misuse Of Travel And Expense Policy
1-14-1: APPLICABILITY AND AUTHORITY:
   A.   It is the policy of the village of Seneca that the mayor, council
members, and all village officials, employees or agents, shall comply with the
policy set forth below in order to be reimbursed for travel and living
expenses, which may be incurred, but must be necessary and related to the
conduct of village business.
   B.   Department heads are responsible for planning the specific travel and
educational needs of their departments. They shall request sufficient funds for
these purposes plus the incidental daily travel needs of their departments when
submitting their annual budget request. Passage of the budget by the village
council shall constitute authority to the department head to implement those
plans. Travel expenses incurred by employee in the conduct of village business
shall be reimbursed upon submittal of proper receipts and approval by the
village council or designee. (Ord. 16-09, 11-15-2016)
1-14-2: REIMBURSABLE TRAVEL EXPENSES:
   A.   Expenses for the use of a private automobile shall be reimbursed at the
rate per mile reimbursed to employees of the state of Illinois at the time the
mileage is accumulated. The village clerk shall ascertain the current
reimbursement rate from time to time. This reimbursement rate shall be
construed to include any and all costs for the operation of a privately owned
automobile on village business, the village of Seneca not incurring any
additional liability therefrom.
   B.   The village shall reimburse parking fees and highway and bridge tolls.
Receipts shall accompany requests for reimbursement of such expenses, where
possible.
   C.   Reimbursement of private automobile usage expenses must be requested in
written form, which shall show the payee's name, travel dates, net mileage,
destination and purpose of the trip.
      1.   Reimbursement of private automobile usage when in conjunction with
lodging will be reimbursed at the rate of one round trip, including any mileage
required from lodging to the seminar, meeting place, or training location.
   D.   All claims for reimbursement shall be subject to review and final
approval by the department head. (Ord. 16-09, 11-15-2016)
1-14-3: REIMBURSEMENT OF LIVING EXPENSES:
   A.   Personal living expenses shall be reimbursed for authorized village
travel. The maximum daily allowance for three (3) meals and tips shall be forty
five dollars ($45.00). Expenses for alcoholic beverages shall not be
reimbursed. Receipts shall be submitted with the reimbursement request.
   B.   The cost of meals purchased for persons, other than village employees,
shall be reimbursed only if the reason for the expense is deemed to be in the
best interests of the village. The reimbursement request shall indicate why and
for whom the expense was incurred. All officials in granting this reimbursement
shall use extreme discretion.
   C.   The actual cost of accommodations, excluding room service and valet
service, shall be reimbursed up to a rate not to exceed one hundred forty five
dollars ($145.00) per day. Receipts must accompany all requests for
reimbursement. The department head prior to making reservations must approve
exceptions to this section.
   D.   Special expenses of the following nature shall be reimbursed with
receipts: stenographic, typing and copying service; internet service; the
reservation of a room(s) for official business; telephone calls; registration
fees for conferences and seminars (however, when possible this should be paid
in advance). (Ord. 16-09, 11-15-2016)
1-14-4: REIMBURSEMENT REQUESTS:
   A.   Reimbursement of private automobile usage expenses must be requested on
an approved form, which shall show the payee's name, trip dates, net mileage,
destination, and purpose of the trip. The department head prior to the trip
must approve the form.
   B.   Claims for travel expense reimbursement shall be submitted on an
approved form, which shall show date and destination, transportation expenses
other than private automobile usage expense, meals, lodging, and information
about the purpose of the travel and guest meals. Expenses which were prepaid by
the village, such as fares and registration fees, shall be deducted in order to
arrive at a net reimbursement amount. Receipts for all expenses must be signed
by the individual and approved by the department head before any claims may be
paid.
   C.   All claims for reimbursement shall be subject to review and final
approval by the employee's department head. (Ord. 16-09, 11-15-2016)
1-14-5: MISUSE OF TRAVEL AND EXPENSE POLICY:
Any misrepresentation or misuse of this policy shall be grounds for criminal or
civil liability, and possible termination of employment. (Ord. 16-09, 11-15-
2016)
CHAPTER 15
SEXUAL HARASSMENT
SECTION:
1-15-1: Prohibition On Sexual Harassment
1-15-2: Definition Of Sexual Harassment
1-15-3: Procedure For Reporting An Allegation Of Sexual Harassment
1-15-4: Prohibition On Retaliation For Reporting Sexual Harassment Allegations
1-15-5: Consequences Of A Violation Of The Prohibition On Sexual Harassment
1-15-6: Consequences For Knowingly Making A False Report
1-15-1: PROHIBITION ON SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
It is unlawful to harass a person because of that person's sex. The courts have
determined that sexual harassment is a form of discrimination under Title VII
of the U.S. Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended in 1991. All persons have a
right to work in an environment free from sexual harassment. Sexual harassment
is unacceptable misconduct which affects individuals of all genders and sexual
orientations. It is a policy of the Village of Seneca to prohibit harassment of
any person by any municipal official, municipal agent, municipal employee,
municipal agency or municipal office on the basis of sex or gender. All
municipal officials, municipal agents, municipal employees and municipal
agencies or municipal offices are prohibited from sexually harassing any
person, regardless of any employment relationship or lack thereof. (Ord. 18-17,
11-20-2018: amd. Ord. 20-11, 7-7-2020)
1-15-2: DEFINITION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
This policy adopts the definition of sexual harassment as stated in the
Illinois Human Rights Act, which currently defines sexual harassment as:
   A.   Any unwelcome sexual advances or requests for sexual favors or any
conduct of a sexual nature when:
      1.   Submission to such conduct is made a term or condition of an
individual's employment, either explicitly or implicitly; or
      2.   Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used
as the basis for employment decisions affecting such individual; or
      3.   Such conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially interfering
with an individual's work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile or
offensive working environment.
   B.   Conduct which may constitute sexual harassment includes, but is not
limited to:
      1.   Verbal Harassment: sexual innuendos, suggestive comments, insults,
humor, jokes about: sex, anatomy or gender-specific traits, sexual
propositions, threats, repeated requests for dates; or, statements of a sexual
nature about other employees, even outside of their presence.
      2.   Non-verbal Harassment: suggestive or insulting sounds (whistling),
leering, obscene gestures, sexually suggestive bodily gestures, "catcalls,"
"smacking" or "kissing" noises.
      3.   Visual: posters, signs, pin-ups or slogans of a sexual nature,
viewing pornographic material or websites.
      4.   Physical Harassment: touching, unwelcome hugging or kissing,
pinching, brushing the body, any coerced sexual act or actual assault.
      5.   Textual/Electronic Harassment: "sexting" (electronically sending
messages with sexual content, including pictures or video), the use of sexually
explicit language, harassment, cyber stalking and threats via all forms of
electronic communication (email/text/picture/video messages, intranet/online
postings, blogs, instant messages and posts on social network websites, like
Facebook and Twitter).
The most severe and overt forms of sexual harassment are easier to determine.
On the other end of the spectrum, some sexual harassment is more subtle and
depends, to some extent, on individual perception and interpretation. The
courts will assess sexual harassment by a standard of what would offend a
"reasonable person”. (Ord. 18-17, 11-20-2018: amd. Ord. 20-11, 7-7-2020)
1-15-3: PROCEDURE FOR REPORTING AN ALLEGATION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
   A.   An employee who either observes sexual harassment or believes herself/
himself to be the object of sexual harassment should deal with the incident(s)
as directly and firmly as possible by clearly communicating her/his position to
the offending employee, and her/his immediate supervisor. It is not necessary
for sexual harassment to be directed at the person making the report.
   B.   Any employee may report conduct which is believed to be sexual
harassment, including the following:
      1.   Electronic/Direct Communication. If there is sexual harassment
behavior in the workplace, the harassed employee should directly and clearly
express her/his objection that the conduct is unwelcome and request that the
offending behavior stop. The initial message may be verbal. If subsequent
messages are needed, they should be put in writing in a note or a memo.
      2.   Contact with Supervisory Personnel. At the same time direct
communication is undertaken, or in the event the employee feels threatened or
intimidated by the situation, the problem must be promptly reported to the
immediate supervisor of the person making the report, a department head, a
director of human resources, an ethics officer, the city manager or
administrator or the chief elected official of the municipality.
      The employee experiencing what she/he believes to be sexual harassment
must not assume that the employer is aware of the conduct. If there are no
witnesses and the victim fails to notify a supervisor or other responsible
officer, the municipality will not be presumed to have knowledge of the
harassment.
      3.   Resolution Outside Municipality. The purpose of this policy is to
establish prompt, thorough and effective procedures for responding to every
report and incident so that problems can be identified and remedied by the
municipality. However, all municipal employees have the right to contact the
Illinois Department of Human Rights (IDHR) or the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission (EEOC) for information regarding filing a formal complaint with
those entities. An IDHR complaint must be filed within 300 days of the alleged
incident(s) unless it is a continuing offense. A complaint with the EEOC must
also be filed within 300 days.
      4.   Allegations of Sexual Harassment made against an elected official of
the governmental unit by another elected official of a governmental unit. In
addition to the methods of reporting included above, an elected official may
request an independent review of a complaint of sexual harassment by another
elected official. The request shall be made to the human resources director,
the city manager or administrator or the chief elected official of the
municipality. The official receiving the request shall take immediate action in
keeping with the procurement process of the municipality to retain a qualified
individual or entity for the independent review of the allegations of sexual
harassment in violation of this policy. The outcome of the independent review
shall be reported to the corporate authorities.
   C.   Documentation of any incident may be submitted with any report (what
was said or done, the date, the time and the location), including, but not
limited to, written records such as letters, notes, memos and telephone
messages.
   D.   All allegations, including anonymous reports, will be accepted and
investigated regardless of how the matter comes to the attention of the
municipality. However, because of the serious implications of sexual harassment
charges and the difficulties associated with their investigation and the
questions of credibility involved, the claimant's willing cooperation is a
vital component of an effective inquiry and an appropriate outcome. (Ord. 18-
17, 11-20-2018: amd. Ord. 20-11, 7-7-2020)
1-15-4: PROHIBITION ON RETALIATION FOR REPORTING SEXUAL HARASSMENT ALLEGATIONS:
   A.   No municipal official, municipal agency, municipal employee or
municipal office shall take any retaliatory action against any municipal
employee or official due to a municipal employee's or official's:
      1.   Disclosure or threatened disclosure of any violation of this policy;
or
      2.   Providing information related to an investigation or testimony
before any public body conducting an investigation, hearing or inquiry into any
violation of this policy; or
      3.   Assistance with or participation in a proceeding to enforce the
provisions of this policy.
   B.   For purposes of this policy, retaliatory action means the reprimand,
discharge, suspension, demotion, denial of promotion or transfer or change in
the terms or conditions of employment of any municipal employee that is taken
in retaliation for a municipal employee's or official's involvement in
protected activity pursuant to this policy.
   C.   No individual making a report will be retaliated against, even if a
report made in good faith is not substantiated. In addition, any witness will
be protected from retaliation.
   D.   Similar to the prohibition against retaliation contained herein, the
State Officials and Employees Ethics Act (5 ILCS 430/15-10) provides
whistleblower protection from retaliatory action, and this policy prohibits
retaliatory action such as reprimand, discharge, suspension, demotion, or
denial of promotion or transfer that occurs in retaliation for an employee who
does any of the following:
      1.   Discloses or threatens to disclose to a supervisor or to a public
body an activity, policy or practice of any officer, member, agency or other
employee that the employee reasonably believes is in violation of a law, rule
or regulation; or
      2.   Provides information to or testifies before any public body
conducting an investigation, hearing or inquiry into any violation of a law,
rule or regulation by any officer, member, agency or other employee; or
      3.   Assists or participates in a proceeding to enforce the provisions of
the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act or this policy.
   E.   Pursuant to the Whistleblower Act (740 ILCS 174/15(a)), an employer may
not retaliate against an employee who discloses information in a court, an
administrative hearing, before a legislative commission or committee or in any
other proceeding, where the employee has reasonable cause to believe that the
information discloses a violation of a state or federal law, rule or
regulation. In addition, an employer may not retaliate against an employee for
disclosing information to a government or law enforcement agency, where the
employee has reasonable cause to believe that the information discloses a
violation of a state or federal law, rule or regulation. (740 ILCS 174/15(b)).
   F.   According to the Illinois Human Rights Act (775 ILCS 5/6-101), it is a
civil rights violation for a person, or for two or more people to conspire to
retaliate against a person because she/he has opposed that which she/he
reasonably and in good faith believes to be sexual harassment in employment,
because she/he has made a charge, filed a complaint, testified, assisted or
participated in an investigation, proceeding or hearing under the Illinois
Human Rights Act.
   G.   An employee who is suddenly transferred to a lower paying job or passed
over for a promotion after filing a complaint with IDHR or EEOC, may file a
retaliation charge within 300 days of the alleged retaliation. (Ord. 18-17, 11-
20-2018: amd. Ord. 20-11, 7-7-2020)
1-15-5: CONSEQUENCES OF A VIOLATION OF THE PROHIBITION ON SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
In addition to any and all other discipline that may be applicable pursuant to
municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks and/
or collective bargaining agreements, any person who violates this policy or the
Prohibition on Sexual Harassment contained in 5 ILCS 430/5-65, may be subject
to a fine of up to $5,000 per offense, applicable disciplinary actions or
discharge by the municipality and any applicable fines and penalties
established pursuant to local ordinance, state law or federal law. Each
violation may constitute a separate offense. Any discipline imposed by the
municipality shall be separate and distinct from any penalty imposed by an
ethics commission and any fines or penalties imposed by a court of law or a
state or federal agency. (Ord. 18-17, 11-20-2018: amd. Ord. 20-11, 7-7-2020)
1-15-6: CONSEQUENCES FOR KNOWINGLY MAKING A FALSE REPORT:
   A.   A false report is a report of sexual harassment made by an accuser to
accomplish an outcome other than stopping sexual harassment or stopping
retaliation for reporting sexual harassment. A false report is not a report
made in good faith which cannot be proven. Given the seriousness of the
consequences for the accused, a false or frivolous report is a severe offense
that can itself result in disciplinary action. Any person who intentionally
makes a false report alleging a violation of any provision of this policy shall
be subject to disciplinary action or discharge pursuant to applicable municipal
policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks and/or
collective bargaining agreements.
   B.   In addition, any person who intentionally makes a false report alleging
a violation of any provision of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act to
an ethics commission, an inspector general, the Illinois State Police, a
State's Attorney, the Attorney General or any other law enforcement official is
guilty of a Class A misdemeanor. An ethics commission may levy an
administrative fine of up to $5,000 against any person who intentionally makes
a false, frivolous or bad faith allegation. (Ord. 18-17, 11-20-2018: amd. Ord.
20-11, 7-7-2020)
CHAPTER 16
DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE
SECTION:
1-16-1: Drug-Free Workplace
1-16-2: Definitions
1-16-3: Prohibited Conduct
1-16-4: Required Conduct
1-16-5: Voluntary Treatment For Abuse Of Drugs And/Or Alcohol
1-16-6: Acknowledgment
1-16-7: Drug And Alcohol Testing Of All Employees
1-16-8: Drug And Alcohol Testing Of Specific Employees
1-16-9: Drug And Alcohol Testing Of Public Safety Employees
1-16-10: Discipline
1-16-1: DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE:
In order to ensure a safe work environment and compliance with the Drug-Free
Workplace Act of 1988 (41 U.S.C. 8101 et seq.), the Village of Seneca maintains
a drug-free workplace. Accordingly, the Village of Seneca prohibits employees
from engaging in the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensation,
possession, or use of a controlled substance in accordance with the
requirements of the (Public Law 100-690, 102 Stat. 4181), use of drugs, and use
of alcohol in the workplace. The foregoing prohibition shall apply to Village
of Seneca property, including Village of Seneca vehicles and any private
vehicles parked on Village of Seneca premises or worksites.
For purposes of this policy, the term "drugs" includes, but shall not be
limited to: (i) any nonprescribed controlled substance that the employee is not
authorized to possess or consume by law; (ii) any substance listed in the
Controlled Substances Act (720 ILCS 570 et seq.); (iii) any substance listed in
the Cannabis Control Act (720 ILCS 550 et seq.); and (iv) drugs or substances
which may not be listed in the Controlled Substances Act or the Cannabis
Control Act but which have adverse effects on perception, judgment, memory, or
coordination. A non-exhaustive list of applicable drugs includes, but is not
limited to, the following:
Opium                    Psilocybin-psilocin
Morphine                 MDA
Codeine                  PCP
Heroin                   Chloral Hydrate
Meperidine               Methylphenidate
Cannabis                 Hash
Barbiturates             Hash Oil
Glutethimide             Steroids
Methaqualone             Tranquilizers
Cocaine                  Amphetamines
Phenmetrazine            LSD
Mescaline                 
Cannabis-infused edibles  
(Ord. 20-03, 2-18-2020)
1-16-2: DEFINITIONS:
VILLAGE-OWNED VEHICLES: Shall include all trucks, cars, and utility vehicles.
VILLAGE-OWNED EQUIPMENT: Shall include any equipment that may cause great
bodily harm or death to the user or others in immediate area (i.e. chain saws).
(Ord. 20-03, 2-18-2020)
1-16-3: PROHIBITED CONDUCT:
The following conduct is prohibited:
   A.   The unauthorized use, possession, manufacture, distribution, or sale of
drugs, drug paraphernalia, or alcohol while on or in Village of Seneca
property, while conducting work-related business, or during working hours.
   B.   Being under the influence of drugs or alcohol while on or in Village of
Seneca property, while conducting work-related business, or during working
hours.
   C.   Being under the influence of legal or prescribed drugs or chemicals
used in excess of, or in non-conformity with, prescribed limits while on or in
Village of Seneca property, while conducting work-related business, or during
working hours.
   D.   The illegal use, possession, manufacture, distribution, or sale of
drugs or drug paraphernalia (while on or off duty).
   E.   Village of Seneca prohibits its law enforcement officers from the use,
possession, manufacture, distribution or sale of cannabis while on or off duty.
   F.   Storing any illegal drug, drug paraphernalia, cannabis or alcohol in or
on Village of Seneca property.
   G.   Failing to notify an employee's supervisor prior to starting work of
any known side effects of medications, prescription drugs, or other chemical
compounds or supplements of any kind, including cannabis, that the employee is
taking (or has taken) which might affect the performance of the employee's
duties.
   H.   Refusing to immediately submit to an alcohol and/or drug test when
requested by a supervisor.
   I.   Failing to provide, within one workday following a request,
documentation confirming a valid prescription for any drug or medication
identified by a positive drug test.
   J.   Failing to adhere to the requirements of any drug or alcohol treatment
program in which the employee is enrolled as a condition of continued
employment.
   K.   Failing to notify the employee's supervisor of any arrest, conviction,
or relevant plea (including pleas of guilty and nolo contendere) relating to
drugs or alcohol no later than the earlier of the next date the employee is
scheduled to work or two calendar days following the arrest, conviction, or
plea.
   L.   Tampering with, adulterating, altering, substituting, or otherwise
obstructing any testing process required pursuant to this policy.
   M.   Performing any safety-sensitive duties while having a blood alcohol
concentration of .02 or greater.
   N.   Possessing or using drugs or alcohol while on duty or while operating a
Village-owned vehicle.
   O.   Operating a Village-owned vehicle within four hours after using alcohol
(an on-call employee who consumes alcohol within four hours of being called in
must acknowledge the use of alcohol and may not report for duty).
   P.   Consuming alcohol or cannabis during the eight-hour period following an
accident requiring a drug and alcohol test before a post-accident alcohol or
drug test is given.
   Q.   Reporting for duty or remaining on duty requiring the operation of a
Village-owned vehicle when the employee has used a drug or drugs, except when
the use is pursuant to instructions of a physician who has advised the employee
that the substance does not adversely affect the employee's ability to safely
operate a Village-owned vehicle. (Ord. 20-03, 2-18-2020)
1-16-4: REQUIRED CONDUCT:
The following conduct is required of all Village of Seneca employees:
   A.   Employees must notify their supervisor prior to starting work of any
known side effects of medications, prescription drugs, or other chemical
compounds or supplements of any kind, including cannabis, that they are taking
(or have taken) which might affect the performance of their duties or threaten
the safety of the employee or any other person.
   B.   Employees must notify their supervisor of any arrest, conviction, or
relevant plea (including pleas of guilty and nolo contendere) relating to drugs
or alcohol no later than the earlier of the next date the employee is scheduled
to work or two calendar days following the arrest, conviction, or plea. In
accordance with federal law, Village of Seneca will notify any applicable
federal contracting officer(s) of any relevant conviction(s) or plea(s) within
10 days of receiving notice of the conviction or plea.
   C.   Employees must submit to drug testing in accordance with this policy
and applicable law. (Ord. 20-03, 2-18-2020)
1-16-5: VOLUNTARY TREATMENT FOR ABUSE OF DRUGS AND/OR ALCOHOL:
   A.   The Village of Seneca strongly encourages employees who believe or
suspect that they may be abusing drugs and/or alcohol to voluntarily seek
treatment before their job performance is affected. Any employee who notifies
the Village of Seneca of alcohol or drug abuse problems will be treated in the
same manner as any other employee with an illness. Information and
communications regarding an employee's voluntary treatment or counseling due to
actual or suspected drug and/or alcohol abuse shall remain confidential in
accordance with state and federal law.
   B.   Employees who voluntarily seek treatment for drug and/or alcohol abuse
shall not be subject to discipline, discharge, or discrimination based solely
on such voluntary treatment if the treatment is sought prior to:
      1.   The employee testing positive for illegal drugs and/or alcohol;
      2.   The employee being notified of an upcoming drug and/or alcohol test;
      3.   The occurrence of an event that gives rise to reasonable suspicion
that the employee is under the influence of drugs and/or alcohol;
      4.   Any return to duty or related follow-up testing for drugs and/or
alcohol; and/or
      5.   The occurrence of an accident which requires the employee to submit
to drug and/or alcohol testing.
   C.   Employees who seek voluntary treatment for drug and/or alcohol abuse
shall continue to be subject to appropriate disciplinary action up to and
including termination for substandard job performance, unexcused absences,
abuse of drugs and/or alcohol, or any other violations of this manual, whether
such violations are directly or indirectly related to the employee's use of
drugs and/or alcohol.
   D.   Furthermore, employees who voluntarily seek treatment for drug and/or
alcohol abuse shall not be excused from required drug and/or alcohol testing in
accordance with this policy even when voluntary treatment was sought prior to
the testing in question. No employee shall be permitted to use voluntary
treatment for drug and/or alcohol abuse to avoid otherwise legitimate
disciplinary action for failure to comply with this policy or other provisions
of the manual.
   E.   Employees may request a medical leave of absence to obtain treatment
for drug and/or alcohol abuse in accordance with the Family and Medical Leave
Act of 1993 and other applicable law. Such leave requests shall be treated in
the same manner as any other request for leave pursuant to this policy. Village
of Seneca may also grant reasonable accommodations for employees being treated
for drug and/or alcohol abuse so long as those employees are participating in a
treatment program and are not currently abusing drugs and/or alcohol. Village
of Seneca will not retaliate or discriminate against any employee for
requesting leave or a reasonable accommodation to obtain treatment for drug
and/or alcohol abuse.
   F.   There may be available a voluntary employee assistance program to
assist those who wish to seek help for alcohol and drug problems (41 USC 8103).
Insurance coverage that provides treatment for drug and alcohol abuse also may
be available. Employees should contact the Department of Human Services, their
insurance providers or the employee assistance program for additional
information. It is the responsibility of each employee to seek assistance
before alcohol or drug problems lead to performance problems. (Ord. 20-03, 2-
18-2020)
1-16-6: ACKNOWLEDGMENT:
In accordance with applicable law, employees are required to acknowledge and
agree to this policy as a condition of employment. Any employee violating this
policy is subject to discipline, up to and including termination of employment.
(Ord. 20-03, 2-18-2020)
1-16-7: DRUG AND ALCOHOL TESTING OF ALL EMPLOYEES:
   A.   Reasonable Suspicion.
      1.   All employees are required to submit to alcohol and/or drug testing
if a supervisor determines that there is reasonable suspicion to believe that
an employee has been using illegal drugs, abusing prescribed drugs, is under
the influence of alcohol or cannabis, or is consuming alcohol or cannabis while
working.
      2.   For the purposes of this policy, reasonable suspicion means a belief
based on objective facts sufficient to lead a reasonable prudent person to find
that an employee is using, or has used, drugs or alcohol in violation of this
policy. Such a suspicion shall be drawn from specific, objective facts and
reasonable inferences drawn from those facts in light of experience.
      3.   Some factors that may be considered in determining whether a finding
of reasonable suspicion is appropriate may include, but are not limited to, any
of the following, alone or in combination:
         a.   Observable phenomena, such as direct observation of drug or
alcohol use, the presence of the odor of drugs or alcohol on or about the
employee and/or the physical symptoms or manifestations of being under the
influence of drugs or    alcohol;
         b.   Abnormal conduct or erratic behavior;
         c.   Excessive unexcused absenteeism, tardiness, or deterioration in
work performance;
         d.   Slurred speech or unsteady walking or movement;
         e.   Illegal possession of drugs or controlled substances or an arrest
for violation of a drug statute;
         f.   Information obtained from a reliable and credible source with
personal knowledge that has been independently corroborated;
         g.   Testing for cannabis based on reasonable suspicion shall be
supported by the good faith belief that there is some impairment of the
employee while at the workplace, while engaged in work for the employer or
while on call subject to the definition of those terms in the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act, 410 ILCS 705/10-50.
      4.   Once reasonable suspicion has been determined, the employee shall be
required to take the applicable drug and/or alcohol test. An order to submit to
testing shall be in writing and signed by a supervisor. If an employee declines
the test, it will be treated as a positive test and the employee will be
subject to discipline up to and including termination. When an employee is
ordered to submit to a drug and/or alcohol test as a result of a supervisor' s
reasonable suspicion, the employee will not be allowed to return to work
pending the results of the drug and/or alcohol test.
   B.   Post-Accident Testing.
      1.   All accidents, including those involving a vehicle, must immediately
be reported to an employee' s supervisor. The supervisor shall investigate the
circumstances of the accident and determine if there is reasonable suspicion to
require a drug and/or alcohol test. If it is determined that the employee
caused or contributed to occurrence of the accident or the employee was
otherwise at fault, the employee may be required to submit to a drug and
alcohol test regardless of the existence of reasonable suspicion.
      2.   Post-accident testing for cannabis shall be supported by the good
faith belief that there is some impairment of the employee while at the
workplace, while engaged in work for the employer or while on call subject to
the definition of those terms in the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, 410 ILCS
705/10-50.
      3.   If post-accident drug and/or alcohol testing is ordered, the
employee involved must submit to a drug and/or alcohol test within two hours of
the accident. An employee who fails to remain readily available for post-
accident testing or leaves the scene of an accident without a valid reason or
permission by his or her supervisor will be deemed to have refused to submit to
testing. The employee to be tested shall not be permitted to drive himself or
herself to the collection site.
   C.   Types of Testing. Any of the following methods may be utilized to test
an employee for the presence of drugs and/or alcohol:
      1.   Urine testing;
      2.   Evidentiary breath testing device (Breathalyzer);
      3.   Blood testing;
      4.   Hair follicle testing; or
      5.   Saliva testing.
   D.   Licensed Clinical Laboratory Only.
      1.   Village of Seneca shall use only licensed clinical laboratories for
drug and/or alcohol testing. Such laboratories shall be responsible for
maintaining a proper chain of custody of any samples. If an employee tests
positive for drugs and/or alcohol, a confirming test shall be conducted. The
laboratory will not submit a positive test result to Village of Seneca unless
the confirming test result is also positive for the same sample. The laboratory
shall retain a portion of the tested sample so the employee can arrange for
another confirming test to be conducted by a licensed clinical laboratory of
the employee's choice and at the employee's expense. Once the portion of the
tested sample is delivered to the clinical laboratory selected by the employee,
the employee shall be responsible for maintaining the proper chain of custody
for that portion of the sample.
      2.   Employees who test positive for drugs may request a second test of
the remaining portion of the split sample within 72 hours of notification of a
positive test result by a medical review officer. A medical review officer is a
licensed physician responsible for receiving and interpreting laboratory
results from applicable tests.
   E.   Records Relating to Drug and/or Alcohol Tests.
      1.   Records reflecting positive drug and/or alcohol tests will be kept
in the employee's file and will be kept confidential in accordance with
applicable law. Information regarding drug and/or alcohol tests and an
employee' s participation in a substance abuse rehabilitation program may be
disclosed to supervisors only if such information relates to the employee's
ability to perform his or her work duties or the employee's need for a
reasonable accommodation under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 or
other applicable law.
      2.   For employees in safety sensitive positions, the following records
shall be maintained for a minimum of five years: (i) records of annual
management information system reports; (ii) records regarding employee
evaluations and referrals to substance abuse professionals; (iii) records
relating to follow-up tests and follow-up schedules; (iv) records relating to
refusals to submit to drug and/or alcohol tests; (v) records of alcohol test
results indicating an alcohol concentration of .02 or greater; (vi) verified
positive drug test results; and (vii) breath testing device calibration
documentation.
   F.   Required Records from Prior Employment as Driver of a Village-owned
vehicle.
      1.   In accordance with applicable law, any individual who is given an
offer of employment for a safety-sensitive position requiring a commercial
driver's license (CDL) and who has worked as a driver of a Village-owned
vehicle during the two-year period immediately preceding the offer of
employment, must authorize his or her prior employer(s) during the two-year
period immediately preceding the offer of employment to release information to
Village of Seneca regarding any positive alcohol or drug tests and/or any
refusal to submit to an alcohol or drug test.
      2.   This information must be obtained before the individual can be hired
by Village of Seneca. However, if the information has not arrived by the
individual's anticipated start date and the individual has passed a pre-
employment drug test, the individual may be hired, and the requested
information can be obtained from the individual's prior employer(s) within 14
calendar days of the individual's date of hire. If the information has not been
received within 14 calendar days of the individual's date of hire, the
individual will not be permitted to drive a Village-owned vehicle until the
information has arrived. If the information obtained from any prior employer
indicates that the individual tested positive for drugs or alcohol or refused
to be tested during the past two years, that individual will not be permitted
to drive a Village-owned vehicle unless subsequent information indicates that
the individual was evaluated by a substance abuse professional and successfully
completed return to duty testing.
   G.   Compensation. If an employee is ordered to submit to an involuntary
post-employment drug and/or alcohol test, the time spent by the employee
traveling to and from the test and waiting for and undergoing the test will be
considered compensable working time unless otherwise provided by law or
contract. Pre-employment drug and/or alcohol tests will not be compensated.
   H.   Cutoff Levels for Drugs and Drug Metabolites; Blood Alcohol
Exceedances. Cutoff levels for all drug and drug metabolite testing shall be
consistent with the guidelines established by the U.S. Department of Health and
Human Services (HHS). An employee shall be deemed to be under the influence of
alcohol if the applicable blood alcohol test demonstrates a level of .02 or
greater.
   I.   Policy Violations.
      1.   Any employee testing positive for drug usage, blood alcohol levels
greater than .02, or engaging in any other prohibited conduct concerning drug
or alcohol shall be subject to disciplinary action up to and including
immediate termination. Regardless of disciplinary action taken, all such
employees will be advised of resources available to evaluate and treat problems
associated with drug and/or alcohol abuse.
      2.   Employees in safety-sensitive positions, including those that
require a CDL, who are not terminated for violation of this policy shall be
subject to the following conditions of continued employment:
         a.   If an employee has a breath alcohol concentration of at least .02
but less than .04, he or she shall not drive a Village-owned vehicle or engage
in any other safety sensitive activities for at least 24 hours.
         b.   If an employee tests positive for drugs, tests positive for a
blood alcohol level of .04 or greater, and/or engages in any other conduct
prohibited by this policy relating to drugs and/or alcohol, the employee will
be immediately removed from duties requiring the driving of a Village-owned
vehicle and will not be permitted to return to work unless the employee: (i)
has been evaluated by a substance abuse professional; (ii) has complied with
any rehabilitation prescribed by a substance abuse professional; and (iii) has
successfully completed a return to duty test for drugs and/or alcohol.
         c.   Upon completion of a recommended rehabilitation program and
successful return to work, the employee will be subject to follow-up random
testing for up to 60 months as recommended by the substance abuse professional
and Village of Seneca with a minimum of six such unscheduled tests within the
first 12 months of returning to duty. (Ord. 20-03, 2-18-2020)
1-16-8: DRUG AND ALCOHOL TESTING OF SPECIFIC EMPLOYEES:
In accordance with the Omnibus Transportation Employee Testing Act of 1994 and
other applicable law, Village of Seneca requires employees in safety-sensitive
positions and applicants for safety sensitive positions to submit to mandatory
drug and alcohol testing pursuant to this policy. Applicants for non-safety-
sensitive positions may be required to submit to pre-employment testing. All
employees are subject to random drug and alcohol testing.
Safety-sensitive positions are those positions where there exists a high risk
of injury to others with disastrous consequences if the employee has even a
momentary lapse of attention. Some examples of safety-sensitive positions
include law enforcement personnel, employees who transport passengers, and
employees who operate large or heavy equipment.
Under this policy, employees in safety-sensitive positions specifically include
all employees whose positions may involve driving a Village-owned vehicle and
that require the possession of a CDL. For purposes of this policy, a Village-
owned vehicle means a vehicle that either: (i) has a gross weight of over
26,000 pounds (including combined weight if towed unit weighs over 10,000
pounds); (ii) is designed to transport 16 or more persons, including the
driver; or (iii) is used to transport hazardous materials.
An employee is considered to be "driving a Village-owned vehicle" under this
policy if he or she is performing any safety sensitive function defined in 49
CFR 382.107, which includes all time working in a position requiring a CDL.
With respect to employees who work in a position requiring a CDL, alcohol
testing for reasonable suspicion may be conducted just before, during, or after
an employee operates a Village-owned vehicle.
   A.   Drug and Alcohol Testing for Safety-Sensitive Positions. Employees in
safety-sensitive positions are subject to drug and alcohol testing under
different and additional circumstances than employees who are not in safety
sensitive positions.
      1.   Reasonable Suspicion - Any employee in a safety-sensitive position
shall submit to a drug and/or alcohol test when any supervisor has reasonable
suspicion to believe that an employee has been using illegal drugs, abusing
prescribed drugs, is under the influence of alcohol or cannabis, or is
consuming alcohol or cannabis while working or while on call.
      Testing for cannabis based on reasonable suspicion shall be supported by
the good faith belief that there is some impairment of the employee while at
the workplace, while engaged in work for the employer or while on call subject
to the definition of those terms in the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, 410
ILCS 705/10-50. If an employee is removed from duty based on reasonable
suspicion of alcohol use and an alcohol test is not administered within eight
hours, the employee will not be allowed to perform or continue to perform
safety-sensitive functions until: (i) an alcohol test determines that the
employee's breath alcohol concentration measures less than .02; and (ii) 24
hours have elapsed following the determination that there is reasonable
suspicion to believe that the employee has been using alcohol.
      2.   Post-Accident Testing Involving a Village-owned Vehicle - An
employee is required by law and this policy to submit to an alcohol test
whenever he or she is involved in an accident while driving a Village-owned
vehicle on a public road which results in: (i) a fatality; (ii) bodily injury
to a person who, as a result of the injury, immediately receives medical
treatment away from the scene of the accident; and/or (iii) one or more motor
vehicles incurring disabling damage requiring the vehicle to be transported
away from the scene by a tow truck or other vehicle.
      Post-accident testing for cannabis shall be supported by the good faith
belief that there is some impairment of the employee while at the workplace,
while engaged in work for the employer or while on call subject to the
definition of those terms in the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, 410 ILCS 705/
10-50.
      3.   Post-Accident Testing Involving Village-owned Equipment - An
employee is required by this policy to submit to an alcohol test whenever he or
she is involved in an accident while using Village-owned employment which
results in: (i) a fatality; or (ii) bodily injury to a person and (iii) there
is a good faith belief that the employee was using alcohol while at the
workplace.
      4.   Return to Duty Testing - Any employee who has violated this policy
and/or has tested positive on a drug or alcohol test and is subsequently
permitted to return to work, must pass a drug and/or alcohol test in accordance
with this policy prior to returning to duty.
      5.   Follow-Up Testing - An employee in a safety-sensitive position who
is referred for assistance related to alcohol and/or drug abuse is subject to
unannounced followup testing for a period not to exceed 60 months as directed
by a substance abuse professional and Village of Seneca. The number and
frequency of follow-up tests will be determined by the substance abuse
professional and Village of Seneca but will not be less than six tests in the
first 12 months following the employee' s return to duty.
      For purposes of this policy, a substance abuse professional is a licensed
physician, or a licensed or certified psychologist, social worker, employee
assistance professional, or addiction counselor (certified by the National
Association of Alcoholism and Drug Abuse Counselors Certification Commission)
with knowledge of and clinical experience in the diagnosis and treatment of
alcohol and drug-related disorders.
   B.   Pre-Employment Drug Testing. Employees in safety-sensitive positions
must pass a drug test as a post-offer condition of employment. Employees in
non-safety sensitive positions may be required to take and pass a drug test as
a post-offer condition of employment. Failure to successfully pass a post-offer
preemployment drug test may result in the offer of employment being revoked. An
applicant who is denied employment because of a positive drug test may not
reapply for employment with Village of Seneca for a period of six months.
   C.   Random Drug and/or Alcohol Testing. Employees may be randomly selected
to submit to drug and/or alcohol testing. The process will be unannounced, and
employees shall be selected in a non-discriminatory manner. After an employee
is notified that he or she has been selected for random testing, the employee
shall be required to report immediately to the testing location no later than
one hour after notification. Upon arrival at the testing location, the employee
must identify him or herself by use of a photo identification card and present
any applicable documentation. Upon completion of the drug and/or alcohol
testing, the employee will, if his or her shift is not completed, immediately
return to duty status. (Ord. 20-03, 2-18-2020)
1-16-9: DRUG AND ALCOHOL TESTING OF PUBLIC SAFETY EMPLOYEES:
For purposes of this policy, public safety employees include law enforcement
officers.
   A.   Prohibition. Village of Seneca prohibits law enforcement officers from
the consumption, possession, sale, purchase, or delivery of cannabis or
cannabis-infused substances while on or off duty.
   B.   Collective Bargaining Agreements. Any drug and alcohol testing
procedures in the collective bargaining agreement shall remain in full force
and effect. (Ord. 20-03, 2-18-2020)
1-16-10: DISCIPLINE:
   A.   Employee supervisors and their superiors, as applicable, are
responsible for administering disciplinary measures, when in the sole
discretion of the appropriate supervisor, based on the facts and circumstances
of the situation, discipline is warranted. Prior to the administration of any
disciplinary action, the applicable supervisor may give the employee the
opportunity to respond to the allegations made against the employee. Employees
subject to discipline for being under the influence of, in possession of or
consuming cannabis shall be provided a reasonable opportunity to contest the
basis for the imposition of discipline. The disciplinary procedures set forth
in this section apply to all employees, unless otherwise subject to a
collective bargaining agreement. These policies and procedures should not be
construed as preventing, limiting, or delaying the Village of Seneca from
taking appropriate disciplinary action, including immediate dismissal without
prior warning or notice, as the facts and circumstances warrant.
   B.   All discipline issued will be based on the applicable facts and
circumstances, and at the level applicable in the sole and exclusive judgment
of the applicable supervisor. (Ord. 20-03, 2-18-2020)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
PLAN COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-1-1: Purpose; Creation
2-1-2: Membership; Terms; Compensation
2-1-3: Organization And Procedures
2-1-4: Jurisdiction Of Commission
2-1-5: Functions
2-1-6: Land Subdivision Or Resubdivision
2-1-7: Improvements
2-1-8: Expenditures
2-1-9: Plan Commission, Zoning Board Of Appeals; Coordination Of Terms
2-1-1: PURPOSE; CREATION:
In order that adequate provisions be made for the development of a planning
program for the guidance, direction and control of the growth and development
or redevelopment of the Village and contiguous territory within one and one-
half (11/2) miles of the corporate limits and not included in any municipality,
a Plan Commission is hereby created under authority of the Illinois Municipal
Code 1 . (Ord. 91-19, 12-17-1991)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-12-4.
2-1-2: MEMBERSHIP; TERMS; COMPENSATION:
   A.   Membership: The Plan Commission shall consist of seven (7) members,
appointed by the Mayor and subject to the approval of the Village Council, on
the basis of their particular fitness for their duty on said Plan Commission.
The Mayor with the advice and consent of the Council, shall annually designate
one of the members as chairman. All appointees shall be residents within the
area of jurisdiction of the Plan Commission. Any regular member may be removed
by the Council at any time for any cause which in the opinion of the Council
shall warrant such removal. Further, any member who has been absent from three
(3) consecutive regular or special meetings of the Commission, without having
previously advised the chairman of the excuse for such absence, shall be
subject to removal by the Mayor.
   B.   Terms 1  And Qualifications: All terms shall expire on April 30. Of the
seven (7) members, five (5) shall reside in the Municipality and two (2) may
reside within the one and one-half mile (11/2) zone. (Ord. 99-19, 6-15-1999)
   C.   Compensation: All members of the Commission shall receive compensation
as approved by the Village Council. (Ord. 92-08, 3-17-92; amd. 1994 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. See also Section
  2-1-9 of this Chapter.
2-1-3: ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURES:
   A.   Immediately following their appointment, the members of the Plan
Commission shall meet, organize, annually elect a secretary and such officers
as it may deem necessary, and adopt and later change or alter, rules and
regulations of organization and procedure consistent with the ordinances of the
Village and the statutes of the State. In the absence or vacancy of a secretary
appointed by the Plan Commission, the Village Clerk shall perform such duties.
The Commission shall keep written records of its proceedings, which shall be
open at all times to public inspection.
   B.   Each of the members of the Plan Commission, including the chairman,
shall be entitled to one vote on all matters.
   C.   The Plan Commission shall meet at such times as it may by resolution
designate; and it shall hold special meetings on call by the chairman or any
three (3) members thereof, provided forty eight (48) hours' notice of such
special meeting is given to each member. Service of such notice may be waived
by any member. (Ord. 91-19, 12-17-1991; amd. Ord. 25-14, 4-7-2025)
2-1-4: JURISDICTION OF COMMISSION:
The Plan Commission is hereby vested with the following jurisdiction and
authority:
   A.   To hear, consider and recommend to the Village Council matters dealing
with amendments to the Zoning Ordinance, Title 10 of this Code.
   B.   To hear, consider and recommend to the Village Council matters dealing
with the granting of special use permits.
   C.   To hear, consider and recommend to the Village Council matters dealing
with the granting of planned unit developments.
   D.   To prepare and recommend to the Village Council a new Comprehensive
Plan for the present and future development or redevelopment of the Village and
contiguous unincorporated territory within one and one-half (11/2) miles of the
corporate limits of said Village and not included in any other municipality.
   E.   To designate, subject to final consideration, evaluation and approval
of the Village Council, land suitable for annexation to the Municipality and
the recommended zoning classification for such land upon annexation.
   F.   To recommend to the Village Council, from time to time, such changes in
the Comprehensive Plan or any part thereof, as may be deemed necessary.
   G.   To prepare and recommend to the Village Council, from time to time,
plans or recommendations for specific improvements in pursuance of the Official
Comprehensive Plan.
   H.   To give aid to the officials of the City charged with the direction of
projects for improvements embraced within the Official Plan, or parts thereof,
to further the making of such improvements and generally to promote the
realization of the Official Comprehensive Plan.
   I.   To consider and recommend to the Village Council all matters which it
is required to act upon under the terms of this Chapter.
   J.   To recommend, subject to final consideration, evaluation and approval
by the Village Council, reasonable standards of design for subdivisions and for
resubdivisions of unimproved land and of areas subject to redevelopment in
respect to public improvements.
   K.   To recommend, subject to final consideration, evaluation and approval
by the Village Council, reasonable standards governing the location, width,
course and surfacing of public streets and highways, alleys, ways for public
service facilities, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, street lights, parks
playgrounds, school grounds, size of lots to be used for residential purposes,
storm water drainage, water supply and distribution, sanitary sewers, and
sewage collection and treatment.
   L.   To initiate, study and make recommendations regarding matters dealing
with the planning of the community.
   M.   To initiate, direct and review, from time to time, studies of the
provisions of this Chapter, and to make recommendations to the Village Council
regarding any changes to the Chapter.
   N.   To cooperate with agencies or groups to further the local planning
program and to assure harmonious and integrated planning for the area. (Ord.
91-19, 12-17-91)
2-1-5: FUNCTIONS:
The Plan Commission shall:
   A.   Develop and maintain expertise on Village zoning and subdivision
regulations.
   B.   Advise the Council on zoning and subdivision issues and on needed
ordinance changes.
   C.   Advise the Zoning Enforcement Officer, when so requested, on Zoning
Ordinance applications.
   D.   Advise developers, builders, and the public, when directed by the
Council, on matters of zoning and development.
   E.   Maintain in-depth knowledge of the Village long range planning
document, recommend needed changes, and advise the Village on its
implementation.
   F.   Prepare specific development plans as requested by the Council. (Ord.
91-19, 12-17-91)
2-1-6: LAND SUBDIVISION OR RESUBDIVISION:
No map or plan of any subdivision or resubdivision presented for record
affecting land within the corporate limits of the Village, or within contiguous
territory which is not more than one and one-half (11/2) miles beyond the
corporate limits, shall be entitled to record or shall be valid unless the
subdivision shown thereon provided for standards of design, and standards
governing streets, alleys, public ways, ways for public service facilities,
streetlights, schools, parks and other public grounds, size of lots to be used
for residential purposes, storm and flood water runoff channels and basins,
water supply and distribution, sanitary sewers, and sewage collection and
treatment in conformity with the applicable requirements of the Village
ordinances, including the Official Plan or Map. (Ord. 91-19, 12-17-1991)
2-1-7: IMPROVEMENTS:
The Village Clerk shall furnish the Plan Commission, for its consideration, a
copy of all ordinances, plans and data relative to public improvements within
the jurisdiction of the Plan Commission. The Plan Commission may report in
relation thereto, if it deems a report necessary or advisable, for the
consideration of the Village Council. (Ord. 91-19, 12-17-1991)
2-1-8: EXPENDITURES:
The Village Council may authorize the employment of a secretarial staff or
technical advice or services as it deems necessary, whose salaries, wages, and
other necessary expenses shall be provided for by the Village Council from the
public funds. All employees shall be appointed by and under the direct
supervision of the Mayor. (Ord. 91-19, 12-17-1991)
2-1-9: PLAN COMMISSION, ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS; COORDINATION OF TERMS:
   A.   Coordination Of Terms: The Council hereby finds that it is in the best
interests of the Village to coordinate the terms between the Zoning Board of
Appeals and the Plan Commission so that there will be continuity in the
expiration and appointment of the respective Board members.
   B.   Terms Designated:
      1.   The terms of the Plan Commission shall be as follows:
         1 for 1 year
         1 for 2 years
         1 for 3 years
         2 for 4 years
         4 for 5 years
      2.   All members of the Plan Commission shall be appointed for successive
terms of five (5) years each. (Ord. 94-12, 4-5-1994; amd. Ord. 99-19, 6-15-
1999)
CHAPTER 2
BOARD OF LOCAL IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
2-2-1: Council Serve as; Meetings
2-2-2: Powers and Duties
2-2-1: COUNCIL SERVE AS; MEETINGS:
The Village Council shall be and act as the Board of Local Improvements for the
Municipality. The Board of Local Improvements shall meet upon the call of the
Mayor or any two (2) Commissioners. Twenty four (24) hours' notice of such call
shall be given each member; provided, that a meeting may be held when all
members are present, without notice. (Ord. 86-08, 8-5-86)
2-2-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The Board of Local Improvements shall have the powers and perform the duties
assigned to it by statute 1  or ordinance. (Ord. 215, 10-1-62)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 65 ILCS 5/5-3-11 and 5/9-2-7.
CHAPTER 3
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY
SECTION:
2-3-1: Short Title
2-3-2: Policy And Procedures
2-3-3: Limitations
2-3-4: Definitions
2-3-5: Creation, Organization And Duties
2-3-6: Emergency Management Power Of The Mayor
2-3-7: Financing
2-3-8: Personnel Injury Or Death Compensation
2-3-9: Training Exercise Notification Procedure
2-3-10: Local Disaster Declarations
2-3-11: Testing Of Disaster Warning Devices
2-3-12: Mutual Aid Agreements Between Political Subdivisions
2-3-13: Communications
2-3-14: Immunity
2-3-15: Professions, Trades And Occupations
2-3-16: Authority To Accept Services, Gifts, Grants Or Loans
2-3-17: Orders, Rules And Regulations
2-3-18: Utilization Of Existing Agency, Facilities And Personnel
2-3-19: Severability
2-3-20: No Private Liability
2-3-21: Succession (Rep. by Ord. 20-05, 4-6-2020)
2-3-22: Compensation
2-3-23: Personnel Oath
2-3-24: Emergency Termination Or Reduction Of Electrical Service
2-3-25: Penalty
2-3-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited and referred to as the EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT AGENCY CODE of the village of Seneca, Illinois. (Ord. 05-12, 11-1-
2005)
2-3-2: POLICY AND PROCEDURES:
   A.   Because of the possibility of the occurrence of disasters of
unprecedented size and destructiveness resulting from the explosion in this or
in a neighboring municipality of atomic (devices) or other means from without,
or by means of sabotage or other disloyal actions within, or from fire, flood,
earthquake, tornado or other natural or technological causes, and in order to
ensure that this municipality will be prepared to and will adequately deal with
any such disasters, preserve the lives and the property of the people of this
municipality and protect the public peace, health and safety in the event of
such a disaster, it is found and declared necessary to:
      1.   Create a Seneca emergency management agency (EMA).
      2.   Confer upon the mayor the extraordinary powers provided herein 1 .
      3.   Provide the rendering of mutual aid to other cities and political
subdivisions and with respect to the carrying out of an emergency management
program.
   B.   Whenever the mayor determines after an investigation that a dangerous
situation or potentially dangerous situation exists which could cause death to
individuals or serious injury to property or the health and welfare of the
public, the mayor may declare that a state of emergency exists. The
extraordinary powers may not be exercised until an ordinance shall have been
adopted by the mayor and village council or when a state of emergency exists
and shall provide that the mayor may not exercise such extraordinary power and
authority except after signing under oath a statement finding that such
standards have been met, setting forth facts to substantiate such findings,
describing the nature of the emergency and declaring that a state of emergency
exists. This statement shall be filed with the village clerk as soon as
practicable. A state of emergency shall expire not later than the adjournment
of the first regular meeting of the corporate authorities after the state of
emergency is declared. A subsequent state of emergency may be declared if
necessary.
   C.   It is further declared to be the purpose of this chapter and the policy
of this municipality that all emergency management functions of this
municipality be coordinated to the maximum extent with the comparable functions
of the federal and state governments, including their various departments and
agencies, or other municipalities and localities and private agencies of every
type, to the end that the most effective preparation and use may be made of the
nation's manpower, resources and facilities for dealing with any disaster that
may occur. (Ord. 05-12, 11-1-2005)
 
Notes
1 1. 20 ILCS 3305/1 et seq., as amended.
2-3-3: LIMITATIONS:
Nothing in this section shall be construed to:
   A.   Interfere with the course or conduct of a labor dispute, except that
actions otherwise authorized by this section or other laws may be taken when
necessary to mitigate imminent or existing danger to public health or safety;
   B.   Interfere with dissemination of news or comment of public affairs; but
any communications facility or organization (including, but not limited to,
radio and television stations, wire services and newspapers) may be required to
transmit or print public service messages furnishing information or
instructions in connection with a disaster;
   C.   Affect the jurisdiction or responsibilities of police forces,
firefighting forces, units of the armed forces of the United States, or of any
personnel thereof, when on active duty; but state, local and
interjurisdictional emergency operation plans shall place reliance upon forces
available for performance of functions related to emergency management;
   D.   Limit, modify or abridge the authority of the mayor and the village
council to exercise any other powers vested in them under the constitution,
statutes or common law of this state, independent of or in conjunction with any
provisions of this section or prohibit any contract or association pursuant to
article VII, section 10 of the Illinois constitution. (Ord. 05-12, 11-1-2005)
2-3-4: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, the
following words and terms shall have the meanings ascribed:
COORDINATOR: The staff assistant to the mayor with the duty of carrying out the
requirements of this chapter.
DIRECTOR: The mayor or his alternate.
DISASTER: An occurrence or threat of widespread or severe damage, injury, loss
of life or property resulting from any natural or manmade cause, including, but
not limited to, fire, flood, earthquake, wind, storm, oil spill or other water
contamination requiring emergency action to avert danger or damage, epidemic,
air contamination, blight, drought, infestation, explosion, riot, unlawful
stricken, or hostile military or paramilitary action. "Disaster" includes, but
is not limited to, all occurrences and threats thereof which are contemplated
by the concept of "emergency services and disaster operations".
DISASTER OPERATIONS: The functions created in accordance with the provision of
this chapter to be performed by the municipality in cooperation with other
political subdivisions to alleviate the effects of disaster.
DISASTER TRAINING EXERCISE: A planned event designed specifically to simulate
an actual disaster which will provide emergency operations training for
emergency response personnel. Actual response by EMA volunteers to local
emergency situations not qualifying as disasters, as defined in this section,
is considered a disaster training exercise. Provided, however, that performance
of the usual and customary functions of a political subdivision (e.g., police,
fire or emergency medical services) is not included within this definition of a
disaster training exercise.
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT: The efforts of the municipality to develop, plan,
analyze, implement and maintain programs for disaster mitigation, preparedness,
response and recovery.
EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN: The written plan of the municipality describing the
organization, mission and functions of the government and supporting services
for responding to and recovering from disasters.
EMERGENCY SERVICES: The preparation for and the carrying out of such functions,
other than functions for which military forces are primarily responsible, as
may be necessary or proper to prevent, minimize, repair and alleviate injury
and damage resulting from disasters caused by fire, flood, earthquake, or other
manmade or natural causes. These functions include, without limitation,
firefighting services, police services, medical and health services, rescue,
engineering, air raid warning services, communications, radiological, chemical
and other special weapons defense, evacuation of persons from stricken areas,
emergency assigned functions of plant production, temporary restoration of
public utility services and other functions related to civilian protection,
together with all other activities necessary or incidental to the preparation
for all carrying out the foregoing functions.
MOBILE SUPPORT TEAM: The utilization of personnel to be dispatched by the
governor, or, if he so authorizes, by the director of the Illinois emergency
management agency to supplement the state and political subdivisions for
emergency management programs in response to a disaster.
MUNICIPALITY: Any city, village or incorporated town.
NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (NIMS): The single comprehensive approach
to domestic incident management as established by homeland security
presidential directive/HSPD-5, that ensures all levels of government across the
nation have the capability to work efficiently and effectively together using a
national approach to domestic incident management and provides a consistent
nationwide approach for federal, state and local governments to work together
to prepare for and respond to, recover from domestic incidents regardless of
the cause, size or complexity and it also provides for interoperability and
compatibility among federal, state and local capabilities and includes a core
set of concepts, principles, terminology and technologies covering the incident
command system, unified command, training, management of resources and
reporting.
POLITICAL SUBDIVISION: Any municipal corporation with whom the village has a
signed mutual aid agreement.
PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER: The mayor of the village or, in his absence or
disability, the interim successor pursuant to section 7 of the emergency
interim succession act.
VILLAGE EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY: The agency established by this chapter
within the village municipal government responsible for coordination of the
overall emergency management program of the village and with private
organizations, other local political subdivisions, the state and federal
governments under the direction of the emergency management agency coordinator
as appointed by this chapter.
VOLUNTEER: Any individual, group, corporation, agency or other entity
contributing services, equipment or facilities to the Seneca emergency
management agency without remuneration. (Ord. 05-12, 11-1-2005)
2-3-5: CREATION, ORGANIZATION AND DUTIES:
   A.   There is hereby created an emergency management agency and a
coordinator of the emergency management agency, herein called the
"coordinator", who shall be the head thereof. The coordinator shall be
appointed by the mayor with the advice and consent of the council. He/she shall
serve at the pleasure of the mayor.
   B.   The Seneca emergency management agency shall obtain, with council
approval, such technical, clerical, stenographic and other administrative
personnel, and may make such expenditures within their appropriation therefor
as may be necessary to carry out the purpose of this chapter.
   C.   The coordinator, subject to the direction and control of the mayor,
shall be the executive head of the Seneca emergency management agency, and
shall be responsible under the direction of the mayor for carrying out the
program for emergency management operation of this municipality. He/she shall
coordinate the activities of all organizations for emergency management
operations within the municipality and shall maintain liaison, and cooperate
with, the civil defense and disaster agencies and organization of LaSalle
County, other counties and municipalities, and of the federal and state
governments.
   D.   In the event of the absence, resignation, death or inability to serve
by the coordinator, the mayor or any persons designated by him, shall be and
act as coordinator until a new appointment is made as provided in this chapter.
   E.   The Seneca emergency management agency shall take an integral part in
the development and revision of local and interjurisdictional disaster plans.
   F.   In the development of local and interjurisdictional disaster plans, the
Seneca emergency management agency shall interrelate with business, labor,
industry, civic and volunteer organizations and community leaders.
   G.   The Seneca emergency management agency shall:
      1.   Determine the requirements of the village of Seneca for food,
clothing and other necessities in the event of an emergency;
      2.   Develop an EOP that meets the standards promulgated by the Illinois
emergency management agency;
      3.   Biannually review and revise the local emergency operations plan;
      4.   Establish a register of persons with types of training and skills in
emergency prevention, preparedness, response and recovery;
      5.   Establish a register of mobile and construction equipment, and
temporary housing available for use in a disaster;
      6.   Prepare, for issuance by the mayor, ordinances, proclamations and
regulations as necessary or appropriate in coping with disasters;
      7.   Cooperate with the federal, state and county governments and any
public or private agency or entity in achieving any purpose of this chapter and
in implementing programs for disaster prevention, preparation, response and
recovery;
      8.   Disseminate all information, completely and without delay, on water
levels for streams and rivers and any data pertaining to potential flooding
supplied by the division of water resources within the Illinois department of
transportation to the maximum extent possible.
      9.   Initiate and coordinate planning for:
         a.   The establishment and maintenance of an emergency operations
center.
         b.   The implementation and maintenance of a warning system to all
schools, hospitals, nursing homes, public buildings, business and industrial
buildings, etc;
      10.   Do all other things necessary, incidental or appropriate for the
implementation of this chapter;
      11.   Coordinate the recruitment of volunteer personnel and agencies to
augment personnel and facilities of the village for emergency service purposes;
      12.   Prepare and distribute to all appropriate officials, in written
form, a clear and complete statement of the emergency responsibilities of all
local departments and officials and of the disaster chain of command;
      13.   Prepare and distribute to the appropriate municipal officials a
municipal catalog of federal, state and private assistance programs;
      14.   Coordinate federal, state and local disaster activities. (Ord. 05-
12, 11-1-2005)
2-3-6: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT POWER OF THE MAYOR:
   A.   The mayor shall have the general direction and control of the Seneca
emergency management agency and shall be responsible for the carrying out of
the provisions of this section.
   B.   The mayor shall annually notify the Illinois emergency management
agency of the manner in which the municipality is providing or securing
emergency services, identify the division head of the agency or department from
which the service is obtained and furnish additional information relating
thereto as required by the Illinois emergency management agency.
   C.   In performing his duties under this section, the mayor is authorized to
cooperate with state and federal governments and with other municipalities and
political subdivisions in all matters pertaining to emergency services
operations defined in this section.
   D.   In performing his duties under this section, the mayor is further
authorized:
      1.   To make, amend and rescind all lawful necessary orders, rules and
regulations to carry out the provisions of this section within the limits of
the authority conferred upon him.
      2.   To cause to be prepared a comprehensive plan and program for the
emergency services of this municipality, which plan and program shall be
integrated into and coordinated with emergency services plans and programs of
the federal and state governments and other political subdivisions whenever
possible and which plan and program may include:
         a.   Prevention and minimization of injury and damage caused by
disaster.
         b.   Prompt and effective response to disaster;
         c.   Emergency relief;
         d.   Identification of areas particularly vulnerable to disasters;
         e.   Recommendation for zoning, building and other land use controls,
safety measure for securing permanent structures and other mitigation measures
designed to eliminate or reduce disasters or their impact;
         f.   Assistance to local officials in designing local emergency action
plans;
         g.   Authorization and procedures for the erection or other
construction of temporary works designed to mitigate danger, damage or loss
from flood or other disaster;
         h.   Preparation and distribution to the appropriate municipal
officials of a municipal catalog of federal, state and private assistance
programs;
         i.   Organization of municipal manpower and chains of command;
         j.   Coordination of federal, state and local emergency management
activities;
         k.   Other necessary matters.
      3.   In accordance with such plan and program for the emergency services
of this municipality, and out of funds appropriated for such purposes, to
procure and preposition supplies, medicines, materials and equipment to
institute training programs and public information programs, and to take all
other preparatory steps including the partial or full mobilization of emergency
services agencies in advance of actual disaster to ensure the furnishing of
adequately trained and equipped forces for disaster response and recovery.
      4.   Out of funds appropriated for such purposes, to make such studies
and surveys of the industries, resources and facilities in this village as may
be necessary to ascertain the capabilities of the village for emergency
services phases of mitigation, preparedness, response and recovery and to plan
for the most efficient emergency use thereof.
      5.   The mayor is authorized to designate space in a municipal building,
or elsewhere, for the Seneca emergency management agency office.
      6.   The mayor may exercise the emergency power and authority necessary
to fulfill his general powers and duties as defined by law. The judgment of the
mayor shall be the sole criteria necessary to invoke emergency powers provided
by this chapter. The village council may convene to perform its legislative and
administrative powers as the situation demands and shall receive reports
relative to the emergency service activities. Nothing in this chapter shall be
construed as abridging or curtailing the powers or restriction of the mayor
and/or village council as defined by law.
      7.   In accordance with such plan and program for the emergency services
and disaster preparedness, response and recovery of this municipality, and out
of funds appropriated for such purposes, to procure and preposition supplies,
medicines, materials and equipment to institute training programs and public
information programs, and to take all other preparatory steps, including the
partial or full mobilization of emergency management organizations in advance
of actual disaster to ensure the furnishing of adequately trained and equipped
forces for disaster operations.
      8.   Out of funds appropriated for such purposes, to make such studies
and surveys of the industries, resources and facilities in this municipality as
may be necessary to ascertain the capabilities of the municipality for disaster
operations and disaster preparedness, response and recovery, and to plan for
the most efficient emergency use thereof.
      9.   The village council may, on recommendation of the mayor, authorize
any purchase or contracts necessary to place the village in a position to
combat effectively any disaster, and to protect the public health and safety,
protect property and provide emergency assistance to victims in the case of
such disaster. In the event of any disaster, the mayor is authorized on behalf
of the village, to procure such services, supplies, equipment or materials, as
may be necessary for such purposes in view of exigency, without formalities
normally prescribed by law. If the village council meets at the time of such
disaster, the village mayor shall act subject to the directions and
restrictions imposed by the village council. (Ord. 05-12, 11-1-2005)
2-3-7: FINANCING:
   A.   Funds to prepare for and meet disasters shall be made available out of
the village's general fund, EMA division.
   B.   It is the village council's intent that the first recourse shall be to
funds regularly allocated to the agency. If the mayor finds that demands placed
upon these funds in coping with a particular disaster are unreasonably great,
she may make application for funds from the state disaster relief fund. If
monies available from the fund are insufficient, and if the mayor finds that
other sources of money to cope with the disaster are not available or are
insufficient she shall issue a call for an immediate session of the village
council for the purpose of enacting ordinances as the council may deem
necessary to transfer and expend monies appropriated for other purposes, or
borrow monies from the United States government or other public or private
sources. If less than a quorum of the members of the council is capable of
convening in session to enact such ordinances for the transfer, expenditure or
load of such monies, the mayor is authorized to carry out these decisions until
such time as a quorum of the council can convene.
   C.   Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to limit the
mayor's authority to apply for, administer and expend grants, gifts or payments
in aid of disaster mitigation, preparedness, response and recovery.
   D.   The village council may make appropriations for emergency services
operations in the manner provided by law for making appropriations for the
ordinary expenses of the village. The council may also levy for emergency
services operations a tax not to exceed five one-hundredths of one percent
(0.05%) for the full, fair cash value as equalized or assessed by the
department of revenue on all taxable property in the municipality for the
current year. However, the amount collectible under such levy shall in no event
exceed twenty five cents ($0.25) per capita. The annual tax shall be in
addition to and in excess of the amount authorized to be levied for general
corporate business 1 . (Ord. 05-12, 11-1-2005)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/8-3-16.
2-3-8: PERSONNEL INJURY OR DEATH COMPENSATION:
   A.   Seneca emergency management agency personnel who, while engaged in a
disaster training exercise, suffer disease, injury or death shall, for the
purposes of benefits under workers' compensation act or workers' occupational
diseases act only, be deemed to be employees of the state if: 1) the claimant
is duly qualified and enrolled (sworn in) as a volunteer of the Illinois
emergency management agency or an emergency services and disaster agency
accredited by the Illinois emergency management agency, and 2) if the claimant
was participating in an actual "disaster" as defined in section
2-3-4 of this chapter, or the exercise participated in was specifically and
expressly approved by the Illinois emergency management agency. The Illinois
emergency management agency shall use the same criteria for approving an
exercise and utilizing state volunteers as required for any political
subdivision. The computation of benefits payable under either of these acts
shall be based on the income commensurate with comparable state employees doing
the same work or income from the person's regular employment, whichever is
greater.
   B.   If any person who is entitled to receive benefits through the
application of this section receives in connection with the disease, injury or
death giving rise to such entitlement, benefits under an act of congress or
federal program, benefits payable under this section shall be reduced to the
extent of the benefits received under that other act or program. (Ord. 05-12,
11-1-2005)
2-3-9: TRAINING EXERCISE NOTIFICATION PROCEDURE:
   A.   Prior to conducting a disaster training exercise, the mayor and the
coordinator shall provide the area media with written notification of the
disaster training exercise. Such notification shall indicate that information
relating to the disaster training exercise shall not be released to the public
until the commencement of the exercise. The notification shall also contain a
request that the notice be so posted that all relevant media personnel are
advised of the disaster training exercise before it begins.
   B.   During the conduct of such disaster training exercise, all messages,
two-way radio communications, briefings, status reports, news releases, and
other oral or written communications shall begin and end with the following
statement: "This is an exercise message". (Ord. 05-12, 11-1-2005)
2-3-10: LOCAL DISASTER DECLARATIONS:
   A.   A local disaster may be declared only by the mayor, or his interim
emergency successor. It shall not be continued or renewed for a period in
excess of seven (7) days except by or with the consent of the village council.
Any order or proclamation declaring, continuing or terminating a local disaster
shall be given prompt and general publicity and shall be filed promptly with
the village clerk.
   B.   The effect of a declaration of a local disaster is to activate the
emergency operations plan of the village and to authorize the furnishing of aid
and assistance thereunder.
   C.   A local disaster emergency may not be declared by an official (fire
chief, police chief, etc.) from another jurisdiction who is operating in the
village of Seneca under a mutual aid agreement.
   D.   During a local disaster emergency, the mayor may suspend the provision
of any municipal ordinance prescribing procedures for the conduct of village
business, or the orders, rules and regulations of any village agency, if strict
compliance with the provision of any ordinance, rule or regulation would in
anyway prevent, hinder or delay necessary action in coping with the emergency,
as authorized by the "Illinois emergency services and disaster agency act of
1988"; provided, that after the village council meets at such time the mayor
shall act subject to the directions and restrictions of the village council.
(Ord. 05-12, 11-1-2005)
2-3-11: TESTING OF DISASTER WARNING DEVICES:
   A.   The testing of Seneca TV alert system shall be held only on the first
Tuesday of each month at ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. or during disaster training
exercises that are specifically and expressly approved in advance by the
Illinois emergency management agency. (Ord. 05-12, 11-1-2005)
2-3-12: MUTUAL AID AGREEMENTS BETWEEN POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   The coordinator of the emergency management agency may, in
collaboration with other public agencies within his/her immediate vicinity
(those communities bounding the village of Seneca and/or within a 15 mile
radius), develop or cause to be developed mutual aid agreements with other
political subdivisions within the state for reciprocal disaster response and
recovery assistance in case a disaster is too great to be dealt with
unassisted. Such mutual aid shall not, however, be effective unless and until
approved by each of such political subdivisions. Such arrangements shall be
consistent with the state emergency operations plan and state emergency
management program, and in the event of such a disaster it shall be the duty of
each emergency management agency to render assistance in accordance with the
provisions of such mutual aid agreements. (Ord. 05-12, 11-1-2005)
2-3-13: COMMUNICATIONS:
Seneca emergency management agency shall ascertain what means exist for rapid
and efficient communications in times of disaster emergencies. The agency shall
consider the desirability of supplementing these communications resources or of
integrating them into a comprehensive system or network. In studying the
character and feasibility of any system or its several parts the agency shall
evaluate the possibility of multipurpose use thereof for general municipal and
local governmental purposes. The agency shall make recommendations to the mayor
as appropriate. (Ord. 05-12, 11-1-2005)
2-3-14: IMMUNITY:
Neither the municipality, the agency or any member thereof or any person acting
at their direction, engaged in any emergency management operations or disaster
activities, while complying with or attempting to comply with this chapter or
any rule or regulations promulgated pursuant to this chapter is liable for the
death of or any injury to persons, or damage to property, as a result of such
activity. This section does not, however, affect the right of any person to
receive benefits to which he would otherwise be entitled under this chapter,
under the workers' compensation act or the workers' occupational diseases act,
or under any pension law, and this section does not affect the right of any
such person to receive any benefits or compensation under any act of congress.
(Ord. 05-12, 11-1-2005)
2-3-15: PROFESSIONS, TRADES AND OCCUPATIONS:
If such disaster as is described in section
2-3-4 of this chapter occurs in Seneca and the services of persons who are
competent to practice any profession, trade or occupation are required to cope
with the disaster and it appears that the number of persons licensed or
registered in Seneca to practice such profession, trade or occupation may be
insufficient for such purpose, then any persons who are licensed elsewhere to
practice such profession, trade or occupation may, if a member of another
political subdivision rendering aid in Seneca pursuant to agreement with that
political subdivision and upon the request of the village of Seneca, or if
otherwise requested to do so by the mayor or the village council, during the
time the disaster continues, practice such profession, trade or occupation in
Seneca without being licensed or registered in Seneca. (Ord. 05-12, 11-1-2005)
2-3-16: AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT SERVICES, GIFTS, GRANTS OR LOANS:
Whenever the federal government or any agency thereof or whenever any person
shall offer to the village services, equipment, supplies, materials, or funds
by way of gift or grant for purposes of emergency services, the village, acting
through the mayor or through the village council, may authorize an agent of the
village to receive such services, equipment, materials or funds on behalf of
the village. (Ord. 05-12, 11-1-2005)
2-3-17: ORDERS, RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   The mayor or the village council shall file a copy of every rule,
regulation or order and any amendment thereof made pursuant to the provisions
of this chapter in the office of the village clerk. Upon the declaration of a
disaster by the mayor as is described in subsection 2-3-6D of this chapter, the
provision relating to the effective date of any rule, regulation, order or
amendment issued pursuant to this chapter and during the state of disaster is
abrogated, and such rule, regulation, order or amendment shall become effective
immediately upon being filed with the village clerk.
   B.   The Seneca emergency management agency established pursuant to this
chapter, and the coordinator thereof, shall execute and enforce such orders,
rules and regulations as may be made by the governor of the state of Illinois
under the authority of the Illinois emergency management agency act to maintain
the accreditation with the state of Illinois emergency management agency.
   C.   The Seneca emergency management agency shall have available for
inspection at its office and at the village clerk's office all orders, rules
and regulations made by the governor or under the governor's authority and
furnished to the village of Seneca by the Illinois emergency management agency.
(Ord. 05-12, 11-1-2005)
2-3-18: UTILIZATION OF EXISTING AGENCY, FACILITIES AND PERSONNEL:
In carrying out the provisions of this chapter the mayor and the coordinator of
the Seneca emergency management agency are directed to utilize to the fullest
all personnel, equipment, supplies and facilities of the village in their
preparations for disaster mitigation. All officers and personnel of the various
village divisions and departments are directed, as practicable, to assist with
this mitigation process. (Ord. 05-12, 11-1-2005)
2-3-19: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this chapter or the applications thereof to any person or,
circumstance be held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect such other
provisions or applications of this chapter which can be given effect without
the invalid provision or application, and to this end the provisions of this
chapter are hereby declared to be severable. (Ord. 05-12, 11-1-2005)
2-3-20: NO PRIVATE LIABILITY:
Any person owning or controlling real estate or other premises who voluntarily
and without compensation grants a license or privilege; or otherwise permits
the designation or use of the whole or any part or parts of such real estate or
premises for the purpose of sheltering persons during an actual or impending
disaster, or a mock or practice disaster response activity together with his
successors in interest, if any, shall not be civilly liable for negligently
causing the death of, or injury to, any person on or about such real estate or
premises under such license, privilege or other permission, or for negligently
causing loss of, or damage to, the property of such person. (Ord. 05-12, 11-1-
2005)
2-3-21: SUCCESSION:
(Rep. by Ord. 20-05, 4-6-2020)
2-3-22: COMPENSATION:
The municipal council, by its annual appropriations ordinance, may provide for
the payment of the salary of the coordinator and such other office staff and
personnel as may be expressly provided for in the ordinance. Nothing herein
contained shall prohibit any member of the agency from receiving compensation
from the state of Illinois emergency management agency. (Ord. 05-12, 11-1-2005)
2-3-23: PERSONNEL OATH:
Each person, whether compensated or noncompensated, who is appointed to serve
in any capacity in a department of the village of Seneca emergency management
agency, shall, before entering upon his duties, take an oath, in writing,
before a person authorized to administer oaths in this municipality, which oath
shall be filed with the coordinator of the Seneca emergency management agency,
and which oath shall be substantially as follows:
I,                               , do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will
support and defend and bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of
the United States and the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and the
territory, institutions and facilities thereof, both public and private,
against all enemies, foreign and domestic; that I take this obligation freely,
without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and that I will well and
faithfully discharge the duties upon which I am about to enter. And I do
further swear (or affirm) that I do not advocate, nor am I, nor have I been a
member of any political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of
the government of the United States or this State by force or violence; and
that during such time as I am affiliated with the Seneca Emergency Management
Agency, I will not advocate nor become a member of any political party or
organization that advocates the overthrow of the government of the United
States or of this State by force or violence.
(Ord. 05-12, 11-1-2005)
2-3-24: EMERGENCY TERMINATION OR REDUCTION OF ELECTRICAL SERVICE:
When in the judgment of the mayor or the village council, as provided herein, a
local disaster emergency requires the termination or reduction of electrical
service, the mayor or the village council shall forthwith declare in writing
the existence of the emergency condition and order the termination or
reduction. (Ord. 05-12, 11-1-2005)
2-3-25: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of violating this chapter or any order thereunder shall be
punished by a fine of not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 05-
12, 11-1-2005)
CHAPTER 4
EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM (
9-1-1) BOARD
(Rep. by Ord. 13-02, 1-15-2013)
CHAPTER 5
SUMMER FESTIVAL COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-5-1: Establishment And Appointment
2-5-2: Meetings
2-5-3: Rules
2-5-4: Duties
2-5-5: Annual Report
2-5-1: ESTABLISHMENT AND APPOINTMENT:
It is hereby created, in and for the village of Seneca, a summer festival
commission, which shall have such powers and duties as provided by the village
council from time to time. Said commission shall consist of seven (7) members
to be appointed by the mayor, with the consent of the village council. (Ord.
01-11, 6-19-2001)
2-5-2: MEETINGS:
The summer festival commission shall meet in the village council chambers or at
such other times and places as the commission itself may hereinafter deem.
(Ord. 01-11, 6-19-2001)
2-5-3: RULES:
The summer festival commission shall adopt such rules and bylaws for the
governing of the commission as it shall deem necessary, except that such rules
and bylaws shall in no way be in conflict with the ordinances of the village
nor the laws of the state. Said rules and bylaws shall be subject to council
approval. Fifty percent (50%) or more of the listed memberships of the
commission shall constitute a quorum thereof. (Ord. 01-11, 6-19-2001)
2-5-4: DUTIES:
The summer festival commission shall have all of the necessary powers for the
planning of the annual village of Seneca summer festival, including, but not
limited to, setting a price for booth spaces, regulating the construction and
size of said booth, the right to assign space and location to all vendors/
exhibitors, to limit what kind of merchandise is allowed on the premises to be
sold, and to regulate the food vendors. (Ord. 01-11, 6-19-2001)
2-5-5: ANNUAL REPORT:
The summer festival commission shall make an annual report to the village
council with respect to its activities and the times it deems appropriate, but
such report shall be made at least once a year following the summer festival.
(Ord. 01-11, 6-19-2001)
CHAPTER 6
PARK BOARD
SECTION:
2-6-1: Established; Term
2-6-2: Meetings
2-6-3: Financial Operation Of The Park
2-6-1: ESTABLISHED; TERM:
   A.   There is hereby established a village park board that will consist of
nine (9) members, who shall each serve for a four (4) year term. Of the nine
(9) members, at least six (6) shall reside in the municipality; up to three (3)
others may reside outside the municipality, provided they reside within the
Seneca Grade School tax district.
   B.   The mayor with the advice and consent of the village council shall
appoint board members to their respective terms in April of each year. In the
appointment of new board members, the mayor and council shall request
recommendations from the existing park board.
   C.   Once established, the park board may adopt rules and regulations for
operation of the parks that are not inconsistent with this chapter. (Ord. 01-
27, 10-16-2001; amd. Ord. 10-05, 4-20-2010; Ord. 22-06, 5-3-2022; Ord. 23-20,
10-3-2023)
2-6-2: MEETINGS:
   A.   The park board shall meet on the second Tuesday of each month and such
other times as set by the park board. All meetings shall be open to the public
with notice of all meetings given forty eight (48) hours in advance with the
agenda being posted with said notice.
   B.   A quorum shall consist of five (5) members. The park board shall keep
minutes of said meetings and file copies of said meetings with the village
clerk within two (2) weeks of said meetings. (Ord. 01-27, 10-16-2001; amd. Ord.
21-03, 2-16-2021)
2-6-3: FINANCIAL OPERATION OF THE PARK:
   A.   The park shall be funded by annual contribution from the general fund
or any other fund that can be used for recreational purposes, funds raised by
the park board, any other funds that may be raised by donation, and state and
federal grants. All monies received shall be given to the village treasurer for
deposit in an appropriate account. All monies raised by the park board shall be
retained and used by them for park purposes. All funds received shall only be
spent for park and recreational purposes. The park board, with the signature of
two (2) of its officers, and approval by the park board, may pay for and
authorize expenditures of funds that are in accordance with municipal and state
laws. Notwithstanding the above, the park board shall obtain council approval
on expenditures of greater than one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00)
from monies received by the village.
   B.   The park board fiscal operation shall be included in the village's
annual audit. The park board shall provide the village on an annual basis an
independent annual audit.
   C.   The park board shall keep track of all voluntary work done at the park
and the village shall contribute to the park fund annually the number of hours
worked times five dollars ($5.00). (Ord. 01-27, 10-16-2001)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL LICENSE AND PERMIT PROVISIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Definitions
3-1-2: Persons Subject To License
3-1-3: Applications For Licenses Or Permits And Certificates Of Occupancy
3-1-4: Forms And Signatures
3-1-5: Investigations; Inspections
3-1-6: Approval Or Disapproval Of Application
3-1-7: Schedule Of Fees
3-1-8: Payment And Disposition Of Fees; Refunds
3-1-9: Term And Expiration Of Licenses
3-1-10: License To Be Posted
3-1-11: Building And Premises
3-1-12: Location
3-1-13: Revocation Of License Or Permit; Hearing
3-1-14: Appeals
3-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and terms, wherever they occur in this title, shall be
construed as herein defined:
OWNER: Any individual, firm, association, partnership, corporation, trust or
any other legal entity having sufficient proprietary interest in any
establishment to maintain and manage its operation.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, association, partnership, corporation, trust or
any other legal entity. (Ord. 03-04, 3-18-2003)
3-1-2: PERSONS SUBJECT TO LICENSE:
Whenever in this code, or in any village ordinance, a license or permit is
required for the maintenance, operation or conduct of any business or
establishment, or for doing business or engaging in any activity or occupation,
any person shall be subject to the requirement if by himself, or through an
agent, employee or partner, he is held forth as being engaged in business,
activity or occupation, or if he solicits patronage therefor, actively or
passively, or if he performs or attempts to perform any part of such business,
activity or occupation in the village. All the businesses, occupations,
activities and uses hereafter set forth in section
3-1-7 of this chapter are required to have a village license.
   A.   All businesses located within the village limits of the village of
Seneca must obtain a business location permit before commencing any business.
(Ord. 03-04, 3-18-2003)
3-1-3: APPLICATIONS FOR LICENSES OR PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY:
   A.   Contents: Applications for all licenses and permits required by
ordinance shall be made in writing to the village clerk in the absence of
provision to the contrary. Each application shall contain:
      1.   The name of the applicant;
      2.   The permit or license desired;
      3.   The location to be used; and
      4.   The time covered.
   B.   Information Required: Each application also shall contain the number of
the certificate of registration required under retailers' occupation tax act,
service occupation tax act and/or use tax act, if applicable 1 . Each
application shall contain such additional information as may be needed for the
proper guidance of the village officials in the issuing of the license, permit,
and certificate of occupancy applied for. (Ord. 03-04, 3-18-2003)
 
Notes
1 1. See also chapter 2 of this title.
3-1-4: FORMS AND SIGNATURES:
Forms for all licenses, permits, and certificates of occupancy and applications
therefor shall be prepared and kept on file by the village clerk. Each license
or permit issued shall bear the signature or facsimile thereof of the village
clerk in the absence of any provisions to the contrary. (Ord. 03-04, 3-18-2003)
3-1-5: INVESTIGATIONS; INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Investigation Of Applicants:
      1.   Upon receipt of an application for a license or permit, or renewal
thereof, the village clerk shall promptly refer the application to the proper
village official or employee for the purpose of inspection and investigation to
determine compliance with all applicable ordinances and regulations.
      2.   The officials or employees reviewing an application shall make a
report thereof, favorable or otherwise, after due investigation and promptly
upon obtaining all relevant information relating to said application.
      3.   Upon receipt of all related investigative reports, the village clerk
shall forward such reports, together with the application, to the village mayor
and village council for evaluation and determination.
   B.   Inspections; Analyses: Failure to provide convenient access to
premises, provide samples of products or otherwise provide such data or other
information as the village may reasonably require to evaluate an application
shall constitute sufficient cause for the failure to issue license or permit.
(Ord. 03-04, 3-18-2003)
3-1-6: APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL OF APPLICATION:
   A.   If it shall appear to the corporate authorities that the matters and
circumstances relating to an application require further information before a
proper determination can be made, such application shall be returned to the
village clerk for the inclusion of such additional information as may be
specified necessary and appropriate.
   B.   If, after due consideration of the information contained within the
application and the related investigative reports, the corporate authorities
shall determine that the matters concerning the application are unsatisfactory,
they may disapprove such application, indicating the reasons therefor.
Thereupon, the village clerk shall be directed to promptly notify the applicant
that his application is disapproved, and that no license or permit will be
issued.
   C.   If, after due consideration of the information contained within the
application and the related investigative reports, the corporate authorities
shall determine that the application is satisfactory, they shall approve the
application. Thereupon, the village clerk shall be directed to promptly notify
the applicant that his application is approved and the license or permit may be
issued. (Ord. 03-04, 3-18-2003)
3-1-7: SCHEDULE OF FEES:
Except as otherwise expressly provided for in this code, the following fees
shall be applicable to the following:
 
                                                          Code Location Fee
Amusements (see section
3-3-5 of this title)
Arcade owner, annual fee                                  3-9-5         $750.00
Automatic vending machines per machine                                  25.00
However, the total license fee shall not exceed $25.00
for any combination of such machines as defined when they
are all attached to one common rack or stacking device or
stand.
Liquor (see section
3-8-7 of this title)
 
(Ord. 03-04, 3-18-2003)
3-1-8: PAYMENT AND DISPOSITION OF FEES; REFUNDS:
   A.   Payment Of Fees; Proration: In the absence of provision to the
contrary, all fees and charges for licenses and permits shall be paid in
advance at the time application therefor is made to the village clerk in the
amounts prescribed in the schedule set forth in section
3-1-7 of this chapter or elsewhere in this code. When an applicant has not
engaged in the business or activity until after the expiration of part of the
current license year, the license fee shall be prorated semiannually and the
fee paid for each half year or fraction thereof during which the business or
activity has been or will be conducted.
   B.   Disposition Of Fees: Except as otherwise provided, all license and
permit fees shall become a part of the general fund. (Ord. 03-04, 3-18-2003)
   C.   Refunds And Rebates: In no event shall any rebate or refund be made of
any license or permit fee, or part thereof, by reason of death or departure of
the licensee or permittee, nor shall any rebate or refund be made by reason of
nonuse of the license or discontinuance of the operation or conduct of the
licensed establishment, business or activity in the last six (6) months of the
license. In the first six (6) months, the council may issue a refund when the
licensee shuts down the business, or otherwise voluntarily relinquishes his or
her license, except when the licensee's license is terminated because of
revocation or suspension by the village or any other governmental authority.
Said refund will be pro rata on a monthly basis beginning the first month after
termination of the license. (Ord. 03-14, 6-3-2003)
3-1-9: TERM AND EXPIRATION OF LICENSES:
   A.   Term: All annual licenses shall be operative and the license year for
the village shall commence May 1 of each year and shall terminate on April 30
of the following year, where no provision to the contrary is made.
   B.   Expiration: The village clerk shall notify all licensees of the village
of the time of expiration of the license held by the licensee (if an annual
license) three (3) weeks prior to the date of such expiration. A failure to
make such notification or the failure of the licensee to receive it shall not
excuse the licensee from the obligation to obtain a new license or a renewal
thereof, nor shall it be a defense in an action based upon operation without a
license. (Ord. 03-04, 3-18-2003)
3-1-10: LICENSE TO BE POSTED:
   A.   It shall be the duty of every person conducting a licensed business in
the village to keep his license posted in a prominent place on the premises
used for such business at all times. (Ord. 03-04, 3-18-2003)
3-1-11: BUILDING AND PREMISES:
No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business and no permit shall
be issued for any purpose or activity if the premises and building to be used
for the purpose do not fully comply with all applicable ordinances and
regulations of the village and state of Illinois. (Ord. 03-04, 3-18-2003)
3-1-12: LOCATION:
   A.   No license for the operation of a business or establishment in the
village shall be construed to permit the operation of a licensed business or
establishment in more than one location in the village; a separate license
shall be required for each location of a licensed establishment. For the
purpose of this chapter, the existence of a single location shall be evidenced
by the fact that all buildings containing the principal or accessory uses shall
be connected or shall be located on the same lot or parcel, shall be operated
and managed by the same person or owner, and shall be an establishment with the
same classification.
   B.   The location of any licensed business or occupation, or the location of
any permitted act, may be changed; provided:
      1.   Notice of the changed location is received by the clerk at least ten
(10) business days prior to commencement of activities at the new location;
      2.   The new location has been inspected and approved by the village for
compliance with applicable zoning 1  and other ordinance requirements; and
      3.   The new location has been approved by the corporate authorities.
(Ord. 03-04, 3-18-2003)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 10 of this code.
3-1-13: REVOCATION OF LICENSE OR PERMIT; HEARING:
   A.   Revocation Of License Or Permit: Licenses and permits issued under the
ordinances of the village, unless otherwise provided, may be revoked by the
mayor after notice and hearing as provided in subsections B and C of this
section for any of the following causes:
      1.   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for the license or permit.
      2.   Any violation by the licensee or permittee of ordinance provisions
relating to the license or permit, the subject matter of the license or permit
or the premises occupied.
      3.   Conviction of the licensee or permittee of any felony or of a
misdemeanor involving moral turpitude.
      4.   Failure of the licensee or permittee to pay any fine or penalty
owing to the village.
      5.   Refusing to provide convenient access or samples of such data or
other information as may be reasonably requested by the village in evaluating
any application or renewal of any permit or license.
Such revocation, if ordered, shall not preclude prosecution and imposition of
any other penalties for the violation of other applicable ordinances of the
village.
   B.   Notice Of Hearing: Notice of hearing for revocation of a license or
permit shall be given in writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of the
complaint and the time and place of the hearing. Such notice shall be sent by
certified mail, return receipt requested, to the licensee or permittee at his
last known address at least five (5) days prior to the date set for the
hearing.
   C.   Hearing: The licensee or permittee shall be permitted counsel and shall
have the right to submit evidence and cross examine witnesses. The village
mayor shall preside and shall render the decision. (Ord. 03-04, 3-18-2003)
3-1-14: APPEALS:
Any person aggrieved by the decision of the village mayor in regard to the
denial of an application for a business license, as provided in section
3-1-6 of this chapter, or in connection with the revocation of, or refusal to
renew, a license or permit as provided in section
3-1-13 of this chapter shall have the right to appeal to the village council.
Such appeal shall be taken by filing with the village clerk, within ten (10)
days after notice of denial of an application or a revocation of, or refusal to
renew, a license or permit, a written statement under oath setting forth
specifically the grounds for appeal. The village council shall thereupon set
the time and place for a hearing on such appeal, and notice of such hearing
shall be given to the applicant or licensee or permittee in the same manner as
provided in section
3-1-13 of this chapter. The decision of the village council on such appeal
shall be final. (Ord. 03-04, 3-18-2003)
CHAPTER 2
MUNICIPAL OCCUPATION TAXES
SECTION:
3-2-1: Municipal Utility Tax
3-2-2: Electricity Tax
3-2-3: Municipal Cannabis Retailers’ Occupation Tax
3-2-4: Grocery Retailers’ Occupation Tax And Grocery Service Occupation Tax
3-2-1: MUNICIPAL UTILITY TAX:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this Section, the following
definitions shall apply:
    GROSS RECEIPTS: The consideration received for the transmission of
messages, or for distributing, supplying, furnishing or selling gas,
electricity, or water for use or consumption and not for resale, as the case
may be; and for all services rendered in connection therewith valued in money,
whether received in money or otherwise including cash, credit, services and
property of every kind and material and for all services rendered therewith;
and shall be determined without any deduction on account of the cost of
transmitting said messages without any deduction on account of the cost of the
service, product or commodity supplied, the cost of materials used, labor or
service cost, or any other expenses whatsoever. The term "gross receipts" shall
not include any charges added to customers' bills pursuant to the provisions of
section 5/9-221 or 5/9-222 of the Illinois Public Utilities Act 1  or any other
separately stated charge added to customers' bills in respect of any tax or
other governmental imposition.
   PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint adventure, corporation, municipal
corporation or political subdivision of this State, or a receiver, trustee,
conservator or other representative appointed by order of any court.
   TRANSMITTING MESSAGES: In addition to the usual and popular meaning of
person-to-person communication, shall include the furnishing, for a
consideration, of services or facilities (whether owned or leased) or both, to
persons in connection with the transmission of messages where such persons do
not, in turn, receive any consideration in connection therewith, but shall not
include such furnishing of services or facilities to persons for the
transmission of messages to the extent that any such services or facilities for
the transmission of messages are furnished for a consideration, by such persons
to other persons, for the transmission of messages. (Ord. 89-07, 3-21-1989;
amd. Ord. 90-21, 8-28-1990)
   B.   Tax Imposed: A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the following
occupations or privileges:
      1.   Persons engaged in the business of transmitting messages by means of
electricity, at the rate of five percent (5%) of the gross receipts from such
business originating within the corporate limits of Seneca.
      2.   Persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing, or selling gas for use or consumption within the corporate limits
of Seneca, and not for resale, at the rate of five percent (5%) of the gross
receipts therefrom.
      3.   Persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing, or selling electricity for use or consumption within the corporate
limits of Seneca, and not for resale, at the rate of five percent (5%) of the
gross receipts therefrom. (Ord. 92-15, 6-2-1992) 2
Such tax shall be in addition to the payment of money, or value of products or
services furnished to this Municipality by the taxpayer as compensation for the
use of its streets, alleys, or other public places, or installation and
maintenance therein, thereon, thereunder, of poles, wires, pipes or other
equipment used in the operation of the taxpayer's business.
   C.   Exemption From Tax: No tax is imposed by this Section with respect to
any transaction in interstate commerce or otherwise to the extent to which such
business may not, under the Constitution and statutes of the United States, be
made subject to taxation by this State or any political subdivision thereof;
nor shall any persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling gas, water or electricity, or engaged in the business of
transmitting messages be subject to taxation under the provisions of this
Section for such transactions as are or may become subject to taxation under
the provisions of the "Municipal Retailers' Occupation Tax Act" authorized by
65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-1.
   D.   Tax Returns: On or before May 31, 1989, each taxpayer shall make a
return to the Village Clerk for the month of April 1989, stating:
      1.   His name.
      2.   His principal place of business.
      3.   His gross receipts during those months upon the basis of which the
tax is imposed.
      4.   Amount of tax.
      5.   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
On or before the last day of every month thereafter, each taxpayer shall make a
like return to the Village Clerk for the immediately preceding month.
   E.   Payment Of Tax: The taxpayer making the return herein provided for
shall, at the time of making such return, pay to the Village Clerk the amount
of tax herein imposed; provided, that in connection with any return the
taxpayer may, if he so elects, report and pay an amount based upon his total
billings of business subject to the tax during the period for which the return
is made (exclusive of any amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of
later payments based upon any differences between such billings and the taxable
gross receipts.
   F.   Tax Credits: If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid
which was not due under the provisions of this Section, whether as the result
of a mistake or act or an error of law, then such amount shall be credited
against any tax due, or to become due, under this Section from the taxpayer who
made the erroneous payment; provided, that no amounts erroneously paid more
than three (3) years prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be so
credited.
   G.   Limit On Collection Of Tax: No action to recover any amount of tax due
under the provisions of this Section shall be commenced more than three (3)
years after the due date of such amount.
   H.   Effect Of Tax 3 : This Section shall take effect after publication and
the tax provided for herein shall be based on the "gross receipts", as herein
defined, actually paid to the taxpayer for services billed on or after April 1,
1989.
   I.   Violation: Any taxpayer who fails to make a return, or who makes a
fraudulent return, or who wilfully violates any other provision of this Section
is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not
less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) and in addition shall be liable in a civil action for the amount of
tax due. (Ord. 89-07, 3-21-1989)
 
Notes
1 1. 220 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.
  1. Amending Ordinance 92-15 shall be effective as to gross receipts actually
  paid to the taxpayer for services billed on or after July 1, 1992; provided,
2 however, that any amounts due or payable for any tax periods ending prior to
  July 1, 1992, are nevertheless to remain payable as if the amendatory
  Ordinance 92-15 had not been adopted.
3 1. See footnote at subsection A of this Section, definition of "gross
  receipts".
3-2-2: ELECTRICITY TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed:
      1.   A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the following occupations
or privileges:
The privilege of using or consuming electricity acquired in a purchase at
retail and used or consumed within the corporate limits of the Municipality at
the following rates, calculated on a monthly basis for each purchaser:
         a.   For the first 2,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month;
0.583 cents per kilowatt-hour;
         b.   For the next 48,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month;
0.382 cents per kilowatt-hour;
         c.   For the next 50,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month;
0.344 cents per kilowatt-hour;
         d.   For the next 400,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month;
0.334 cents per kilowatt-hour;
         e.   For the next 500,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month;
0.325 cents per kilowatt-hour;
         f.   For the next 2,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a
month; 0.306 cents per kilowatt-hour;
         g.   For the next 2,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a
month; 0.301 cents per kilowatt-hour;
         h.   For the next 5,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a
month; 0.296 cents per kilowatt hour;
         i.   For the next 10,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a
month; 0.291 cents per kilowatt hour;
         j.   For all electricity used or consumed in excess of 20,000,000
kilowatt-hours in a month; 0.287 cents per kilowatt-hour.
      2.   Pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-2, the rates set
forth in subsection A1 of this Section shall be effective: a) on August 1,
1998, for residential customers; and b) on the earlier of: 1) the first bill
issued on or after January 1, 2001, or 2) the date of the first bill issued
pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/16-104, for nonresidential
customers. The tax imposed by this Section 1  shall not apply with respect to
gross receipts pertaining to bills for the distribution, supply, furnishing or
sale of electricity where the use or consumption of the electricity is subject
to the tax imposed by this Section.
      3.   Pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-2, the Village Code
(commonly known as the Gross Receipts Utility Tax) shall specifically remain in
effect: a) for receipts attributable to residential customers, until July 31,
1998; and b) for receipts attributable to nonresidential customers, the earlier
of: 1) through the last bill issued prior to December 31, 2000, or 2) the date
of the first bill issued to such nonresidential customer pursuant to 220
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/16-104.
      4.   None of the taxes authorized by this Section may be imposed with
respect to any transaction in interstate commerce or otherwise to the extent to
which the business or privilege may not, under the Constitution and statutes of
the United States, be made the subject of taxation by this State or any
political subdivision thereof; nor shall any persons engaged in the business of
distributing, supplying, furnishing, or selling or transmitting gas, water, or
electricity, or engaged in the business of transmitting messages, or using or
consuming electricity acquired in a purchase at retail, be subject to taxation
under the provisions of this Section for those transactions that are or may
become subject to taxation under the provisions of the Municipal Retailers'
Occupation Tax Act as authorized by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-1; nor
shall any tax authorized by this Section be imposed upon any person engaged in
a business or on any privilege unless the tax is imposed in like manner and at
the same rate upon all persons engaged in businesses of the same class in the
Municipality, whether privately or municipally owned or operated, or exercising
the same privilege within the Municipality.
   B.   Additional Taxes: Such tax shall be in addition to other taxes levied
upon the taxpayer or its business.
   C.   Collection: The tax authorized by this Section shall be collected from
the purchaser by the person maintaining a place of business in this State who
delivers the electricity to the purchaser. This tax shall constitute a debt of
the purchaser to the person who delivers the electricity to the purchaser and
if unpaid, is recoverable in the same manner as the original charge for
delivering the electricity. Any tax required to be collected pursuant to this
Section and any such tax collected by a person delivering electricity shall
constitute a debt owed to the Municipality by such person delivering the
electricity, provided, that the person delivering electricity shall be allowed
credit for such tax related deliveries of electricity the charges for which are
written off as uncollectible, and provided further, that if such charges are
thereafter collected, the delivering supplier shall be obligated to remit such
tax. Persons delivering electricity shall collect the tax from the purchaser by
adding such tax to the gross charge for delivering the electricity. Persons
delivering electricity shall also be authorized to add to such gross charge an
amount equal to three percent (3%) of the tax to reimburse the person
delivering electricity for the expense incurred keeping records, billing
customers, preparing and filing returns, remitting the tax and supplying data
to the Municipality upon request. If the person delivering electricity fails to
collect the tax from the purchaser, then the purchaser shall be required to pay
the tax directly to the Municipality in the manner prescribed by the
Municipality. Persons delivering electricity who file returns pursuant to this
Section shall, at the time of filing such return, pay the Municipality the
amount of the tax collected pursuant to this Section.
   D.   Reports To Municipality: On or before the last day of each month, each
taxpayer who has not paid the tax imposed by this Section to a person
delivering electricity and who is not otherwise exempted from paying such tax
shall make a return to the City Treasurer for the preceding month stating:
      1.   His name.
      2.   His principal place of business.
      3.   His gross receipts and/or kilowatt-hour usage during the month upon
the basis of which the tax is imposed.
      4.   Amount of tax.
      5.   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
The taxpayer making the return herein provided for shall, at the time of making
such return, pay to the Village, the amount of tax herein imposed; provided
that in connection with any return, the taxpayer may, if he so elects, report
and pay an amount based upon his total billings of business subject to the tax
during the period for which the return is made (exclusive of any amounts
previously billed) with prompt adjustments of later payments based upon any
differences between such billings and the taxable gross receipts.
   E.   Credit For Overpayment: If it shall appear that an amount of tax has
been paid which was not due under the provisions of this Section, whether as
the result of a mistake of fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be
credited against any tax due, or to become due, under this Section from the
taxpayer who made the erroneous payment; provided that no amounts erroneously
paid more than three (3) years after the due date of such amount.
   F.   Penalty: Any taxpayer who fails to make a return, or who makes a
fraudulent return, or who wilfully violates any other provision of this Section
is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not
less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than two hundred dollars
($200.00) in addition, shall be liable in a civil action for the amount of tax
due 2 .
   G.   Unconstitutionality: In the event that Public Act 90-561 is declared
unconstitutional, or if subsection A of this Section is voided by court action,
the provisions of the gross receipts utility tax, shall remain in effect in all
respects as if it had never been amended by this Section, and any amounts paid
to the Village by any person delivering electricity pursuant to this Section
shall be deemed to have been paid pursuant to the gross receipts utility tax as
it existed prior to the passage of this amended Section. (Ord. 1998-17, 8-4-
1998)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2.
2 1. 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2.
3-2-3: MUNICIPAL CANNABIS RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   Tax imposed; Rate.
      1.   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
selling cannabis, other than cannabis purchased under the Compassionate Use of
Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act, at retail in the Village at the rate of 3%
of the gross receipts from these sales made in the course of that business.
      2.   The imposition of this tax is in accordance with the provisions of
Sections 8-11-22, of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-22).
   B.   Collection of tax by retailers.
      1.   The tax imposed by this section shall be remitted by such retailer
to the Illinois Department of Revenue (Department). Any tax required to be
collected pursuant to or as authorized by this section and any such tax
collected by such retailer and required to be remitted to the Department shall
constitute a debt owed by the retailer to the State. Retailers may reimburse
themselves for their seller's tax liability hereunder by separately stating
that tax as an additional charge, which charge may be stated in combination, in
a single amount, with any State tax that sellers are required to collect.
      2.   The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be
assessed as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the
Department. The Department shall have full power to administer and enforce the
provisions of this section. (Ord. 19-14, 8-20-2019)
3-2-4: GROCERY RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX AND GROCERY SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   Municipal Grocery Retailers’ Occupation Tax Imposed. A tax is hereby
imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of selling groceries at retail
in this municipality at the rate of one percent (1%) of the gross receipts from
such sales made in the course of such business while this section is in effect.
The imposition of this tax is in accordance with and subject to the provisions
of section 8-11-24 of the Illinois Municipal Code (ILCS 5/8-11-24).
   B.   Municipal Grocery Service Occupation Tax. A tax is hereby imposed upon
all persons engaged in this municipality in the business of making sales of
service, who, as an incident to making those sales of service, transfer
groceries as an incident to a sale of service. The rate of this tax shall be
the same rate identified in section 2, above. The imposition of this tax is in
accordance with and subject to the provisions of section 8-11-24 of the
Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-24).
   C.   Illinois Department Of Revenue To Administer Both Taxes. The taxes
hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be assessed as an incident
thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the department of revenue of the
State of Illinois department of revenue shall have full power to administer and
enforce the provisions of this section. (Ord. 25-11, 4-7-2025)
CHAPTER 3
MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICES
SECTION:
3-3-1: Purpose
3-3-2: Definitions
3-3-3: License Required; Compliance With Provisions
3-3-4: Application For License; Investigation
3-3-5: License Fee
3-3-6: Approval Or Disapproval Of License
3-3-7: Term Of License; Renewals
3-3-8: Transfer Of License; Improper Use
3-3-9: License To Be Posted
3-3-10: Inspections
3-3-11: Revocation Of License
3-3-12: Violation And Penalty
3-3-1: PURPOSE:
This Chapter shall govern the licensing of mechanical amusement devices within
the Village of businesses that are not arcade owners. (Ord. 96-29, 12-3-1996)
3-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this Chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICE: Any machine, video, electronic or mechanical,
which, upon the insertion of a coin, slug, token, plate or disc, or the payment
of a price, may be operated by the public generally for use as a game, or for
entertainment purposes.
OWNER: Any person who owns, operates or conducts any place or establishment in
which mechanical amusement devices may be operated. (Ord. 96-29, 12-3-1996)
3-3-3: LICENSE REQUIRED; COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
No person shall operate a business that has a mechanical amusement device in it
without first having obtained a license and without first complying with all of
the requirements of this Chapter. (Ord. 96-29, 12-3-1996)
3-3-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; INVESTIGATION:
Each person desiring to obtain a license for a mechanical amusement device is
required to file a written application with the Village Clerk on forms approved
by the Village Clerk, together with the application fee. Liquor license holders
who have a liquor license on file shall not be required to provide an
application.
   A.   The application shall include the following information:
      1.   The applicant's date of birth, correct name, post office address and
residence, the length of time the applicant has resided within this State and
the applicant's places of residence for the ten (10) years preceding
application.
      2.   Whether the applicant has been convicted of any crime involving
moral turpitude.
      3.   The type of business and the exact location of the premises for
which a license is requested.
      4.   If the applicant is a corporation authorized to do business in this
State, the application shall be made by the agent of the corporation who will
have principal charge of the premises established, and the application shall
contain all the facts and recommendations required in the case of an
individual. The license issued to a corporation is revocable upon a change in
the agent managing the premises, and a new license may be required by the
Village Council before a new agent may take charge of the premises.
      5.   If the applicant is a partnership, each active partner shall join in
the application for the license and shall furnish the information and
recommendations required of an individual applicant.
   B.   The Chief of Police shall cause an investigation to be made for the
purpose of determining if the application and the proposed operation of the
amusement devices are in compliance with this Chapter and the following
matters:
      1.   Whether the distributor, owner or operator is of good moral
character.
      2.   Whether the distributor, owner or operator has been convicted of any
criminal offense involving moral turpitude. (Ord. 96-29, 12-3-1996)
3-3-5: LICENSE FEE:
Each owner of a mechanical amusement device shall pay an annual mechanical
amusement device fee in the amount of twenty five dollars ($25.00) per
mechanical amusement device. (Ord. 96-29, 12-3-1996)
3-3-6: APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL OF LICENSE:
The Village Council shall either approve or disapprove the application for
license within fifteen (15) days of receipt by said Council, and forward such
recommendation to the Village Clerk. Should an application be disapproved, the
reason therefor shall be endorsed upon the application and the applicant shall
be notified thereof. The applicant shall be entitled to request a hearing
before the Village Council in the event of disapproval of an application. (Ord.
96-29, 12-3-1996)
3-3-7: TERM OF LICENSE; RENEWALS:
The term of any license granted shall begin January 1 of the license year and
shall terminate at twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on December 31 of that year.
Original licenses shall be issued for the balance of the license year at the
full license fee. License applications for license renewals shall be accepted
and licenses issued for a period of fifteen (15) days prior to the annual
expiration date. (Ord. 97-11, 6-3-1997)
3-3-8: TRANSFER OF LICENSE; IMPROPER USE:
No license issued under the provisions of this Chapter shall be transferable.
No licensee shall transfer or attempt to transfer his license or permit to
another nor shall he make any alteration or improper use of the same without
the Village approval. (Ord. 96-29, 12-3-1996)
3-3-9: LICENSE TO BE POSTED:
The license shall be exhibited at all times in some conspicuous place in the
place of business. It shall be unlawful for any person to display any expired,
revoked or fictitious license. (Ord. 96-29, 12-3-1996)
3-3-10: INSPECTIONS:
It shall be the duty of police officers to make inspections of all mechanical
amusement devices and if any unlawful practices are observed in connection
therewith, they shall report the same to the Chief of Police for such action as
he may deem proper, and the Chief of Police may recommend the immediate
revocation of such license. (Ord. 96-29, 12-3-1996)
3-3-11: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Every license issued under this Chapter is subject to the right, which
is hereby expressly reserved, to revoke the same should the licensee directly
or indirectly permit the operation of any mechanical amusement device contrary
to the provisions of this Chapter, the ordinances of the Village or the laws of
the State.
   B.   Said license may be revoked by the Village Council after written notice
to the licensee, which notice shall specify the ordinance or law violations
with which the licensee is charged, if after a hearing the licensee is found to
be guilty of such violations. Ten (10) days' notice of the hearing shall be
given the licensee. At such hearing the licensee and his attorney may present
and submit evidence or witnesses in his defense. (Ord. 96-29, 12-3-1996)
3-3-12: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
Every person who shall violate any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable as
provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 96-29, 12-3-1996)
CHAPTER 4
JUNKYARDS AND AUTO RECYCLING
SECTION:
3-4-1: Definitions
3-4-2: Conditions For Establishment
3-4-3: Nonconforming Facilities; Nuisance Declared
3-4-4: Screening Of Junkyards
3-4-5: License Required; Fee
3-4-6: Violations
3-4-7: Penalty
3-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
Terms used in this Chapter, unless the context otherwise requires, are defined
as follows:
AUTOMOBILE GRAVEYARD: Any establishment or place of business which is
maintained, used, or operated for storing, keeping, buying, recycling,
crushing, or selling wrecked, scrapped, ruined or dismantled motor vehicles or
motor vehicle parts.
JUNK: Old or scrap copper, brass, rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash, rubber
debris, waste, or junked, dismantled or wrecked automobiles, or parts thereof,
iron, steel, and other old or scrap ferrous or nonferrous materials.
JUNKYARD: An establishment or place of business which is maintained, operated,
or used for storing, keeping, buying or selling junk, or for the maintenance or
operation of an automobile graveyard or recycling center and the term shall
include garbage dumps and sanitary fills.
SCRAP PROCESSING FACILITY: Any establishment having facilities for processing
iron, steel, nonferrous scrap, mineral wastes or slag, and whose principal
product is scrap iron, steel, or nonferrous scrap for sale for remelting
purposes. (Ord. 96-11, 5-21-1996, eff. 5-31-1996)
3-4-2: CONDITIONS FOR ESTABLISHMENT:
   A.   No person may hereafter establish, operate or maintain a junkyard,
automobile graveyard or scrap processing facility, any portion of which is
within five hundred feet (500') of the nearest edge of the right of way of the
following highways and lands:
   U.S. Route 6 (West and East Jackson Street)
   Illinois Route 170 (Main Street)
   County Highway 25 (East 29th Road)
   DuPont Road (2553rd Road and County Highway 36)
   Brookfield Drive (2850th Road and 28th Road)
   River Drive (2553rd Road)
   South Shipyard Road
   Old Stage Road (East Union Street)
   Illinois & Michigan Canal Corridor Towpath.
   B.   No person may hereafter establish, operate, or maintain a junkyard,
automobile graveyard, recycling or scrap processing facility, any portion of
which is within five hundred feet (500') of a residence or a zoned residential
district. (Ord. 96-11, 5-21-1996, eff. 5-31-1996)
3-4-3: NONCONFORMING FACILITIES; NUISANCE DECLARED:
Junkyards, automobile recycling, automobile graveyards, and scrap processing
facilities which do not conform to the requirements of this Chapter are
declared to be a nuisance. (Ord. 96-11, 5-21-1996, eff. 5-31-1996)
3-4-4: SCREENING OF JUNKYARDS:
Any junkyard, automobile graveyard, or scrap processing facility lawfully in
existence on the effective date of this Chapter shall be screened so as not to
be visible from the main-traveled way of such highway or surrounding
residences. (Ord. 96-11, 5-21-1996, eff. 5-31-1996)
3-4-5: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE:
No person shall operate or maintain junkyards, recycling, or scrap processing
facilities without obtaining a license from the Village, which said licensing
fee shall be in the amount of fifty dollars ($50.00) annually. Each licensee
must provide to the Village a bond conditioned upon the observance of the
requirements of this Chapter and all other valid regulations and laws
pertaining to the above uses. The amount of the bond shall be one hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000.00), which said bond may be used for fencing,
remediation and cleanup. (Ord. 96-11, 5-21-1996, eff. 5-31-1996)
3-4-6: VIOLATIONS:
Actions will be taken to prevent unlawful establishment, operation or
maintenance, restraining, correcting or abating violations. The Village may, in
addition to any other remedies, initiate an appropriate action in the circuit
court of the county in which a junkyard, automobile graveyard, recycling or
scrap processing facility is located, to prevent the unlawful establishment,
operation or maintenance of a junkyard, automobile graveyard, recycling or
scrap processing facility which is not in compliance with this Chapter, or to
restrain, correct or abate a violation of this Chapter, or to prevent any
illegal act, conduct, business or use in or about the premises of such junkyard
or scrap processing facility. (Ord. 96-11, 5-21-1996, eff. 5-31-1996)
3-4-7: PENALTY:
Whoever violates any provision of this Chapter is guilty of a petty offense and
will be fined no less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) and no greater than
five hundred dollars ($500.00). Each day of violation shall constitute a
separate violation. (Ord. 96-11, 5-21-1996, eff. 5-31-1996)
CHAPTER 5
SOLICITORS
SECTION:
3-5-1: Definitions
3-5-2: Certificate of Registration Required
3-5-3: Application for Certificate; Restrictions on Issuance
3-5-4: Issuance or Denial of Certificate; Revocation
3-5-5: Village Policy on Soliciting
3-5-6: Notice Regulating Soliciting
3-5-7: Duty of Solicitors
3-5-8: Uninvited Soliciting Prohibited
3-5-9: Time Limit on Soliciting
3-5-10: Tag Days
3-5-11: Violation and Penalty
3-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
Terms used in this Chapter shall mean as follows:
REGISTERED SOLICITOR: Any person who has obtained a valid certificate of
registration as hereinafter provided, and which certificate is in the
possession of the solicitor on his person while engaged in soliciting.
RESIDENCE: Every separate living unit occupied for residential purposes by one
or more persons, contained within any type of building or structure.
SOLICITING: Includes any one or more of the following activities:
   A.   Seeking to obtain orders, for the purchase of goods, wares,
merchandise, foodstuffs, services of any kind, character or description
whatever, for any kind of consideration whatever; or
   B.   Seeking to obtain prospective customers for application or purchase of
insurance of any type, kind or character; or
   C.   Seeking to obtain subscriptions to books, magazines, periodicals,
newspapers, and every other type or kind of publication; or
   D.   Seeking to obtain gifts or contributions of money, clothing or any
other valuable thing for the support or benefit of any charitable or nonprofit
association, organization, corporation or project. (Ord. 323, 12-19-77)
3-5-2: CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
Every person desiring to engage in soliciting from persons in residence within
this Village is hereby required to make written application for a certificate
of registration. (Ord. 323, 12-19-77)
3-5-3: APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATE; RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE:
   A.   Application for a certificate of registration shall be made upon a form
provided by the Chief of Police and filed with the Chief. The applicant shall
truthfully state in full the information requested on the application:
      1.   Name and address of present place of residence and length of
residence at such address; also business address if other than residence
address; also social security number.
      2.   Address of place of residence during the past three (3) years if
other than present address.
      3.   Age of applicant and marital status; and if married, the name of
spouse.
      4.   Physical description of the applicant.
      5.   Name and address of the person, firm or corporation or association
whom the applicant is employed by or represents; and the length of time of such
employment or representation.
      6.   The name and address of employer during the past three (3) years if
other than the present employer.
      7.   Description sufficient for identification of the subject matter of
the soliciting which the applicant will engage in.
      8.   Period of time for which the certificate is applied for.
      9.   The date, or approximate date, of the latest previous application
for certificate under this section, if any.
      10.   If a certificate of registration issued to the applicant under this
section has ever been revoked.
      11.   If the applicant has ever been convicted of a violation of any of
the provisions of this section, or the ordinance of any other Illinois
municipality regulating soliciting.
      12.   If the applicant has ever been convicted of the commission of a
felony under the laws of the state of Illinois or any other state or federal
law of the United States.
      13.   Also such additional information as the chief of police may deem
necessary to process the application.
All statements made by the applicant upon the application or in connection
therewith shall be under oath.
   B.   The chief of police shall require every applicant to submit to
fingerprinting by the police department in connection with the application for
certificate, at his discretion.
   C.   The chief of police shall keep in his office an accurate record of
every application received and acted upon together with all other information
and data pertaining thereto and all certificates issued, and of the denial of
applications. Applications for certificates shall be numbered in consecutive
order as filed, and every certificate issued, and any renewal thereof, shall be
identified with the duplicate number of the application upon which it was
issued.
   D.   No certificate shall be issued to any person who has been convicted of
the commission of a felony under the laws of the state or any other state or
federal law of the United States, within five (5) years of the date of the
application; nor to any person who has been convicted of a violation of any of
the provisions of this section, nor to any person whose certificate issued
hereunder has previously been revoked. (Ord. 323, 12-19-1977)
   E.   All applicants for certificates of registration shall be accompanied by
a registration fee calculated as follows:
 
Weekly certificate  $ 50.00
Monthly certificate 100.00
Annual certificate  400.00
 
All fees shall be paid upon issuance of the certificate. (Ord. 16-01, 2-16-
2016)
3-5-4: ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF CERTIFICATE; REVOCATION:
   A.   Issuance Or Denial: The chief of police, after consideration of the
application and all information obtained relative thereto, shall deny the
application if the applicant does not possess the qualifications for such
certificate, or if the issuance of a certificate to the applicant would not be
in accord with the intent and purpose of this section. Endorsement shall be
made by the chief of police upon the application of the denial of the
application. When the applicant is found to be fully qualified, the certificate
shall be issued forthwith.
The certificate shall state the expiration date thereof.
   B.   Revocation: Any certificate shall be revoked by the chief of police if
the holder of the certificate is convicted of a violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter or has made a false material statement in the
application, or otherwise becomes disqualified for the issuance of a
certificate. Immediately upon such revocation written notice thereof shall be
given by the chief of police to the holder of the certificate in person or by
certified U.S. mail addressed to his residence address set forth in the
application.
Immediately upon the giving of such notice the certificate shall become void.
(Ord. 323, 12-19-1977)
3-5-5: VILLAGE POLICY ON SOLICITING:
It is hereby declared to be the policy of the council that the occupant or
occupants of the residences in this village shall make the determination of
whether solicitors shall be, or shall not be, invited to their respective
residences. If no determination is made as is provided in section
3-5-6 of this chapter, registration is not required. (Ord. 323, 12-19-1977)
3-5-6: NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING:
   A.   Every person desiring to secure the protection intended to be provided
by the regulations pertaining to soliciting contained in this chapter shall
comply with the following directions.
   B.   Notice of the determination by the occupant of giving invitation to
solicitors, or the refusal of invitation to solicitors, to any residence, shall
be given in the manner following.
   C.   A weatherproof card, approximately three inches by four inches (3" x
4") in size, shall be exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the
residence, indicating the determination by the occupant, containing the
applicable words, as follows:
   ONLY SOLICITORS REGISTERED IN
   SENECA, ILLINOIS INVITED
   or
   NO SOLICITORS INVITED
   D.   The letters shall be at least one-third inch (1/3") in height. For the
purpose of uniformity the cards shall be provided by the chief of police to
persons requesting, at the cost thereof.
   E.   Such card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon. (Ord. 323, 12-19-1977)
3-5-7: DUTY OF SOLICITORS:
   A.   It shall be the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any premises in
the village upon which a residence is located to first examine the notice
provided for in section
3-5-6 of this chapter, if any is attached, and be governed by the statement
contained on the notice. If the notice states "Only Solicitors Registered In
Seneca, Illinois Invited", the solicitor not possessing a valid certificate of
registration shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises; and if
the notice states "No Solicitors Invited", the solicitor, whether registered or
not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises.
   B.   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether invited
or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant. (Ord. 323, 12-19-1977)
3-5-8: UNINVITED SOLICITING PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any person to go upon any
premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or create any sound in
any other manner calculated to attract the attention of the occupant of such
residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the occupant thereof
and engage in soliciting in defiance of the notice exhibited at the residence
in accordance with the provisions of section
3-5-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 323, 12-19-1977)
3-5-9: TIME LIMIT ON SOLICITING:
It is unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any person, whether
registered under this section or not, to go upon any premises and ring the
doorbell upon or near any door of a residence located thereon, or rap or knock
upon any door, or create any sound in any other manner calculated to attract
the attention of the occupant of such residence, for the purpose of securing an
audience with the occupant thereof and engage in soliciting prior to nine
o'clock (9:00) A.M. or after five o'clock (5:00) P.M. or sunset, whichever
comes first, of any weekday, or at any time on a Sunday or on a state or
national holiday. (Ord. 323, 12-19-1977)
3-5-10: TAG DAYS:
No person or organization shall hold what is commonly known as "tag day" for
the solicitation of money from the public except as provided. Application may
be made to the mayor for a tag day for the solicitation of funds from the
public and permission may be granted in writing by the mayor to local
charitable organizations. (Ord. 286, 1-8-1974; amd. 1994 Code)
3-5-11: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
Unless otherwise provided, any person violating this chapter or any portion
thereof shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to a fine of not less than
fifty dollars ($50.00) or more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each
offense. (Ord. 323, 12-19-1977)
CHAPTER 6
SCAVENGERS 1
(Rep. by Ord. 23-02, 2-21-2023)
 
Notes
1 1. See also Chapter 7 of this Title and Title 4, Chapter 2 of this Code.
CHAPTER 7
RESERVED
(Reserved by Ord. 21-14, 4-6-2021)
CHAPTER 8
LIQUOR CONTROL
SECTION:
3-8-1: Construction of Chapter
3-8-2: Definitions
3-8-3: Liquor Control Commissioner
3-8-4: License Required
3-8-5: Application for License
3-8-6: Restrictions on Issuance of License
3-8-7: Classes of Licenses; Number; Fees
3-8-8: Investigation; Rejection or Approval of Application
3-8-9: Term of License; Nontransferability; License for One Location Only
3-8-10: Conditions of License
3-8-11: Temporary Permits; Fees
3-8-12: Offenses Involving Liquor
3-8-13: Complaint Against Licensee
3-8-14: Revocation or Suspension of License
3-8-15: License Unavailable
3-8-16: Penalties
3-8-1: CONSTRUCTION OF CHAPTER:
This Chapter shall be liberally construed, to the end that the health, safety
and welfare of the people of the Village of Seneca shall be protected and
temperance in the consumption of alcoholic liquors shall be fostered and
promoted by sound and careful control and regulation of the manufacture, sale
and distribution of alcoholic liquors. (Ord. 91-04, 2-5-90)
3-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this Chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this Section:
 
                   Any alcohol, spirits, wine or beer, and every liquid or
                   solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or
                   beer and capable of being consumed as a beverage by a human
                   being. The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to
                   alcohol used in the manufacture of denatured alcohol nor to
                   any liquid or solid containing one-half of one percent
ALCOHOLIC LIQUORS: (0.5%) or less of alcohol by volume, nor shall the
                   provisions of this Chapter apply to flavoring extracts,
                   concentrates, syrups or medicinal, mechanical, scientific,
                   culinary or toilet preparations, or food products unfit for
                   beverage purposes. None of the provisions of this Chapter
                   shall apply to wine intended for use by any church or
                   religious organization for sacramental purposes.
                   (i) any Club, as defined by 1-3.25 of the Liquor Control Act
                   (235 ILCS 5/1-3.25) and (ii) local lodges of national social
CLUB:              or fraternal organizations with national headquarters and
                   holding a charter therefrom, and such club paying a per
                   capita tax or other fee to such national headquarters.
LICENSED PREMISES: The premises described in the license.
PERSON:            Any person, firm, partnership, club, association or
                   corporation.
                   Any person who sells or offers for sale alcoholic liquor for
RETAILER:          use and consumption and not for resale in any form. (Ord.
                   91-04, 2-5-90; amd. Ord. 24-15, 7-15-2024)
 
3-8-3: LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER 1 :
   A.   Village Officials Serve as: The Mayor of the Village shall be the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner for the Village. In the absence of the Mayor, the
Commissioner of Finance shall assume the duties of Local Liquor Control
Commissioner.
   B.   Powers and Duties:
      1.   The Local Liquor Commissioner herein created shall have power to
grant, suspend and revoke for cause all local licenses; to enter or suspend and
revoke for cause all local licenses; to enter or authorize any law enforcing
officer to enter at any time upon any premises licensed hereunder to determine
whether any of the provisions of this chapter have been or are being violated;
and to act upon such complaint in the manner hereinafter provided; and to
receive local license fees and pay the same forthwith to the Village Treasurer.
      2.   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall have the right to
examine or cause to be examined under oath any applicant for a local license,
or for any renewal thereof, or any licensees upon whom notice of revocation has
been served in the manner hereinafter provided, and to examine or cause to be
examined the books or record of any such applicants or licensee; to hear
testimony and take proof for his information in the performance of his duties,
and for such purpose to issue subpoenas. (Ord. 91-04, 2-5-1990)
 
Notes
1 1. For salary of Liquor Control Commissioner, see Section 1-5-5 of this Code.
3-8-4: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall be engaged in the business of selling alcoholic liquors at
retail within the limits of the Village without having first procured a license
therefor. (Ord. 91-04, 2-5-1990)
3-8-5: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
An applicant for license shall submit to the Local Liquor Control Commissioner
an application in writing, under oath, stating:
   A.   The name, age, and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual; in the case of a co-partnership, the persons entitled to share in
the profits thereof; and in the case of a corporation, the date of
incorporation; the purpose for which it was organized, the names and addresses
of the officers and directors; and if a majority in interest of the stock of
such corporation is owned by one person or his nominees, the name and address
of such person.
   B.   The citizenship of the applicant and, if a naturalized citizen, the
time and place of his naturalization.
   C.   The location and description of the premises which is to be operated
under such license and the structure which shall be used for sales.
   D.   A statement that applicant has never been convicted of a felony and is
not disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing
contained in this chapter or the Dram Shop Act.
   E.   That applicant will not violate any of the laws of the State of
Illinois, of the United States or the provisions of this Code in the conduct of
his place of business.
   F.   Whether a previous license by any state or subdivision hereof or by the
Federal government has been revoked, and the reasons therefor.
   G.   The date of a corporation if an Illinois corporation, or the date of
becoming qualified under the Illinois Business Corporation Act to transact
business in Illinois if a foreign corporation.
   H.   That the proposed location is not within one hundred feet (100') of any
church, school, hospital, home for aged persons or veterans, their wives or
children, or any military or naval station; provided, however, that this
restriction shall not apply to clubs.
All applications for license shall be accompanied by a certified check,
cashier's check, United States postal money order, or cash in the full amount
of the license fee required to be paid, which fee shall be returned to such
applicant if such application is denied.
All persons applying for a license at any time except on May 1 in each year
shall pay the pro rata amount each month, or fraction thereof, as the unexpired
fiscal year bears to twelve (12) months. (Ord. 91-04, 2-5-1990)
   I.   All licensees shall be required to obtain the following training and
certification: (Ord. 17-07, 3-7-2017)
      1.   For all original or renewal licenses issued pursuant to this
chapter, the licensee shall cause those employees, agents or representatives
who sell or serve alcoholic beverages on the licensed premises, all management
personnel working on the licensed premises, and all other employees, agents or
representatives whose job description entails the checking of identification
for the purchase of alcoholic beverages, the sale or delivery of alcoholic
beverages, either on site or packaged sales, or supervises the management of
business operations or the safety and security of business management pursuant
to a license issued under this chapter, to complete a State certified Beverage
Alcohol Sellers and Servers Education and Training (BASSET) Program. No
licensee shall be open for business at any time unless at least one BASSET
trained employee is present at the licensed premises at all times when
alcoholic beverages are being sold either as packaged goods or for consumption
on the licensed premises.
      2.   A State-certified BASSET Training Program shall be defined as a
BASSET Program licensed by the State Commission (ILCC) as required by 235
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-12(11.1) and 6-27 and title 77 of Illinois
Administrative Code, chapter XVI, section 3500. All licensed BASSET providers
shall be required to have on file all licenses and certificates to prove
current qualifications and provide a certificate of course completion and a
card, to participants as proof of completion. (Ord. 17-07, 3-7-2017; amd. Ord.
18-08, 6-19-2018)
      3.   Any new owner, manager, employee, agent or representative requiring
BASSET training, shall within ninety (90) days from the commencement of their
employment with a licensee, complete an ILCC BASSET Approved Seller/Server
Training Program and shall until completion of the BASSET Program work under
the direct supervision of a person who has completed BASSET training.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, for licensees issued a special event license,
all BASSET training shall be completed prior to the commencement of the event
that is the subject of the license.
      4.   The licensee shall maintain copies of the certificates of completion
for each of the licensee's certified employees, evidencing the licensee's
compliance with the BASSET training requirements of this subsection and shall,
at the request of any Village law enforcement officer and/or the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner or his designee, produce such copies for inspection. The
certificate of completion shall be maintained by the licensee in a manner that
will allow inspection, upon demand, by any designee of the State and/or local
liquor control authorities.
      5.   All costs associated with a licensee's compliance with the BASSET
training required under this subsection shall be paid by the licensee.
      6.   Any licensee found to be in violation of this section shall be
subject to a fine of not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for a
first offense and for subsequent offenses a fine of not less than three hundred
dollars ($300.00). For each violation of this section, a licensee shall also be
subject to a possible suspension or revocation of any license issued under this
chapter. (Ord. 17-07, 3-7-2017)
3-8-6: RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
No license of any kind shall be issued by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner
to:
   A.   A person who is not a resident of the Village.
   B.   A person who is not of good character and reputation.
   C.   A person who is not a citizen of the United States.
   D.   A person who has been convicted of a felony under the laws of the State
of Illinois, and the Mayor determines, after investigation, that such person
has not been sufficiently rehabilitated to warrant the public trust.
   E.   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper or is keeping a
house of ill-fame.
   F.   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality.
   G.   A person whose license under this chapter has been revoked for cause.
   H.   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application.
   I.   A copartnership, unless all of the members of such copartnership shall
be qualified to obtain a license.
   J.   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof, or any
stockholder or stockholders, owning in aggregate more than five percent (5%) of
the stock of such corporation, would not be eligible to receive a license
hereunder for any reason other than citizenship and residence within the
Village.
   K.   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager, agent, or
officer, unless the manager, agent, or officer possesses the same
qualifications required of the licensee.
   L.   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any Federal or State
law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor
subsequent to the effective date hereof.
   M.   A person who does not own the premises for which the license is sought
or does not have a lease thereon for the full period which the license is to be
issued.
   N.   Any law enforcing public official, any Mayor or Commissioner, and no
such official shall be interested in any way directly or indirectly in the sale
of alcoholic liquor under this chapter.
   O.   Any person who would be ineligible under the provisions of the Dramshop
Act of the State of Illinois. (Ord. 91-04, 2-5-1990; amd. Ord. 21-16, 4-20-
2021)
3-8-7: CLASSES OF LICENSES; NUMBER; FEES:
A license issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be one of the
classes described in this section and shall be dated May 1, and shall expire
April 30 of the following year. The fee shall be the amount specified and shall
cover the period from the actual date of issuance to April 30 of the following
year. No part of a fee may be transferred to, or applied upon, the license of a
new owner or any other person.
   A.   Class A: Class A licenses shall authorize the sale of alcoholic liquor
either for consumption upon the licensed premises or in the original package.
Package sales shall not be consumed upon the licensed premises. The license fee
shall be eight hundred dollars ($800.00) per year. The maximum number of
authorized Class A licenses within the Village is twelve .
   B.   Class B: Class B licenses shall authorize the sale of alcoholic liquor
sold in the original package only. Package sales shall not be consumed upon the
licensed premises. The license fee shall be six hundred dollars ($600.00) per
year. The maximum number of authorized Class B licenses is one.
   C.   Class C: Reserved.
   D.   Class D: Class D club licenses shall authorize the sale of alcoholic
liquor to members and guests of members of a Club as defined in Section
3-8-2 of this Chapter. Liquor sales to the general public are prohibited. The
license fee shall be three hundred dollars ($300.00). The maximum number of
authorized Class D club licenses is zero.
   E.   Class E: Class E licenses shall authorize the sale of alcoholic liquor
to be consumed solely on the licensed premises where the sale and consumption
of food is the primary business conducted on the licensed premises. It shall be
unlawful for a licensee holding a Class E retail license to sell alcoholic
liquor except to a patron who is purchasing or consuming food on the licensed
premises. The license fee shall be the sum of five hundred dollars ($500.00).
The maximum number of authorized Class E licenses is zero.
   F.   Class F: Class F licenses shall authorize the sale of alcoholic liquors
in facilities used primarily for banquets, wedding receptions, meetings and
similar catered events, for consumption only during scheduled functions on the
designated licensed premises. Class F licenses shall not be available to any
facility that serves meals to the public on an individual basis, such as a
restaurant or similar business. The license fee shall be nine hundred dollars
($900.00). The maximum number of authorized Class F licenses is zero.
   G.   Number Of Licenses: The Council herein reserves the right and power to
limit the number of licenses to be issued within the corporate limits of the
Village, which may be amended from time to time, in accordance with the public
interest.
   H.   Amendment. Ordinance No. 24-15 adopted on July 15, 2024, amended the
definition of classes of licenses. Such amendments shall not affect any
currently issued liquor licenses, but shall be effective upon the expiration of
any currently issued liquor license. (Ord. 91-04, 2-5-1990; amd. Ord. 91-05, 7-
16-1991; Ord. 14-02, 4-15-2014; Ord. 18-09, 6-19-2018; Ord. 19-15, 9-3-2019;
Ord. 22-15, 11- 1-2022; Ord. 24-15, 7-15-2024)
3-8-8: INVESTIGATION; REJECTION OR APPROVAL OF APPLICATION:
The Mayor shall investigate the statements in each application, and within
thirty (30) days after such application has been made to the Village Clerk, as
aforesaid, the Mayor shall either approve or reject such application. In the
event the Mayor approves such application and grants such license applied for,
the Clerk shall issue such license to such applicants, upon the payment in
advance of the license fee required and the execution of such penal bond as
aforesaid. (Ord. 91-04, 2-5-1990)
3-8-9: TERM OF LICENSE; NONTRANSFERABILITY; LICENSE FOR ONE LOCATION ONLY:
   A.   Term; License Nontransferable: A license shall be a purely personal
privilege, good for not to exceed one year after issuance, unless formally
revoked as herein provided, and shall not be transferable. It will be
considered a transfer by a corporation if a corporation holds a license and
over fifty percent (50%) of the corporate shares and/or assets are sold or
transferred.
   B.   License For One Location: Licenses issued under this chapter shall
apply only to the premises described in the application and in the license
issued thereon, and only one location shall be described in each license. After
a license has been granted for a premises, the local liquor control
commissioner, upon proper showing, may endorse upon said license permission to
abandon the premises therein described and remove therefrom to other premises
approved by it. But in order to obtain such approval, the licensee shall file
with the local liquor control commissioner a request in writing and a statement
under oath which shall show that the premises to which removal is to be made
complies in all respects with the requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 91-04, 2-
5-1990)
3-8-10: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   Hours Of Operation: No person shall sell alcoholic liquors in the
village unless he holds a valid license, and such licensees shall sell
alcoholic liquors only during the following hours:
      1.   From six o'clock (6:00) A.M. to one o'clock (1:00) A.M. on Monday,
Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday.
      2.   From six o'clock (6:00) A.M. to three o'clock (3:00) A.M. on Friday
and Saturday.
      3.   Sunday hours shall be as follows:
         a.   For package liquors, from six o'clock (6:00) A.M. to twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight;
         b.   For open liquor, from six o'clock (6:00) A.M. to twelve o'clock
(12:00) midnight. (Ord. 17-05, 1-17-2017)
   B.   Posting License: Every licensee shall cause his license to be hung in
plain view in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises.
   C.   Required Use Of License: The local liquor control commissioner may
revoke the liquor license for any business possessing a license that does not
operate for a period of ninety (90) consecutive days.
   D.   Sales To Certain Persons Prohibited: No licensee shall sell, give or
deliver alcoholic liquor to any minor, or any intoxicated person, or to any
person known by him to be a habitual drunkard, spendthrift or insane,
feebleminded or distracted person.
   E.   Minors As Employees: No person having any local license issued under
this chapter shall employ any minor to draw, pour or mix any alcoholic liquor.
(Ord. 91-04, 2-5-1990)
3-8-11: TEMPORARY PERMITS; FEES:
The local liquor control commissioner shall have the power to issue temporary
permits for the sale of any alcoholic liquors at any banquet, picnic, bazaar,
fair or similar private or public assembly, where food or drink is sold, served
or dispensed. Such temporary permits shall only be issued to a “club”, as
defined in this chapter, society, fraternal or benevolent organization not for
pecuniary profit. Such temporary permit shall permit such sale of alcoholic
liquor for a period of not more than five (5) days and not more than five (5)
temporary permits shall be granted to any such club, society, fraternal or
benevolent organization in any one period of six (6) months. Such temporary
permit shall not permit the sale of any alcoholic liquor in original packages,
or in any place where the sale of alcoholic liquor is prohibited by law, or by
this chapter, or which is not within the jurisdiction of the village council. A
temporary permit fee shall be in the sum of five dollars ($5.00) for each day
such permit is granted.
The local liquor control commissioner shall also have the power to issue
temporary permits for the sale of any alcoholic liquors by businesses such as
wineries, distilleries or breweries. Such temporary permit shall permit such
sale of alcoholic liquor for a period of not more than five (5) days and not
more than five (5) temporary permits shall be granted to any such business,
club, society, fraternal or benevolent organization in any one period of six
(6) months. Such temporary permit shall not permit the sale of any alcoholic
liquor in any place where the sale of alcoholic liquor is prohibited by law, or
by this chapter, or which is not within the jurisdiction of the village
council. A temporary permit fee shall be in the sum of twenty-five dollars
($25.00) for each day such permit is granted. (Ord. 91-04, 2-5-1990; amd. Ord.
21-31, 9-21-2021)
3-8-12: OFFENSES INVOLVING LIQUOR:
   A.   Drinking In Public Place: It shall be unlawful for any person to drink
alcoholic liquor in or on any street, alley or other public place in the
village or to drink alcoholic liquor in or on any street, alley or other public
place in the village except as so licensed by the village.
   B.   Transporting Liquor 1 : It shall be unlawful for any person to
transport, carry, possess or have any alcoholic liquor upon his person on any
street, alley or other public place within the village except in an unopened
original package or container.
   C.   Possession Of Liquor In Motor Vehicle: No person shall transport,
carry, possess or have any alcoholic liquor within the passenger area of any
motor vehicle, except in the original package and with the seal unbroken.
   D.   Public Intoxication: It shall be unlawful for any person to be in an
intoxicated condition in or on any street, alley or public place in the
village. (Ord. 91-04, 2-5-1990)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 6 of this code for traffic regulations.
3-8-13: COMPLAINT AGAINST LICENSEE:
Any five (5) residents of the village shall have the right to file a complaint
with the local liquor control commissioner, stating that any retail licensee,
subject to the jurisdiction of the local commissioner, has been or is violating
the provisions of this chapter or the Illinois liquor control act. Such
complaint shall be in writing, shall state the facts with regard to such
violation in clear language, giving the date and nature of such violation with
reasonable certainty, and which complaint shall state the particular provision
of this chapter or the Illinois liquor control act believed to have been
violated, which complaint shall be signed and sworn to by the parties
complaining. If the local liquor control commissioner is satisfied that the
complaint substantially charges a violation, and that from the facts alleged
there is a reasonable cause for such belief, it shall set the matter for
hearing and shall serve notice upon the licensee of the time and place of such
hearing, and of the particular charge in the complaint. The evidence, both on
behalf of the licensee and those complaining, shall be heard by the local
liquor control commissioner. (Ord. 91-04, 2-5-1990)
3-8-14: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE:
Any license issued under this chapter may be suspended or revoked by the mayor
for any one or more of the following reasons:
   A.   Violation of the laws of the state or any of the provisions of this
chapter.
   B.   The wilful making of any false statement as to a material fact in
application for a license.
   C.   Permitting any illegal, disorderly or immoral practice upon licensed
premises. (Ord. 91-04, 2-5-1990)
3-8-15: LICENSE UNAVAILABLE:
If at the time of filing an application for a liquor license under Section
3-8-5 of this chapter, no license of the type being sought is available, then
the applicant shall be placed on a waiting list until such time as a liquor
license of the type being sought becomes available. No background check shall
be required by applicant until such time as a liquor license becomes available.
(Ord. 23-19, 9-19-2023)
3-8-16: PENALTIES:
Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction,
be punished by a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense. A separate offense shall
be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues. (Ord. 91-04, 2-5-1990; amd. Ord. 22-20, 12-20-2022; Ord. 23-19, 9-
19-2023)
CHAPTER 9
ARCADES
SECTION:
3-9-1: Purpose
3-9-2: Definitions
3-9-3: License Required; Compliance With Provisions
3-9-4: Application For License; Investigation
3-9-5: License Fee
3-9-6: Approval Or Disapproval Of License
3-9-7: Term Of License; Renewals
3-9-8: Transfer Of License; Improper Use
3-9-9: License To Be Posted
3-9-10: Location Restrictions
3-9-11: Hours Of Operation
3-9-12: Conduct Of Business
3-9-13: Gambling
3-9-14: Inspections
3-9-15: Revocation Of License
3-9-16: Violation And Penalty
3-9-17: Ordinances Not Affected By Code; License Fees
3-9-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter shall govern the licensing of video game arcades within the
village. (Ord. 96-23, 10-1-1996)
3-9-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
ARCADE: Any premises in which the sole purpose is to operate mechanical
amusement devices.
DISTRIBUTOR: Any person who places mechanical amusement devices in any place or
establishment, excluding "owner" as herein defined, for purposes of operation.
MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICE: Any machine, video, electronic or mechanical,
which, upon the insertion of a coin, slug, token, plate or disk, or the payment
of a price, may be operated by the public generally for use as a game.
OWNER: Any person who owns, operates or conducts an arcade in which mechanical
amusement devices may be operated.
PERSON: Individuals, clubs, societies, partnerships, associations, firms and
corporations. (Ord. 96-23, 10-1-1996)
3-9-3: LICENSE REQUIRED; COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
No person shall operate an arcade without first having obtained an arcade
license and without first complying with all the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 96-23, 10-1-1996)
3-9-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; INVESTIGATION:
Each person desiring to obtain an arcade license for mechanical amusement
devices is required to file a written application with the village clerk on
forms approved by the village clerk.
   A.   The application shall include the following information:
      1.   The applicant's date of birth, correct name, post office address and
residence, the length of time the applicant has resided within this state and
the applicant's places of residence for the ten (10) years preceding
application.
      2.   Whether the applicant has been convicted of any crime involving
moral turpitude.
      3.   At least five (5) references from reputable citizens of the
community wherein the applicant has resided within this state, and the written
recommendations of at least two (2) citizens of that community reflecting the
applicant's moral character.
      4.   The type of business and the exact location of the premises for
which a license is requested.
      5.   If applicant is a corporation authorized to do business in this
State, the application shall be made by the agent of the corporation who will
have principal charge of the premises established, and the application shall
contain all the facts and recommendations required in the case of an
individual. The license issued to a corporation is revocable upon a change in
the agent managing the premises, and a new license may be required by the
Village Council before a new agent may take charge of the premises.
      6.   If the applicant is a partnership, each active partner shall join in
the application for the license and shall furnish the information and
recommendations required of an individual applicant.
      7.   A scale diagram of the premises on which the business will be
conducted, showing the location of each coin-operated amusement device on the
premises, and each exit from the premises.
   B.   The Chief of Police shall cause an investigation to be made for the
purpose of determining if the application and the proposed operation of the
amusement devices are in compliance with this Chapter and the following
matters:
      1.   Whether the distributor, owner or operator is of good moral
character.
      2.   Whether the distributor, owner or operator has been convicted of any
criminal offense involving moral turpitude. (Ord. 96-23, 10-1-1996)
3-9-5: LICENSE FEE:
Each arcade owner shall pay an annual arcade license fee as provided in Section
3-1-7 of this Title. The amusement device license fee 1  shall not apply. (Ord.
96-23, 10-1-1996)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  3-3-5 of this Title.
3-9-6: APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL OF LICENSE:
The Village Council shall either approve or disapprove the application for
license within fifteen (15) days of receipt by said Council, and forward such
recommendation to the Village Clerk. Should an application be disapproved, the
reason therefore shall be endorsed upon the application and the applicant shall
be notified thereof. The applicant shall be entitled to request a hearing
before the Village Council in the event of disapproval of an application. (Ord.
96-23, 10-1-1996)
3-9-7: TERM OF LICENSE; RENEWALS:
The term of any license granted shall begin January 1 of the license year and
shall terminate at twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight December 31 of that year.
Original licenses shall be issued for the balance of the license year at the
full license fee. License applications for license renewals shall be accepted
and licenses issued for a period of fifteen (15) days prior to the annual
expiration date. (Ord. 96-23, 10-1-1996)
3-9-8: TRANSFER OF LICENSE; IMPROPER USE:
No license issued under the provisions of this Chapter may be transferable
except upon Council approval. No licensee shall transfer or attempt to transfer
his license or permit to anyone without Council approval nor shall he or she
make any alteration or improper use of the same. (Ord. 96-23, 10-1-1996)
3-9-9: LICENSE TO BE POSTED:
The license shall be exhibited at all times in some conspicuous place in the
place of business. It shall be unlawful for any person to display any expired,
revoked or fictitious license. (Ord. 96-23, 10-1-1996)
3-9-10: LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   No license shall permit the operation of any coin-operated amusement
device within five hundred feet (500') of the property line of any church,
public or parochial school, or playground.
   B.   No arcade is permitted on any part of a lot which is within one
thousand five hundred feet (1,500') of a building containing another arcade.
(Ord. 96-23, 10-1-1996)
3-9-11: HOURS OF OPERATION:
Mechanical amusement arcades may be open from eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. until
ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. (Ord. 96-23, 10-1-1996)
3-9-12: CONDUCT OF BUSINESS:
   A.   Supervision: Each arcade shall have at least one adult operator on the
premises at all times that the premises is open to the public and who has been
certified by and registered with the village clerk.
   B.   Prohibitions Governing Operation Of Arcade: Licensees are prohibited
from allowing:
      1.   Intoxicated or nude persons to remain on the premises.
      2.   Indecent, immoral or profane language or conduct on the premises.
      3.   The possession or use of marijuana or illegal drugs on the premises.
      4.   The possession or use of alcohol on the premises.
      5.   Noise or the emergence of music disturbing neighbors.
      6.   Depiction of nudity or sexual intercourse on the premises.
      7.   Food products, other than vending machine products. (Ord. 96-23, 10-
1-1996)
3-9-13: GAMBLING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to gamble or bet, or permit any form of
gambling or betting, in any premises, except said prohibition shall not apply
to gambling or gambling devices or activities authorized and operated in full
compliance with the Illinois video gaming act 1  including, but not limited to,
video gaming terminals and the equipment ancillary thereto. (Ord. 12-13, 8-21-
2012)
 
Notes
1 1. 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.
3-9-14: INSPECTIONS:
It shall be the duty of police officers to make inspections of all mechanical
amusement devices and if any unlawful practices are observed in connection
therewith, they shall report the same to the chief of police for such action as
he may deem proper, and the chief of police may recommend the immediate
revocation of such license. (Ord. 96-23, 10-1-1996)
3-9-15: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Every license issued under this chapter is subject to the right, which
is hereby expressly reserved, to revoke the same should the licensee directly
or indirectly permit the operation of any mechanical amusement device contrary
to the provisions of this chapter, the ordinances of the village or the laws of
the state.
   B.   Said license may be revoked by the village council after written notice
to the licensee, which notice shall specify the ordinance or law violations
with which the licensee is charged, if after a hearing the licensee is found
guilty of such violations. Ten (10) days' notice of the hearing shall be given
the licensee. At such hearing the licensee and his attorney may be present and
submit evidence or witnesses in his defense. (Ord. 96-23, 10-1-1996)
3-9-16: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
Every person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 96-23, 10-1-1996)
3-9-17: ORDINANCES NOT AFFECTED BY CODE; LICENSE FEES:
Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall affect any
ordinance relating to coin operated amusement devices, and all such ordinances
are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent
as if set out at length in this code. The annual fee for a license for a coin
operated amusement device shall be twenty five dollars ($25.00) for each such
device except the annual license for a video gaming terminal authorized
pursuant to 230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 40/1 et seq., shall be twenty five
dollars ($25.00) for each terminal. (Ord. 12-13, 8-21-2012)
CHAPTER 10
ADULT BUSINESSES
SECTION:
3-10-1: Definitions
3-10-2: Adult Uses Enumerated
3-10-3: Limitations On Adult Uses
3-10-4: Measurement Of Distance
3-10-5: License Required; Application; Filing Fee
3-10-6: Contents Of Application
3-10-7: Issuance Of Adult Use License; Fee
3-10-8: Suspension Or Revocation Of License
3-10-9: Exterior Display
3-10-10: Display Of License And Permit
3-10-11: Employment Of Persons Under The Age Of Eighteen Prohibited
3-10-12: Illegal Activities On Premises
3-10-13: Severability Clause
3-10-14: Violation; Penalty
3-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively prescribed to them by this section:
ADULT BOOKSTORE: An establishment having as a substantial portion of its stock
in trade, books, magazines, films for sale or viewing on the premises by use of
motion picture devices or any other coin operated means, and other periodicals
which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting,
describing, or relating to "specified sexual activities", or "specified
anatomical areas" or an establishment with a segment or section devoted to the
sale or display of such material.
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT CABARET: A public or private establishment which is
licensed to serve food and/or alcoholic beverages, which features topless
dancers and/or waitresses, strippers, male or female impersonators, or similar
entertainers.
ADULT MINIMOTION PICTURE THEATER: An enclosed building or "drive-in" theater
with a capacity for less than fifty (50) persons used for presenting material
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing,
or relating to "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas"
for observation by patrons therein.
ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER: An enclosed building or a "drive- in" theater
with a capacity of fifty (50) or more persons used regularly and routinely for
presenting motion pictures having as a dominant theme material distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to
"specified sexual activities" or "special anatomical areas" for observation by
patrons therein.
BODY SHOP OR MODEL STUDIO: Any public or private establishment which describes
itself as a body shop or model studio, or where for any form of consideration
or gratuity, figure models who display "specified anatomical areas" are
provided to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed, or
similarly depicted by persons paying such consideration or gratuity, or where
for any form of consideration or gratuity, nude and seminude dancing, readings,
counseling sessions, body painting, and other activities that present materials
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing,
or relating to "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas"
are provided for observation by or communication to persons paying such
consideration or gratuity.
BUILDING STRUCTURE: Any structure or group of structures housing two (2) or
more businesses which share a common entry, exit, wall or frontage wall,
including, but not limited to, shopping centers, shopping plazas, or shopping
squares.
MASSAGE: Any method of pressure on or friction against or stroking, kneading,
rubbing, tapping, pounding, vibrating, or stimulating of the external soft
parts of the body with the hands or other parts of the human body or with the
aid of any mechanical or electrical apparatus or appliance with or without such
supplementary aids as rubbing alcohol, liniments, antiseptics, oils, powder,
creams, lotions, ointments or other similar preparations commonly used in this
practice.
MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT: An establishment having a fixed place of business where
any person, firm, association, or corporation engages in, or carries on, or
permits to be engaged in or carried on any of the activities mentioned in the
definition of "massage" of this section.
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREA: Any of the following conditions:
   A.   Human genitals, pubic region, or pubic hair; buttock; or female breast
below a point immediately above the top of the areola; and
   B.   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state.
SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES: Any of the following conditions:
   A.   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
   B.   Actual masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy, bestiality, oral
copulation, or flagellation.
   C.   Actual physical touching of human genitals, pubic region, buttock, or
female breast.
   D.   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any activities set
forth in subsections A through C of this definition. (Ord. 95-20, 11-21-1995;
amd. Ord. 04-07, 4-6-2004)
3-10-2: ADULT USES ENUMERATED:
The following shall be considered adult uses for the purpose of this chapter:
   A.   Adult bookstore;
   B.   Adult motion picture theater;
   C.   Adult minimotion picture theater;
   D.   Adult entertainment cabaret;
   E.   Massage establishment;
   F.   Body shop or model studio. (Ord. 95-20, 11-21-1995)
3-10-3: LIMITATIONS ON ADULT USES:
Adult uses shall be permitted subject to the following restrictions: (Ord. 95-
20, 11-21-1995)
   A.   An adult use shall not be allowed within one thousand feet (1,000') of
another existing adult use.
   B.   An adult use shall not be located within one thousand feet (1,000') of
any zoning district which is zoned for single-family (R-1), single-family (R-
2), two-family (R-3), multiple-family (R-4), or mobile home district (M-1).
Adult use shall be restricted to industrial districts.
   C.   An adult use shall not be located within one thousand feet (1,000') of
a preexisting school or place of worship. (Ord. 01-10, 6-19-2001)
   D.   An adult use shall not be located in a building structure which
contains another business that sells or dispenses in some manner alcoholic
beverages.
   E.   Any adult use doing business at the time this chapter takes effect
shall have one year from the effective date of this chapter to comply with the
provisions of subsections A through D, inclusive, of this section.
   F.   Any adult use doing business at the time this chapter takes effect
shall have thirty (30) days from the effective date of this chapter to apply
for the issuance of an adult use license. (Ord. 95-20, 11-21-1995)
3-10-4: MEASUREMENT OF DISTANCE:
For the purposes of this chapter, measurements shall be made in a straight
line, without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the property
line of the lot or parcel containing the adult use to the property line of the
lot or parcel containing the nearest adult use, school, place of worship, or
district zoned for residential use. (Ord. 95-20, 11-21-1995)
3-10-5: LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION; FILING FEE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in, conduct, or carry on, or to
permit to be engaged in, conducted, or carried on, in or upon any premises in
the village the operation of an adult use as herein defined, without first
having obtained a separate license for such adult use from the mayor of the
village. (Ord. 95-20, 11-21-1995)
Every applicant for a license to maintain, operate, or conduct an adult use
shall file an application in duplicate under oath with the president upon a
form provided by the village clerk and pay a nonrefundable filing fee of eight
hundred dollars ($800.00). (Ord. 01-10, 6-19-2001)
Within thirty (30) days after receiving the application, the mayor shall notify
the applicant that his or her application is granted, denied, or held for
further investigation. Such additional investigation shall not exceed an
additional thirty (30) days unless otherwise agreed to by the applicant. Upon
the conclusion of such additional investigation, the mayor shall advise the
applicant in writing whether the application is granted or denied.
Whenever an application is denied or held for further investigation, the mayor
shall advise the applicant in writing of the reasons for such action.
Failure or refusal of the applicant to give any information relevant to the
investigation of the application or his or her refusal or failure to appear at
any reasonable time and place for examination under oath regarding said
application or his or her refusal to submit to or cooperate with any inspection
or investigation required by this chapter shall constitute an admission by the
applicant that he or she is ineligible for such permit and shall be grounds for
denial thereof by the mayor. (Ord. 95-20, 11-21-1995)
3-10-6: CONTENTS OF APPLICATION:
The term "applicant" as used in this chapter shall include any partner or
limited partner of a partnership applicant and any officer or director of a
corporate applicant and any stockholder more than ten percent (10%) of the
stock of a corporate applicant, or any other person who is interested directly
in the ownership or operation of the business. An applicant for a license shall
furnish the following information under oath:
   A.   Name and address;
   B.   Written proof that the individual is at least eighteen (18) years of
age. (Ord. 95-20, 11-21-1995)
3-10-7: ISSUANCE OF ADULT USE LICENSE; FEE:
The mayor shall issue a license to maintain, operate, or conduct an adult use
unless he finds:
   A.   That the applicant is under the age of eighteen (18) years or under any
legal disability.
   B.   That the applicant is a person who is not of good moral character and
reputation in the community in which he or she resides. (Ord. 95-20, 11-21-
1995)
   C.   That the use is an authorized use in the proposed geographic area, and
in compliance with the comprehensive zoning ordinance of the village. (Ord. 01-
10, 6-19-2001)
Every adult use license issued pursuant to this chapter will terminate at the
expiration of one year from the date of its issuance, unless sooner revoked.
There shall be an annual license fee of eight hundred dollars ($800.00). (Ord.
95-20, 11-21-1995)
3-10-8: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Any license issued for an adult use may be revoked or suspended by the mayor,
if the mayor shall find:
   A.   That the licensee has violated any of the provisions of this chapter
regulating adult uses.
   B.   That the licensee has knowingly furnished false or misleading
information or withheld relevant information on any application for any license
or permit required by this chapter or knowingly caused or suffered another to
furnish or withhold such information on his or her behalf.
The licensee shall be responsible for the acts of his or her agents, servants
and employees; provided, however, that in the case of a first offense by a
licensee where the conduct was solely that of an employee, the penalty shall
not exceed a suspension of thirty (30) days if the mayor shall find that the
licensee had no actual or constructive knowledge of such violation and could
not, by the exercise of due diligence, have had such actual constructive
knowledge.
The mayor, before revoking or suspending any license, shall give the licensee
at least ten (10) days' written notice of the charges against him or her. The
licensee may, within five (5) days of receipt of said notice, request a public
hearing before the mayor, at which time the licensee may present evidence
bearing upon the question. Any notice by the mayor may be delivered personally
to the licensee or be posted on the premises of the establishment being used as
an adult use. In order to allow an aggrieved licensee an opportunity to obtain
judicial relief, any suspension or revocation, as the case may be, shall take
effect: a) on the fourteenth day after the adult use commissioner's written
decision is delivered in person; or b) on the seventeenth day after the adult
use commissioner's written decision is placed in the U.S. mail as provided in
this section.
With regard to an application for renewal of an existing adult establishment
license, in order to allow an aggrieved licensee an opportunity to obtain
judicial relief, any such denial shall take effect: a) on the fourteenth day
after the adult use commissioner's written decision is delivered in person; or
b) on the seventeenth day after the adult use commissioner's written decision
is placed in the U.S. mail as provided in this section. (Ord. 04-07, 4-6-2004)
3-10-9: EXTERIOR DISPLAY:
No adult use shall be conducted in any manner that permits the observation of
any material, depicting, describing, or relating to "specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical areas" by display, decoration, sign, show
window, or other opening from any public way or from any property not licensed
as an adult use. (Ord. 95-20, 11-21-1995)
3-10-10: DISPLAY OF LICENSE AND PERMIT:
Every licensee shall display a valid license in a conspicuous place within the
adult use business so that same may be readily seen by persons entering the
premises. (Ord. 95-20, 11-21-1995)
3-10-11: EMPLOYMENT OF PERSONS UNDER THE AGE OF EIGHTEEN PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any adult use licensee or his or her manager or
employee to employ in any capacity within the adult business any person who is
not at least eighteen (18) years of age. (Ord. 95-20, 11-21-1995)
3-10-12: ILLEGAL ACTIVITIES ON PREMISES:
No licensee or any officer, associate, member, representative, agent or
employee of such licensee shall engage in any activity or conduct or permit any
other person to engage in any activity or conduct in or about the licensed
premises which is prohibited by an ordinance of the village or law of the state
or of the United States. (Ord. 95-20, 11-21-1995)
3-10-13: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase
of this chapter, or any part thereof, or application thereof to any person,
firm, corporation, public agency, or circumstance, is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this chapter or any part thereof. It is hereby
declared to be the legislative intent of the board of trustees that this
chapter would have been adopted had such unconstitutional or invalid provision,
clause, sentence, paragraph, section, or part thereof not then been included.
(Ord. 95-20, 11-21-1995)
3-10-14: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. A person who is convicted shall be punished by a fine
of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00), nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00), or by imprisonment for a period of not to exceed six (6)
months or by both such fine and imprisonment. Each day of said violation shall
constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 95-20, 11-21-1995)
CHAPTER 11
CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION
SECTION:
3-11-1: Registration Required
3-11-2: Plumbing And Roofing Contractors
3-11-3: Definitions
3-11-4: Application
3-11-5: Certificate Of Registration
3-11-6: Fees And Bond
3-11-7: Insurance
3-11-8: Revocation
3-11-9: Violation; Penalty
3-11-1: REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of contracting
within the village of Seneca without being registered as a contractor in the
manner hereinafter set forth. (Ord. 08-07, 5-6-2008)
3-11-2: PLUMBING AND ROOFING CONTRACTORS:
All plumbing contractors and roofing contractors shall be duly licensed by the
state of Illinois. (Ord. 08-07, 5-6-2008)
3-11-3: DEFINITIONS:
CONTRACTOR: Any person engaged in the business of constructing, altering or
repairing buildings or other structures or sidewalks or street pavements
including, but not limited to, general building contractors; cement or concrete
contractors; masonry contractors; carpentry contractors; acoustical
contractors; electrical contractors; drywall contractors; excavating
contractors; fencing contractors; garage contractors; heating, air conditioning
and refrigeration contractors; plastering contractors; plumbing contractors;
porch and deck contractors; roofing contractors; sewer and drain layers; sheet
metal contractors; tuck pointing and cleaning contractors; window contractors;
wrecking contractors; insulation contractors; sign contractors; but does not
include any person performing as a contractor for or on behalf of a
governmental entity.
An owner of property may perform work on property that he will occupy or has
occupied continuously for a period of at least six (6) months and shall not be
considered a contractor as set forth in this chapter. However, any person hired
by such owner to perform work on such property, shall be considered a
contractor.
PERSON: Any person or individual, partnership, firm, association, corporation,
trust or other legal entity. (Ord. 08-07, 5-6-2008)
3-11-4: APPLICATION:
Any person desiring to engage in the business of contracting within the village
of Seneca shall file an application for registration with the building and
zoning officer. Upon the filing of such application on the proper form and
inclusion of any or providing for all necessary bonds and insurance
certificates along with payment or the registration fees set out in section
3-11-6 of this chapter, the building and zoning officer shall register the
applicant as a contractor and classify the applicant into the proper category
as outlined in section
3-11-6 of this chapter. The registration of any and all contractors upon filing
of the appropriate application and applicable contingencies, and compliance
thereof shall be within the sole discretion of the building and zoning officer
of the village of Seneca. (Ord. 08-07, 5-6-2008)
3-11-5: CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION:
Upon verification of the applicant's application, references, bond and
insurance, the building and zoning officer shall issue a certificate of
registration which will authorize the applicant to engage in such business for
the applicable fiscal year, being May 1 through April 30, for the year within
which it was issued. (Ord. 08-07, 5-6-2008)
3-11-6: FEES AND BOND:
   A.   Fees: The fee for the registration of contractors who register between
May 1 and October 31 of each year shall be as provided in subsection C of this
section. The fee for the registration of contractors who register between
November 1 and April 30 of each year shall be fifty percent (50%) of the amount
set forth in subsection C of this section. The fees shall be an annual fee
which shall be paid by the applicant to the village of Seneca in advance of
filing of the application. The certificate of registration issued thereunder
shall expire on April 30 of the then current fiscal year.
   B.   Bond: Every "contractor" as defined herein desiring to engage in
business in the village of Seneca shall execute and file with the village
clerk, a bond payable to the village of Seneca in the penal sum as outlined in
subsection C of this section with sureties to be approved by the mayor and
commissioners and filed with the village clerk and conditioned upon the
applicant faithfully observing all of the provisions of the building code and
other ordinances and regulations of the village of Seneca relating to the
business conducted by the contractor and conditioned further to indemnify and
hold harmless the village of Seneca against any cause or act upon which it may
suffer or which may occur against it or any cause of action that may be charged
to or recovered by the village of Seneca from or by reason of any act by any
such person or by any agent or employee thereof.
   C.   Schedule Of Fee And Bond Amounts:
Class Fee  Bond
Class                      Fee  Bond
General contractor         $100.00 $20,000.00
Carpentry contractor       50.00   10,000.00
Concrete contractor        50.00   10,000.00
Drywall/plaster contractor 50.00   10,000.00
Electrical contractor      50.00   10,000.00
Excavation contractor      50.00   10,000.00
Fence contractor           50.00   10,000.00
HVAC contractor            50.00   10,000.00
Insulation contractor      50.00   10,000.00
Masonry contractor         50.00   10,000.00
Plumbing contractor        None    10,000.00
Roofing contractor         50.00   10,000.00
Sewer contractor           50.00   10,000.00
Sign contractor            50.00   10,000.00
Steel erection contractor  50.00   10,000.00
Wrecking contractor        50.00   10,000.00
All other contractors      50.00   10,000.00
 
(Ord. 08-07, 5-6-2008; amd. Ord. 19-19, 11-19-2019)
3-11-7: INSURANCE:
Every person registered as a contractor by the village of Seneca shall show
proof of insurance at the time of application to the building and zoning
officer in the following amounts:
 
Bodily injury liability   $300,000.00
Business auto:             
Bodily injury liability   300,000.00
Property damage liability 50,000.00
Property damage liability 100,000.00
Workers' compensation     As required by the state of Illinois
 
(Ord. 08-07, 5-6-2008)
3-11-8: REVOCATION:
The building and zoning officer in his/her discretion may revoke a contractor's
registration if the contractor violates the building codes or other applicable
ordinances of the village of Seneca. The contractor must be notified of the
intent to revoke the contractor's registration and of the alleged violations
and the contractor will then be given ten (10) days from the date that notice
is given to correct said violations, to show cause why there is no violation or
to otherwise appeal in writing to the village council of the village of Seneca
who shall conduct a hearing on such revocation. Notice shall be given by any of
the following manners:
   A.   Certified mail at the address provided on the contractor's
registration.
   B.   Personal delivery.
   C.   Posting on the site within which the contractor is working. (Ord. 08-
07, 5-6-2008)
3-11-9: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall for each offense, be
subject to a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than
five hundred dollars ($500.00). Each day that an offense occurs shall be deemed
as a separate incident for the purpose of assessing a fine. (Ord. 08-07, 5-6-
2008)
CHAPTER 12
RAFFLES
SECTION:
3-12-1: Definitions
3-12-2: License Requirements
3-12-3: Multiple Raffles
3-12-4: Licensee Qualifications
3-12-5: Application
3-12-6: Conduct Of Raffles
3-12-7: Raffle Manager
3-12-8: Records
3-12-9: Fee Schedule
3-12-10: Limitations
3-12-11: Extraterritorial Jurisdiction
3-12-12: Penalties
3-12-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
BUSINESS ORGANIZATION: A voluntary organization composed of individuals and
businesses who have joined together to advance the commercial, financial,
industrial and civic interest of the Village.
CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION: An organization or institution organized and operated
to benefit an indefinite number of the public. The service rendered to those
eligible for benefits must also confer some benefit upon the public.
EDUCATIONAL ORGANIZATION: An organization or institution organized and operated
to provide systematic instruction in useful branches of learning by methods
common to schools and institutions of learning which compare favorably in their
scope and intensity with the course of study presented in tax-supported
schools.
FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION: An organization of persons having a common interest,
the primary of which is to both promote the welfare of its members and to
provide assistance to the general public in such a way as to lessen the burdens
of government by caring for those who otherwise would be cared for by the
government.
LABOR ORGANIZATION: An organization composed of workers organized with the
objective of the betterment of the conditions of those engaged in such pursuit
and the development of a higher degree of efficiency in their respective
occupations.
LICENSEE: An organization which has been issued a license to operate a raffle.
NONPROFIT: An organization or institution organized, operated and conducted on
a not-for-profit basis with no personal profit incurring to anyone as a result
of such operation.
PERSON: An individual, firm, organization, public or private corporation,
government, partnership or unincorporated association.
RAFFLE: A form of lottery, as defined in section 28-2(b) of the Criminal Code
of 1961, conducted by an organization licensed under this chapter, in which:
   A.   The player pays or agrees to pay something of value for a chance,
represented and differentiated by a number or by a combination of numbers or by
some other medium, one (1) or more of which chances is to be designated the
winning chance; and
   B.   The winning chance is to be determined through a drawing or by some
other method based on an element of chance by an act or set of acts on the part
of persons conducting or connected with the lottery, except that the winning
chance shall not be determined by the outcome of a publicly exhibited sporting
contest.
RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATION: Any church, congregation, society, or organization
founded for the purpose of religious worship.
VETERANS ORGANIZATION: An organization or association comprised of members of
which substantially all are individuals who are veterans or spouses, widows or
widowers of veterans, the primary purpose of which is to promote the welfare of
its members and to provide assistance to the general public in such a way as to
confer a public benefit. (Ord. 17-09, 3-21-2017)
3-12-2: LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
It shall be unlawful to conduct or operate a raffle or to sell, offer for sale,
convey, issue or otherwise transfer for value a chance on a raffle unless such
raffle has been licensed in accordance with this chapter. (Ord. 17-09, 3-21-
2017)
3-12-3: MULTIPLE RAFFLES:
A license issued under this chapter shall apply for all raffles conducted by
the licensee during the calendar year for which the license is issued. (Ord.
17-09, 3-21-2017)
3-12-4: LICENSEE QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   Raffle licenses shall be issued only to bona fide charitable,
educational, fraternal, labor, business, religious and veterans organizations
that operate without profit to their members and which have been in existence
continuously for a period of five (5) years immediately before making
application for license and which have had during that entire five-year period
a bona fide membership engaged in carrying out their objects, or to a nonprofit
fundraising organization that the Village determines is organized for the sole
purpose of providing financial assistance to an identified individual or group
of individuals suffering extreme financial hardship as the result of illness,
disability, accident or disaster. The following are ineligible for any raffle
license:
      1.   Any person who has been convicted of a felony;
      2.   Any person who is or has been a professional gambler or gambling
promoter;
      3.   Any person who is not of good moral character;
      4.   Any organization in which a person defined in subsections A1 through
A3 of this section has a proprietary, equitable, or credit interest, or in
which such person is active or employed;
      5.   Any organization in which a person defined in subsections A1 through
A3 of this section is an officer, director or employee, whether compensated or
not; and
      6.   Any organization in which a person defined in subsections A1 through
A3 of this section is to participate in the management or operation of a
raffle. (Ord. 17-09, 3-21-2017)
3-12-5: APPLICATION:
   A.   Any person seeking to conduct or operate a raffle shall file an
application therefor with the Village Clerk on forms provided by the Village.
Such application shall contain the following information:
      1.   The name and address of the organization and evidence it is a
qualified applicant under the previous section.
      2.   The name, address and telephone number of the organization's
presiding officer and Raffles Manager.
      3.   The maximum price to be charged for each raffle chance issued or
sold.
      4.   The geographic area or areas in which raffle chances will be sold or
issued.
      5.   The maximum number of days during which raffle chances are to be
sold.
      6.   The times and locations at which winning chances will be determined.
      7.   A certificate signed by the presiding officer of the applicant
organization attesting to the fact that the information contained in the
application is true and correct. (Ord. 17-09, 3-21-2017)
3-12-6: CONDUCT OF RAFFLES:
   A.   The operation and conduct of raffles are subject to the following
restrictions:
      1.   The entire net proceeds of any raffle must be exclusively devoted to
the lawful purpose of the licensee;
      2.   No person except a bona fide member of the licensee may participate
in the management or operation of the raffle;
      3.   No person may receive any remuneration or profit for participating
in the management or operation of the raffle;
      4.   A licensee may rent premises on which to determine the winning
chance or chances in a raffle only from an organization which is also licensed
under this chapter;
      5.   Raffle chances may be sold, offered for sale, conveyed, issued or
otherwise transferred for value only within the area specified on the license;
and the winning chances may be determined only at the location specified on the
license;
      6.   No person under the age of eighteen (18) years may participate in
the operation or conduct of raffles except with the permission of a parent or
guardian. A person under the age of eighteen (18) years may be within the area
where winning chances are being determined only when accompanied by his parent
or guardian. (Ord. 17-09, 3-21-2017)
3-12-7: RAFFLE MANAGER:
The operation and conduct of a raffle shall be under the supervision of a
single Raffle Manager designated by the licensee. The Manager shall give a
fidelity bond equal in the amount of the estimated aggregate retail value of
all prizes to be awarded in favor of the licensee conditioned upon his honesty
in the performance of his duties. The terms of the bond shall provide that
notice shall be given in writing to the Village not less than thirty (30) days
prior to its cancellation. The Village Council may waive this bond requirement
by including a waiver provision in the license issued to an organization under
230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 15/1 et seq.; provided that a license containing
such waiver provision shall be granted only by unanimous vote of the members of
the licensed organization. (Ord. 17-09, 3-21-2017)
3-12-8: RECORDS:
   A.   Each licensee shall keep records of its gross receipts, expenses and
net proceeds for each single gathering or occasion at which winning chances are
determined. All deductions from gross receipts for each single gathering or
occasion shall be documented with receipts or other single records indicating
the amount, a description of the purchased item or service or other reason for
the deduction, and the recipient. The distribution of net proceeds shall be
itemized as to payee, purpose, amount and the date of payment.
   B.   Gross receipts from the operation of raffles shall be segregated from
other revenues of the licensee, including bingo gross receipts, if bingo games
are also conducted by the same nonprofit organization pursuant to a license
therefor issued by the State Department of Revenues, and placed in a separate
account. Each licensee shall keep separate records of its raffles. The person
who accounts for gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds from the operation
of raffles shall not be the same person who accounts for other revenues of the
licensee.
   C.   Each licensee shall report to its membership and to the Village its
gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds from the raffle, and the distribution
of net proceeds itemized as required in this section. Such report shall be made
promptly after the conclusion of each raffle.
   D.   Raffle records shall be preserved for three (3) years and organizations
shall make available their records relating to the operation of raffles for
public inspection at reasonable times and places. (Ord. 17-09, 3-21-2017)
3-12-9: FEE SCHEDULE:
No licensing fees shall be required for raffles conducted in accordance with
this chapter. All licenses shall be applicable only for the calendar year in
which it is issued. (Ord. 17-09, 3-21-2017)
3-12-10: LIMITATIONS:
   A.   The following limitations shall apply as to prizes, merchandise and
chances in connection with any raffle conducted within the Village:
      1.   The aggregate retail value of all prizes or merchandise awarded by a
licensee in connection with a single raffle shall not exceed one hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000.00).
      2.   The maximum retail value of each prize awarded by a licensee in a
single raffle shall not exceed one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00).
      3.   The maximum price which may be charged for each raffle chance issued
or sold shall not exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00).
      4.   The maximum number of days during which chances may be issued or
sold shall not exceed three hundred sixty five (365) days. (Ord. 17-09, 3-21-
2017)
3-12-11: EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION:
Pursuant to 230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 15/2, the Mayor, for and on behalf
of the Village, may enter into a written contract with any county and/or one
(1) or more municipalities providing for the establishment of a system for the
licensing of organizations to operate raffles within any area of contiguous
territory not contained within the Village. (Ord. 17-09, 3-21-2017)
3-12-12: PENALTIES:
Failure to comply with any of the requirements of this chapter shall constitute
a violation; and any person, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to
punishment as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 17-09, 3-21-2017)
CHAPTER 13
MOBILE FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
3-13-1: Definitions
3-13-2: Permits And Applications
3-13-3: Liability And Insurance Obligation
3-13-4: Permit Fee
3-13-5: Requirements For Food Trucks
3-13-6: Offenses And Regulations
3-13-7: Exemptions
3-13-8: Penalties/Fines
3-13-1: DEFINITIONS:
DAY: Any consecutive twenty-four (24) hour period not constrained by a singular
calendar day.
EDIBLE GOODS: Shall include, but are not limited to:
   1)   Prepackaged food, including, but not limited to candy, beverages, and
ice cream;
   2)   Prepared food, including, but not limited to hotdogs, desserts and
pizza; and
   3)   Onsite prepared food, including, but not limited to shaved ice,
sandwiches and tacos.
FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT: Any business that sells edible goods and has been
inspected and approved by the Illinois Department of Public Health, including
commercial kitchens and commissaries, and shall specifically exclude accessory
or self-serve retail food sales.
MOBILE: The capability of being active, but not necessarily in continuous
movement.
MOBILE FOOD VENDOR: Any business or person which sells edible goods from a non-
permanent location within the Village of Seneca. This term includes, but is not
limited to:
   1)   Mobile food truck: a self-contained motorized unit selling items
defined as edible goods;
   2)   Any motor vehicle used to sell items defined as edible goods;
   3)   Concessions cart: A mobile vending unit that must be moved by non-
motorized means;
   4)   Any type of wagon, trailer, cart, sled or other equipment that must be
moved by non-motorized means to include pulled or pushed by human or animals;
and
   5)   Concession trailer: a vending unit which is pulled by either a
motorized unit or any other device, animal, or human, and has no power to move
on its own.
NON-REFRIGERATED: Edible goods that are not required to be kept at a
temperature below forty-one (41°) degrees Fahrenheit according to the Federal
Food and Drug Administration and the State of Illinois' food establishment
rules.
SELL: The act of exchanging a good for a payment, either for profit or in
return for a donation.
STATIONARY LOCATION: The position of the mobile food vendor when not in motion,
and addressing the public for the purpose of sales. (Ord. 19-16, 9-17-2019)
3-13-2: PERMITS AND APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Mobile Food Vendor Permit.
      1.   Every mobile food vendor shall have a permit issued by the Village
of Seneca to conduct business in the Village. It is unlawful for any person to
use or permit the use of any mobile food vendor without first having obtained a
Village permit.
      2.   Applications for all permits shall be made in writing to the Village
on the form provided.
      3.   The mobile food vendor permit shall be prominently displayed at all
times in a conspicuous place where it can be read by the general public on the
mobile food vendor truck, concession cart, or concession trailer. It is
unlawful to transfer any food-vending vehicle permit from one vehicle to
another.
      4.   No license shall be issued to a mobile food vendor who has not
received a food sanitation license from the LaSalle County Health Department or
the Grundy County Health Department.
   B.   Application for Mobile Food Vendor Permit.
      1.   An applicant for a mobile food vendor permit shall furnish the
following information to the Village:
         a.   Name (including any alias), address, and telephone number;
         b.   Illinois Department of Revenue I.D. Number;
         c.   Date of birth and driver's license number, if any;
         d.   Mobile food vehicle Information.
   C.   Qualifications.
      1.   The applicant must be the holder of a valid State of Illinois
driver's license, if operating a motor vehicle.
      2.   The applicant must not have been convicted of any felony or Class A
misdemeanor within the past five years or be required to register as a sex
offender.
      3.   The applicant must not have had his/her driver's license suspended
or revoked in any state within the past three years as a consequence of
violations of law concerning the operation of a motor vehicle. (Ord. 19-16, 9-
17-2019)
3-13-3: LIABILITY AND INSURANCE OBLIGATION:
Every mobile food vendor doing business in the Village of Seneca must furnish
evidence of comprehensive public liability insurance coverage for not less than
$500,000 in the event of bodily injury, including death, and if applicable,
worker's compensation insurance. Such evidence shall be in the form of a
certificate which shall be furnished to the Village at the time the mobile food
vendor applies for his or her annual license. Failure to maintain the required
insurance will be considered sufficient reason for the Village to suspend the
mobile food vendor's permit and shall be subject to fines and/or penalties as
defined herein. (Ord. 19-16, 9-17-2019)
3-13-4: PERMIT FEE:
The application for a mobile food vendor permit shall be fifty ($50.00)
dollars. Each mobile food vendor unit shall be permitted separately.
   A.   Mobile Food Vendor permits shall be valid for one (1) year from January
1st until December 31st for each year, regardless of the specific date of
issue.
   B.   At the time of renewal, the applicant must provide a new application
and payment of fifty ($50.00) dollars.
   C.   The permit fee may be remitted by a third party contracting with the
vendor to arrange their services. (Ord. 19-16, 9-17-2019)
3-13-5: REQUIREMENTS FOR FOOD TRUCKS:
   A.   No food truck shall operate between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 7:00
a.m. Monday through Friday. No food truck shall operate between the hours of 2:
30 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. on Saturday and Sunday.
   B.   No service area for the operation of the food truck shall block,
obstruct, or interfere with vehicular, bicycle or pedestrian flow.
   C.   No food truck operator shall place tents, tables, chairs or other
similar items on sidewalks, roadways, or public property adjacent to a food
truck. However, a food truck operator may place one table adjacent to their
truck solely to be used for food service. For trucks parked on the street, all
food service shall be directed towards the sidewalk.
   D.   No food truck shall use or maintain any sound amplifying equipment or
noisemaking apparatus that exceeds seventy five (75) decibels measured from ten
(10) feet away.
   E.   All Food trucks shall provide a trash receptacle sufficient to collect
trash generated by their operation. They shall collect and remove trash within
fifty (50) feet of the truck, prior to leaving a location.
   F.   Food trucks may not park within five hundred (500) feet of any special
event without written consent or permission to participate in the event from
the event operator.
   G.   Food trucks must comply with all other local, state and federal laws.
(Ord. 19-16, 9-17-2019)
3-13-6: OFFENSES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any individual as the agent or employee of
another food service establishment regulated under this Section to sell edible
goods in the Village, unless his or her principal or employer has received a
permit from the Village.
   B.   A permit issued under this Section is not transferable.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for an individual to sell edible goods while
displaying a valid permit issued by the Village of Seneca in the name of
another individual organization or entity.
   D.   It shall be unlawful for any individual directly or through an agent or
employee to sell goods within the corporate limits of the Village after the
expiration of the permit issued by the Village of Seneca under this Section.
   E.   It shall be unlawful for any individual directly or through its agents
or employees to misrepresent on the permit application any acts that are
regulated under this Section.
   F.   It shall be unlawful for any individual directly or through its agents
or employees to represent that the issuance of a permit by the Village of
Seneca constitutes the Village's endorsement or approval of the product for
sale.
   G.   It shall be unlawful to operate a mobile food vendor operation that is
not in compliance with the laws of the State of Illinois, as amended from time
to time.
   H.   It shall be unlawful to operate or do business as a mobile food vendor
without a mobile food vendor permit.
   I.   It shall be unlawful to operate a mobile food business or as a mobile
food vendor without valid insurance as described herein. (Ord. 19-16, 9-17-
2019)
3-13-7: EXEMPTIONS:
Individuals selling only non-refrigerated farm products in an unrefined state
shall not be considered as a mobile food vendor as defined by this chapter.
(Ord. 19-16, 9-17-2019)
3-13-8: PENALTY/FINES:
A violation of this Section is described as any person who conducts
transactions or engages in any business, trade, profession, or any other
activity within the Village of Seneca without a business license, or in
violation of above section, shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than
three hundred ($300.00) dollars, and not more than one thousand ($1,000.00)
dollars for any one offense, recoverable with costs and restitution, or
imprisoned not more than ninety (90) days, if the amount of such fines and
costs are not paid. Multiple violations of the same section, violation(s) at
multiple locations, and each day of a continuing violation shall be considered
as separate offenses. (Ord. 19-16, 9-17-2019)
CHAPTER 14
HOME KITCHEN OPERATIONS
SECTION:
3-14-1: Definition
3-14-2: Requirements
3-14-3: Inspections
3-14-4: Penalty And Enforcement
3-14-1: DEFINITION:
HOME KITCHEN OPERATION: A person who produces or packages non-potentially
hazardous food in a kitchen of that person’s primary domestic residence for
direct sale by the owner or a family member, or for sale by a religious,
charitable, or nonprofit organization, stored in the residence where the food
is made. (Ord. 20-04, 3-3-2020)
3-14-2: REQUIREMENTS:
The following conditions must be met in order to qualify as a Home Kitchen
Operation:
   A.   Monthly gross sales do not exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
   B.   The food is not potentially hazardous baked food, as defined in Section
4 of the Food Handling Regulation Enforcement Act (410 ILCS 625/4).
   C.   A notice is provided to the purchaser of the baked goods that the
product was produced in a home kitchen. (Ord. 20-04, 3-3-2020)
3-14-3: INSPECTIONS:
The Department of Public Health, the LaSalle County Health Department, the
Grundy County Health Department or the Village of Seneca may inspect a home
kitchen operation in the event of a complaint or disease outbreak. (Ord. 20-04,
3-3-2020)
3-14-4: PENALTY AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Any person violating the foregoing provisions of this Ordinance shall,
upon conviction, be subject to a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($
100.00) nor more than one seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00), such fine
being in addition to attorneys' fees, court costs or any other costs that a
court may award and each day or part thereof upon which such offense continues,
shall constitute a separate offense hereunder.
   B.   The Village's legal counsel is authorized to institute civil
proceedings necessary for the enforcement of this Ordinance to prosecute,
restrain or correct violations of this Ordinance. Such proceedings, including
an action for injunctive relief, shall be brought in the name of the Village,
provided, however, that nothing in this Ordinance and no action taken
hereunder, shall be held to exclude such criminal or administrative proceedings
as may be authorized by any of the laws of the Village or State of Illinois or
to exempt anyone violating this Ordinance or any part of the said laws from any
penalty which may be incurred. (Ord. 20-04, 3-3-2020)
CHAPTER 15
ADULT USE CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
3-15-1: Definitions
3-15-2: Cannabis Establishments Prohibited
3-15-3: Public Nuisance Declared
3-15-4: Violations And Penalties
3-15-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases shall, for the purposes of this Ordinance, have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section, as follows:
ADULT-USE CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT: A cultivation center, craft grower,
processing organization, infuser organization, dispensing organization or
transporting organization.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER: A facility operated by an organization or
business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
cultivate, dry, cure and package cannabis and perform other necessary
activities to make cannabis available for sale at a dispensing organization or
use at a processing organization, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act,
(P.A.101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations
promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER: A facility operated by an organization
or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
cultivate, process, transport and perform necessary activities to provide
cannabis and cannabis-infused products to licensed cannabis business
establishments, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A.101-0027), as it
may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION: A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Financial and Professional Regulation to acquire cannabis from licensed
cannabis business establishments for the purpose of selling or dispensing
cannabis, cannabis-infused products, cannabis seeds, paraphernalia or related
supplies to purchasers or to qualified registered medical cannabis patients and
caregivers, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A.101-0027), as it may
be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS INFUSER ORGANIZATION OR INFUSER: A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to directly incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis-infused product, per the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A.101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time,
and regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS PROCESSING ORGANIZATION OR PROCESSOR: A facility operated by
an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to either extract constituent chemicals or compounds to produce
cannabis concentrate or incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis product, per the Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act, (P.A.101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and
regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS TRANSPORTING ORGANIZATION OR TRANSPORTER: An organization or
business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
transport cannabis on behalf of a cannabis business establishment or a
community college licensed under the Community College Cannabis Vocational
Training Pilot Program, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A.101-
0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated
thereunder.
PERSON: Any person, firm, corporation, association, club, society or other
organization, including any owner, manager, proprietor, employee, volunteer or
agent. (Ord. 20-01, 1-7-2020)
3-15-2: CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED:
The following Adult-Use Cannabis Business Establishments are prohibited in the
Village of Seneca. No person shall locate, operate, own, suffer, allow to be
operated or aide, abet or assist in the operation within the Village of Seneca
of any of the following:
   Adult-Use Cannabis Craft Grower.
   Adult-Use Cannabis Cultivation Center.
   Adult-Use Cannabis Dispensing Organization.
   Adult-Use Cannabis Infuser Organization or Infuser.
   Adult-Use Cannabis Processing Organization or Processor.
   Adult-Use Cannabis Transporting Organization or Transporter. (Ord. 20-01, 1-
7-2020)
3-15-3: PUBLIC NUISANCE DECLARED:
Operation of any prohibited Cannabis Business Establishment within the City/
Village in violation of the provisions of this chapter is hereby declared a
public nuisance and shall be abated pursuant to all available remedies. (Ord.
20-01, 1-7-2020)
3-15-4: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
Whoever violates any provision of this Ordinance shall be punished by a fine of
not less than Fifty Dollars ($50.00). Each day any violation continues shall
constitute a separate offense. This monetary penalty shall be in addition to
any and all other remedies which may be available to the Village under its
ordinances, or under federal or Illinois law. (Ord. 20-01, 1-7-2020)
CHAPTER 16
VIDEO GAMING
SECTION:
3-16-1: Applicability Of Provisions
3-16-2: Definitions
3-16-3: License; Approval
3-16-4: License Application Requirements
3-16-5: Application Filing
3-16-6: Video Gaming Terminal License Fees
3-16-7: Terminal Operator License Fees (Rep. by Ord. 25-13, 4-7-2025)
3-16-8: License Revocation Or Suspension
3-16-9: Limitation On Number of Video Gaming Terminals On Premises
3-16-10: Prohibition
3-16-11: Exceptions
3-16-12: Licensed Establishments
3-16-13: Seizure Of Unauthorized Gambling Devices And Gambling Funds
3-16-1: APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this chapter, except as otherwise provided, shall apply to
all video gaming as hereinafter defined, whether specifically licensed or
regulated under other provisions of this code or other ordinances, or not.
(Ord. 23-6, 3-21-2023)
3-16-2: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Board: the Illinois Gaming Board.
   B.   Commercial Motor Vehicles: as defined in Section 18b-1 01 of the
Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/18b-101.
   C.   Licensed Establishment: any business licensed by the State of Illinois
to have or operate a video gaming device in the Village, including any licensed
fraternal establishment, licensed veterans establishment, licensed truck stop
establishment and licensed large truck stop establishment as those terms are
defined in the VGA, 230 ILCS 40/5.
   D.   Licensed Fraternal Establishment: the location where a qualified
fraternal organization that derives its charter from a national fraternal
organization regularly meets.
   E.   Licensed Veterans Establishment: the location where a qualified
veterans organization that derives its charter from a national veterans
organization regularly meets.
   F.   Licensed Truck Stop Establishment: a facility (i) that is at least a
three-acre facility with a convenience store; (ii) with separate diesel islands
for fueling commercial motor vehicles; (iii) that sells at retail more than
10,000 gallons of diesel or biodiesel fuel per month; and (iv) with parking
spaces for commercial motor vehicles. The requirement of item (iii) of this
paragraph may be met by showing that estimated future sales or past sales
average at least 10,000 gallons per month.
   G.   Licensed Large Truck Stop Establishment: a facility located within
three road miles from a freeway interchange, as measured in accordance with the
Department of Transportation's rules regarding the criteria for the
installation of business signs: (i) that is at least a three-acre facility with
a convenience store; (ii) with separate diesel islands for fueling commercial
motor vehicles; (iii) that sells at retail more than 50,000 gallons of diesel
or biodiesel fuel per month; and (iv) with parking spaces for commercial motor
vehicles. The requirement of item (iii) of this definition may be met by
showing that estimated future sales or past sales average at least 50,000
gallons per month.
   H.   Terminal Operating: An individual, partnership, corporation, or limited
liability company that is licensed under the VGA and that owns, services, and
maintains Video Gaming Terminals for placement in Licensed Video Gaming
Locations.
   I.   Video Gaming Terminal: any electronic video game machine that, upon
insertion of cash, is available to play or simulate the play of a video game,
including but not limited to, video poker, line up and blackjack, as authorized
by the Board utilizing a video display and microprocessors in which the player
may receive free games or credits that can be redeemed for cash. The term does
not include a machine that directly dispenses coins, cash or tokens or is for
amusement purposes only. (Ord. 23-6, 3-21-2023)
3-16-3: LICENSE; APPROVAL:
   A.   No person, either as owner, lessee, manager, officer or agent, or in
any other capacity, shall operate or permit to be operated any video gaming
terminal, as defined herein, at any premises within the Village without first
having obtained a video gaming license from the Village. The license provided
for in this Article shall permit a licensee to operate video gaming terminals
at the specified establishment.
   B.   No applicant, including any person, either as owner, lessee, manager,
officer or agent, shall be eligible for a video gaming license from the
Village, nor shall an existing license holder be entitled to maintain a video
gaming license, unless each of the following requirements are met and continue
to be met:
      1.   The applicant holds the appropriate certificate or license from the
State of Illinois permitting video gaming and is in good standing with same;
      2.   The establishment must maintain customer seating outside of the
gaming area but within the premises at a ratio of at least five seats for each
permitted video gaming terminal;
      3.   The applicant is not in arrears in any tax, fee or bill due to the
Village or State of Illinois;
      4.   The applicant has completed and complies with all the application
requirements set forth in Section 4 of this Article and is not disqualified due
to a felony, gambling offense, or crime of moral turpitude; and
      5.   There are no residential-type zoning district properties located
within two hundred fifty (250) feet from the specified establishment’s property
line.
   C.   The mayor shall be the approving authority for all licenses. The
licensed requested for the licensed premises shall be approved unless the mayor
finds that the applicant failed to meet any requirements of chapter 16, any
other provision within the Village of Seneca code of ordinances, or the video
game act (230 ILCS 40/1, et seq.). In the event a licensee or prospective
licensee disagrees with any action taken by the mayor, an appeal may be made
directly to the Village Council at its next regularly scheduled meeting after
written notice of the action from which an appeal is made. Final decision on
the appeal shall be determined by a vote of the commissioners and mayor. (Ord.
23-6, 3-21-2023; amd. Ord. 25-13, 4-7-2025)
3-16-4: LICENSE APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
The license applicant shall provide the following information to the Village on
a form provided by the Village:
   A.   The legal name of the establishment;
   B.   The business name of the establishment;
   C.   The address of the establishment where the video gaming terminals are
to be located;
   D.   The type of establishment, including whether it is classified as a
veteran, fraternal, regular truck stop, large truck stop or liquor
establishment and supporting documentation demonstrating the classification;
   E.   A floor plan detailing the overall layout of the establishment,
including the location and count of dining seating, the location and count of
video gaming terminals and seating for said terminals, and other significant
features of the establishment, including exit locations, restrooms and other
equipment. A copy (no smaller than 11 inches by 17 inches) shall be submitted
at the time of application;
   F.   The amount of time the establishment has been in business under the
ownership of the applicant at the location where video gaming is proposed to
take place;
   G.   The business office address of the establishment if different from the
address of the establishment;
   H.   In the case of a corporation, limited liability company or trust, the
name and address of an agent authorized and designated to accept service on
behalf of the licensee;
   I.   A phone number for the establishment;
   J.   An e-mail address for the establishment;
   K.   The name and address of every person owning more than a 5% share of the
establishment;
   L.   The name, address, phone number and e-mail address of any terminal
operator or distributor proposed to own, service or maintain video gaming
terminals at the establishment;
   M.   A copy of the establishment's State of Illinois video gaming license;
   N.   In the case of a corporation, limited liability company or partnership,
a copy of the establishment's state certificate of good standing;
   O.   A statement as to the number of video gaming terminals which the
establishment proposes to have on its premises (not to exceed five for all
establishments);
   P.   A statement that the establishment is not in arrears in any tax, fee or
bill due to the Village or State of Illinois;
   Q.   A statement that the establishment agrees to abide by all state and
federal laws and any local ordinance;
   R.   A statement that no manager or owner with more than 5% interest in the
establishment has ever been convicted of a felony, a gambling offense or a
crime of moral turpitude. In the event that an establishment cannot provide
such statement, the establishment may apply for a certificate of rehabilitation
from the Police Chief and Commissioner of Public Health & Safety indicating
that the individual who would disqualify the establishment from obtaining the
video gaming license has been rehabilitated and is no longer a threat to
violate the law. The Police Chief and Commissioner of Public Health & Safety
may consider the nature of the offense, the length of time since the offense,
the length of time since release from custody and other factors to determine if
the individual has been rehabilitated such that he or she is no longer likely
to commit another offense;
   S.   If the application is for a new establishment based on the business
model of another existing location, information regarding the existing business
location must be provided, including the type of business, the gross receipts
as compared to any video gaming revenue for the prior 12- month period, proof
of the length of time the existing business has been operational and proof of
ownership verifying the applicant's ownership rights;
   T.   For renewal applications, a report or reports showing its gross annual
revenue for the previous calendar year by category of revenue generated and
showing the percentage of gaming revenue payable to the establishment as
compared to the total gross revenues of the establishment. (Ord. 23-6, 3-21-
2023)
3-16-5: APPLICATION FILING:
Applications shall be processed by the Village Clerk on a first come, first
served basis. Every application shall be date and time stamped upon filing. An
application received in the mail shall be considered filed on the date and time
it is opened by the Village Clerk's department. (Ord. 23-6, 3-21-2023)
3-16-6: VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL LICENSE FEES:
The fee for operation of a video gaming terminal shall be two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00) per terminal annually. Said fees are not subject to proration
or refund and are due prior to issuance of the license. All licenses required
by this division shall be prominently displayed next to the video gaming
terminal. The fee shall be shared equally between the terminal operator and the
applicable licensed establishment, licensed veterans establishment, licensed
truck stop establishment, licensed large truck stop establishment, or licensed
fraternal establishment. (Ord. 23-6, 3-21-2023; amd. Ord. 25-13, 4-7-2025)
3-16-7: TERMINAL OPERATOR LICENSE FEES:
(Rep. by Ord. 25-13, 4-7-2025)
3-16-8: LICENSE REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION:
The Village Council, at any time, may notify any licensee under this division
within five (5) business days of any charge of a violation of any of the
provisions of this Article in connection with the operation of any video gaming
terminal. After a hearing presided over by the Village Council, the Village
Council may order the revocation of the license upon a finding that the
violation has occurred, and the license shall thereupon be terminated. The
licensee may appeal the revocation as prescribed in Section 3(F).
In the event of the revocation or denial of any license or registration under
this Section, such person shall not be issued any license provided for in this
Article for one calendar year following the revocation or any appeal thereof.
(Ord. 23-6, 3-21-2023)
3-16-9: LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF VIDEO GAMING TERMINALS ON PREMISES:
There shall be no more than six (6) video gaming terminals allowed and permits
issued therefore under this Article for each licensee at any one location,
other than a licensed large truck stop establishment.
There shall be no more than ten (10) video gaming terminals allowed and permits
issued therefore under this Article for each licensee at any licensed large
truck stop establishment. (Ord. 23-6, 3-21-2023)
3-16-10: PROHIBITION:
Except as otherwise excepted in this Article, it shall be unlawful for any
person to gamble within the corporate limits of the Village, or for any person
or entity which owns, occupies or controls an establishment within the Village
to knowingly permit others to gamble on the premises. (Ord. 23-6, 3-21-2023)
3-16-11: EXCEPTIONS:
Nothing in this Article shall be deemed to prohibit or make unlawful the
following activities or forms of gambling: the keeping, possession, ownership,
use or playing of a video gaming terminal in a licensed establishment, licensed
truck stop establishment, licensed fraternal establishment or licensed veterans
establishment, which is licensed by the Board to conduct or allow such specific
activities under the VGA, 230 ILCS 40/1, et seq. (Ord. 23-6, 3-21-2023)
3-16-12: LICENSED ESTABLISHMENTS:
Any business, liquor or food licensee within the corporate limits of the
Village that allows gambling to occur on premises in violation of this Section
shall be subject to having his/her/its license immediately revoked for a period
of sixty (60) days. Any business, liquor or food licensee within the corporate
limits of the Village that allows gambling to occur on premises in violation of
this Article a second time shall have his/her/its license permanently revoked
and, thereafter, barred from obtaining any business, liquor or food license
within the Village. (Ord. 23-6, 3-21-2023)
3-16-13: SEIZURE OF UNAUTHORIZED GAMBLING DEVICES AND GAMBLING FUNDS:
Any gambling device which is not authorized by this Article shall be subject to
immediate seizure and confiscation by the Village. Any money or other thing of
value intrinsically related to acts of gambling not authorized by this Article
shall be seized and forfeited as contraband. Disposition of such gambling
devices and funds seized or confiscated shall be made in accordance with the
law. (Ord. 23-6, 3-21-2023)
CHAPTER 17
SOLAR FARMS
SECTION:
3-17-1: Purpose
3-17-2: Definitions
3-17-3: Applications
3-17-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this section is to provide regulations concerning solar farm
placement, construction and operation within the Village of Seneca. (Ord. 24-
01, 2-6-2024; amd. Ord. 24-04, 2-20-2024)
3-17-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms or words used herein
shall be interpreted as follows:
MWAC: Electric power in MegaWatts, using alternating current. Used to determine
      power capacity of the proposed solar energy system.
MWAC:      Electric power in MegaWatts, using alternating current. Used to determine power
           capacity of the proposed solar energy system.
RESIDENCE: A building used as a dwelling for one or more families or persons.
ROADWAY:   Any street, roadway, highway, alleyway, or thoroughfare which is located within
           the village.
           A.   Any assembly, structure, or design, including passive elements, used for
SOLAR      gathering, concentrating, or absorbing direct or indirect solar energy,
COLLECTOR: specially designed for holding a substantial amount of useful thermal energy and
           to transfer that energy to a gas, solid, or liquid or to use that energy
           directly; or
          B.   A mechanism that absorbs solar energy and converts it into electricity; or
          C.   A mechanism or process used for gathering solar energy through wind or
           thermal gradients; or
          D.   A component used to transfer thermal energy to a gas, solid, or liquid, or
           to convert it into electricity.
SOLAR      A radiant energy received from the sun at wave lengths suitable for heat
ENERGY:    transfer, photosynthetic use, or photovoltaic use.
SOLAR      A.   A complete assembly, structure, or design of a solar collector or solar
ENERGY     storage mechanism, which uses solar energy for generating electricity or for
SYSTEM:    heating or cooling gases, solids, liquids, or other materials;
           B.   The design, materials, or elements of a system and its maintenance,
          operation, and labor components, and the necessary components, if any, of
           supplemental conventional energy systems designed or constructed to interface
           with a solar energy system; and
           C.   Any legal, financial or institutional orders, certificates, or mechanisms,
          including easements, leases, and agreements, required to ensure continued access
           to solar energy, its source, or its use in a solar energy system, and including
           monitoring and educational elements of a demonstration project.
SOLAR      A commercial solar energy facility.
FARM:
           Equipment or elements (such as piping and transfer mechanisms, containers, heat
SOLAR      exchangers, or controls thereof, and gases, solids, liquids, or combinations
STORAGE    thereof) that are utilized for storing solar energy, gathered by solar
MECHANISM: collector, for subsequent use. (Ord. 24-01, 2-6-2024; amd. Ord. 24-04, 2-20-
           2024)
 
3-17-3: APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Application Fee: The application fee for a solar farm shall be
$1,000.00 per MWac.
   B.   Content of the Solar Farm Application: Every solar farm application
shall include the following information and documentation:
      1.   Applicant Information: The applicant shall describe itself, its
legal standing as to whether it is a corporation, limited liability company,
individual, or other legal entity and shall identify its officers and
directors, shareholders, and members. It shall also identify its parent and
subsidiary companies. The same information shall be provided for all owners and
operators of the solar farm system. In addition, the applicant shall identify
the property owners that have entered into leases or agreements with the
applicant, and proof must be included that the applicant has the legal
authority to bring this application in the name of such property owners.
      2.   Project Description: The applicant shall provide a general
description of the project, including its total generating capacity; the
general description of the equipment and solar collectors proposed; the number
of solar collectors; the nameplate generating capacity of the solar project;
the proposed height of each solar collector and overall dimensions thereof.
      3.   Certified easements, contracts, leases, waivers, and option
agreements for the proposed use of the land.
      4.   Site Plan: The applicant shall provide a site plan containing the
following information:
         a.   All proposed setback dimensions.
         b.   All proposed structures on the property, including, but not
limited to, solar collectors, substations, and access roads.
         c.   Topographic site information for the subject property and the
adjacent properties within two hundred and fifty feet (250') of the property
line of the subject property indicating contours in five foot (5') intervals.
         d.   Existing structures on subject property and properties within 250
feet of the property.
         e.   All existing and proposed underground and aboveground utilities.
         f.   All Roadways, rights of way, wetlands, wooded areas, and public
conservation lands adjacent to the solar farm.
         g.   Utility interconnection location.
         h.   Landscaping to screen parts of the solar farm that are visible to
non-participating residences.
         i.   Ingress and egress from the site as proposed during construction
and thereafter, which indicates:
            (1)   Proposed internal road surface and cover.
            (2)   Proposed exits and entryways to Village roads.
            (3)   Dust control.
            (4)   Width and length of access route and location of ingress.
            (5)   All routes on either county or Village roads that will be
used for the construction and maintenance purposes.
      5.   Fire protection plan for the construction and the operation of the
solar farm and emergency access to the site.
      6.   Revegetation and reclamation plan of the areas that will be
disturbed.
      7.   Preliminary drainage plan and erosion control plan.
      8.   Description of hours of operation for construction and maintenance
of the facility; number of employees; and type of traffic expected to be
generated from the site.
      9.   Third-party identification and assessment of potential wetlands
within the project site.
      10.   Evidence of consultation with the Illinois State Historic
Preservation Office (SHPO) to assess potential impacts on State-registered
historic sites under the Illinois State Agency Historic Resources Preservation
Act.
      11.   The results and recommendations from consultation with the Illinois
Department of Natural Resources that are obtained through the Ecological
Compliance Assessment Tool (EcoCAT) or a comparable successor tool.
      12.   The results of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service’s
Information for Planning and Consulting (IPAC) environmental review or a
comparable successor tool.
      13.   A property value impact report which determines whether solar farm
uses have any measurable impact on the value of adjacent properties.
      14.   A copy of written notification to the utility company requesting
the proposed interconnection.
   C.   Design and Installation Requirements:
      1.   Height: The total height of the solar collectors shall not exceed
twenty feet (20') in height when oriented at a maximum tilt position.
      2.   Setbacks:
         a.   Setback Requirements: The setback for the solar array and
components of the solar collector system shall be fifty feet (50') from the
property line.
         b.   Public Roads: The setback for the solar array and components of
the solar collector system shall be one hundred feet (100') from public roads.
         c.   Residences: The setback for the solar array and components of the
solar collector system shall be one hundred and fifty feet (150') from any non-
participating residence.
      3.   Electrical Components: All electrical components of a solar farm
shall conform to all applicable local utility standards and national electric
codes. All electrical wires and lines that are used in conjunction with the
solar farm shall be installed underground.
      4.   Warning Signage: Signs warning of the high voltage associated with
the solar farm shall be posted at every entrance to the facility transformers
and substations, as well as every 100 feet along the perimeter of the property.
      5.   Landscaping: Applicant shall minimize the disruption of natural
environment, retain existing vegetation and native plant species to the maximum
extent feasible and replant with native vegetation if existing vegetation is
disturbed during construction.
      6.   Federal and State Requirement Compliance: The solar collecting
system shall meet or exceed any standards and regulations of any agency of the
state or federal government with the authority to regulate solar farms.
      7.   Power Lines: All electrical control wiring and power lines shall be
wireless or not above ground except where solar farm collector wiring is
brought together for connection to the transmission or distribution network,
adjacent to that network.
      8.   Access Roads: The applicant shall minimize the number and width of
access roads, minimize cut and fill on sloping terrain and use natural terrain
where feasible for these access points.
      9.   Complaint Resolution: The applicant shall develop a process to
resolve any complaints that may arise from neighboring property owners during
the construction and operation of the solar farm. The process may use an
independent mediator or arbitrator and shall include a time limit for acting on
a complaint that is received. The process shall not preclude the local
government from acting on a complaint. The applicant shall provide to the
nearby residents a phone number of the project manager during the construction
of the facility if a problem should arise.
      10.   Waste Disposal. All solid waste generated from supplies, equipment,
parts, packaging or operation of the facility shall be removed from the site
immediately and disposed of in an appropriate manner. Any hazardous waste that
is generated by the facility, including, but not limited to, lubricating
materials, shall be removed consistent with all local, state and federal rules
and regulations.
      11.   Drainage: Any damage to waterways, drainage ditches, or any other
infrastructures caused by the construction or maintenance of the solar farm
shall be completely repaired to near original condition and so as not to impede
the natural flow of water. All repairs shall be completed within a reasonable
amount of time.
      12.   Conformance to Code Standards/Engineer Certification: The solar
farm shall comply with all applicable state and Village codes for the
electrical, mechanical and structural components of the facility. All documents
provided for review shall be stamped and signed by a professional engineer.
      13.   Fencing: Perimeter fencing having a minimum height of six feet (6')
and a maximum of ten feet (10') shall be installed around the boundary of the
solar farm. The fence shall be constructed of dirt, wood, stone, steel, or
other metal, or any substance of a similar nature and strength. The fence shall
contain appropriate warning signage that is posted such that it is clearly
visible on the site.
      14.   Lot Area: Solar farms and components thereof shall be located on a
parcel that is a minimum of five (5) acres in size.
      15.   Vegetation Control: A vegetation and weed control plan shall be
provided that protects against the creation of a prey habitat and/or aesthetic
impacts to the surrounding area.
      16.   Cleaning Supplies and Solvents: Cleaning chemicals and solvents
used during the operation or maintenance of the solar farm facility shall
consist of biodegradable products and shall be low in volatile organic
compounds.
      17.   Reflection Angles: Reflection angles for solar collectors shall be
oriented such that they do not direct glare toward adjacent properties.
   D.   Decommissioning or Abandonment of the Solar Farm: Prior to receiving a
special use of the solar farm, the operator/owner shall provide for a
decommissioning plan for the anticipated service life of the facility or in the
event that the facility is abandoned or has reached its life expectancy. If the
solar farm is out of service or not producing electrical energy for a period of
nine (9) months, it will be deemed nonoperational and decommissioning and
removal of that facility will need to commence according to the decommissioning
plan provided and approved. The decommissioning plan shall have the following
information provided:
      1.   Removal of the following within nine (9) months:
         a.   All solar collectors and components, aboveground improvements and
outside storage.
         b.   Foundations, pads and underground electrical wires and reclaim
the site to a depth of four feet (4') below the surface of the ground.
         c.   Hazardous material from the property, to be disposed of in
accordance with federal and state law.
      2.   A cost estimate for the decommissioning of the facility shall be
prepared by a professional engineer or contractor who has expertise in the
removal of the solar farm. The decommissioning cost shall be secured by cash,
surety bond or irrevocable letter of credit before any construction commences.
Such bond or other financial security shall name the Village of Seneca as a
designated beneficiary.
      3.   A restoration plan shall be provided for the site.
   E.   Liability Insurance: The owner or operator of the solar farm shall
maintain a current general liability policy covering bodily injury and property
damage and name Village of Seneca as an additional insured with limits of at
least two million dollars ($2,000,000.00) per occurrence and five million
dollars ($5,000,000.00) in the aggregate with a deductible of no more than five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00).
   F.   Administration and Enforcement: The zoning officer shall enforce the
provisions of this section. The zoning officer is hereby granted the power and
authority to enter upon the premises of the solar farm at any time by
coordinating a reasonable time with the operator/owner of the facility. Any
person, firm or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, refuses to
comply with, or resists enforcement of any of the provisions of this section
shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than five hundred dollars ($500) for
each offense. Each tower, nacelle, or any other component of the solar farm
shall be the subject of a separate violation, and each week that a violation is
permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense. Other actions,
including but not limited to injunctive relief, may be taken by law or in
equity to prevent or to remedy any violation of this section and these remedies
shall be in addition to any remedies, damages or penalties. (Ord. 24-01, 2-6-
2024; amd. Ord. 24-04, 2-20-2024)
TITLE 4
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
VACANT COMMERCIAL BUILDINGS
SECTION:
4-2-1: Purpose
4-2-2: Definitions
4-2-3: Vacant Building Registration
4-2-4: Maintenance
4-2-5: Exemption
4-2-6: Inspections
4-2-7: Other Laws, Ordinances And Regulations; Other Enforcement
4-2-8: Penalties
4-1-1: PURPOSE:
The Village Council finds that vacant commercial buildings are unsightly,
unsafe, a nuisance and create a hazard for the neighborhood and citizens, and
have a negative effect on the community. Further, many commercial buildings,
once vacant, remain that way for years. The purpose of this Chapter is to
protect the public health, safety and welfare by establishing a program for
identifying and registering vacant commercial buildings, to set forth the
responsibilities of owners of vacant commercial buildings, and to speed the
rehabilitation of vacant structures. (Ord. 24-02, 2-6-2024)
4-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
           A commercial building is one in which at least 50 percent of its
           floor space is used for commercial activities, such as retail, the
           providing of services, or food service (restaurants and the like).
COMMERCIAL A space that allows businesses to carry out day-to-day operations
BUILDING:  and serve customers or clients. As such, a commercial property
           does not strictly need to be a store or restaurant; it can also be
           a space in which income is being generated by providing services
           to people, such as a law office or a doctor’s office.
            A commercial building is one in which at least 50 percent of its floor space
            is used for commercial activities, such as retail, the providing of services,
COMMERCIAL  or food service (restaurants and the like). A space that allows businesses to
BUILDING:   carry out day-to-day operations and serve customers or clients. As such, a
            commercial property does not strictly need to be a store or restaurant; it
            can also be a space in which income is being generated by providing services
            to people, such as a law office or a doctor’s office.
            Where the condition of the building, structure, or any part thereof is an
            imminent, immediate, and substantial danger to the health or safety of anyone
EMERGENCY   on the premises or the general public. Such conditions include, but are not
SITUATION:  limited to: fire hazards; falling or dilapidated buildings, structures, or
            any part thereof; or such condition resulting from a sudden event/occurrence
            which causes loss of significant water, heat, ventilation, or lack of
            sanitary conditions.
ENFORCEMENT Individuals charged with enforcing the Code of Ordinances of the Village,
OFFICER:    including the Zoning Enforcement Officer and Police Officers.
            The person, persons or entity shown to be the owner or owners on the records
            of the LaSalle County Recorder or Grundy County Recorder, those identified as
            the owner or owners on a vacant building registration form, a mortgagee in
            possession, a mortgagor in possession, assignee of rents, receiver, executor,
OWNER:      trustee, lessee, or other person, firm or corporation in control of the
            premises. Any such person shall have joint and several obligations for
            compliance with the provisions of this Chapter. This definition specifically
            excludes any realtor or listing agent for the subject property, unless such
            person is also the owner of record.
            A commercial building which lacks the habitual presence of human beings who
            have a legal right to be on the premises, including buildings ordered vacated
            by an enforcement officer of the Village, a court of competent jurisdiction,
            or Administrative Adjudication Hearing Officer. The term shall also mean a
            building which is empty or not lawfully occupied on a regular basis for the
UNOCCUPIED: usual and customary purposes for which the building is designed. In
            determining whether a building is unoccupied, the enforcement officer may
            consider these factors, among others: whether lawful business activity has
            ceased; the building is substantially devoid of contents or has minimal
            fixtures or personal property in the building; the building lacks utility
            service; the building is subject to a foreclosure action; and, the presence
            or reoccurrence of violations of village codes.
            Any structure which is not occupied by a legal or equitable owner thereof, or
            by a lessee of a legal or equitable owner, and into which there are one or
            more unsecured openings such as broken windows, unlocked windows, broken
UNSECURED:  doors, unlocked doors, holes in exterior walls, holes in foundation stem
            walls, holes in the roof, broken basement or cellar hatchways, unlocked
            basement or cellar hatchways, or other similar unsecured openings which would
            allow an unauthorized entry into the structure.
VACANT      A building or structure which is any one or more of the following:
BUILDING:
           (1)   Unoccupied and unsecured;
           (2)   Unoccupied and an unsafe building as determined by the enforcement
            officer;
           (3)   Unoccupied and an enforcement officer has issued an order to correct
            code violations; Illegally occupied. (Ord. 24-02, 2-6-2024)
 
4-1-3: VACANT BUILDING REGISTRATION:
   A.   The owner of a vacant commercial building shall register with the
Village Clerk’s office no later than thirty (30) days after any building
becomes a “vacant building.” The obligation to register a building as a vacant
building shall be on the owner of the building. The Village may give notice to
an owner requiring registration as indicated, but the obligation to register
rests with the owner whether or not the owner receives any notice. An
enforcement officer may identify vacant commercial buildings through a routine
inspection process.
   B.   A notice to register issued by the Village Clerk or an enforcement
officer shall be served either in person or by first class mail to the owner of
record and any registered property manager, if known. If the notice is served
by first class mail, the notice shall be sent to the owner’s and manager’s last
known address and the date of mailing shall be the date of service. The notice
to register may also include information outlining programs available which may
be useful to implement a rehabilitation plan.
   C.   The registration shall be submitted on forms provided by the Village
Clerk’s office and shall include the following information:
      1.   A description of the premises, including square footage, number of
stories, age of the building, and most recent use of the building;
      2.   The name, street address, and telephone numbers of the owner or
owners;
      3.   The name, street address, and telephone number of any registered
property manager, or if none, another responsible person who can be reached and
respond if an emergency situation arises;
      4.   The name and street address of all known lien holders of record, and
all other parties with an ownership interest in the building;
      5.   A vacant building plan as described in subsection (D) below.
   D.   The owner shall submit a vacant building plan, which must be approved
by the Zoning Enforcement Officer or his designee. The plan shall contain a
statement as to which of the following three options for the property the owner
has chosen for the property, as well as the accompanying information.
      1.   Building to be demolished. If the building is to be demolished, the
owner shall provide a demolition plan indicating the proposed time frame for
completion of the demolition.
      2.   Building to remain vacant. If the building is to continue to be
vacant, the owner shall provide a plan for securing the building, along with
the procedure for maintaining the building and property. The owner shall also
provide a statement as to the reason(s) why the building will continue to be
vacant.
      3.   Building to be rehabilitated. If the building is to be returned to
appropriate occupancy or use, the owner shall provide a plan for rehabilitating
the building. The rehabilitation plan shall provide for completion of the
rehabilitation within a reasonable period commensurate with the condition of
the building from the date of submission of the plan and will include a plan
progress review every four (4) months. Any repairs, improvements, or
alterations to the property must comply with all applicable village codes,
including but not limited to zoning and building codes. A plan progress review
may be extended by the Zoning Enforcement Officer, or his designee, but only
for good cause shown and upon receipt of a written statement from the owner
detailing the reasons for the requested extension.
   E.   The owner shall comply with all applicable laws and codes in meeting
the obligations under the plan chosen. The owner shall notify the Village
Clerk’s office of any changes in information supplied as part of the vacant
building registration within 30 days of the change. If the plan or timetable
for the vacant building is revised in any way, the revisions shall be in
writing and must meet the approval of the Building Enforcement Officer or his
designee.
   F.   The owner and any subsequent owner shall keep the building secured and
safe and the building and property properly maintained, according to all
applicable codes.
   G.   Failure of the owner or any subsequent owner to meet the obligations of
the plan or maintain the building and property as required herein or by other
Village codes shall be grounds for the Village to pursue any and all violations
and to impose the fees provided in this chapter and any applicable penalties
provided in the Village code against the owner.
   H.   Any new owner shall register or re-register the vacant building with
the Village Clerk’s office within thirty (30) days of any transfer of an
ownership interest in a vacant building. The new owner shall comply with the
approved plan and timetable submitted by the previous owner until any proposed
changes are submitted and meet the approval of the Zoning Enforcement Officer.
   I   Registration Fees and Insurance.
      1.   The owner of a vacant commercial building shall pay an annual
registration fee of $250.00. The registration fee is due and payable upon
registration. The annual registration fee is due and payable on each
anniversary thereafter until the building is demolished or rehabilitated. In
the event the owner has obtained and maintained permits for repairs to the
building and is making progress on such repairs, the annual registration fee
shall be held in abeyance. In the event that the permits expire or the owner is
not making progress as outlined in the rehabilitation plan, the owner shall pay
such annual registration fee.
      2.   The owner of a vacant commercial building shall be required to show
proof of insurance showing liability limits for the property. A copy of the
certificate of insurance shall be attached to the registration form.
      3.   If owner has submitted a rehabilitation plan in accordance with
Section
4-1-3(D)(3) and the owner has obtained and maintained permits for repairs to
the building and is making progress on such repairs, the annual registration
fee shall be held in abeyance. In the event that the permits expire or the
owner is not making progress as outlined in the rehabilitation plan, the owner
shall pay such annual registration fee.
      4.   If the owner of a vacant building fails to register, pay the fees,
and maintain the required insurance, the owner shall be subject to the
penalties set forth in this chapter.
      5.   All fees shall be paid by the owner prior to any transfer of an
ownership interest in any vacant building. The fees will be disclosed by the
seller to the buyer prior to the sale. If the fees are not paid prior to any
transfer, the new owner will pay the annual fee no later than 30 days after the
transfer of ownership, and the subsequent annual fees will be due on the new
anniversary date. If the building is no longer subject to the provisions of
this Chapter within such 30-day period, the new owner will not be required to
pay the annual fee.
      6.   Any owner who fails to pay an annual registration fee when due shall
be charged a late fee of $25.00 per month or any part thereof for which payment
received within 30 days from the date of the demand for payment or an invoice.
(Ord. 24-02, 2-6-2024)
4-1-4: MAINTENANCE:
   A.   The owner of a vacant commercial building will take such steps and
perform such acts as may be required of him from time to time to ensure that
the building and its adjoining yard remain safe and secure and do not present a
hazard to the adjoining property or the public. Owners will be responsible for
maintaining their buildings and structures so that they do not become an
unoccupied hazard. Any building that is vacant or about to become vacant
requires at least one access into the building for ingress and egress purposes.
When a building becomes vacant for at least 60 days, the owner shall post a “No
Trespassing” sign on the building or property in at least two conspicuous
places.
   B.   The owner shall protect and maintain the exterior of the building
according to all applicable codes, as well as the following:
      1.   Exterior walls, including foundations, will be maintained such that
water does not penetrate into basements, cellars, or other interior areas. All
exterior walls and foundations must be free of holes and crevices.
      2.   Exterior doors, windows, skylights and similar openings will be
maintained weather tight.
      3.   Exterior stairs, porches, entrance platforms, fire escapes and the
railings thereon shall be maintained in a safe and sound condition.
      4.   Roofs shall be maintained in a watertight condition.
      5.   Exterior surfaces shall be maintained in good condition. Surfaces
not inherently resistant to deterioration shall be treated with a protective
coating of paint or other suitable preservative.
      6.   The covering for glass doors and windows may not consist of any
substance sprayed onto the glass doors or windows. All enclosures shall be
properly fitted and be of such material and surface that they are neither
unsightly nor will materially detract from the general appearance of the
building or the neighborhood and, when possible, secured by normal means.
      7.   The covering for broken doors and cracked or broken windows may
consist of glass, Plexiglas, plywood or similar materials finished and
maintained in a manner recommended and approved by the Zoning Enforcement
Officer or his designee. If plywood or similar material is used, the material
shall be cut to fit the opening and painted the same color scheme as the
building.
      8.   Windows that are not cracked or broken may be covered with interior
blinds, curtains, or shades.
      9.   The premises shall be kept free of insects and vermin, and will be
treated if necessary.
      10.   Any excavation or other attractive nuisance must be filled in or
properly closed.
      11.   All exterior sign posts or hardware, awnings, and lighting systems,
if not removed, shall be maintained in a non-deteriorated and safe condition.
   C.   The owner shall protect and maintain the interior of the building
according to all applicable health and life safety codes, as well as the
following:
      1.   Structural members shall be maintained to resist and prevent
deterioration.
      2.   Unheated attics, spaces below flat roofs, and crawl spaces shall be
ventilated to minimize deterioration.
      3.   Ceilings, walls, floors and stairways shall be maintained in a safe
and sound condition.
   D.   The owner shall further maintain the premises as follows:
      1.   Shall not permit garbage and refuse to accumulate;
      2.   Shall not permit insects, vermin or rodents to infest the premises;
      3.   Shall not discard, abandon, or store refrigerators or similar
equipment with locking mechanisms without first removing the locking devices or
the hinges of the doors;
      4.   Shall not store or otherwise allow inoperable, abandoned or junked
vehicles on the premises;
      5.   Shall maintain chimneys, smokestacks, flues, gas vents, smoke pipes
and connectors structurally safe and smoke tight;
      6.   If the building is to be demolished or remain vacant, then, within
10 days of registering the building, disconnect all fuel, gas, water, and other
utilities at the mains and drain the water pipes; or, if the building is going
to be rehabilitated, heat the building to avoid freezing pipes, maintain fuel
gas pipe systems gastight, safe and in operative condition, and maintain water
pipes to avoid leaks and breakages;
      7.   Maintain fuel tanks so that they will not become a hazard, or
discontinue use of the fuel tanks consistent with any applicable codes, laws or
regulations;
      8.   Maintain the domestic water supply system such that it is connected
to an approved source, will not be subject to contamination and will not be
connected to unsafe water supplies; or disconnect the water supply system at
the main and completely drain the system;
      9.   Maintain storm water drainage systems so as to function properly and
be kept free from obstructions, leaks and defects; maintain sewage systems so
as to function properly and be kept free from obstructions, leaks and defects,
or shall be sealed so as to prevent accumulation of sewage gases into the
building;
      10.   Maintain electrical fixtures, devices, wiring and systems in safe
working condition so as to avoid a potential source of ignition or shock; or
disconnect the service at the supply;
      11.   Maintain the yard by trimming trees, bushes and shrubs, mowing the
grass, and keeping the premises free of physical hazards and rodent harborage
and infestation. (Ord. 24-02, 2-6-2024)
4-1-5: EXEMPTION:
A building which has suffered such damage caused by fire or extreme weather
conditions, so as to be subject to the provisions of this Chapter, will be
exempt from the registration requirement for a period of 90 days after the date
of the fire or extreme weather event. The property owner may submit a written
request for an extension of the exemption period to the Village Clerk. The
Village Clerk may grant such extended exemption period only for good cause
shown. The request shall include the following: a description of the premises;
the reason for the request for exemption; the names and street addresses of the
owner(s); and, a statement of intent to repair and reoccupy the building in an
expedient manner, or the intent to demolish the building. (Ord. 24-02, 2-6-
2024)
4-1-6: INSPECTIONS:
By registering a vacant building, the owner consents to an enforcement officer
inspecting the premises for the purpose of enforcing and assuring compliance
with the provisions of this chapter. Upon written request of the enforcement
officer, the owner shall provide reasonable access to all interior portions of
a vacant building in order to permit a complete inspection. The inspection
shall be scheduled at a date and time convenient for both the owner and
enforcement officer. Nothing contained herein will diminish the owner’s right
to insist upon the enforcement officer obtaining an administrative search
warrant before conducting any inspection. In the case of an emergency this
section shall not apply. (Ord. 24-02, 2-6-2024)
4-1-7: OTHER LAWS, ORDINANCES AND REGULATIONS; OTHER ENFORCEMENT:
This chapter shall not be construed to prevent the enforcement of other laws,
codes, ordinances and regulations which prescribe standards other than those
provided herein, and in the event of conflict, the most restrictive shall
apply. The registration of a vacant building pursuant to this chapter shall not
preclude action by the Village to demolish or force rehabilitation of the
building as provided in this code or other laws. (Ord. 24-02, 2-6-2024)
4-1-8: PENALTIES:
Any person found guilty of violating any provision of this chapter shall be
fined not less than $250.00 nor more than $500.00 for each offense. Each day a
violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense. In addition to any fine
imposed under this chapter, the offender shall be ordered to pay all of the
costs and fees incurred by the Village in prosecuting the violation, which
shall include but not be limited to the costs associated with an administrative
adjudication proceeding or circuit court proceeding, and reasonable attorneys’
fees. (Ord. 24-02, 2-6-2024)
CHAPTER 2
PUBLIC NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-2-1: Definitions
4-2-2: Public Nuisances Prohibited
4-2-3: Complaint
4-2-4: Inspection
4-2-5: Notice
4-2-6: Service Of Notice
4-2-7: Abatement Procedure
4-2-8: Cost Of Village Abatement
4-2-9: Claim Of Lien
4-2-10: Penalties
4-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
BUILDING: Any walled or roofed structure including mobile homes, commercial establishments,
          factories, warehouses, dwellings, any structures, and any building excavations.
          Any building or structure which has any of the following defects, or is in any of
          the conditions described, shall be deemed a Dangerous Building and any of the
          following described conditions shall be deemed unsafe:
          A.   Any building, shed, fence or other manmade structure which is dangerous to
          the public health because of its construction or condition, or which may cause or
          aid in the spread of disease or cause injury to the health of the occupants of it
          or of neighboring structures;
          B.   Any building, shed, fence or other manmade structure which, because of
          faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair or any other cause, is especially
DANGEROUS liable to fire, and constitutes or creates a fire hazard;
BUILDING: C.   Any building, shed, fence or other manmade structure which, by reason of
          faulty construction, age or lack of proper repair or any other cause, is liable
          to cause injury or damage by collapsing or by a collapse or fall of any part of
          such structure;
          D.   Any building, shed, fence or other manmade structure which is unsecured due
          to lack or, or failure of, doors or windows, is available to or frequented by
          persons who are not lawful occupants of such structure;
          E.   Any building damaged by fire, storm or other casualty where the percentage
          of damage equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the
          structure before the damage occurred regardless of any actual repair work
          performed.
DUMPSTER: A metal container of one cubic yard or more in volume with an attached lid for
          handling by mechanical means.
          The animal and vegetable matter resulting from the handling, preparation,
          cooking, consumption and storage of food; and any other matter of any nature
GARBAGE:  whatsoever subject to decay which may putrefy or generate noxious or offensive
          odors, be a food source for rodents, or serve as a breeding or feeding place for
          insects or vermin.
          Shall include any and all waste matter, whether reusable or not, which is
          offensive to the public health and safety, specifically including, but not
          limited to:
          A.   Worn out, wrecked and/or junk vehicles or machinery of any kind or any parts
JUNK,     thereof;
TRASH AND B.   Used and waste tires;
REFUSE:   C.   Old, inoperable or unused appliances including refrigerators, stoves,
          iceboxes, televisions and electronic equipment;
          D.   Household furniture and other items of household personal property or refuse
          not properly contained within closed or sealed trash receptables. Refuse
          contained within trash bags or other non-rigid trash containers shall not be
          considered to be contained within closed or sealed trash receptables.
          A.   A vehicle that requires registration and/or licensure to operate on public
JUNK      roadways which is not located within a fully enclosed garage and is without a
VEHICLE:  current valid vehicle registration from the state of Illinois; or
          B.   A vehicle, which, for a period of at least seven days, is incapable of being
          driven under its own power and is not located within a fully enclosed garage.
LITTER:   Garbage and rubbish.
          Any of the following shall be considered Nuisance Greenery.
          A.   Weeds: Any weeds, such as jimson, burdock, ragweed, thistle, cocklebur or
          other weeds of a like kind.
          B.   Bushes: Any bush of the species of Tall, Common, or European Barberry,
          further known as Barberies Vulgis, or its horticulture varieties.
          C.   Heights: Any weeds, grass, or plants, other than trees, bushes, flowers,
          garden plants or other ornamental plants that grow to a height exceeding eight
          (8) inches.
NUISANCE  D.   A tree, or a portion thereof, on private property which:
GREENERY: 1.   Is infected or infested with Dutch elm disease, oak wilt disease, Asian long
          horned beetles, emerald ash borer, gypsy moths or any other disease or
          infestation which is deemed a nuisance by the Illinois Department of Agriculture
          or the United States Department of Agriculture;
          2.   Is dead or partially dead and such dead portion, if fallen, would endanger
          improvements to neighboring property, users of public right of ways, or
          improvements of public utilities and service providers; or
          3.   Is living and growing into, damaging or endangering improvements located on
          the subject property or nearby public right of ways, or neighboring property.
          E.   Any and all vegetation coming up from foundations.
OWNER:    Any agent, firm, corporation, or person who, alone, jointly or severally with
          others, has a legal or equitable interest in the property.
PERSON:   Person means any individual, corporation, firm or any other group acting as a
          unit.
          Any of the following identified as a public nuisance per se shall constitute a
          public nuisance. In addition to any public nuisance per se, a Public Nuisance may
          also be a thing, act, occupant, condition or use of property, which shall
          continue for such length of time as to:
PUBLIC    A.   Substantially annoy, injure or endanger the comfort, health, repose or
NUISANCE: safety of the public;
          B.   In any way render the public insecure in life or in the use of property;
          C.   Greatly offend the public morals or decency; or
          D.   Unlawfully and substantially interfere with, obstruct or tend to obstruct or
          render dangerous for passage any street, alley, highway, navigable body of water
          or other public way.
          The following nuisances affecting health, nuisances offending morals and decency,
          nuisances affecting peace and safety, and nuisance greenery are declared
          Nuisances Per Se.
          A.   Nuisances Affecting Health: The following acts, omissions, places,
          conditions and things are hereby specifically declared to be public health
          nuisances:
          1.   All decayed, harmfully adulterated or unwholesome food or drink sold or
          offered for sale to the public;
          2.   Carcasses of animals, birds or fowl not buried or otherwise disposed of in a
          sanitary manner within twenty four (24) hours after death;
          3.   Accumulations of decayed animal or vegetable matter, trash, rubbish, rotting
          lumber, bedding, packing material, scrap metal or any material in which flies,
          mosquitoes, disease-carrying insects, rats or other vermin may breed, or which
          may constitute a fire hazard;
          4.   All stagnant water in which mosquitoes, flies or other insects can multiply;
          5.   Garbage cans, which are not fly-tight;
          6.   The escape of smoke, soot, cinders, noxious fumes, gases, fly ash or
          industrial dust within the village limits in such quantities as to endanger the
          health of persons of ordinary sensibilities or to threaten or cause substantial
          injury to property;
          7.   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream, river, lake, canal or
          body of water or the obstructor of any watercourse, drainage ditch or ravine;
          8.   Any use of property, substances or things within the village emitting or
          causing any foul, offensive, noisome, nauseous, noxious or disagreeable odors,
          effluvia or stenches extremely repulsive to the physical senses of ordinary
          persons which annoy, discomfort, injure or inconvenience the health of any
          appreciable number of persons within the village;
          9. Any well not securely covered or secured from the public or not properly
          abandoned;
          10. Any accumulation of junk, trash and refuse on any premises unless related to
          a business use permissible on such premises;
          11. The storage of any junk vehicle on public or private property or on a street
          or highway, except when housed in a fully enclosed building and not visible from
          any point outside the building where such storage is not otherwise authorized by
          the village; and
          12. The storage of any partially dismantled junk vehicle on public or private
          property or on a street or highway, except when housed in a fully enclosed
          building and not visible from any point outside said building, where such storage
          is not otherwise authorized by the village.
          B.   Nuisances Affecting Peace And Safety: The following acts, omissions, places,
          conditions and things are hereby declared to be public nuisances:
PUBLIC    1.   All unauthorized signs, signals, markings or devices which purport to be or
NUISANCE  may be mistaken as official traffic control devices placed or maintained upon or
PER SE:   in view of any public highway or railway crossing;
          2.   All trees, hedges, billboards or other obstructions which prevent persons
          driving vehicles on public streets, alleys or highways from obtaining a clear
          view of traffic when approaching an intersection or pedestrian crosswalk
          3.   All limbs of trees which project over a public sidewalk less than eight feet
          above the surface thereof or less than ten feet (10') above the surface of a
          public street;
          4.   All use or display of fireworks except as provided by the laws of the state,
          any applicable provisions of this code and other ordinances of the village;
          5.   Any dangerous building as defined above;
          6.   All wires over streets, alleys or public grounds which are strung less than
          fifteen (15) feet above the surface of the street or ground;
          7.   All loud and discordant noises or vibrations of any kind;
          8.   All obstructions of streets, alleys, sidewalks or crosswalks and all
          excavations in or under the same, except as permitted by any applicable
          provisions of this code and other ordinances of the village or which, although
          made in accordance with such code provisions or ordinances, are kept or
          maintained for an unreasonable length of time after the purpose thereof has been
          accomplished;
          9. All open and unguarded pits, wells, excavations or unused basements freely
          accessible from any public street, alley or sidewalk;
          10. All abandoned refrigerators or iceboxes or any closed container from which
          the doors and other covers have not been removed or which are not equipped with a
          device for opening from the inside by pushing with the strength of a small child;
          11. Any structure, material or condition which constitutes a fire hazard or will
          impair extinguishing a fire;
          12. The placing of any obstruction, including but not limited to, greenery,
          landscape waste, debris or other fill in a village storm sewer, or village
          maintained waterway, or a non-public waterway providing drainage which connects
          to a natural drain outlet; and
          13. The discharge of storm water into a sanitary sewer by any means including the
          discharge of water into a sanitary sewer from a roof, sump pump or foundation
          drain.
          C.   Nuisances Offending Morals And Decency: The following acts, omissions,
          places, conditions and things are hereby specifically declared to be public
          nuisances:
          1.   Any place or premises kept or resorted to for the purpose of prostitution or
          gambling;
          2.   All gambling devices and slot machines not otherwise licensed by the State
          of Illinois and approved by the Village of Seneca; and
          3.   All places where intoxicating liquor or fermented malt beverages are sold,
          possessed, stored, brewed, bottled, manufactured or rectified without a permit or
          license as provided for by this code.
PUBLIC    Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys, public grounds or public
PLACE or  buildings.
WAY:
ROADWAY:  That portion of a street or highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used for
          vehicular traffic.
          Non-putrescible solid waste consisting of both combustible and noncombustible
          waste, such as paper, wrappings, cigarettes, cardboard, metal cans, yard
RUBBISH:  clippings, dead trees, tree limbs, wood, glass, discarded furniture, concrete,
          bricks, crockery, and similar materials. However, rubbish shall not include wood
          and other materials that are stored and commonly used for fuel. (Ord. 22-14, 11-
          1-2022)
 
4-2-2: PUBLIC NUISANCES PROHIBITED:
No owner or keeper of real or personal property, including the owner or keeper
of a vehicle, shall allow, and no person shall erect, contrive, cause,
continue, maintain or permit to exist any public nuisance per se within the
village. (Ord. 22- 14, 11-1-2022)
4-2-3: COMPLAINT:
   A.   Citizen Initiated Complaint: Any person who observes a public nuisance
may file a complaint with the village at its Police Department or Village Hall,
setting forth the violation in detail, its location and, if known, the name of
the owner and occupant of the property on which such violation is alleged to
exist.
   B.   Village Initiated Complaint: Any village employee or public official,
including any police officer, zoning officer, code enforcement officer or other
employee, who observes a public nuisance may initiate the complaint procedure.
(Ord. 22-14, 11-1-2022)
4-2-4: INSPECTION:
Whenever a complaint is made that a public nuisance exists within the village,
the zoning officer, Chief of Police, or some other village official whom the
Commissioner of Public Health and Safety shall designate, shall forthwith
inspect or cause to be inspected the premises and shall make a written report
of his or her findings. Whenever practicable, the inspection officer shall
cause photographs to be made of the premises. (Ord. 22-14, 11-1-2022)
4-2-5: NOTICE:
If the inspecting officer shall determine that a public nuisance exists they
shall serve notice on the owner and/or person causing, permitting or
maintaining such nuisance. The notice shall contain a reference to the
provision of the village code violated, contain such other information as will
reasonably inform a person of the nature of the violation and contain steps
needed to abate or remove such nuisance. If the public nuisance poses a present
danger or emergency to the public health, safety, peace, notice shall demand
abatement within 24 hours and shall state that unless such nuisance is so
abated, the village may cause the same to be abated in which case they shall be
charged with the abatement costs. In all other circumstances, the notice shall
demand abatement within a reasonable time, not less than ten (10) days. (Ord.
22-14, 11-1-2022)
4-2-6: SERVICE OF NOTICE:
   A.   A notice to abate may be given to a property owner, occupant or person
receiving the most current tax bill in any of the following ways:
      1.   Personal delivery of the notice upon any person of age fourteen (14)
years or older found at the subject property;
      2.   By certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed to the
subject property owner or occupant or to the address used for mailing of the
most recent property tax bill. The date of service shall be the day following
the date upon which the notice is delivered to the United States Post Office.
Notice shall be deemed provided, regardless if the person to whom the notice
was sent signs the return receipt or actually receives the mailing; or
      3.   Posting in a conspicuous place near the main entrance to the subject
property or improvement on the subject property.
   B.   As an alternative to the notice of abatement and service procedure
described above, for any weeds, grass, or plants (other than trees, bushes,
flowers, garden plants or other ornamental plants) that grow to a height
exceeding ten inches, any officer of the village may cause to be published in a
newspaper of general circulation within the village limits once each week for
two (2) consecutive weeks during the spring or summer months of each year a
notice informing all owners and persons in control of any vacant lot or any lot
with an unoccupied structure that the growth of weeds, grasses or plants to a
height or length of more than ten inches (10") on any such lot is contrary to
the ordinances of the village. The notice shall further inform the public that
should the weeds, grasses or plants ever grow to more than ten (10) inches in
length or height, the village may cut the weeds, grasses or plants without
further notice and the owner or person in control shall be liable to the
village for such costs. This notice shall be a display of advertisement. (Ord.
22-14, 11-1-2022)
4-2-7: ABATEMENT PROCEDURE:
   A.   Abatement By Village: If the nuisance is not abated within the time
provided, the Chief of Police or the Building Inspector, or some other village
official whom the Commissioner of Public Health and Safety shall designate, may
cause the abatement or removal of such public nuisance.
   B.   Abatement By Court Action: As an alternative to abatement by the
village, particularly when the public nuisance does not pose a present danger
or emergency to the public health, safety or peace, the Commissioner of Public
Health and Safety may direct the Village's Attorney to file an ordinance
complaint in the appropriate court. Such action may include, but is not limited
to, collection of fines and penalties as prescribed in Section
4-2-10 below. (Ord. 22-14, 11-1- 2022)
4-2-8: COST OF VILLAGE ABATEMENT:
After performing abatement of nuisance greenery, or other public nuisance, the
village shall serve a notice personally, or by certified mail, to the person to
whom was sent the tax bill for the general taxes on the property for the
taxable year immediately preceding the removal activities and may also service
the notice on any owner or occupant of the subject property. The notice must:
   A.   Identify the subject property by common description;
   B.   Describe the removal activity; and
   C.   Identify the village's cost incurred in abating the nuisance. (Ord. 22-
14, 11-1-2022)
4-2-9: CLAIM OF LIEN:
After providing post abatement notice, the village may file a claim of lien
with the Office of the LaSalle County Recorder within one year after the
removal costs are incurred. If, for any one parcel, the village, more than one
time, abates nuisance greenery, the village may combine any or all of the costs
of each of those activities into a single notice of lien. The claim of lien
shall be a sworn statement setting out:
   A.   A description sufficient to identify the subject property;
   B.   The amount of the abatement costs; and
   C.   The date or dates when abatement took place. (Ord. 22-14, 11-1-2022)
4-2-10: PENALTIES:
Unless otherwise provided, whoever violates any of the provisions of this
chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not less than seventy-
five ($75.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense. A
separate offense is deemed committed on each day in which a violation occurs or
continues to occur. (Ord. 22-14, 11-1-2022)
CHAPTER 3
WEEDS AND SHRUBBERY
SECTION:
4-3-1: Nuisance Declared; Prohibitions
4-3-2: Notice; Abatement
4-3-3: Penalty
4-3-1: NUISANCE DECLARED; PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of any lot or ground or
premises to allow such lot or premises or any right of way or sidewalk
adjoining a lot or premises to be encumbered by any growth of grass or weeds
over a height of eight inches (8").
   B.   All burdocks, thistles, weeds or uncultivated shrubbery maturing,
growing or grown to seed or standing dry uncut on any premises in the Village
are hereby declared to be a nuisance, and it shall be the duty of every owner
or occupant owning or controlling any such premises to abate such nuisance.
(Ord. 92-14, 6-2-92)
4-3-2: NOTICE; ABATEMENT:
   A.   Any person or occupant of the premises receiving notice of violation of
subsection 4-3-1A or B shall promptly cut the grass, weeds, burdocks, thistles
or uncultivated shrubbery. Notice will be deemed valid given either by personal
notice or by certified mail; if the premises are vacant, notice will be deemed
valid by posting the notice on the property.
   B.   Whenever said owner or occupant does not cut or destroy the grass,
weeds, burdocks, thistles or uncultivated shrubbery within three (3) days of
receiving said notice, the Village may cut the weeds or grass. The owner or
occupant will be billed for all expenses involved in having the weeds or grass
cut. If the property owner fails to pay the billed expenses within thirty (30)
days, a lien may be filed pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-20-7.
(Ord. 92-14, 6-2-92)
4-3-3: PENALTY:
Any owner or occupant violating any of the above provisions shall be fined not
less than seventy-five dollars ($75.00) and not more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each day during or on which a violation occurs or is permitted to continue.
(Ord. 92-14, 6-2-92; amd. Ord. 22-08, 6-21-2022)
CHAPTER 4
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
SECTION:
4-4-1: Definitions
4-4-2: Prohibited Acts
4-4-3: Response Authority
4-4-4: Liability For Costs
4-4-5: Defenses
4-4-6: Costs And Penalties
4-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
COSTS: All costs and expenses of the village incurred with the emergency
response to, prevention, cleanup or abatement of the actual or potential
release of hazardous materials and shall include, but shall not be limited to:
actual labor costs of the village and law enforcement or other emergency
service responders involved in the emergency response to, prevention, cleanup
or abatement of the actual or potential discharge of hazardous materials
(including workers' compensation benefits, fringe benefits, pension costs and
administrative overhead); cost of equipment operation, damage and loss; cost of
materials obtained directly by the village and cost of any contract labor and
materials.
EMERGENCY RESPONSE ORGANIZATIONS: Village of Seneca emergency response
organizations shall include, but are not limited to, the emergency management
agency, police department, fire department, highway department, or any other
organization requested to assist in bringing the incident to a close.
FACILITY: Any building, structure, installation, equipment, pipe or pipeline
including, but not limited to, any pipe into a sewer or publicly owned
treatment works, well, pond, lagoon, impoundment, ditch, landfill, storage
container, tank, motor vehicle, truck trailer, rolling stock or aircraft. Also,
any site or area where a hazardous material has been deposited, stored,
disposed of, abandoned, placed or otherwise come to be located.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Any substance or materials which, due to its quantity,
form, concentration, location or other characteristic, is determined by the
village emergency management coordinator, the fire chief or their authorized
representative to pose an unreasonable and imminent risk to the life, health or
safety of persons or property or to the ecological balance of the environment,
which are toxic, flammable, corrosive, explosive, carcinogenic or radioactive
including, but not limited to, any substance or material which is designated a
hazardous material pursuant to the hazardous materials transportation act (49
USCA, section 1801 et seq.) or any other federal or state law or regulation.
This definition shall also include substances believed to be hazardous, but
later determined to be nonhazardous through the efforts of emergency actions.
MUTUAL AID: Any action taken by the village pursuant to an intergovernmental
agreement.
PERSON: Any individual, business, firm, partnership, corporation, association,
trust, estate, joint venture or other legal entity, or their legal
representative, agent or assign.
RELEASE: Any spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting, escaping, emptying,
discharging, injecting, leaching, dumping or disposing of a hazardous material
into or on any land, air, water, well, stream, sewer or pipe so that such
hazardous material or any constituent thereof may enter the environment.
REMEDIAL ACTION: Any action consistent with permanent remedy taken instead of,
or in addition to, removal actions in the event of a release or threatened
release of a hazardous material into the environment to prevent or minimize the
release of hazardous material so that they do not migrate to cause a
substantial present or potential hazard to human health, property or the
environment. The term includes, but is not limited to, such actions at the
location of the release as storage, confinement, perimeter protection using
dikes, trenches or ditches, clay cover, neutralization, cleanup of released
hazardous materials or contaminated materials, recycling or reuse, diversion,
destruction, segregation of reactive wastes, repair or replacement of leaking
containers, collection of leachate and runoff, on site treatment or
incineration, provision of alternate water supplies, and any monitoring
reasonably required to assure that such actions protect the public health and
welfare and the environment. This also includes any actions deemed necessary by
the emergency management agency coordinator or the fire chief or their designee
to prevent a discharge of hazardous materials from occurring at the scene of an
accident or incident to which an emergency response organization has been
summoned.
REMOVAL: The cleanup or removal of released hazardous materials from the
environment, such actions as may be necessary or appropriate to monitor, assess
and evaluate the release or threat of release of hazardous materials, the
disposal of removed material, or the taking of such action as may be necessary
to prevent, minimize, or mitigate damage to the public health or welfare of the
environment. The term includes, but is not limited to, security fencing,
provision of alternative water supplies, and temporary evacuation of threatened
individuals.
RESPONSE: Any removal or remedial action by personnel and/or equipment of the
village, or other emergency service providers and contractors hired by the
village to any accident, incident or location within the boundaries of the
village where hazardous materials are being used, stored, transported,
manufactured or dumped and such accident or incident has created an increased
potential for discharge or hazardous materials beyond the normal use, storage,
transportation or manufacture of the products or incidents where an actual
discharge has occurred. (Ord. 07-10, 8-7-2007)
4-4-2: PROHIBITED ACTS:
No person shall cause, threaten or allow the release of hazardous materials
into the environment unless such release is in accordance with an appropriate
permit granted by the Illinois environmental protection agency or other state
or federal agency having primary jurisdiction over the release and such release
is in such place and manner as will not create a substantial present or
potential hazard to human health, property or the environment. It shall be
unlawful, whether intentional or unintentional, for any person to discharge any
hazardous material into the environment or create a condition or situation
where the potential for a release requires emergency response by the village.
(Ord. 07-10, 8-7-2007)
4-4-3: RESPONSE AUTHORITY:
   A.   The village of Seneca emergency response organizations and the fire
chief or his/her authorized representatives shall have authority to respond to
any release or threatened release of hazardous materials within the village or
affecting the public water supply, wells or sewage treatment works located
within the village. This authority includes, but is not limited to, remedial
action and removal.
   B.   The fire chief shall have primary authority as the incident commander
to respond to any release or threatened release of hazardous materials as
described above. The fire chief shall report any release or threatened release
of hazardous materials to all appropriate federal, state and local public
health, safety and emergency agencies as soon as possible of any substantial
release of hazardous materials. The fire chief shall relinquish his response
authority at such time, if any, as the federal, state or local public health,
safety or emergency agency having primary jurisdiction over the release or
threatened release has assumed responsibility for response to the release or
threatened release.
   C.   The fire chief, during such time as response authority is vested in
him, shall be authorized to request village personnel and equipment through the
village emergency operations center, if activated or the Seneca emergency
management agency to take such remedial or removal action as he may deem
necessary or appropriate to respond to the release or threatened release of
hazardous material including the use of material and in accordance with any
mutual aid box alarm system (MABAS) agreements.
   D.   All responding personnel shall cooperate with and operate under the
direction of the fire chief or other person then exercising response authority
under this chapter until such time as the person exercising such response
authority has determined that the response is complete or responsibility for
response is assumed by the federal, state or local public health, safety or
emergency agency having primary jurisdiction over the release or threatened
release.
   E.   The person exercising response authority under this chapter shall
coordinate and/or cooperate with other federal, state or local public health,
safety or emergency agencies involved in response to the release or threatened
release of hazardous materials. (Ord. 07-10, 8-7-2007)
4-4-4: LIABILITY FOR COSTS:
   A.   Notwithstanding any other provision or rule of law, and subject only to
the defenses set forth in section
4-4-5 of this chapter, the following persons shall be jointly and severally
liable for all costs of removal and remedial action incurred by the village as
a result of a release or threatened release of a hazardous material:
      1.   The owner and operator of a facility or vessel from which there is a
release or substantial threat of release of a hazardous material.
      2.   Any person, who, at time of disposal, transport, storage or
treatment of a hazardous material, owned or operated the facility or vessel
used for such disposal, transport, treatment or storage from which there was a
release or substantial threat of a release of any such hazardous material.
      3.   Any person who by contract, agreement, or otherwise has arranged
with another party or entity for transport, storage, disposal or treatment of
hazardous materials owned, controlled or possessed by such person at a facility
owned or operated by another party or entity from which facility there is a
release or substantial threat of a release of such hazardous materials.
      4.   Any person who accepts or accepted any hazardous materials for
transport to disposal, storage or treatment facilities or sites from which
there is a release or a substantial threat of release of such hazardous
substances. (Ord. 07-10, 8-7-2007)
4-4-5: DEFENSES:
There shall be no liability under section
4-4-4 of this chapter for a person otherwise liable who can establish by a
preponderance of the evidence that the release or substantial threat of release
of a hazardous material and the damages resulting therefrom were caused solely
by:
   A.   An act of nature over which he or she had no control;
   B.   An act of war; or
   C.   Any combination of the foregoing. (Ord. 07-10, 8-7-2007)
4-4-6: COSTS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Liability: Any person who is liable for the release or threatened
release of a hazardous material who fails without sufficient cause to pay for
or provide removal or remedial action upon or in accordance with a notice and
request of the village, or in accordance with any order of any court having
jurisdiction on the matter, shall be liable to the village for any costs
incurred by the village as a result of such failure to provide or take such
removal or remedial action, together with the costs of any removal or remedial
action taken by the village in accordance with this chapter, and all attorney
fees and related legal costs incurred in connection therewith.
   B.   Violation: In addition, any such person shall be guilty of a violation
of this chapter and shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00)
nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each offense. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed for each day on which a violation occurs or
continues. Where such violation is found to be the result of wilful and/or
wanton conduct or gross negligence or the person committing such violation
attempts to evade responsibility hereunder by leaving the scene of the
occurrence or by other means, that person shall be subject to a fine as
provided for above or a fine in an amount equal to three (3) times the costs,
including attorney fees and legal costs, for which it is liable under
subsection A of this section, whichever is greater.
   C.   Charges: Charges for removal or remedial action when rendered by the
village or any agency in accordance with any mutual aid agreement shall be as
follows:
      1.   The cost of vehicles as determined by the responding agency, but in
no case less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) per hour per vehicle, and
      2.   The cost of all personnel including any overtime cost to the village
or to any responding agency, incurred as a result of the removal or remedial
action, but in no case less than ten dollars ($10.00) per hour, and
      3.   The cost or replacement of all materials and equipment used,
expended, depleted, destroyed or removed from service in accordance with
federal, state or local ordinance as a result of the mitigation or containment
operations if or at the request of the village or any responding agency, and
      4.   The costs of service and/or goods provided by a private or public
entity which are used, expended, depleted or destroyed as a result of the
response.
   D.   Payment: The person or persons, firm, corporation or other entity
responsible for such hazardous materials incident shall submit payment for the
invoice to the village of Seneca emergency management agency within thirty (30)
days of receipt of the invoice. Failure of the responsible party to pay the
invoice in full within thirty (30) days shall cause the village to seek
enforcement of the debt through collection, or civil lawsuit, or property lien,
or any combination of the foregoing. The responsible party shall assume all
costs for the enforcement of the debt including court costs and attorney fees
in addition to the original charges and any interest that may have accrued.
(Ord. 07-10, 8-7-2007)
CHAPTER 5
SMOKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
4-5-1: Adoption Of Act
4-5-2: Amendments To Act
4-5-1: ADOPTION OF ACT:
The "smoke free Illinois act" is adopted in total in and for the village of
Seneca as enacted by the state of Illinois. A current copy of the "smoke free
Illinois act" as enacted by the state of Illinois is attached to the ordinance
codified herein. (Ord. 07-20, 12-18-2007, eff. 1-1-2008)
4-5-2: AMENDMENTS TO ACT:
   A.   Any amendments, modifications or changes to the "smoke free Illinois
act" shall be adopted in perpetuity as enacted by the state of Illinois unless
the amendment, modification or change is made to the provisions established in
410 Illinois Compiled Statutes 82/65.
   B.   Should an amendment, modification or change be made to the provisions
established in 410 Illinois Compiled Statutes 82/65 the village of Seneca may,
by village council action, adopt an ordinance differing in language from the
state of Illinois statute.
   C.   Any amendments, modifications or changes to the "smoke free Illinois
act" shall be adopted in perpetuity as enacted by the state of Illinois unless
the amendment, modification or change is made to the provisions established in
410 Illinois Compiled Statutes 82/65. (Ord. 07-20, 12-18-2007, eff. 1-1-2008)
CHAPTER 6
FALSE ALARMS
SECTION:
4-6-1: Definitions
4-6-2: False Alarms
4-6-3: False Alarm Determination; Rebuttable Presumption
4-6-4: Malfunctioning Systems
4-6-5: Fines
4-6-6: Late Fees
4-6-7: Liability
4-6-8: Warrant Fund
4-6-9: Refusal Of service
4-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this section, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
 
        An alarm signal which indicates the existence of any emergency situation when in
        fact, no such emergency exists, and shall include any alarm signal generated by any
        security alarm system by whatever means, but shall not include alarms resulting from
        any of the following causes:
           1.   Fire causing damage to structures or contents of a protected premises
FALSE   verified by the Fire Department.
ALARM:     2.   Earthquake causing structural damage to the protected premises.
           3.   Tornado or hurricane winds causing structural damage to the protected
        premises.
           4.   Flooding to the protected premises due to overflow of natural drainage or
        other water leaks within the building.
           5.   Lightning causing physical damage to the protected premises.
        The owner of the property from which the False Alarm originates and any individual,
USER:   partnership, corporation, organization or other entity on the property with
        permission of the owner.
SYSTEM: Includes all security systems, sprinkler systems and other automated systems that
        transmit alarms or signals to the Village.
TWELVE- The "Twelve-Month Period" shall be the twelve (12) calendar months immediately
MONTH   preceding the date of the False Alarm for which the citation was issued. (Ord. 22-
PERIOD: 03, 2-1-2022)
 
4-6-2: FALSE ALARMS:
Except in the case of bona fide emergency, any User who, with or without
intent, activates or permits the activation of a System for the purpose of
summoning response services shall pay a fine pursuant to Section
4-6-5, which shall be used to reimburse the Village for the cost of such
response services to the false alarm. (Ord. 22-03, 2-1-2022)
4-6-3: FALSE ALARM DETERMINATION; REBUTTABLE PRESUMPTION:
For purposes of this chapter, there shall be a rebuttable presumption that an
alarm activation was a False Alarm where the Chief of Police determines that:
   A.   There was no evidence of a crime, or other activity on the alarmed
premises warranting a call for immediate Police Department response; or
   B.   No individual who was on or near the alarmed premises or who had access
to an alternate monitoring system from such premises called the Police
Department or verified the need for any immediate response services; or
   C.   There was no physical evidence that violent conditions of nature or
other extraordinary circumstances beyond the control of the User caused
activation of the alarm. (Ord. 22-03, 2-1-2022)
4-6-4: MALFUNCTIONING SYSTEMS:
In the case of malfunctioning Systems, the Seneca Police Department may ask
that the alarm be disabled until it can be returned to proper operating order.
The Police Chief is hereby permitted to waive the fine if the system is
restored in ten (10) business days or less since the last False Alarm. (Ord.
22-03, 2-1-2022)
4-6-5: FINES:
A User shall be fined for False Alarms as follows:
   A.   First, Second and Third False Alarms in a Twelve (12)-Month Period:
warning letter (no fine).
   B.   Fourth, Fifth and Sixth False Alarms in a Twelve (12)-Month Period:
fifty dollars ($50.00) per False Alarm activation.
   C.   Each additional False Alarm in a Twelve (12)-Month Period after six (6)
False Alarms shall result in a false alarm charge of one hundred dollars
($100.00) per False Alarm. (Ord. 22-03, 2-1-2022)
4-6-6: LATE FEES:
In addition to the fines set forth in Section
4-6-5, if any User refuses to pay or fails to pay within thirty (30) days of
notice of the fine, the User will be deemed to have further violated this
chapter and will incur an addition late fee of not less than fifty dollars
($50.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each offense plus all
fees and costs incurred to enforce the chapter. Such fees and costs shall
include, but not be limited to, reasonable legal fees. A separate offense shall
be deemed committed for each day on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 22-03, 2-1-2022)
4-6-7: LIABILITY:
The Seneca Police Department assumes no liability for:
   A.   Any defects in the operation of a System.
   B.   For failure or neglect to respond appropriately upon receipt of an
alarm.
   C.   For failure or neglect of any person in connection with the
installation, operation or maintenance of any System.
   D.   The transmission of alarm signals, pre-recorded alarm messages, or the
relaying of such signals and messages. (Ord. 22-03, 2-1-2022)
4-6-8: WARRANT FUND:
All revenue from the fines assessed pursuant to this chapter shall be deposited
in the warrant fund of the Seneca Police Department. (Ord. 22-03, 2-1-2022)
4-6-9: REFUSAL OF SERVICE:
Nothing in this chapter shall authorize the Village to refuse to provide any
service to any person, business or other entity that has not paid for services
previously provided or that owes money for services previously rendered. (Ord.
22-03, 2-1-2022)
TITLE 5
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 0
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
5-0-1: Part Time Police
5-0-1: PART TIME POLICE:
   A.   Employment: The village of Seneca may employ part time police officers
from time to time as they deem necessary.
   B.   Duties: A part time police officer shall have all the responsibilities
of a full time police officer and such specific duties as delineated in the
general orders of the Seneca police department, but the number of hours a part
time officer may work within a calendar year is restricted. Part time police
officers shall not be assigned to supervise or direct full time police
officers. Part time police officers shall be trained in accordance with the
Illinois police training act 1  and the rules and requirements of the ILETSB.
   C.   Hiring Standards: Any person employed as a part time police officer
must meet the following standards:
      1.   Be of good moral character, of temperate habits, of sound health,
and physically and mentally able to perform assigned duties.
      2.   Be at least twenty one (21) years of age.
      3.   Pass a medical examination.
      4.   Possess a high school diploma or GED certificate.
      5.   Possess a valid state of Illinois driver's license.
      6.   Possess no prior felony convictions.
      7.   Any individual who has served in the U.S. military must have been
honorably discharged.
   D.   Discipline: Part time officers shall be under the disciplinary
jurisdiction of the chief of police. Part time officers serve at the discretion
of the village of Seneca authorities, shall not have any property rights in
said employment, and may be removed by the village of Seneca authorities at any
time. Part time officers shall comply with all applicable rules and general
orders issued by the police department. (Ord. 12-10, 6-5-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. 50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.
CHAPTER 1
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
5-1-1: Definitions
5-1-2: Certain Animals Prohibited
5-1-3: Animals At Large; Impoundment And Redemption
5-1-4: Dog Or Cat Bites
5-1-5: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
5-1-6: Penalties
5-1-7: Prohibition Of Animals At Special Events
5-1-8: Beekeeping
5-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, the following words shall have the meanings ascribed
to them:
ANIMAL: Any mammal, domestic or wild other than man.
ANIMAL NUISANCE: Is created when an animal:
   A.   Runs uncontrolled;
   B.   Molests or disturbs persons or vehicles by chasing, barking or biting;
   C.   Attacks other animals;
   D.   Damages property other than that of the owner or harborer;
   E.   Barks, whines, howls, honks, brays, cries or makes other noises
excessively;
   F.   Creates noxious or offensive odors;
   G.   Defecates upon any public place or upon premises not owned or
controlled by the owner or harborer unless properly removed by the owner or
harborer; or
   H.   Creates an insect breeding and/or attraction site due to an
accumulation of excreta.
CAT: Includes any animal (Felis catus), male and female of the Felidae family.
DOG: Includes any animal, male and female, of the canine species.
DOMESTICATED ANIMAL: Includes dogs, cats, domesticated sheep, horses, cattle,
goats, swine, fowl, ducks, geese, turkeys, confined domestic hares and rabbits,
pheasants and other birds and animals raised and/or maintained in confinement.
HARBORER: Any person who provides food and shelter for any domesticated animal
on other than a periodic or temporary basis.
OWNER: Any person having right of property in any animal; who keeps an animal;
who has an animal in his care or custody; or who knowingly permits an animal to
remain on or about any premises occupied by him.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, corporation, partnership, association, trust,
estate or other legal entity.
WILD ANIMAL: That which is not of a species customarily used as an ordinary
household pet, but one which would ordinarily be confined to a zoo, or one
which would ordinarily be found in the wilderness of this or any other country,
or one which otherwise causes a reasonable person to be fearful of bodily harm,
or property damage. Fish in an aquarium are not included in this definition.
(Ord. 86-15, 11-18-1986)
5-1-2: CERTAIN ANIMALS PROHIBITED:
   A.   Prohibited Animals: It shall be unlawful to maintain, own, keep,
possess or harbor any of the following animals within the village: horses,
mules, donkeys, ponies, cows, goats, sheep, ducks, swine, geese, any poisonous
or venomous biting or injecting species of amphibian, arachnid or reptile,
including snakes, any snake not indigenous to this state, any wild animal.
   B.   Possession Of Snakes: It shall be lawful for a licensed dealer to
possess snakes for sale if said snakes are not prohibited by the state.
Further, it shall be lawful for a person to possess snakes so long as the
snakes are not prohibited by the state, but said possession shall be only on
the premises of the owner and not on any public street, sidewalk, alley, any
other public place, or on private property. (Ord. 86-15, 11-18-1986; amd. Ord.
98-11, 5-5-1998; Ord. 16-02, 4-5-2016; Ord. 25-10, 3-17-2025)
5-1-3: ANIMALS AT LARGE; IMPOUNDMENT AND REDEMPTION:
   A.   Animals At Large Prohibited:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any dog or cat to run at large within the
village including, but not limited to, streets, sidewalks, village owned parks,
fields, common areas, or boat ramp areas. Any animal found outside the lot
lines of the premises occupied by its owner or keeper shall be deemed to be
running at large unless such animal is firmly held on a leash or is in an
enclosed vehicle. The owner or keeper of any animal found running at large in
violation of this section shall be subject to the penalty set forth in
subsection D of this section.
      2.   Reserved. (Ord. 17-01, 1-3-2017)
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any person to suffer or to permit any
vicious, ferocious or dangerous animal, or dog or cat sick with or liable to
communicate any contagious or infectious disease, or any dog or cat which may
unduly disturb the quiet of any person or neighborhood within the village, or
which shall bite any person or injure any person, to run at large in the
village. That running at large of any dog or cat is hereby declared to be a
nuisance 1 . The mayor or any commissioner, officer or agent of the village is
authorized and it shall be the duty of the village police and of such other
officers or persons as the mayor may from time to time designate, to abate said
nuisance. (Ord. 86-15, 11-18-1986)
   B.   Animals To Be On Leashes Or Confined: (Rep. by Ord. 03-13, 6-3-2003)
   C.   Removal Of Excrement: All excrement deposited by the animal must be
cleaned up and properly disposed of by the owner or keeper of the animal from
public property or other person's private property. (Ord. 86-15, 11-18-1986)
   D.   Disposition Of Dogs And Cats At Large: All dogs and cats running at
large in violation of subsection A of this section shall be restrained by the
village and notice of such action shall forthwith be given to the owner or
keeper of such animal if known. If the owner or keeper cannot be reached, or
does not immediately retrieve the animal, the animal will then be delivered to
a local veterinarian for handling. Fees shall be charged as follows:
      1.   If the animal is retrieved by the owner or keeper prior to being
delivered to a veterinarian the sum of fifty dollars ($50.00) will be charged
to the owner.
      2.   If the animal is delivered to a veterinarian, the sum of ninety
dollars ($90.00) will be charged to the owner and, in addition, the owner will
be responsible for retrieving the animal from the veterinarian and any fees the
veterinarian shall impose.
      3.   If the fine is not paid as stated above, and court action is
initiated, then the owner shall pay those fines as set out by village
ordinance, together with applicable court costs (section
5-1-7 of this chapter). (Ord. 17-01, 1-3-2017)
 
Notes
1    See title 4, chapter 2 of this code.
5-1-4: DOG OR CAT BITES:
It shall be the duty of the owner or keeper of any dog or cat which bites any
human being to place the animal in confinement for a ten (10) day observation
period. If the animal does not have a current vaccination the animal must be
placed in the custody of a veterinarian for the observation time. Before
redeeming the animal, arrangements for vaccination of the animal after ten (10)
days' observation period must be done if the animal has not been vaccinated in
the past twelve (12) months. (Ord. 86-15, 11-18-1986)
5-1-5: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Animal Nuisances: It shall be unlawful for any owner of an animal to
permit or allow the existence or creation of an animal nuisance within the
village.
   B.   Noisy Animals; Dangerous Animals: No person shall keep or harbor any
animal shut up or tied up in any yard enclosure, vehicle, house or other place
which, by loud or disturbing noises, shall disturb the peace and quiet of any
person or neighborhood, and no person shall permit any dangerous or vicious
animal to be kept within the village.
   C.   Cruelty To Animals: No person shall cruelly treat any animal in the
village or abandon, underfeed, overload or inhumanely beat any animal. (Ord.
86-15, 11-18-1986)
5-1-6: PENALTIES:
Any person violating this chapter shall be fined not less than seventy-five
dollars ($75.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense,
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which
a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 86-15, 11-18-1986; amd. Ord. 25-10, 3-
17- 2025)
5-1-7: PROHIBITION OF ANIMALS AT SPECIAL EVENTS:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, each of the following
terms shall have the meaning herein ascribed to it:
      ANIMAL: Something that lives and moves but is not a human being, which
includes, but is not limited to, dogs, cats, birds, rodents, snakes, reptiles,
horses, mules and goats.
      SENECA DOWNTOWN BUSINESS DISTRICT: From Douglas Street south to Union
Street, and from Commerce/Vaughey Street west to village city limits, all
within the village of Seneca.
      SPECIAL EVENT: Shipyard Days, Cruise Night, or such other community
events held in the downtown business district, as may be designated by the
Seneca village council.
   B.   Animal Prohibition At Special Events:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow an animal to be located
in the Seneca downtown business district during Seneca Shipyard Days,
regardless of whether said animal is leashed or otherwise restrained, except as
may be allowed herein.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow an animal to be located
in the Seneca downtown business district during Cruise Night, regardless of
whether said animal is leashed or otherwise restrained, except as may be
allowed herein.
      3.   Animals expressly excluded from the provisions of this section shall
be as follows:
         a.   Dogs which are part of a police canine unit or mounted law
enforcement units which utilize horses.
         b.   A "service animal" as defined in the Americans with disabilities
act or "guide dog", "seizure alert dog", "seizure response dog" or "hearing
dog" as set forth in the Illinois guide dog access act 1  or the Illinois white
cane law 2 .
         c.   Animals which are: 1) part of an entertainment act; 2) approved
participants in a public parade; or 3) are used for transportation of vehicles.
         d.   Those animal owners whose residence lies on the streets defined
under the Seneca downtown business district and have no other means of ingress
and egress for their animals.
      4.   Any person found in violation of this section shall be fined a sum
of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00), nor more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00). Whenever a monetary fine is assessed by the court
pursuant to this code, the court is further expressly authorized by the village
of Seneca to use dispositions including, but not limited to, court supervision,
deferred judgment, conditional discharge, and suspended sentence.
      5.   In addition to the above fine, any member of the Seneca police
department or other designated law enforcement agency working any such special
event is hereby authorized to impound said animal, either with or without the
assistance of the LaSalle or Grundy County animal control, for a reasonable
period of time, only after providing the animal owner or person in possession
of same with notice of the alleged violation and a reasonable opportunity to be
heard.
      6.   The animal owner shall be responsible for the payment of all fees
associated with said impoundment and shall pay the same prior to the release of
the animal from impound. Any such fee shall be in addition to the required fine
set forth in subsection B4 of this section. (Ord. 14-04, 8-19-2014)
 
Notes
1    720 ILCS 630/1 et seq.
2    775 ILCS 30/1 et seq.
5-1-8: BEEKEEPING:
   A.   For purposes of this section, the term "honeybees" shall mean bees of
any stage of the type customarily raised for honey domestically; such bees are
known as Apis mellifera species.
   B.   No person shall maintain any colony of honeybees, including honeybees,
comb, honey, pollen and brood, anywhere in the village without complying with
the following requirements:
      1.   It shall be the duty of any person keeping honeybees on property in
the village to maintain each colony so as not to create a public nuisance.
      2.   Honeybee colonies shall in addition, be maintained in the following
condition:
         a.   All honeybee hives shall be registered with the state department
of agriculture as required by state law.
         b.   Colonies shall be maintained in movable frame or similar hives.
         c.   Adequate techniques, such as requeening, in handling bees, and
adequate space in the hive shall be maintained to prevent unprovoked stinging
ten feet (10') or more from the hive.
         d.   Lots having less than ten thousand (10,000) square feet shall not
have more than three (3) hives.
         e.   Hives shall not be located within five feet (5') of any property
line, public street, sidewalk, or alley except when situated behind a solid or
filled slat chainlink fence or hedge six feet (6') in height parallel to
property line; such fence shall be within three feet (3') of the hive and shall
extend at least four feet (4') beyond the hive in all directions or shall
completely enclose the hives.
      3.   Any other nest or colony of stinging insects, such as yellow
jackets, hornets, other varieties of bees, and wasps, including Vespidae, in
trees, buildings, underground, or in any other space, any diseased colony of
honeybees, or any colony of honeybees not maintained in compliance with this
section, constitutes a public nuisance. The existence of a nest of wild bees of
any type, not cultivated by any person and whose honey is not harvested by any
person, shall not constitute a violation of this section, unless such nest is
in such location as to present a threat of stinging to any person on any public
street, sidewalk, mall, park, or other public place, or to any person in any
parking lot, sidewalk or other place open to the public in a shopping center or
other privately owned property open to the public or to any person on adjacent
private property.
   C.   No person shall keep any honeybees pursuant to this section without
first obtaining an annual permit from the village of Seneca. The cost of said
permit shall be twenty five dollars ($25.00) per year. (Ord. 16-02, 4-5-2016)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-2-1: State Law Provisions Adopted
5-2-2: Discharge Of Firearms; Hunting
5-2-3: Fireworks
5-2-4: Penalties
5-2-5: Engine Brakes, AKA Jake Brakes
5-2-6: Excessive Noise
5-2-1: STATE LAW PROVISIONS ADOPTED:
   A.   Purpose: This chapter is designed to assure uniform application of
State and municipal regulations concerning the ownership, use, operation and
regulation of certain statutory offenses.
   B.   State Law Provisions Adopted: The following enumerated sections of the
Illinois Compiled Statutes, exclusive of any provisions thereof relating to the
penalties or the punishment to be imposed for violation of such sections, are
adopted and by reference made a part of this chapter with the same force and
effect as though set forth here verbatim, and the term "this act" wherever used
in any such section shall mean this chapter, when necessary to effectuate the
meaning of the section:
Chapter And Section Number Subject
Chapter And Section Number             Subject
235 ILCS 5/6-20(a), (d), (e), (f), (g) Possession of Alcohol by Underage
                                       Persons
720 ILCS 130/2                         Contributing to the delinquency of a
                                       minor
720 ILCS 5/11-9                        Public indecency
720 ILCS 5/12-1                        Assault
720 ILCS 5/12-2                        Aggravated assault
720 ILCS 5/12-3                        Battery
720 ILCS 5/12-5                        Reckless conduct
720 ILCS 5/16-1                        Theft
720 ILCS 5/16-2                        Theft of lost or mislaid property
720 ILCS 5/16-3                        Theft of labor or services
720 ILCS 5/16-5                        Theft from coin operated machines
720 ILCS 5/21-1                        Criminal damage to property
720 ILCS 5/21-2                        Criminal trespass to vehicle
720 ILCS 5/21-3                        Criminal trespass to land
720 ILCS 635/1                         Possession of hypodermic syringe and
                                       needle
720 ILCS 5/24-1                        Unlawful use of weapons
720 ILCS 5/24-2                        UUW exemptions
720 ILCS 5/26-1                        Disorderly conduct
720 ILCS 5/31-1                        Resisting a police officer
720 ILCS 5/31-3                        Obstructing service of process
720 ILCS 5/31-4                        Obstructing justice
720 ILCS 5/31-6                        Escape from custody
720 ILCS 5/31-7                        Aiding an escape
720 ILCS 5/31-8                        Refusing to aid an officer
720 ILCS 550/4                         Possession of cannabis
720 ILCS 550/5                         Manufacture or delivery of cannabis
720 ILCS 550/8                         Production of cannabis plant
720 ILCS 570/402                       Possession of controlled substance
720 ILCS 135/1-1                       Harassment by telephone
 
   C.   Penalties: Any person violating any provision of this section shall,
upon conviction, be subject to a penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 83-16, 9-21-1983; amd. 1994 Code; Ord. 21-01, 2-2-
2021)
5-2-2: DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS; HUNTING:
   A.   No person shall discharge any firearms or do any hunting in the
Village. This shall not apply to peace officers in the line of duty, or any
person acting in self-defense. Notwithstanding the forgoing, bow hunting shall
be allowed in the Village if and only if:
      1.   Such activity takes place on a parcel of real estate no less than
thirty (30) acres in size;
      2.   Such activity takes place only during the appropriate hunting
season;
      3.   Such activity is conducted only by persons holding a valid hunting
license; and
      4.   All rules and regulations promulgated by the Illinois Department of
Natural Resources are followed at all times. (Ord. 17-10, 3-21-2017)
5-2-3: FIREWORKS:
No person shall sell, offer for sale, use or explode any fireworks in the
Village except the Council may grant a permit for a public display of fireworks
under such conditions as it may impose under the provisions of 425 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 35/2. (Ord. 286, 1-8-1974)
5-2-4: PENALTIES:
Unless otherwise provided, whoever violates any of the provisions of this
chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not less than seventy-
five dollars ($75.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each
offense. (Ord. 286, 1-8-1974; amd. Ord. 21-02, 2-2-2021)
5-2-5: ENGINE BRAKES, AKA JAKE BRAKES:
Except in an emergency, no driver shall engage the use of engine brakes, aka
jake brakes, within the Village limits of the Village of Seneca. (Ord. 05-11,
10-18-2005)
5-2-6: EXCESSIVE NOISE:
   A.   Definitions:
    FACILITY: The area, buildings and equipment used by any person at a single
location in the conduct of business.
   PERSON: Any individual, natural person, syndicate, association, partnership,
firm, corporation, institution, agency, authority, department, bureau or
instrumentality of Federal, State or local government or other entity
recognized by law as a subject of rights and duties.
   B.   Excessive Noise Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to
wilfully make or continue, or cause to be made or continued, any loud,
unnecessary, and/or unusual noise which disturbs the peace or quiet of any
neighborhood or which causes discomfort or annoyance to any reasonable person
of normal sensitiveness residing in the area. The standard which may be
considered in determining whether a violation of the provisions of this section
exists may include, but not be limited to, the following:
      1.   The level of the noise;
      2.   Whether the nature of the noise is usual or unusual;
      3.   Whether the origin of the noise is natural or unnatural;
      4.   The level and intensity of the background noise, if any;
      5.   The proximity of the noise to residential sleeping facilities;
      6.   The nature and zoning of the area within which the noise emanates;
      7.   The density of the inhabitation of the area within which the noise
emanates;
      8.   The time of the day and night the noise occurs;
      9.   The duration of the noise; and
      10.   Whether the noise is recurrent, intermittent, or constant.
   C.   Redress In Court: Nothing in this section shall be construed as
limiting the rights of any person to redress in a court of law for any injury
to person or damage to property caused by noise.
   D.   Penalties: Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of
this section shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) and not more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense, and a separate offense
shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or
is permitted to continue. (Ord. 08-21, 8-5-2008)
CHAPTER 3
HOUSING AND REAL PROPERTY DISCRIMINATION
SECTION:
5-3-1: Declaration of Policy
5-3-2: Definitions
5-3-3: Prohibited Acts
5-3-4: Penalty
5-3-1: DECLARATION OF POLICY:
   A.   In furthering the policy of the State of Illinois as expressed in its
Constitution and other laws in order that the safety and general welfare, peace
and health of all the inhabitants of the Village may be ensured, it is hereby
declared the policy of the Village to assure equal opportunity to all
residents, regardless of race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry,
sex, creed or physical or mental handicap to live in decent, sanitary,
healthful, standard living quarters.
   B.   It is the policy of the Village that no owner, lessee, sub- lessee,
assignee, managing agent or other person having the right to sell, rent, lease
(or otherwise control) any housing accommodation and/or real property within
the Village or any agent of these shall refuse to sell, rent, lease or
otherwise deny to or withhold from any person or group of persons such housing
accommodations and/or real property because of race, color, religion, national
origin or ancestry, sex, creed or physical or mental handicap of such person or
persons or discriminate against any person or persons because of race, color,
religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed or physical or mental
handicap in the conditions, terms, privileges of the sale, rental or lease of
any housing accommodation and/or real property or in the furnishing of
facilities and/or services in connection therewith.
   C.   Relocation shall be carried out in a manner that will promote maximum
choice within the community's total housing supply; lessen racial, ethnic and
economic concentrations; and facilitate desegregation and racially inclusive
patterns of occupancy and use of public and private facilities. (Ord. 92-06, 2-
18-94)
5-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context, the following
terms shall have the meaning ascribed in this Section and as used in this
Chapter:
DECENT, SANITARY, HEALTHFUL STANDARD LIVING QUARTERS: Housing which is in
sound, clean and weathertight condition in conformance with applicable local,
State and national codes.
DISCRIMINATE or DISCRIMINATION: Any difference expressed in any way toward a
person or persons in the terms of the sale, exchange, lease, rental or
financing for, housing accommodation and/or real property in regard to such
sale, exchange, rental, lease or finance because of race, color, religion,
national origin or ancestry, sex, creed or physical or mental handicap of such
person.
FINANCIAL INSTITUTION: Any person, institution or business entity of any kind
which loans money to persons and receives as security for said loans a secured
interest of any kind in the real property of the borrower.
HOUSING ACCOMMODATION: Includes any building, structure or portion thereof
which is used or occupied, maintained, arranged or designed to be used or
occupied as a home, residence or sleeping place of one or more human beings or
any real estate so used, designed or intended for such use.
OWNER: Any person/persons who hold legal or equitable title to or owns any
beneficial interest in any real property or who hold legal or equitable title
to shares of or hold any beneficial interest in any real estate cooperative
which owns any real property and/or housing accommodations.
REAL ESTATE BROKER: Any person, partnership, association, corporation and/or
agent thereof, who for a fee or other valuable consideration offers, sells,
purchases, exchanges or rents, or negotiates, for the sale, purchase, exchange
or rental of a housing accommodation and/or real property of another or
collects rental for the use of a housing accommodation and/or real property of
another.
REAL PROPERTY: Any real estate, vacant land, building, structure or housing
accommodations within the corporate limits of the Village. (Ord. 92-06, 2-18-
92)
5-3-3: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any owner of real estate, lessee, sub-lessee,
real estate broker or salesman, financial institution or employee of the
financial institution, advertiser or agent of any or all of the foregoing, to
discriminate against any person or persons because of their race, color,
religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed or physical or mental
handicap with regard to the sale, exchange or rental or any dealing concerning
any housing accommodation and/or real property.
   B.   In addition to the foregoing, it shall be unlawful for any real estate
broker or employee thereof, owner or other person or financial institution
dealing with housing or real property in the Village:
      1.   To discriminate against any person in the availability of or the
price, terms, conditions or privileges of any kind relating to the sale,
rental, lease or occupancy of any housing accommodation or real property in the
Village or in furnishing of any facilities or services in connection therewith.
      2.   To publish or circulate or cause to be published or circulated, any
notice, statement or advertisements or to announce a policy or to use any form
of application, for the purchase, lease, rental or financing of real property
or to make any record of inquiry in connection with the prospective purchase,
rental or lease of such real estate, which expresses directly or indirectly any
discrimination as to race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex,
creed or physical or mental handicap of any person.
      3.   To discriminate in connection with lending money, guaranteeing
loans, accepting mortgages or otherwise obtaining or making available funds for
the purchase, acquisition, construction, rehabilitation, repair or maintenance
of any housing accommodation and/or real property.
      4.   To solicit for sale, lease or listing for the sale or lease, of any
housing accommodation and/or real property on the ground of loss of value
because of the present or prospective entry into any neighborhood of any person
or persons of any particular race, color, religion, national origin or
ancestry, sex, creed or physical or mental handicap.
      5.   To distribute or cause to be distributed, written material or
statements designed to induce any owner of any housing accommodation and/or
real property to sell or lease his or her property because of any present or
prospective change in the race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry,
sex, creed or physical or mental handicap of persons in the neighborhood.
      6.   To make any misrepresentations concerning the listing for sale or
the anticipated listing for sale or the sale of any housing accommodation and/
or real property for the purpose of inducing or attempting to induce the sale
or listing for sale of any housing accommodation and/or real property by
representing that the presence or anticipated presence of persons of any
particular race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed or
physical or mental handicap in the area will or may result in the lowering of
property values in the block, neighborhood or area in which the property is
located.
      7.   For an owner to solicit any real estate broker to sell, rent or
otherwise deal with such owner's housing accommodations and/or real property
with any limitation on its sale based on race, color, religion, national origin
or ancestry, sex, creed, physical or mental handicap.
      8.   For an owner to refuse to sell, rent or otherwise deal with any
housing accommodation and/or real property because of race, color, religion,
national origin or ancestry, sex, creed or physical or mental handicap of the
proposed buyer or tenant. (Ord. 92-06, 2-18-92)
5-3-4: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of this Chapter shall
be punished by a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00). Each day a violation continues shall
constitute a separate violation. This Section shall in no way abrogate or
impair the right of the Village to specifically enforce, by any legal means,
any of the provisions of this Chapter. (Ord. 92-06, 2-18-92)
CHAPTER 4
AIR RIFLES
SECTION:
5-4-1: Short Title
5-4-2: Definitions
5-4-3: Selling, Renting or Transferring to Children Prohibited
5-4-4: Carrying or Discharging on Public Streets
5-4-5: Permissive Possession
5-4-6: Seizure and Removal
5-4-7: Penalty
5-4-1: SHORT TITLE:
This Chapter may be cited as the AIR RIFLES CHAPTER. (Ord. 93-24, 8-17-93)
5-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter:
AIR RIFLE: Means and includes air gun, air pistol, spring gun, spring pistol,
BB gun, paint ball gun, pellet gun or any implement that is not a firearm which
impels a breakable paint ball containing washable marking colors or a pellet
constructed of hard plastic, steel, lead or other hard materials with a force
that reasonably is expected to cause bodily harm.
DEALER: Any person, co-partnership, association or corporation engaged in the
business of selling at retail or renting any of the articles included in the
definition of "air rifle". (Ord. 93-24, 8-17-93)
5-4-3: SELLING, RENTING OR TRANSFERRING TO CHILDREN PROHIBITED:
   A.   It is unlawful for any dealer to sell, lend, rent, give or otherwise
transfer an air rifle to any person under the age of thirteen (13) years where
the dealer knows or has cause to believe the person to be under thirteen (13)
years of age or where such dealer has failed to make reasonable inquiry
relative to the age of such person and such person is under thirteen (13) years
of age.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to sell, give, lend or otherwise transfer
any air rifle to any person under thirteen (13) years of age except where the
relationship of parent and child, guardian and ward, or adult instructor and
pupil, exists between such person and the person under thirteen (13) years of
age, or where such person stands in loco parentis to the person under thirteen
(13) years of age. (Ord. 93-24, 8-17-93)
5-4-4: CARRYING OR DISCHARGING ON PUBLIC STREETS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person under thirteen (13) years of age to carry
any air rifle on the public streets, roads, highways or public lands within
this Village, unless such person under thirteen (13) years of age carries such
rifle unloaded.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to discharge any air rifle from or across
any street, sidewalk, road, highway or public land or any public place except
on a safely constructed target range. (Ord. 93-24, 8-17-93)
5-4-5: PERMISSIVE POSSESSION:
Notwithstanding any provision of this Chapter, it is lawful for any person
under thirteen (13) years of age to have in his possession any air rifle if it
is:
   A.   Kept within his house of residence or other private enclosure;
   B.   Used by the person under thirteen (13) years of age and he is a duly
enrolled member of any club, team or society organized for educational purposes
and maintaining as part of its facilities or having written permission to use
an indoor or outdoor rifle range under the supervision, guidance and
instruction of a responsible adult and then only if said air rifle is actually
being used in connection with the activities of said club, team or society
under the supervision of a responsible adult; or
   C.   Used in or on any private grounds or residence under circumstances when
such air rifle is fired, discharged or operated in such a manner as not to
endanger persons or property and then only if it is used in such manner as to
prevent the projectile from passing over any grounds or space outside the
limits of such grounds or residence. (Ord. 93-24, 8-17-93)
5-4-6: SEIZURE AND REMOVAL:
The Village police shall seize, take, remove or cause to be removed at the
expense of the owner, any air rifle sold or used in any manner in violation of
this Chapter. (Ord. 93-24, 8-17-93)
5-4-7: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this Chapter commits a petty offense and
shall pay a fine not less than seventy-five dollars ($75.00) nor more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 93-24, 8-17-93; amd. Ord. 21-02, 2-2-2021)
CHAPTER 5
REGULATION OF GANGS AND RELATED ACTIVITIES
SECTION:
5-5-1: Assembly
5-5-2: Disorderly Conduct
5-5-3: Disorderly Street Gang Conduct
5-5-4: Damaging Property
5-5-5: Mob Action
5-5-6: Loitering
5-5-7: Offenses Against Public Peace
5-5-8: Parental Responsibility
5-5-9: Persons Responsible For Unlawful Activities On Their Premises
5-5-10: Telecommunications Devices
5-5-11: Curfew Established
5-5-1: ASSEMBLY:
   A.   Permitting Unlawful Assembly: Whoever shall knowingly permit any
assembly of people for the purpose of committing any unlawful act or breach of
the peace, or any riot, offense or disorderly conduct, in or upon any premises
owned or occupied by him or under his control shall be guilty of disorderly
conduct.
   B.   Disturbing Lawful Assembly: Whoever shall interrupt or disturb any
lawful assembly of people by making any loud or unusual noise, or by rude or
indecent behavior, or by profane, obscene or improper discourse or conduct,
shall be guilty of disorderly conduct.
   C.   Penalty: Any person violating this Section shall be fined not less than
fifty dollars ($50.00) and not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for
each offense and be responsible for the Village's cost of prosecution including
attorney fees incurred by the Village. Each day that a violation occurs or
continues shall be considered a separate offense. (Ord. 95-18, 10-17-1995)
5-5-2: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
   A.   Enumerated: A person shall be guilty of disorderly conduct if, with the
purpose of causing public danger, alarm, disorder, or nuisance, or knowing his
conduct is likely to cause public danger, alarm, disorder or nuisance, he
commits any of the following acts in a public place:
      1.   Commits an act in a violent manner toward another person whereby
that other person is placed in danger of his life or health;
      2.   Commits an act in a violent manner toward another person whereby the
property of any person is placed in danger of being destroyed or damaged;
      3.   Causes, provokes or engages in any fight, brawl or riotous conduct
so as to endanger the life, health or property of another person;
      4.   Interferes, or threatens to interfere with, another person's pursuit
of a lawful occupations by acts of violence;
      5.   Obstructs, either singly or together with another person or persons,
the flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic and refuses to clear such public
way when ordered to do so by the Police Department or other lawful authority;
      6.   Resists or obstructs the performance of duties by the Police
Department or any other authorized Village official;
      7.   Incites, attempts to incite, or is involved in attempting to incite
a riot or unlawful disturbance;
      8.   Uses abusive language or threats toward any member of the Police
Department, or any other authorized Village official, who is engaged in the
lawful performance of his duties, or toward any other person when such words
have a direct tendency to cause acts of violence. Words merely causing
displeasure, annoyance or resentment are not prohibited;
      9.   Damages, befouls or disturbs public property or the property of
another person so as to create a hazardous, unhealthy or physically offensive
condition;
      10.   Makes or causes to be made any loud, boisterous and/or unreasonable
noise or disturbance to the annoyance of any other person nearby, or near to
any public highway, road, street, lane, alley, park, square, or common, whereby
the public peace is broken or disturbed, or the traveling public is annoyed;
      11.   Fails to obey a lawful order to disperse by a police officer where
one or more persons are committing acts of disorderly conduct in the immediate
vicinity, and the public health and safety is threatened;
      12.   Uses abusive or obscene language or makes an obscene gesture in
public;
      13.   Assembles with three (3) or more persons for the purpose of using
force or violence to disturb the public peace;
      14.   Appears in any public place and is manifestly under the influence
of alcohol, narcotics or any other drug, not therapeutically administered, to
the degree that he may endanger himself or other persons or property, or alarm
or disturb other persons in his vicinity;
      15.   Transmits in any manner to any police officer, public officer or
public employee a report to the effect that an offense has been committed,
knowing at the time of such transmission that there is no reasonable ground for
believing that such an offense has been committed;
      16.   Uses paint or other medium in any way to deface, damage or destroy
property;
      17.   Transmits in any manner to the Fire Department of any city, town,
village, or fire protection district a false alarm of fire, knowing at the time
of such transmission that there is no unreasonable ground for believing that
such fire exists;
      18.   Transmits in any manner to another a false alarm to the effect that
a bomb or other explosive of any nature is concealed in such place that its
explosion would endanger human life, knowing at the time of such transmission
that there is no reasonable ground for believing that such bomb or explosive is
concealed in such place;
      19.   Enters upon the property of another person and for a lewd or
unlawful purpose deliberately looks into a dwelling on the property through any
window or other opening in it;
      20.   While acting as a "collection agency" as defined in the Collection
Agency Act, being 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 425/1 et seq., or as an
employee of such collection agency, and while attempting to collect an alleged
debt, makes a telephone call to the alleged debtor which is designed to harass,
annoy or intimidate the alleged debtor;
      21.   Transmits a false report to the Department of Children and Family
Services under The Abused and Neglected Child Reporting Act, being 325 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/1 et seq.;
      22.   Transmits a false report to the Department of Public Health under
the Nursing Home Care Act, being 210 Illinois Compiled Statutes 45/1-101 et
seq.;
      23.   Transmits in any manner to the police department or fire department
of any municipality or fire protection district, or any privately owned and
operated ambulance service, a false report for an ambulance, emergency medical
technician- ambulance, or emergency medical technician-paramedic knowing at the
time there is no reasonable ground for believing that such assistance is
required; or
      24.   Transmits a false report under 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/26-
1, Disorderly Conduct.
   B.   Penalty: Any person violating any provision of this Section shall be
fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) and not more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for each offense and be responsible for the Village's cost of
prosecution including attorney fees incurred by the Village. Any person
violating subsection A16 of this Section, in addition to said fine, may be
ordered by the court to pay restitution to any property owner for damages or
the costs of restoring said property to its condition prior to its defacement,
damage, or destruction. Each day that a violation occurs or continues shall be
considered a separate offense. (Ord. 95-18, 10-17-1995)
5-5-3: DISORDERLY STREET GANG CONDUCT:
   A.   Village Council Findings:
      1.   The Village Council hereby finds and declares that it is the right
of every person, regardless of race, color, creed, religion, national origin,
sex, age, or disability to be secure and protected from fear, intimidation and
physical harm caused by the activities of violent groups and individuals. It is
not the intent of this Section to interfere with the exercise of the
constitutionally protected rights of freedom of expression and association. The
Village Council hereby recognizes the constitutional rights of every citizen to
harbor and express beliefs on any lawful subject whatsoever, to lawfully
associate with others who share similar beliefs, to petition lawfully
constituted authority for a redress of perceived grievances and to participate
in the electoral process;
      2.   The Village Council finds, however, that urban, suburban, and rural
communities, neighborhoods and schools throughout the State are being
terrorized and plundered by street gangs. The Village Council finds that there
are now several hundred street gangs operating in Illinois, and that while
their terrorism is most widespread in urban area, street gangs are spreading
into suburban and rural areas of Illinois, including LaSalle County;
      3.   The Village Council further finds that street gangs are often
controlled by criminally sophisticated adults who take advantage of our youth
by intimidating and coercing them into membership by employing them as drug
couriers and runners, and by using them to commit brutal crimes against persons
and property to further the financial benefit to and dominance of the street
gang;
      4.   Street gang activity presents a clear and present danger to public
order and safety and is not constitutionally protected. No society is or should
be required to endure such activities without redress. Accordingly, it is the
intent of the Village Council, by enacting this Section, to prohibit street
gang related activity.
   B.   Definition: For the purpose of this Section, "street gang" or "gang" is
defined as any ongoing organization, association in fact or group of three (3)
or more persons, whether formally or informally organized, or any subgroup or
affiliated group thereof, having as one of its activities the commission of
criminal or illegal acts, including by way of example only and not in anyway
limiting or specifying, illegal drug distribution, and whose members
individually or collectively engage in or have engaged in a pattern of criminal
or illegal acts, and which group frequently, though not necessarily, claim one
or more particular geographic territory or "turf" exclusively as its realm of
influence and operations.
   C.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person within the Village to
knowingly do or make any act, utterance, gesture or display for the purpose of
communicating membership of, affiliation with, association with, support of,
identification with, sympathy toward or affront or insult toward any street
gang, or with actual knowledge that the subject act, utterance, gesture or
display is used and recognized as communicative of street gang membership,
affiliation, association, support, identification, sympathy or affront.
   D.   Penalty: Any person violating this Section shall be fined not less than
seventy-five dollars ($75.00) and not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00)
for each offense and be responsible for the Village's cost of prosecution
including attorney fees incurred by the Village. (Ord. 95-18, 10-17-1995; amd.
Ord. 21-02, 2-2-2021)
5-5-4: DAMAGING PROPERTY:
   A.   Defacing Property: No person shall damage, befoul, disturb, destroy or
deface any Village property or any public or private property without
permission of the owner.
   B.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful, and is hereby declared a nuisance, to
place graffiti, or permit graffiti to remain on any public or private curb
stone, flagstone, brick, sidewalk, or any portion of any part of any sidewalk
or street, or upon any tree, lamp post, telephone pole, utility box, utility
pole, stanchion, postal mail receptacle, sign, hydrant, fence, door, wall,
window, garage, or enclosure, vehicle, bridge, pier, or upon any other public
or private structure or building.
   C.   Graffiti Defined: Graffiti is any permanent display of any name,
identification, letter, numeral, figure, emblem, insignia, picture, outline,
character, spectacle, delineation, illustration, symbol, or any combination
thereof, which without authorization is marked, written, drawn, painted,
scratched, inscribed or affixed, and which is a different color from the color
of the exterior of those objects or structures described above and to which is
affixed.
   D.   Graffiti Removal: It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to serve
or cause to be served, a notice upon the owner or party in possession of any
such object or structure upon which graffiti is present and to demand the
abatement of the nuisance within three (3) days. All exterior surfaces shall be
kept clean and free of graffiti. Surfaces which have been exposed to graffiti
shall be cleaned, painted, or in some manner covered, so as to effect the
complete removal of the graffiti from that surface and return the surface to
its prior condition with three (3) days of receipt of the violation notice to
the owner unless extenuating circumstances prevent work from being done, in
which case the Chief of Police may give an extension for the removal of
graffiti.
   E.   Penalty: Any person violating this Section shall be fined not less than
seventy-five dollars ($75.00) and not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00)
for each offense and be responsible for the Village's cost of prosecution
including attorney fees incurred by the Village. (Ord. 95-18, 10-17-1995; amd.
Ord. 21-02, 2-2-2021)
5-5-5: MOB ACTION:
   A.   Action Defined: Mob action consists of the following:
      1.   The use of force or violence disturbing the public peace by two (2)
or more persons acting together and without authority of law;
      2.   The assembly of two (2) or more persons to do an unlawful act; or
      3.   The assembly of two (2) or more persons, without authority of law,
for the purpose of doing violence to the person or property of anyone supposed
to have been guilty of a violation of the law, or for the purpose of exercising
correctional powers or regulative powers over any person by violence.
   B.   Involvement: It is unlawful for any person to be involved in mob
action.
   C.   Withdrawal: Any participant in a mob action who does not withdraw on
being commanded to do so by any police officer shall be guilty of disorderly
conduct.
   D.   Penalty: Any person violating this Section shall be fined not less than
seventy-five dollars ($75.00) and not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00)
for each offense and be responsible for the Village's cost of prosecution
including attorney fees incurred by the Village. (Ord. 95-18, 10-17-1995; amd.
Ord. 21-02, 2-2-2021)
5-5-6: LOITERING:
   A.   Loitering Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter in
or near any thoroughfare, place open to the public, or near any public or
private place in a manner under circumstances manifesting the purpose to engage
in drug related activity contrary to any of the provisions of this Section or
the law of the State of Illinois, including 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-
1 et seq., as amended.
   B.   Determination: Among the circumstances which may be considered in
determining whether such purpose is "manifested" shall include but not be
limited to:
      1.   Such person is a known unlawful drug user, possessor or seller. For
purposes of this Section, a "known unlawful drug user, possessor or seller" is
a person who has, within the knowledge of the arresting officer, been convicted
in any court within this State of any violation involving the use, possession
or sale of any of the controlled substance referred to in 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/1-1 et seq., as amended, or such person who has been convicted of
any violation of the provisions of said 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-1 et
seq., as amended, or substantially similar laws of any political subdivision of
this State or any other state; or a person who displays the physical
characteristics of drug intoxication or usage, such as "needle tracks" or a
person who possessed "drug paraphernalia" as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/1-1 et seq., as amended; or
      2.   Such person is currently subject to an order prohibiting his
presence in a high drug activity geographic area; or
      3.   Such person behaves in a manner as to raise reasonable suspicion
that he is about to engage in or is then engaged in any unlawful drug related
activity including, by way of example only, such person acting as a "lookout";
or
      4.   Such person is physically identified by the officer as a member of a
"gang" or association which has, as one of its purposes, illegal drug activity;
or
      5.   Such person transfers small objects or packages for currency in a
furtive fashion; or
      6.   Such person takes flight upon the appearances of a police officer;
or
      7.   Such person manifestly endeavors to conceal upon himself or herself
any object which reasonably could be involved in unlawful drug related
activity; or
      8.   The area involved is by public repute known to be an area of
unlawful drug use and trafficking; or
      9.   The premises involved have been reported to law enforcement as a
place of suspected gang activity; or
      10.   Such person possesses any instrument, article or thing whose
customary or primary purpose is for the sale, administration or use of
controlled substances such as, but not limited to, crack, pipes, push wires,
chore boys, hang scales, hypodermic needles, razor blades, or other cutting
tools; or
      11.   Any vehicle involved is registered to a known unlawful drug user,
possessor or seller, or a person for whom there is an outstanding warrant for a
crime involving drug-related activity.
   C.   Penalty: Any person violating this Section shall be fined not less than
seventy-five dollars ($75.00) and not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00)
for each offense and be responsible for the Village's cost of prosecution
including attorney fees incurred by the Village. (Ord. 95-18, 10-17-1995; amd.
Ord. 21-02, 2-2-2021)
5-5-7: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE:
No person in the Village shall:
   A.   Unlawful Conduct: Disturb, tend to disturb, or aid in disturbing the
peace of others by violent, tumultuous, offensive or obstreperous conduct, and
no person shall knowingly permit such conduct upon any premises owned or
possessed by him or under his control.
   B.   Assault: Assault, beat, strike, wound, imprison or inflict violence on
another with intent to commit any misdemeanor or felony. Nor shall any person
assault another with a lethal weapon, instrument, or thing with intent to
commit upon the person of another any bodily injury where no considerable
provocation appears or where the circumstances of the assault show malice.
   C.   Fighting: Fight another person.
   D.   Penalty: Any person violating this Section shall be fined not less than
seventy-five dollars ($75.00) and not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00)
for each offense and be responsible for the Village's cost of prosecution
including attorney fees incurred by the Village. (Ord. 95-18, 10-17-1995; amd.
Ord. 21-02, 2-2-2021)
5-5-8: PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   Accountability: It shall be unlawful for a parent or legal guardian of
an unemancipated minor residing with such parent or legal guardian to knowingly
permit said minor to commit any violation of a Village ordinance or State
statute concerning vandalism, battery, fireworks, obscene conduct, trespass,
possession of alcoholic liquor, curfew, disorderly street gang conduct, or any
other offense or wilful or malicious acts to persons or property.
   B.   Unlawful Association: It shall be unlawful for any parent, legal
guardian or other person who knowingly permits a child in his or her custody or
control, under the age of eighteen (18) years, to associate with known thieves,
burglars, felons, narcotic addicts or other persons of ill repute, visit a
place of prostitution, commit a lewd act, or commit an act intending to break
the peace.
   C.   Restitution: The parent or guardian responsible for the wilful or
malicious acts of the minor child pursuant to this Section, shall make full
restitution to the injured or damaged party or parties within ten (10) days
after notification of liability as provided for herein. Parents and guardians
shall be responsible individually and jointly.
   D.   Penalty: Any person who fails or refuses to make payment in full of any
amount found due from them to an injured or damaged party, as provided for
herein, or who violates any of the provisions of this section shall be fined
not less than seventy-five ($75.00) and not more than five hundred dollars
($500.00 for each offense and be responsible for the cost of prosecution and
attorney fees incurred by the Village. (Ord. 95-18, 10-17-1995; amd. Ord. 21-
02, 2-2-2021)
5-5-9: PERSONS RESPONSIBLE FOR UNLAWFUL ACTIVITIES ON THEIR PREMISES:
   A.   Regulation Of Gathering: It shall be unlawful for any person or persons
who are the owners or occupants of any premises to allow, initiate, or maintain
any gathering on that premises in which tenants, invitees, visitors, or
trespassers engage in any unlawful activity. Unlawful activity shall include,
but not be limited to, violations of any provisions of this Chapter. A person
will be deemed to have permitted the gathering if that person is on the
premises while the unlawful activity is occurring and has not informed the
police thereof. For purposes of this Section only, a gathering shall consist of
two (2) or more persons who are not occupants or owners of the premises.
   B.   Penalty: Any person who violates any of the provisions of this Section
shall be fined not less than seventy-five dollars ($75.00) and not more than
five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense and be responsible for the cost
of prosecution and attorney fees incurred by the Village. (Ord. 95-18, 10-17-
1995; amd. Ord. 21-02, 2-2-2021)
5-5-10: TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICES:
   A.   Definition Of Telecommunication Devices: Telecommunication devices
means any telephone, cellular phone, digital phone, beeper, pager, mobile
phone, radio communication equipment, car phone, or other device used for
telecommunication.
   B.   Unlawful Transfer Of Telecommunications Device To A Minor: A person
commits the unlawful transfer of a telecommunications device when he gives,
sells or otherwise transfers possession of a telecommunications device to a
person with the intent that the device be used for unlawful purposes or as a
means of communication between gang and gang members.
   C.   Seizure: Any telecommunications device possessed by a person which is
used in the commission of an unlawful act, or used as a means of communication
between gang and gang members, or which constitutes evidence of the commission
of such offenses, may be seized by Village police officers. Forfeiture of a
telecommunications device shall be in accordance with 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/44-3.
   D.   Penalty: Any person who violates any of the provisions of this Section
shall be fined not less than seventy-five ($75.00) and not more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense and be responsible for the cost of
prosecution and attorneys' fees incurred by the Village. (Ord. 95-18, 10-17-
1995; amd. Ord. 21-02, 2-2-2021)
5-5-11: CURFEW ESTABLISHED:
   A.   Evening Restrictions: It is hereby made unlawful for any person under
the age of eighteen (18) years to be or remain or loiter in or upon any
streets, alleys, or public places within the corporate limits of the Village
after the hour of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M., unless such person is accompanied
by parent, guardian, or other adult person having the legal custody of such
minor.
   B.   Accountability: It is hereby made unlawful for any parent, guardian, or
other person having the legal custody or control of any person under the age of
eighteen (18) years, to allow or permit such person, while in such legal
custody or control, to go or be in or upon the streets, alleys, or other public
places after the hour named in subsection A above, unless there exists a good
and reasonable sufficient necessity therefor.
   C.   Loitering Prohibited: No keeper of any public billiard hall, pool room,
or bowling alley within said Village, shall permit any person under the age of
eighteen (18) years to play at any game, upon any table or alley kept by him,
nor shall he permit any such person to frequent his place of business, or to
loiter or remain therein, unless upon the written consent or permission of the
parent or guardian of such person.
   D.   Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this Section
shall be fined not less than seventy-five dollars ($75.00) nor more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense. (Ord. 24, 10-4-1943; amd. Ord. 21-
02, 2-2-2021)
CHAPTER 6
REGULATION OF BOWS
SECTION:
5-6-1: Bow Use Restrictions
5-6-2: Operation Of Bow Range
5-6-3: Penalty
5-6-1: BOW USE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   No person shall discharge any projectile from a bow and arrow or
crossbow in the Village except at an approved bow and arrow range.
   B.   No person shall knowingly aim a loaded or unloaded bow at another
person.
   C.   No person shall at any time discharge or set off a bow and arrow,
crossbow or slingshot in a negligent manner. (Ord. 96-25, 10-15-1996)
5-6-2: OPERATION OF BOW RANGE:
No person shall own or operate a bow range without first obtaining the consent
of the Commissioner of Public Health and Safety or any other person that is
designated by the Commissioner. (Ord. 96-25, 10-15-1996)
5-6-3: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this Chapter commits a petty offense and
shall pay a fine not less than seventy-five dollars ($75.00) nor more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 96-25, 10-15-1996; amd. Ord. 21-02, 2-2-2021)
CHAPTER 7
DRUG PARAPHERNALIA AND CANNABIS
SECTION:
5-7-1: Definitions
5-7-2: Violations
5-7-3: Exempt Items; Determination
5-7-4: Penalty
5-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever in this chapter the following terms are used, they shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them in this section:
CANNABIS: Includes marihuana, hashish and other substances which are identified
as including any parts of the plant cannabis sativa, whether growing or not;
the seeds thereof, the resin extracted from any part of such plant; and any
compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of such plant,
its seeds, or resin, including tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and all other
cannabinol derivatives, including its naturally occurring or synthetically
produced ingredients, whether produced directly or indirectly by extraction, or
independently by means of chemical synthesis or by a combination of extraction
and chemical synthesis; but shall not include the mature stalks of such plant,
fiber produced from such stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds of such plant,
any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of
such mature stalks (except the resin extracted therefrom), fiber, oil or cake,
or the sterilized seed of such plant which is incapable of germination.
DELIVER OR DELIVERY: The actual, constructive or attempted transfer of
possession of cannabis, with or without consideration, whether or not there is
an agency relationship.
DRUG PARAPHERNALIA: All equipment, products and materials of any kind which are
peculiar to and marketed for use in planting, propagating, cultivating,
growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing,
processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing,
containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing
into the human body cannabis or a controlled substance in violation of the
"Cannabis Control Act" 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 550/1 et seq., or the
"Illinois Controlled Substances Act" 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 570/1 et
seq., it includes, but is not limited to:
   A.   Kits peculiar to and marketed for use in manufacturing, compounding,
converting, producing, processing or preparing cannabis or a controlled
substance;
   B.   Isomerization devices peculiar to and marketed for use in increasing
the potency of any species of plant which is cannabis or a controlled
substance;
   C.   Testing equipment peculiar to and marketed for private home use in
identifying or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of cannabis
or controlled substances;
   D.   Diluents and adulterants peculiar to and marketed for cutting cannabis
or a controlled substance by private persons;
   E.   Objects peculiar to and marketed for use in ingesting, inhaling, or
otherwise introducing cannabis, cocaine, hashish, or hashish oil into the human
body including, where applicable, the following items:
      1.   Water pipes;
      2.   Carburetion tubes and devices;
      3.   Smoking and carburetion masks;
      4.   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
      5.   Carburetor pipes;
      6.   Electric pipes;
      7.   Air-driven pipes;
      8.   Chillums;
      9.   Bongs;
      10. Ice pipes or chillers;
   F.   Any item whose purpose, as announced or described by the seller, is for
use in violation of this act. (Ord. 00-05, 7-18-2000)
5-7-2: VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Possession Of Drug Paraphernalia: A person who knowingly possesses an
item of drug paraphernalia with the intent to use it in ingesting, inhaling, or
otherwise introducing cannabis or a controlled substance into the human body,
or in preparing cannabis or a controlled substance for that use, is guilty of a
violation of this chapter.
   B.   Possession Or Delivery Of Cannabis: It is unlawful for any person
knowingly to possess or deliver cannabis.
   C.   Intent: In determining intent under this section, the trier of fact may
take into consideration the proximity of any cannabis or controlled substances
to drug paraphernalia or the presence of cannabis or a controlled substance on
the drug paraphernalia. (Ord. 00-05, 7-18-2000)
5-7-3: EXEMPT ITEMS; DETERMINATION:
   A.   This chapter shall not apply to:
      1.   Items marketed for use in the preparation, compounding, packaging,
labeling, or other use of cannabis or a controlled substance as an incident to
lawful research, teaching, or chemical analysis and not for sale; or
      2.   Items marketed for, or historically and customarily used in
connection with the planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting,
manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing,
testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, containing, concealing,
injecting, ingesting, or inhaling of tobacco or any other lawful substance.
Items exempt under this subsection include, but are not limited to: garden
hoes, rakes, sickles, baggies, tobacco pipes, and cigarette-rolling papers;
      3.   Items listed in this chapter which are marketed for decorative
purposes, when such items have been rendered completely inoperable or incapable
of being used for any illicit purpose prohibited by this act.
   B.   In determining whether or not a particular item is exempt under this
section, the trier of fact should consider, in addition to all other logically
relevant factors, the following:
      1.   The general, usual, customary, and historical use to which the item
involved has been put;
      2.   Expert evidence concerning the ordinary or customary use of the item
and the effect of any peculiarity in the design or engineering of the device
upon its functioning;
      3.   Any written instructions accompanying the delivery of the item
concerning the purposes or uses to which the item can or may be put;
      4.   Any oral instructions provided by the seller of the item at the time
and place of sale or commercial delivery;
      5.   Any national or local advertising, concerning the design, purpose or
use of the item involved, and the entire context in which such advertising
occurs;
      6.   The manner, place and circumstances in which the item was displayed
for sale, as well as any item or items displayed for sale or otherwise
exhibited upon the premises where the sale was made;
      7.   Whether the owner or anyone in control of the object is a legitimate
supplier of like or related items to the community, such as a licensed
distributor or dealer of tobacco products;
      8.   The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in the
community. (Ord. 00-05, 7-18-2000)
5-7-4: PENALTY:
Any person in violation of any provision of this chapter shall be fined no less
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). The proceeds of all fines allocated
to the village of Seneca pursuant to this chapter shall be made available to
the village of Seneca police department as expendable receipts for use in the
enforcement of laws and regulating controlled substances and cannabis. (Ord.
00-05, 7-18-2000)
CHAPTER 8
TRUANCY
SECTION:
5-8-1: Definitions
5-8-2: Truancy Prohibited
5-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
PARENTAL PERMISSION: Shall include permission from a person in loco parentis
and shall be given for reasons only of personal illness, serious family
illness, death in the family, serious home emergencies, necessary and lawful
family support, employment, valid religious justification, school district's,
providing appropriate evidence of home schooling and/or compelling family
reasons.
TRUANT: A child subject to compulsory school attendance and who is absent
without parental/guardian permission from such attendance for a school day or a
portion thereof. (Ord. 02-13, 11-19-2002)
5-8-2: TRUANCY PROHIBITED:
   A.   Attendance Required: It shall be unlawful for any person within the
corporate limits of the village, or enrolled in a school within the corporate
limits of the village, and enrolled in grades 1 through 12 who is: 1) required
by law to attend school; 2) subject to the compulsory attendance requirements
of the Illinois school code, as it may be amended from time to time; or 3)
enrolled in a public, private or parochial school (hereinafter referred to as
"student") to absent himself or herself from attendance at school without
parental or guardian school permission. It shall be unlawful for any parent or
legal guardian of any such child to allow a child to violate this chapter.
   B.   Parental/Guardian Permission: It shall further be unlawful for any
student enrolled in public, private or parochial school to absent himself or
herself from attendance at said school without parental/guardian permission.
Any person who shall so absent himself or herself shall be guilty of the
offense of truancy and students and/or those who have custody shall be subject
to a fine as set forth hereafter. Emergency or unforeseen absences due to
illness or other causes beyond the control of the person so absenting himself
or herself from school without parental permission shall not constitute truancy
if permission is submitted in writing to the proper school authorities within
twenty four (24) hours after such absence.
   C.   Reasonable And Adequate Excuse: It shall be unlawful for any person who
has custody or control of a student to permit such child not to attend some
public, private or parochial school in the district wherein the child resides
during the entire time it is in the session during the regular school term,
without reasonable and adequate excuse, such excuse including, personal
illness, serious family illness, death in the family, serious home emergency,
necessary and lawful family support, employment, valid religious justification
or providing evidence of satisfactory participating in home schooling, or
compelling family reason. Any person violating this section is guilty of the
offense of truancy and shall be subject to a fine as set forth hereafter.
   D.   False Excuse Prohibited: It shall be an offense under this section for
a parent or other individual to knowingly submit to the proper school
authorities a written excuse under any of the provisions herein that contains
false information, including falsification of a signature. A person convicted
of an offense under this section shall be subject to a fine set forth
hereafter.
   E.   Penalty: Any student who violates this chapter and/or any persons,
including, but not limited to, a person having custody of a student hereunder
who violates this chapter shall be subject to a fine of not less than seventy-
five dollars ($75.00) and not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord.
02-13, 11-19-2002; amd. Ord. 21-02, 2-2-2021)
CHAPTER 9
SYNTHETIC DRUGS
SECTION:
5-9-1: Definitions
5-9-2: Exceptions
5-9-3: Sale Or Delivery
5-9-4: Possession
5-9-5: Use
5-9-6: Penalty
5-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
SYNTHETIC CANNABIS: An herbal and chemical product, whether described as
tobacco, herbs, incense, spice, or any blend thereof, regardless of whether the
substance is marketed for the purpose of being smoked, which mimics the effects
of the active ingredient in cannabis and tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), and
contains a cannabinoids receptor agonist as follows:
   CP 55,940 (2[1R,2R,5R)-5-hydroxy-2- (3hydroxypropyl) cyclohexyl]-5-
(2methyloctan-2- yl)phenol)
   HU-308 ([1R,2R,5R)-2-[2,6-dimethoxy-4-(2- methyloctan-2-yl)phenyl]-7,7-
dimethyl- 40bicyclo[3.1.1]hept-3-enyl]methanol)
   HU-331((3-hydroxy-2-[(1R,6R)-3-methyl-6-(1- methylethenyl)-2-cyclohexen-1-
yl]-5-pentyl-2,5- cyclohexadiene-1,4-dione)
   JWH-007 (1-pentyl-2-methyl-3-(1-naphthoyl)indole)
   JWH-019 (1-hexyl-3-(naphthalene-1-oyl)indole)
   JWH-073 (naphthalen-1-yl-(1-butylindol-3- yl)methanone)
   JWH-098 (4-methoxynaphthalen-1-yl-(1-pentyl-2- methylindol-3-yl)methanone)
   JWH-164 (7-methoxynaphthalen-1-yl-(1-pentylindol- 3-yl)methanone)
   JWH-200(2-morpholin-4-ylethyl)indol-3-yl)- naphthalen-1-ylmethanone)
   JWH-203 (2-(2-chlorophenyl)-1-(1-pentylindol-3- yl)ethanone)
   JWH-210 (4-ethylnaphthalen-1-yl-(1-pentylindol-3- yl)methanone)
   JWH-250 (1-pentyl-3-(2-methoxyphenylacetyl)indole)
   JWH-251 (1-pentyl-3-(2-methylphenylacetyl)indole)
   JWH-398 (1-pentyl-3-(4-chloro-1-naphtholyl) indole
   RCS-4 ((4-methoxyphenyl)(1-pentyl-1H-indol-3- yl)methanone)
   RCS-8(1-(1-(2-cyclohexylethyl)-1H-indol-3-yl)-2-(2 methoxyphenyl)ethanone)
   WIN 55,212-2 ((R)-(+)-[2,3-Dihydro-5-methyl-3-(4- morpholinylmethyl)pyrrolo
[1,2,3-de)-1,4- benzoxazin-6-yl]-1-nepthalenylmethanone)
Street names for synthetic cannabis may include, but are not limited to, the
following:
   Black mamba strawberry
   Black mamba tangerine
   Black mamba vanilla
   Cloud nine incense
   Flying buddha aqua
   Flying buddha golden
   Flying buddha nirvana
   Flying buddha rose
   Flying buddha royal
   Flying buddha rubia
   Flying buddha zen
   Formula 420
   K2 blonde
   K2 citron
   K2 huckleberry
   K2 pineapple
   K2 pink
   K2 sky
   K2 solid sex
   K2 standard
   K2 summit
   K2 thai dream
   K2 ultra
   K2 ultra incense
   Kronic skunk blend
   Potpourri
   Purple haze max
   Quick fix plus
   Smoke buddy
   Spice
   Triad blue label 1
   Wicked spice
SYNTHETIC PSYCHEDELIC/HALLUCINOGEN: Any compound that mimics the effects of any
federally controlled schedule 1 substance, including, but not limited to, any
quantity of a natural or synthetic material, compound, mixture, preparation,
substance (including salts, isomers, esters, ethers and salts of isomers)
containing substances which have a psychedelic/hallucinogenic effect on the
central nervous system and/or brain such as:
   2-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-ethylphenyl) ethanamine (2C-E)
   2-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-methylphenyl) ethanamine (2C-D)
   2-(4-Chloro-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl) ethanamine (2C-C)
   2-(4-lodo-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl) ethanamine (2C-I)
   2-(4-(Ethylthio)-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl ethanamine (2C-T-2)
   2-(4-(Isopropylthio)-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl) ethanamine (2C-T-4)
   2-(2,5-Dimethoxyphenyl)-ethanamine (2C-H)
   2-(2,5-Dimethoxy-4-nitro-phenyl) ethanamine (2C-N)
   2-(2,5-Dimethoxy-4-(n)-propylphenyl) ethanamine (2C-P)
SYNTHETIC STIMULANT: Any compound that mimics the effects of any federally
controlled schedule 1 substance such as cathinone, methcathinone, MDMA and
MDEA, including, but not limited to, any quantity of a natural or synthetic
material, compound, mixture, preparation, substance (including salts, isomers,
and salts of isomers) containing substances which have a stimulant effect on
the central nervous system, such as:
   3 Fluoromethcathinone
   4-Fluoromethcathinone (other name: flephedrone)
   3,4-Methylenedioxymethcathinone (other names: methylone, MDMC)
   3,4-Methylenedioxypyrovalerone (other name: MDPV)
   4-Methylmethcathinon (other names: mephedrone, 4-MMC)
   4-Methoxymethcathinone (other names: methedrone, bk-PMMA,PMMC)
   4-Ethylmethcathinone (other name: 4-EMC)
   Ethcathinone
   Beta-keto-N-methylbenzodioxyolylpropylamine (other names: butyone, Bk-MBDB)
   Napthypyrovalerone (other names: naphyrone, NRG-1)
   N,N-dimethylcathunone (other name: methamfepramone)
   Alpha-pyrrolidinopropiophenone (other name: alpha-PPP)
   4-methoxy-alpha-pyrrolidinopropiophenone (other name: MOPPP)
   3,4-methylenedioxy-alpha-pyrrolidinopropiophenone (other name: MDPPP)
   Alpha-pyrrolidinovalerophenone (other name: apha-PVP)
   6,7-kihydro-5H-indeno (5,6-d)-1,3-dioxal-6-amine) (other name: MDAI)
Any compound that is structurally derived from 2- amino-1phenyl-1-propanone by
modification or substitution in any of the following ways:
   In the phenyl ring to any extent with alkyl, alkoxy, alkylenedioxy,
haloalkyl or halide substituents, whether or not further substituted in the
phenyl ring by one or more of the univalent substituents;
   At the 3-position with an alkyl substituent;
   At the nitrogen atom with alkyl, dialkyl, benzyl, or methooxybenzyl groups;
   Or by inclusion of the nitrogen atom in a cyclic structure.
Street names for synthetic stimulants may include, but are not limited to, the
following:
   Bliss
   Blue silk
   Cloud nine
   Drone
   Energy-1
   Ivory wave
   Lunar wave
   Meow meow
   Ocean burst
   Pure ivory
   Purple wave
   Red dove
   Snow leopard
   Stardust
   Vanilla sky
   White dove
   White knight
   White lightening (Ord. 12-04, 3-20-2012)
5-9-2: EXCEPTIONS:
This chapter shall not apply to any person who may, under federal or state law,
possess, manufacture, distribute, dispense, or ingest the substances regulated
by this chapter.
Furthermore, if a violation is a felony, it shall be prosecuted under
appropriate federal and/or state law and not this chapter. (Ord. 12-04, 3-20-
2012)
5-9-3: SALE OR DELIVERY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale or deliver any
product containing a synthetic cannabinoid, synthetic stimulant, or synthetic
psychedelic/hallucinogen. (Ord. 12-04, 3-20-2012)
5-9-4: POSSESSION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly possess any product containing
a synthetic cannabinoid, synthetic stimulant, or synthetic psychedelic/
hallucinogen. (Ord. 12-04, 3-20-2012)
5-9-5: USE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to be under the influence of a synthetic
cannabinoid, synthetic stimulant, or synthetic psychedelic/hallucinogen. (Ord.
12-04, 3-20-2012)
5-9-6: PENALTY:
   A.   Any person convicted of violating section
5-9-3 of this chapter shall be fined not less than two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
A separate offense is deemed committed on each day in which a violation occurs
or continues to occur.
   B.   Any person convicted of violating section
5-9-4 of this chapter shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
   C.   Any person convicted of violating section
5-9-5 of this chapter shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
(Ord. 12-04, 3-20-2012)
CHAPTER 10
BACKYARD CHICKENS
SECTION:
5-10-1: Backyard Chickens
5-10-1: BACKYARD CHICKENS:
   A.    Purpose: This section shall only apply to residential districts under
the village zoning ordinance, and is created for the purpose of allowing
residents to keep laying chickens for personal egg consumption or to keep
chickens as pets. The purpose of this section is not to create regulations for
the commercial sale or distribution of chickens or eggs. For the purpose of
this section, the term CHICKEN includes only hens because the keeping of any
rooster is prohibited in any residential district.
   B.   Permit Required: The keeping of backyard chickens is prohibited without
a permit. A permit shall allow a maximum of eight (8) chickens with no roosters
or crowing hens.
      1.   The cost of a permit to keep chickens will be fifty dollars ($50.00)
for the initial permit, with an inspection of the area and chickens required.
      2.   A twenty-five dollars ($25.00) renewal fee will be due annually,
with a re-inspection required.
      3.   Failure to renew a permit will result in the revocation of the
permit. Once a permit has been revoked, a new application and initial fee of
fifty dollars ($50.00) will be required, with approval to reinstate to be made
at the discretion of the village council.
      4.   By applying for a permit, the permittee irrevocably consents to the
initial inspection, annual re-inspection, and random inspection at any time
without prior notice to the area in which the chickens are kept.
   C.   Standards For Keeping Of Chickens:
      1.   A chicken coop combined with a chicken run shall be required.
      2.   No free ranging of chickens allowed.
      3.   Feed must be kept in sealed varmint, vermin and predator proof
containers.
      4.   No chickens shall be kept that produce a noise loud enough to
disturb the peace of persons in surrounding properties.
      5.   Areas where chickens are kept shall be kept neat and clean and free
of undue accumulation of waste such as to prevent a nuisance, unsightliness, or
odors detectable from adjacent properties.
      6.   Waste material must be properly and promptly disposed of to prevent
odor or flies.
      7.   Owner or keeper of the chickens shall insure the birds are well
cared for and healthy and immediately remove any bird or birds suspected of
being ill and seek proper veterinary care.
      8.   Dead birds must be removed immediately and disposed of properly.
      9.   The slaughtering of chickens is prohibited.
      10.   No birds may be kept for the purpose of fighting, sporting or
feeding other animals.
   D.   Chicken Coop And Run Requirements:
      1.   All chickens must be kept inside a covered and enclosed structure
(coop) with an adjacent outside covered fence area (a run). The coop structure
shall be covered with appropriate roofing and sidewall materials to protect
poultry from elements and predators. The run area shall be covered in a
material of no less than identical quality metal poultry netting used in the
side wall construction. All fencing material used in the construction of the
enclosure will be standard metal poultry netting with no larger than one (1)
inch holes. The wire fencing must be framed in such a way to properly support
the overhead and side walls from collapse.
      2.   All chicken coops/runs shall be a minimum distance of ten (10) feet
from the nearest property line.
      3.   A chicken coop and run combination shall be a minimum of thirty (30)
square feet coop and sixty (60) square feet run ( ninety (90) square feet
total) with a maximum size not to exceed two hundred forty (240) square feet
total.
      4.   Chickens may only be kept on a lot containing a residence that is
occupied by the keeper of the chickens. Chickens may not be kept inside a
residence or building that is locked and inaccessible for inspection.
      5.   All coops and runs will require a building permit for accessory
buildings of the same overall square footage.
      6.   The use of temporary wiring and/or permanent use of extension cords
is prohibited. However, extension cords may be used seasonally. Extension cords
must be rated for outdoor use.
      7.   The use of heat by open flame is prohibited.
      8.   Heaters using gas, propane or any other liquid or solid fuel must be
of a type approved by manufacture for use in a poultry coop and have the proper
safety devices in place and operational.
      9.   An all weather fire extinguisher must be located no more than ten
(10) feet from the coop, be operational, visible and easily accessible in case
of fire.
   E.   Subdivision Covenants: A permit shall only be issued if keeping
chickens does not violate with any and all applicable homeowner's association,
neighborhood, or any other applicable property related covenants, rules and
regulations. Notwithstanding the aforementioned, the village has no obligation
to enforce any homeowner's association, neighborhood, or any other applicable
property related covenants, rules and regulations. (Ord. 25-10, 3-17-2025)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
VEHICLE TAX
(Rep. by Ord. 19-17, 11-19-2019)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Illinois Motor Vehicle Code Adopted; Exceptions And Penalties
6-2-2: Traffic Enforcement On Certain Property
6-2-1: ILLINOIS MOTOR VEHICLE CODE ADOPTED; EXCEPTIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   For the purpose of regulating and controlling traffic on City streets,
there is hereby adopted, by reference, the provisions of the Illinois Vehicle
Code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes, and all amendments, from time to time,
made therein, excepting any penalties therein and excepting any portions
thereof specifically superseded by this Title. Not less than three (3) copies
of such Vehicle Code have been on file for a period of fifteen (15) days prior
to the adoption of this Section, are now on file in the office of the Village
Clerk and are available for public use, inspection and examination.
   B.   When issuing a citation under any section of the Illinois Vehicle Code
which has been adopted by reference hereby, the police officer shall use the
Vehicle Code section number assigned to the section under which the citation is
written but shall prefix such number with number six (6) followed by a hyphen,
as follows: "6-". All citations so issued shall be issued in the name of the
Village of Seneca and referred to in the uniform traffic ticket or complaint as
a Village ordinance violation.
   C.   Any person violating the provisions of this Title, except as otherwise
specifically provided in this Title, shall be fined not less than seventy-five
dollars ($75.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense.
(1994 Code; amd. Ord. 21-02, 2-2-2021)
6-2-2: TRAFFIC ENFORCEMENT ON CERTAIN PROPERTY:
   A.   Contracts: Pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-209, the
Village has contracted with school boards, churches, and shopping center and
apartment complex owners for the regulation of traffic. The provisions
contained in this Title and 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-209 shall be
applicable to the property that is subject to such contracts and the Village
shall have the authority to enforce said regulations as established by said
contracts.
   B.   Private Streets And Roads: Pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/11-209.1, person(s) or board of directors owning, operating or representing a
residential subdivision, development, apartment house or apartment project
containing a minimum of ten (10) apartments or single-family residences have
made written requests to the Village requesting that the Police Department
enforce the provisions of the Illinois Vehicle Code on all private streets or
roads open to or used by the tenants, owners, employees or the public for the
purposes of vehicular traffic by permission, and not as a matter of the public
right. The provisions contained in this Title and 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-209.1 shall be applicable to the property that is subject to such
written requests and the Village shall have the authority to enforce said
regulations as provided herein. (Ord. 97-19, 10-21-1997)
CHAPTER 3
TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
SECTION:
6-3-1: Schedule I, Speed Limits
6-3-2: Schedule II, Through Streets
6-3-3: Schedule III, One-Way Streets
6-3-4: Schedule IV, No Parking Zones
6-3-5: Schedule V, Parking Time Limits
6-3-6: Schedule VI, Weight Limits Of Vehicles
6-3-7: Schedule VII, Overtaking On Right
6-3-8: Signs Posted
6-3-1: SCHEDULE I, SPEED LIMITS:
No person shall operate a motor vehicle on any street in the village, except
the state highways, at a rate of speed greater than twenty five (25) miles per
hour, unless posted otherwise.
The speed limits for the following shall be as set forth in this schedule:
 
Name Of Street                                                      Speed Limit
(Or Portion Thereof)                                                (MPH)
Brookfield Drive                                                    35
Old Stage Road from the east city limit line of the village west to 45
the CSX spur track
River Drive                                                         45
Shipyard Road from Illinois Route 170 to Walnut Street              25
Vista Drive                                                         20
 
Any person violating this section shall be fined not less than seventy-five
dollars ($75.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense,
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during which a
violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 14-06, 9-16-2014; amd. Ord. 21-02, 2-2-
2021)
6-3-2: SCHEDULE II, THROUGH STREETS:
The following streets in said village shall be and the same are hereby
designated as through streets, all vehicles before entering or crossing any of
said streets shall come to a full and complete stop:
ARMOUR STREET
   From the west side of Main Street to the end of Armour Street.
   From the east side of Main Street to Vaughey Street.
ARMSTRONG STREET from the west side of Main Street to the western village
limits.
BIRCHLAWN STREET east from Main Street to end.
CENTER STREET from the west side of Main Street to Market Street.
CHRISTY STREET west from Market Street to village limits.
DOUGLAS STREET
   From the west side of Main Street to the end of Douglas Street.
   From the east side of Main Street to the end of Vaughey Street.
LINCOLN STREET from the west side of Main Street to the western village limits.
MAIN STREET in said village, which is also known as Illinois State Route 170,
extending from U.S. Route 6 to the village limits on the south side of said
village.
SCOTT STREET from the west side of Main Street to the western village limits.
SOUTH STREET west from Main Street to Hossack Street.
UNION STREET from the west side of Main Street to the western village limits.
WEIRE west from Market Street to village limits.
WILLIAMS STREET from the west side of Main Street to the end of Williams
Street. (Ord. 188, 12-16-1958; amd. Ord. 302, 7-22-1975; Ord. 97-20, 10-21-
1997)
6-3-3: SCHEDULE III, ONE-WAY STREETS:
The following are one-way streets, and traffic on said streets shall travel
only in the direction indicated:
 
Street              Area Of Restriction                      Direction Ord. No.
Armour Street       Main Street to Crotty Avenue             East      255
                    Main Street to Bridge Street             West      87-04
New Street          Main Street to Oak Street                East      309
Oak Street          New Street to Union Street               North     255
                    From the parking lot which lies on the
                    west side of Oak Street and which is
                    south of the intersection of New Street, North     04-15
                    thence continuing north to the
                    intersection of Oak Street and Union
                    Street
South Market Street Armstrong to Weir Street                 North     87-04
 
Any person violating this section shall be fined not less than seventy-five
dollars ($75.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense,
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during which a
violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 87-04, 5-4-1987; amd. Ord. 21-02, 2-2-
2021)
6-3-4: SCHEDULE IV, NO PARKING ZONES:
It shall be unlawful to park a vehicle upon any of the following streets or
parts of streets as follows:
   A.   At Any Time:
Street From To Ord. No.
Street          From                         To                       Ord. No.
LST Way         Union Street                 Shipyard Road            23-25
Route 170       Chicago Rock Island railroad U.S. Route 6             301
(Main Street) 1
               U.S. Route 6 southerly ±600 Railroad Street on both  89-10
                feet                         sides
                Upon structure (bridge) #050-0069, spanning the
               Illinois-Michigan canal and extending 50 feet both    89-10
                north and south of the bridge, on both sides of the
                street
                Shipyard Road southerly x    A point 50 feet south of
               0.70 (x 3,700 feet) across   FAS Route 1273 (DuPont   89-10
                the Illinois River bridge    Road)
U.S. Route 6    1,100 feet west of Illinois  East village limits      340
                Route 170
               1,100 feet west of Illinois  West village limits      343
                Route 170
 
   B.   With Two Or More Inches Of Snow:
 
Street    From                      To                    Ord. No.
Route 170 U.S. Route 6 intersection Illinois River bridge 99-06
 
Any person violating this section shall be fined not less than thirty-five
dollars ($35.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense,
(Ord. 89-10, 6-6-1989; amd. Ord. 21-02, 2-2-2021; Ord. 23-25, 12-5-2023)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 6-4-3A of this title.
6-3-5: SCHEDULE V, PARKING TIME LIMITS:
It shall be unlawful to park a vehicle for a period of time longer than
provided in this section upon any street or parts of streets as follows:
An area on the south side of Armour Street is hereby restricted to no more than
fifteen (15) minute parking between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and
six o'clock (6:00) P.M. (Ord. 87-04, 5-4-1987)
6-3-6: SCHEDULE VI, WEIGHT LIMITS OF VEHICLES:
   A.   Limited Truck Weight On Residential Streets:
      1.   General Restrictions: Except as set forth in subsection B of this
section, it shall be unlawful to operate any motor vehicle having a gross
weight, including load, exceeding seven thousand (7,000) pounds upon any
residential street maintained by the village of Seneca; excluding East South
Street, West Williams, West Union Street and Shipyard Road, within the village
of Seneca.
      2.   Pick Ups, Deliveries And Services: Trucks exceeding seven thousand
(7,000) pounds may be operated on residential streets within the village for
the limited purpose of making pick ups, deliveries and/or providing services,
provided such trucks may only exit a truck route or major arterial street to
enter a residential street to make pick ups, deliveries or to provide services
by use of a direct route from the point on the truck route or major arterial
street, which is closest to the pick up, delivery or service location. When the
pick up, delivery or service is complete, the truck must exit the residential
street by use of the closest point from the location of a pick up, delivery or
service to a truck route or major arterial street.
   B.   Vehicles Exempt From Weight Restriction:
      1.   Exemptions: The following vehicles are exempt from the provisions of
this section:
         a.   Trucks owned and operated by governmental agencies, including,
but not limited to, fire apparatus and equipment for snow and ice removal
operations;
         b.   Trucks engaged in snow and ice removal functions under contract
with or at the direction of the village;
         c.   Trucks engaged in the collection and removal of garbage and
refuse;
         d.   Trucks so directed by a police officer; and
         e.   Farm equipment, as such term is defined by the Illinois vehicle
code.
      2.   Additional Exemptions: The following vehicles are also exempt from
the restrictions of this section but only to the extent that such truck is
operated along the shortest route between the point of origin or destination
and the nearest truck route or major arterial street:
         a.   Trucks actively performing construction activities;
         b.   Trucks actually engaged in snow and ice removal functions on
private property;
         c.   Trucks owned and operated by private utilities or moving
companies while actually in the performance of services;
         d.   School and public transportation buses; and
         e.   Tow trucks.
         f.    Agricultural trucks will be exempt to travel on East Union
Street, West Union Street to Ellis Farm and West Scott Street only, as long as
they are in use for the purpose of an agricultural business. An agricultural
truck will continue to be banned from any other non-truck route within the
Village.
         g.    Drivers bobtailing to their personal residence, to allow their
tractor to be parked in or on their property.
   C.   Violations:
      1.   Fines: If any truck is operated in violation of this section, the
driver or owner of the truck shall be liable and fined as provided by the
following schedule:
Weight Fine
Weight                                      Fine
Up to and including 2,000 pounds overweight $100.00
From 2,001 through 2,500 pounds overweight  150.00
From 2,501 through 3,000 pounds overweight  200.00
From 3,001 through 3,500 pounds overweight  300.00
From 3,501 through 4,000 pounds overweight  400.00
From 4,001 through 4,500 pounds overweight  500.00
From 4,501 through 5,000 pounds overweight  600.00
From 5,001 or more pounds overweight        750.00
 
      2.   Bonds And Bond Forfeiture: All drivers or owners of a truck charged
with a violation of this section shall post the cash bond in an amount equal to
the amount of the fine established by subsection C1 of this section. The person
or owner charged with the violation may, in lieu of a cash bail, deposit a
money order issued by a money transfer service company, which has been approved
by the accounts and finance department of the village of Seneca. The money
order shall be made payable to the village of Seneca.
      3.   Authority Of Administrative Adjudication Hearing Officer: All
violations of this section relating to overweight trucks on residential streets
within the village may be heard and decided by the administrative adjudication
hearing officer of the village of Seneca.
   D.   Signage: Appropriate signage giving reasonable notice of the maximum
allowable gross truck weight on residential streets in the village shall be
installed and maintained by the village of Seneca. (Ord. 15-01, 1-6-2015; amd.
Ord. 20-12, 7-21-2020)
6-3-7: SCHEDULE VII, OVERTAKING ON RIGHT:
It shall be unlawful to overtake a vehicle on the right on Illinois Route 170
from the railroad tracks to Shipyard Road. (Ord. 95-19, 10-17-1995)
6-3-8: SIGNS POSTED:
The chief of police or any other person designated by the village council shall
post or cause to be posted all traffic signs including, but not limited to,
one-way streets, restricted parking areas, speed restrictions, street names and
stop signs. (Ord. 93-25, 8-17-1993)
CHAPTER 4
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-4-1: No-Parking Places (Rep. by Ord. 21-29, 9-7-2021)
6-4-2: General Parking Restrictions
6-4-3: Parking Time Limited
6-4-4: Method Of Parking
6-4-5: Signs Posted
6-4-6: Presumption
6-4-7: Removal Of Vehicles
6-4-8: Parking Violations
6-4-9: Penalty
6-4-10: Snow Route Restrictions
6-4-1: NO-PARKING PLACES:
(Rep. by Ord. 21-29, 9-7-2021)
6-4-2: GENERAL PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Alleys: No person shall park a vehicle within an alley except for the
purpose of loading and unloading merchandise and then not in such a manner or
under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet (10') of the
width of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no persons
shall stop, stand or park a vehicle within an alley in such a position as to
block the driveway entrance to any abutting property.
   B.   Unattended Motor Vehicles: No person driving or in charge of a motor
vehicle shall permit it to stand unattended without first stopping the engine,
locking the ignition, removing the key from the ignition, effectively setting
the brake thereon and, when standing upon any perceptible grade, turning the
front wheels to the curb or side of the highway.
   C.   Vehicles For Sale Or Repair; Peddling From Vehicles:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle upon any street for the
purpose of displaying it for sale, or to park any vehicle upon any street from
which vehicle merchandise is peddled or sold.
      2.   It shall be unlawful, except in emergency situations, to make any
major repair on any motor vehicle on a public street, or within twenty five
feet (25') of a public street.
   D.   Street Cleaning; Snow Removal 1 : It shall be unlawful to park any
vehicle on any public street or portion thereof in the Village at any time when
the street is being cleaned or snow removed. Signs indicating cleaning or snow
removal shall be posted before the work is done. The Chief of Police, or his
designee, shall post in all areas where parking is prohibited during cleaning
and snow removal. (Ord. 89-13, 6-6-1989)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 6-3-4B of this Title.
6-4-3: PARKING TIME LIMITED:
   A.   Main Street (Route 170) 1 :
      1.   Vehicles Under One Ton: No person shall stop, park or leave standing
any vehicle, whether attended or unattended, for a period exceeding forty eight
(48) consecutive hours.
      2.   Vehicles Over One Ton: No vehicle over one ton shall be parked for
more than one hour other than for the sole purpose of loading or unloading.
      3.   Main Street Parking:
         a.   Parking on the east side of North Main Street from Center Street
to East Scott Street is limited to two hour parking.
         b.   Twenty-four (24) hour parking is prohibited on the west side of
North Main Street from Center Street to East Scott Street.
   B.   Garbage Disposal Vehicles: No semitrucks, or other vehicles hauling any
disposal waste, garbage, junk or materials for disposal shall park for a period
of time greater than thirty (30) minutes.
   C.   That the east side of Walnut Street shall be posted as a no parking
zone during school hours.
   D.   Village-Owned Parking Lot (Main Street):
      1.   The village-owned parking lot located on Main Street, adjoining
village hall, is intended for the use of those persons living, working,
shopping, dining or conducting other commerce in the village.
      2.   No vehicles larger than a full-sized pickup truck shall be parked in
the village-owned parking lot located on Main Street.
      3.   Semi-trucks are prohibited from parking for any length of time in
the village-owned parking lot on Main Street, with the exception of making
deliveries.
      4.   No vehicle shall be parked in the village-owned parking lot located
on Main Street for more than twenty-four (24) hours without permission from the
Village of Seneca. This provision expressly excludes village-owned vehicles.
(Ord. 89-13, 6-6-1989; amd. Ord. 99-12, 5-4-1999; Ord. 10-12, 11-2-2010; Ord.
21-25, 7-20-2021; Ord. 23-12, 6-20-2023)
 
Notes
1 2. See also section
  6-3-4 of this title.
6-4-4: METHOD OF PARKING:
No vehicle shall be parked with the driver's side of the vehicle next to the
curb, except on one-way streets. It shall be unlawful to stand or park any
vehicle in a street other than parallel with the curb and with the two (2)
right wheels of the vehicle within twelve inches (12") of the regularly
established curb line, except that upon those streets that have been marked for
angle parking, vehicles shall be parked at the angle to the curb indicated by
the marks. (Ord. 89-13, 6-6-1989)
6-4-5: SIGNS POSTED:
It shall be unlawful to park any motor vehicle where parking is prohibited and
marked by no parking signs. Appropriate signs shall be posted in all areas
where parking is limited or prohibited, indicating such limitations or
prohibitions. The chief of police, or his designee, shall post signs in all
areas where parking is limited or prohibited. (Ord. 89-13, 6-6-1989)
6-4-6: PRESUMPTION:
The fact that an automobile which is illegally parked is registered in the name
of a person shall be considered prima facie proof that the person was in
control of the automobile at the time of parking. (Ord. 89-13, 6-6-1989)
6-4-7: REMOVAL OF VEHICLES:
The police department and all members thereof assigned to traffic duty are
authorized to remove and tow away, or have removed and towed away by commercial
towing service any car or other vehicle illegally parked in any place where the
parked vehicle creates or constitutes a traffic hazard, blocks the use of a
fire hydrant, obstructs or may obstruct the movement of any emergency vehicle,
or which has been parked in any public street or other public place for a
period of more than forty eight (48) consecutive hours. Vehicle so towed away
shall be stored on any village property or in a public parking garage or
parking lot and shall be restored to the owner or operator thereof after
payment of the expense incurred by the village in removing and storing the
vehicles. (Ord. 89-13, 6-6-1989)
6-4-8: PARKING VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Any person accused of a violation of any provision of this traffic code
prohibiting parking a vehicle in a designated area, or restricting the length
of time a vehicle may be there parked, may settle and compromise the claim
against him for such violation by paying to the village of Seneca the specified
fine of ten dollars ($10.00) for each offense if paid within forty eight (48)
hours of the violation. If not paid within forty eight (48) hours of the
violation, the fine will double. If the fine is not paid within thirty (30)
days an Illinois uniform traffic ticket for a city ordinance violation may be
issued and the violator summoned to court. Such payment may be made at the
police station, a receipt shall be issued for all money received, and such
money shall be promptly turned over to the village treasurer.
   B.   This section shall not apply to persons parking a vehicle so as to
obstruct the entrance or exit of any place where police department apparatus or
other emergency equipment is kept or housed, or so as to block an emergency
entrance in a hospital; nor shall this section apply to any person charged with
parking a vehicle so as to entirely obstruct traffic in any street or alley, or
parking in such a way as to reduce traffic on an arterial street to one-way
traffic only; nor to any person who refuses to move a vehicle illegally parked
at the request of any member of the police department. (Ord. 01-12, 6-19-2001)
   C.   The fine for parking violations at the village boat launch shall be
thirty five dollars ($35.00). (Ord. 05-09, 8-16-2005)
   D.   In the event an Illinois uniform traffic ticket is issued pursuant to
subsection A of this section, in addition to the imposition of any fine
established by this code for such offense, the violator shall also be
responsible for the payment of all costs of suit, including the reasonable
attorney fees incurred by the village of Seneca. (Ord. 01-12, 6-19-2001; amd.
Ord. 05-09, 8-16-2005)
6-4-9: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provisions of this title relating to parking who has
not compromised and settled his claim pursuant to the provisions of subsections
6-4-8A and B of this chapter shall be fined not less than thirty-five dollars
($35.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or otherwise continues. (Ord. 89-13, 6-6-1989; amd. Ord. 21-
02, 2-2-2021)
6-4-10: SNOW ROUTE RESTRICTIONS:
The streets identified in Schedule I. SNOW ROUTES are declared snow routes and
subject to restrictions as follows:
   A.   After a snowfall of two inches (2") or more, it shall be unlawful for
any person to leave parked or leave standing unattended a motor vehicle, upon
any street identified by ordinance as a snow route until the street has been
plowed after the completion of snow.
   B.   A police officer may initiate an ordinance violation for a snow route
parking violation against the owner, lessee or driver of a vehicle wrongfully
parked or left unattended on a snow route in violation of the above by issuance
of a parking ticket or otherwise serving a notice of ordinance violation. The
fine shall be in the amount of $200.00.
   C.   The police department and all members thereof assigned to traffic duty
are authorized to have removed and towed away, by commercial towing service,
any car or other vehicles which violate or fail to comply with Section
6-4-10 of the Seneca Code of Ordinances. Cars or vehicles so towed away shall
be restored to the owner or operator thereof after payment of the expense
incurred by the village in removing and storing such cars or vehicles.
SCHEDULE I. SNOW ROUTES.
The streets described in this schedule are hereby declared to be snow routes
and parking on the streets described in this schedule is prohibited any time a
snowfall of two inches or more has occurred, until the snow has been plowed off
or otherwise removed:
 
STREET NAME:         PARKING PROHIBITED DURING SNOWFALL:
South Hossack Street West Side
East Lincoln Street  South Side
Valley View Drive    Outside of circle
Oak Street           East Side
East Scott Street    South Side
 
(Ord. 21-30, 9-7-2021; amd. Ord. 25-01, 1-6-2025)
CHAPTER 5
ABANDONED, INOPERATIVE VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-5-1: Definitions
6-5-2: Abandonment Unlawful
6-5-3: Police to be Notified
6-5-4: Chief of Police May Order Removal
6-5-5: Police to Keep Record
6-5-6: Vehicle Registration Records
6-5-7: Identifying Vehicle Owner
6-5-8: Owner May Reclaim
6-5-9: Vehicle to be Sold at Public Sale
6-5-10: Registered Owner Not Identified
6-5-11: Motor Vehicle Reclaimed
6-5-12: Proceeds from Sale
6-5-13: Liability Disclaimer
6-5-14: Junked Vehicle Not to Remain on Property
6-5-15: Authorization to Remove Vehicle
6-5-16: Penalty
6-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
ABANDONED VEHICLE: All motor vehicles or other vehicles in a state of disrepair
rendering the vehicle incapable of being driven in its condition; or any motor
vehicle or other vehicle that has not been moved or used for seven (7)
consecutive days or more and is apparently deserted.
ANTIQUE VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle or other vehicle twenty five (25) years of
age or older.
HIGHWAY: The entire width between the boundary lines of every alley, street, or
other way publicly maintained when any part thereof is opened to the use of the
public for purposes of vehicular travel.
INOPERATIVE VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle for which, for a period of at least
seven (7) days, the engine, wheels, or other parts have been removed, or in
which the engine, wheels, or other parts have been altered, damaged, or
otherwise so treated that the vehicle is incapable of being driven under its
own motor power. Further, inoperable vehicles shall mean any vehicle which is
not licensed or does not have a valid Village sticker.
VEHICLE: A machine propelled by power other than by human power designed to
travel along the ground by the use of wheels, treads, runners or slides and to
transport persons or property or pull machinery. (Ord. 94-14, 7-11-1995)
6-5-2: ABANDONMENT UNLAWFUL:
The abandonment of a motor vehicle or other vehicle or any part thereof on any
highway in this Municipality is unlawful and subject to penalties as set forth
herein. The abandonment of a motor vehicle or other vehicle or any part thereof
on private or public property, other than a highway, in view of the general
public, anywhere in this Municipality is unlawful except on property of the
owner or bailee of such abandoned vehicle. A motor vehicle or other vehicle or
any part thereof so abandoned on private property may be authorized for removal
by or upon the order of the Chief of Police, after a waiting period of seven
(7) days or more has expired. (Ord. 94-14, 7-11-1995)
6-5-3: POLICE TO BE NOTIFIED:
When an abandoned, lost, stolen, or unclaimed motor vehicle or other vehicle
comes into the temporary possession or custody of a person in this State, not
the owner of the vehicle, such person shall immediately notify the Municipal
Police Department when the vehicle is within the corporate limits of the
Municipality. Upon receipt of such notification, the Chief of Police shall
authorize a towing service to remove and take possession of the abandoned,
lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or other vehicle. The towing service
will safely keep the towed vehicle and its contents, maintain a record of the
tow until the vehicle is claimed by the owner or any other person legally
entitled to possession thereof, or until it is disposed of as provided in this
Chapter. (Ord. 94-14, 7-11-1995)
6-5-4: CHIEF OF POLICE MAY ORDER REMOVAL:
   A.   When a motor vehicle or other vehicle is abandoned on a highway in this
Municipality ten (10) hours or more, its removal by a towing service may be
authorized by order of the Chief of Police.
   B.   When an abandoned, unattended, wrecked, burned or partially dismantled
motor vehicle or other vehicle is creating a traffic hazard because of its
position in relation to the highway or its physical appearance is causing the
impeding of traffic, its immediate removal from the highway by a towing service
may be authorized by order of the Chief of Police.
   C.   When a vehicle removal from either public or private property is
authorized by order of the Chief of Police, the owner of the vehicle will be
responsible for all towing costs. (Ord. 94-14, 7-11-1995)
6-5-5: POLICE TO KEEP RECORD:
When a motor vehicle or other vehicle is authorized to be towed away, the
Police Department shall keep and maintain a record of the vehicle towed,
listing the manufacturer's trade name, manufacturer's series name, body style,
vehicle identification number and license plate year and number displayed on
the vehicle. The record shall also include the date and hour of tow, location
towed from, location towed to, reason for towing and the name of the officer
authorizing the tow. (Ord. 94-14, 7-11-1995)
6-5-6: VEHICLE REGISTRATION RECORDS:
   A.   When the Police Department does not know the identity of the registered
owner or other legally entitled person, they will cause the motor vehicle
registration records of the State to be searched by a directed communication to
the Secretary of State for the purpose of obtaining the required ownership
information.
   B.   The Police Department will cause the stolen motor vehicle files of the
State Police to be searched by a directed communication to the State Police for
stolen or wanted information of the vehicle. When the State Police files are
searched with negative results, the information contained in the National Crime
Information Center (NCIC) files will be searched by the State Police. The
information determined from these record searches will be used by the Police
Department in sending a notification by certified mail to the owner or legally
entitled person advising where the vehicle is held, requesting a disposition be
made and setting forth public sale information. (Ord. 94-14, 7-11-1995)
6-5-7: IDENTIFYING VEHICLE OWNER:
When the registered owner or other person legally entitled to the possession of
a motor vehicle or other vehicle cannot be identified from the registration
files of this State or from the registration files of a foreign state, if
applicable, the Police Department shall notify the State Police for the purpose
of identifying the vehicle's owner or other person legally entitled to the
possession of the vehicle. The information obtained by the State Police will be
immediately forwarded to the law enforcement agency having custody of the
vehicle for notification of owner. (Ord. 94-14, 7-11-1995)
6-5-8: OWNER MAY RECLAIM:
Any time before a motor vehicle or other vehicle is sold at public sale or
disposed of as provided herein, the owner or other person legally entitled to
its possession may reclaim the vehicle by presenting to the Police Department
proof of ownership or proof of the right to possession of the vehicle. No
vehicle shall be released to the owner or other person under this Section until
all towing and storage charges have been paid. (Ord. 94-14, 7-11-1995)
6-5-9: VEHICLE TO BE SOLD AT PUBLIC SALE:
   A.   Whenever an abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or other
vehicle, seven (7) years of age or newer, remains unclaimed by the registered
owner or other person legally entitled to its possession for a period of thirty
(30) days after notice has been given as provided herein, the Police Department
having possession of the vehicle shall cause it to be sold at public sale to
the highest bidder. Notice of the time and place of the sale shall be posted in
a conspicuous place for at least ten (10) days prior to the sale on the
premises where the vehicle has been impounded. At least ten (10) days prior to
the sale, the Police Department shall cause a notice of the time and place of
the sale to be sent by certified mail to the registered owner or other person
known by the Police Department or towing service to be legally entitled to the
possession of the vehicle. Such notice shall contain a complete description of
the vehicle to be sold and what steps must be taken by any legally entitled
person to reclaim the vehicle.
   B.   In those instances where the certified notification specified herein
has been returned by the postal authorities to the Police Department due to the
addressee having moved, or being unknown at the address obtained from the
registration records of this State, the sending of a second certified notice
will not be required. (Ord. 94-14, 7-11-1995)
6-5-10: REGISTERED OWNER NOT IDENTIFIED:
   A.   When the identity of the registered owner or other person legally
entitled to the possession of an abandoned, lost or unclaimed vehicle of seven
(7) years of age or newer cannot be determined by any means provided for in
this Chapter, the vehicle may be sold as provided herein or disposed of in the
manner authorized by this Chapter without notice to the registered owner or
other person legally entitled to the possession of the vehicle.
   B.   When an abandoned vehicle of more than seven (7) years of age is
impounded as specified by this Chapter, it will be kept in custody for a
minimum of ten (10) days for the purpose of determining ownership, the
contacting of the registered owner by the U.S. Mail, public service or in
person for a determination of disposition; and for an examination of the State
Police stolen motor vehicle files for theft and wanted information. At the
expiration of the ten (10) day period, without the benefit of disposition
information being received from the registered owner, the Chief of Police will
authorize the disposal of the vehicle as junk only.
   C.   A motor vehicle or other vehicle classified as an antique vehicle is
excluded from this Chapter. (Ord. 94-14, 7-11-1995)
6-5-11: MOTOR VEHICLE RECLAIMED:
When a motor vehicle or other vehicle in the custody of the Police Department
is reclaimed by the registered owner or other legally entitled person, or when
the vehicle is sold at public sale or otherwise disposed of as provided in this
Chapter, a report of the transaction will be maintained by the Police
Department for a period of one year from the date of the sale or disposal.
(Ord. 94-14, 7-11-1995)
6-5-12: PROCEEDS FROM SALE:
When a vehicle located within the corporate limits of this Municipality is
authorized to be towed away by the Chief of Police and disposed of as set forth
in this Chapter, the proceeds of the public sale or disposition after the
deduction of towing, storage, and processing charges shall be deposited in the
Treasury. (Ord. 94-14, 7-11-1995)
6-5-13: LIABILITY DISCLAIMER:
Any police officer, towing service owner, operator, or employee shall not be
held to answer or be liable for damages in any action brought by the registered
owner, former registered owner, or owner's legal representative, or any other
person legally entitled to the possession of a motor vehicle or other vehicle
when the vehicle was processed and sold or disposed of as provided by this
Chapter. (Ord. 94-14, 7-11-1995)
6-5-14: JUNKED VEHICLE NOT TO REMAIN ON PROPERTY:
That all inoperable motor vehicles, whether on public or private property, are
hereby declared to be a nuisance. No person in charge or control of any
property within the City, whether an owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or
otherwise, shall allow an inoperable vehicle to remain on such property for a
period longer than seven (7) days; no person shall leave any such vehicle on
any property within the Village for a longer time than seven (7) days; except
that this Chapter shall not apply with regard to a vehicle within a building
when not in use, to operable historic vehicles over twenty five (25) years of
age, or to a motor vehicle at premises of place of business engaged in the
wrecking or junking of motor vehicles. (Ord. 94-14, 7-11-1995)
6-5-15: AUTHORIZATION TO REMOVE VEHICLE:
The Chief of Police or any member of the Police Department designated by the
Chief is hereby authorized to remove or have removed any vehicle left at any
place within the Village which is in violation of this Chapter. Such vehicle
shall be impounded until lawfully claimed or disposed of. (Ord. 94-14, 7-11-
1995)
6-5-16: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this Chapter shall be deemed guilty of a
Class B misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be fined not less than
seventy-five dollars ($75.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00).
(Ord. 94-14, 7-11-1995; amd. Ord. 21-02, 2-2-2021)
CHAPTER 6
BICYCLES, SKATEBOARDS, ROLLER SKATES, IN LINE SKATES, AND SCOOTERS
SECTION:
6-6-1: Definitions
6-6-2: Registration And License Requirements
6-6-3: Limitations
6-6-4: Dealers
6-6-5: Other Provisions
6-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever in this chapter the following terms are used, they shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them in this section:
BICYCLE: Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may ride
having two (2) tandem wheels except scooters and similar devices.
BICYCLE LICENSE: A metal plate or tag issued by the village bearing a license
number.
LICENSEE: Any person who procures from the village a license for a bicycle,
together with a registration card accompanying same.
ROLLER SKATE: Any device worn on the foot with wheels and which is propelled by
human power. This definition includes devices commonly known as in line skates.
SERIAL NUMBER: An identifying number permanently stamped or cast on a bicycle's
frame.
SKATEBOARD AND SCOOTER: A device with two (2) or more tandem axles and a
combination of wheels connected by a platform designed for standing and which
is propelled by human power. (Ord. 01-07, 5-15-2001)
6-6-2: REGISTRATION AND LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   License Application: Application for registration and license for a
bicycle may be made by the owner of the bicycle upon forms furnished by the
village police department. Such application shall be signed by the owner,
provided that the owner's parent or legal guardian shall also sign the
application if the owner is under eighteen (18) years of age. The application
shall state the full name and address of the owner, the name of the
manufacturer, the serial number of the frame thereof, the approximate date when
the owner acquired title to the bicycle, and the name and address of the person
from whom the bicycle was acquired.
The police department shall, upon receiving such application and license fee,
issue to the owner of the bicycle a registration card which shall contain the
name and address of the owner and the description of the bicycle contained in
the application, and also issue to the owner a bicycle license which shall
contain the words "Seneca" and the number of the license and indicate the year
of issuance. The applicant shall thereupon affix his signature to the
registration card. The registration card and the bicycle license shall have the
same number. The bicycle license shall be affixed to the bicycle in a way that
the bicycle license will be clearly visible from the rear.
   B.   Term And License Fee: The term of this license shall be valid until
bicycle is sold. The license fee to be paid to the police department shall be
one dollar ($1.00). (Ord. 01-07, 5-15-2001)
6-6-3: LIMITATIONS:
   A.   The rules for riding and operating bicycles shall be as set forth in
provisions of the Illinois vehicle code pertaining to bicycles adopted herein
by reference, 5/11-1501 et seq.
   B.   No bicycles, skateboards, roller skates, in-line skates, and scooters,
shall be operated upon any sidewalk along Main Street (Rt. 170) from Douglas to
Scott Street. (Ord. 01-07, 5-15-2001)
   C.   No skateboards, roller skates, in-line skates and scooters shall be
operated in the traveled portion of any street or roadway, or riding after dusk
to dawn. (Ord. 02-01, 3-5-2002)
   D.   Pedestrians shall at all times be given the right of way.
   E.   No ramps or artificial devices shall be constructed, built, or used on
any village street, sidewalk, or village right of way.
   F.   Each violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine of not
less than seventy five dollars ($75.00). (Ord. 01-07, 5-15-2001)
6-6-4: DEALERS:
   A.   Report: Any person engaged in the business of selling, buying or
trading new or used bicycles within the village is hereby required to make a
written report to the chief of police at the end of each month, or more often
if requested by him. Such report shall contain the following information:
      1.   The name and address of each person to whom and from whom a bicycle
was sold, purchased or traded during the period covered by the report, not
including, however, purchases of new bicycles from regularly established
jobbers or wholesalers.
      2.   A description of the bicycle involved in each such transaction
consisting of the name of the manufacturer, the serial number of the frame, and
the license number of the bicycle if the bicycle has been registered and a
license issued therefor to the owner by the village. (Ord. 01-07, 5-15-2001)
6-6-5: OTHER PROVISIONS:
   A.   Removal Of Serial Number Or License Plate: It shall be unlawful for any
person wilfully or maliciously to remove, destroy, mutilate or alter the serial
number of any bicycle licensed hereunder; or to remove, destroy, mutilate or
alter any bicycle license or registration card during the time in which the
bicycle license or registration card is in force. The chief of police may
authorize the stamping of numbers on the frame of a bicycle in a legible
manner, for identification purposes, upon which no serial number can be found,
or upon which the serial number is illegible or insufficient for identification
purposes.
   B.   Use Of Bicycle Without Consent Of Owner: It shall be unlawful for any
person to use or operate any bicycle within the village without the consent of
the owner of the bicycle.
   C.   Bicycle Without Serial Number: It shall be unlawful for any person to
purchase, receive in trade, or otherwise acquire any bicycle from which the
serial number on the frame has been removed, destroyed, mutilated or altered,
without first reporting the same to the police department. (Ord. 01-07, 5-15-
2001)
CHAPTER 7
SNOWMOBILES
SECTION:
6-7-1: Definitions
6-7-2: Enforcement And Inspection
6-7-3: Registration Of Snowmobiles
6-7-4: Snowmobile Equipment
6-7-5: Control Provisions
6-7-6: Penalty
6-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter the terms specified in this section have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section unless the context clearly requires a
different meaning.
APPLICATION AND JURISDICTION: No portion of this chapter shall preclude the
state of Illinois or its officers or agents from enforcing the Illinois
snowmobile registration and safety act under 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 40/
1-1 et seq.
DANGEROUS DRUG: Any drug defined as a depressant or stimulant substance in the
Illinois controlled substance act and cannabis as defined in the cannabis
control act of the state of Illinois.
DEALER: A person, partnership or corporation engaged in the business of
manufacturing, selling, or leasing snowmobiles at wholesale or retail.
HIGHWAY: The entire width between boundary lines of any highway, road, street,
avenue, alley or public driveway.
INTOXICATING BEVERAGE: Any beverage enumerated in the liquor control act of the
state of Illinois.
LOCAL AUTHORITY: The municipal board or body having authority to adopt local
police regulations under the constitution and laws of this state.
NARCOTIC DRUG: Any substance defined as a narcotic drug in the Illinois
controlled substance act.
OPERATE: To ride in or on, other than as a passenger, use or control the
operation of a snowmobile in any manner, whether or not the snowmobile is
underway.
OPERATOR: Every person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile.
OWNER: A person other than a lien holder registered as owner of a snowmobile.
PEACE OFFICER: Any person authorized under the statutes of the state of
Illinois to make arrest for a violation of any statute or ordinance, whether it
be a total arrest power of all statutes or a portion of any statute.
REGISTER: The act of assigning a registration number to a snowmobile by state
statute and/or by local ordinance.
ROADWAY: That portion of a highway, improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event a highway
includes two (2) or more separate roadways, the term roadway as used in this
chapter refers to any such roadway separately, but not to all such roads
collectively.
SNOWMOBILE: A self-propelled device designed for travel on snow or ice or
natural terrain, steered by skis or runners and supported in part by skis,
belts, or cleats. (Ord. 07-19, 12-18-2007)
6-7-2: ENFORCEMENT AND INSPECTION:
   A.   Enforcement: It is the duty of all sheriffs, deputy sheriffs and other
police officers to arrest any person detected in violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Inspection: Duly authorized police officers may stop and inspect any
snowmobile at any time for the purpose of determining if the provisions of this
chapter are being complied with. If the inspecting officer discovers any
violation of the provisions of this chapter, he may issue a summons to the
operator of such snowmobile requiring that the operator appear before the
circuit court for the county in which the offense was committed. Every
snowmobile subject to this chapter, if under way and upon being hailed by a
designated law enforcement officer, must stop immediately.
   C.   Resistance To Officers: It is unlawful for any person to resist or
obstruct any peace officer in the discharge of his duties under this chapter.
(Ord. 07-19, 12-18-2007)
6-7-3: REGISTRATION OF SNOWMOBILES:
   A.   Operation Of Unnumbered Snowmobiles: Except as otherwise provided in
625 Illinois Compiled Statutes, no person shall after the effective date
hereof, operate any snowmobile within the corporate limits unless such
snowmobile has been registered and numbered in accordance with the provisions
of the Illinois snowmobile registration and safety act. (Ord. 07-19, 12-18-
2007)
6-7-4: SNOWMOBILE EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Headlamp: All snowmobiles in operation shall display at least one
lighted headlamp, white in color, having a minimum candle power of sufficient
intensity to exhibit a white light plainly visible from a distance of at least
five hundred feet (500') ahead during hours of darkness under normal
atmospheric conditions.
   B.   Taillights: All snowmobiles while in operation shall display at least
one red taillight having a minimum candle power of sufficient intensity to
exhibit a red light plainly visible from a distance of five hundred feet (500')
to the rear during hours of darkness under normal atmospheric conditions.
   C.   Brakes: All snowmobiles shall have an operating brake system in good
mechanical condition.
   D.   Mufflers: No snowmobile shall be sold or offered for sale or operated
unless it is equipped with a sound muffling device installed by the
manufacturer and under no circumstances shall this muffler device be modified
or removed by the owner or operator. (Ord. 07-19, 12-18-2007)
6-7-5: CONTROL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Speed Regulations:
      1.   General Speed Restrictions: No snowmobile may be driven upon any
roadway within the corporate limits of this community and at a speed which is
greater than is reasonable and proper with regard to traffic conditions and the
use of the highway, or endangers the safety of any person or property. The fact
that the speed of the snowmobile does not exceed the applicable maximum speed
limit does not relieve the driver of the snowmobile from the duty to decrease
speed when approaching and crossing an intersection, when approaching a
hillcrest, when traveling upon any narrow or winding roadway, or special
hazards exist with respect to pedestrians or other traffic or by reason of
weather or highway conditions. Speed must be decreased as may be necessary to
avoid colliding with any person or vehicle on or entering the highway in
compliance with legal requirements and a duty of all persons to use due care.
         a.   Unless some other speed restriction is established by the posting
of speed limit signs under the authority of the village council, the maximum
speed limits for snowmobiles within the corporate limits are as follows:
            (1)   Twenty five (25) miles per hour in any residential or
business district.
            (2)   Ten (10) miles per hour upon any alley.
      2.   Racing: No person shall engage in any race on any roadway within the
corporate limits. "Race" means the act of two (2) or more individuals competing
or racing on any street or highway, in a situation in which one of the
snowmobiles is beside or to the rear of a snowmobile operated by a competing
driver and the one driver attempts to prevent the competing driver from passing
or overtaking him, either by acceleration or maneuver, or one or more
individuals competing in a race against time on any street or roadway in this
municipality.
      3.   Minimum Speed Regulation: No person shall drive a snowmobile at such
a low speed as to impede or block the normal and reasonable movement of
traffic, except when reduced speed is necessary for safe operation of his
snowmobile or in compliance with the direction of a peace officer.
   B.   Reckless Driving: Any person who drives any snowmobile with a wilful or
wanton disregard for the safety of persons or property is guilty of reckless
driving.
   C.   Driving On Right Side Of Roadway: Snowmobiles shall be operated on all
roadways as close to the right hand side of the roadway as possible.
Snowmobiles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass each other to the
right and upon roadways having width for not more than one line of traffic in
each direction. Each driver shall give to the other at least one-half (1/2) of
the main traveled portion of the roadway as nearly as possible.
   D.   Limitations On Overtaking On The Left: No snowmobiles shall be driven
to the left side of the center of the roadway in overtaking and passing another
vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless such left side is clearly
visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a sufficient distance ahead to
permit such overtaking and passing to be completely made without interfering
with the safe operation of any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction
or any vehicle overtaken.
      1.   Additional Limitations Of Driving To The Left Of Center Of The
Roadway: No snowmobile shall be driven on the left side of the roadway when
approaching or upon the crest of a grade or curve in the highway where the
driver's view is obstructed, when approaching within one hundred feet (100') of
or traversing an intersection or railroad grade crossing, or when the view is
obstructed upon approaching within one hundred feet (100') of any bridge,
viaduct or tunnel, and no driver may pass to the left where signs or markings
are in place to define a no passing zone as indicated by pavement striping or
appropriate signing.
   E.   Following Too Close: The operator of a snowmobile shall not follow
another vehicle more closely than is reasonable and prudent having due regard
for the speed of such vehicles and the traffic upon and condition of the
highway.
   F.   Starting Parked Snowmobile: No operator shall start a snowmobile which
is stopped, standing or parked unless and until such movement can be made with
reasonable safety.
   G.   Signals:
      1.   Signals Required: A signal of intention to turn right or left when
required must be given continuously during not less than the last one hundred
feet (100') traveled by the snowmobile before turning within a business or
residence district.
      2.   Signal By Hand Or Arm Or Signal Device: Any stop or turn signal when
required shall be given either by means of a hand and arm or by electric turn
signal device conforming to the requirements of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes.
      3.   Method Of Giving Hand And Arm Signals: All signals required to this
chapter shall be given from the left side of the vehicle in the following
manner:
         a.   Left turn: Hand and arm extended horizontally.
         b.   Right turn: Hand and arm extended upward.
         c.   Stop or decrease of speed: Hand and arm extended downward.
   H.   Right Of Way:
      1.   Right Of Way At Intersection: Any snowmobile approaching or entering
an intersection from a different roadway shall yield the right of way to a
vehicle on the opposite roadway which is entering from the right at
approximately the same time. The driver of the vehicle or snowmobile on the
left must yield the right of way to the vehicle on the right.
      2.   Right Of Way Turning Left: The operator of a snowmobile intending to
turn to the left within an intersection or into an alley, private road or
driveway, shall yield the right of way to any vehicle approaching from the
opposite direction which is so close as to constitute an immediate hazard, but
said snowmobile operator having so yielded may proceed at such time as a safe
interval occurs.
   I.   Entering Stop And Yield Intersections:
      1.   Snowmobile Entering Stop Intersection: Except when directed to
proceed by a peace officer or traffic control signal, every operator of a
snowmobile approaching a stop intersection indicated by a stop sign shall stop
at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk on
the near side of the intersection, or if none, then at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the operator has a view of approaching traffic on
the intersecting roadway before entering the intersection. After having
stopped, the operator of the snowmobile shall yield the right of way to any
vehicle which has entered the intersection from another roadway or which is
approaching so closely on the roadway as to constitute an immediate hazard
during the time when the operator is moving across or within the intersection,
but said operator having so yielded may proceed at such time as a safe interval
occurs.
      2.   Snowmobile Entering A Yield Intersection: The operator of a
snowmobile approaching a yield sign shall in obedience to such signs slow down
to a speed reasonable for the existing conditions and if required for safety,
to stop, shall stop at a clearly marked line, but if none, before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if none, then at the point
nearest the intersecting roadway where the operator has a view of approaching
traffic on the intersecting roadway. After slowing or stopping, the operator
shall yield the right of way to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching
on another roadway so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the
time such operator is moving across or within the intersection. If a snowmobile
is involved in a collision at an intersection or interferes with the movement
of other vehicles after driving past the yield right of way sign, such
collision or interference shall be deemed prima facie evidence of the driver's
failure to yield right of way.
   J.   Obedience To Traffic Control Devices:
      1.   The operator of any snowmobile shall obey the instructions of any
official traffic control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter and it shall be unlawful for any snowmobile
operator to leave the roadway and travel across private property to avoid an
official traffic control device.
      2.   Snowmobile traffic facing a steady red signal at an automatic
traffic control device must stop at the clearly marked stop line, but if none,
before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if none,
then before entering the intersection, and shall remain standing until an
indication to proceed is indicated by a green light.
   K.   Accidents: Operators of snowmobiles involved in any accident with
another snowmobile or any other motor vehicle or pedestrian shall make accident
reports in accordance with the provisions of the Illinois state snowmobile
registration and safety act, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 40/6.
   L.   Pedestrian Right Of Way: The operators of all snowmobiles shall yield
the right of way, slowing down or stopping if need be to so yield to a
pedestrian crossing a roadway within a crosswalk, but in any case every driver
of a snowmobile shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian
and shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary and shall exercise
proper precaution upon observing any child or any obviously confused,
incapacitated or intoxicated person.
   M.   Obstruction Of Operator's View Or Driving Mechanism: No person shall
operate a snowmobile when it is so loaded with passengers as to obstruct the
operator's view of his operation of the driving mechanism.
   N.   Obstructing Roadways: No operator shall wilfully or unnecessarily
hinder, obstruct, or delay or attempt to delay, hinder or obstruct any other
person lawfully driving or traveling along or upon any roadway within the
corporate limits.
   O.   Horns And Warning Devices: All snowmobiles when operated upon a roadway
in this municipality shall be equipped with a horn in good working order and
capable of emitting sound audible under normal conditions from a distance of
not less than two hundred feet (200'), but no horn or other warning device
shall emit an unreasonable loud or harsh sound or a whistle. No snowmobile
shall be equipped with any siren, whistle or bell.
   P.   Firearms And Bows: No person, except persons permitted by law, shall
operate or ride any snowmobile with any firearm in his possession unless it is
unloaded and enclosed in a carrying case, or any bow unless it is in a carrying
case, or rendered inoperable.
   Q.   Traveling On Roadways: No person shall operate a snowmobile upon any
street, road, or other public way permitted by this chapter except for the
purpose of traveling to or from the designated "snowmobile trail" as provided
herein.
   R.   Snowmobile Trail: Attached to the ordinance codified herein and
incorporated herein by reference is the "snowmobile trail" of the village of
Seneca, which trail shall be used exclusively for the operation of snowmobiles
traveling to or from the village of Seneca, or to or from the Illinois-Michigan
Canal. (Ord. 07-19, 12-18-2007)
6-7-6: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined not less than
seventy-five dollars ($75.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for
each offense. (Ord. 07-19, 12-18-2007; amd. Ord. 21-02, 2-2-2021)
CHAPTER 8
VEHICLE IMPOUND
SECTION:
6-8-1: Definitions
6-8-2: Conduct Prohibited
6-8-3: Seizure And Impoundment
6-8-4: Initial Notice
6-8-5: Follow Up Notice
6-8-6: Fees For Release Of Vehicle
6-8-7: Hearings
6-8-8: Abandoned Vehicles
6-8-9: Monies Deposited
6-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter:
 
                  A person engages in conduct "knowingly" if, when a person
KNOWINGLY:        engages in conduct, the person is aware of a high probability
                  that he or she is doing so.
                  Every vehicle, which is self-propelled, including, but not
MOTOR VEHICLE:    limited to, all automobiles, trucks, vans, motorcycles, motor
                  scooters, golf carts and utility task vehicles.
OWNERS OF RECORD: The record titleholder of the vehicle. (Ord. 12-09, 5-15-
                  2012; amd. Ord. 23-14, 8-1-2023)
 
6-8-2: CONDUCT PROHIBITED:
   A.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, any misdemeanor or felony offense in violation of the
criminal code of 1961.
   B.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit a felony.
   C.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense in violation of the Illinois controlled
substances act.
   D.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle while soliciting, possessing, or
attempting to solicit or possess a controlled substance, as defined by the
Illinois controlled substances act.
   E.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle while soliciting, possessing, or
attempting to solicit or possess cannabis or otherwise violate the cannabis
control act.
   F.   Driving under the influence of alcohol, another drug or drugs, an
intoxicating compound or compounds, or any combination thereof, in violation of
section 11-501 or this code.
   G.   Driving while a driver's license, permit, or privilege to operate a
motor vehicle is suspended or revoked pursuant to section 6-303 of this code;
except that vehicles shall not be subjected to seizure or impoundment if the
suspension is for an unpaid citation (parking or moving) or due to failure to
comply with emission testing.
   H.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle with an expired driver's license,
in violation of section 6-101 of this code, if the period of expiration is
greater than one year.
   I.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle without ever having been issued a
driver's license or permit, in violation of section 6-101 of this code, or
operating a motor vehicle without ever having been issued a driver's license or
permit due to a person's age.
   J.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle by a person against whom a warrant
has been issued by a circuit clerk in Illinois for failing to answer charges
that the driver violated section 6-101, 6-303, or 11-501 of this code.
   K.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense for which a motor vehicle may be seized and
forfeited pursuant to section 36-1 of the criminal code of 1961.
   L.   Operation of a golf cart or utility task vehicle by a driver under the
age of eighteen (18), in violation of section
6-9-12 of this code. (Ord. 12-09, 5-15-2012; amd. Ord. 23-14, 8-1-2023)
6-8-3: SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDMENT:
Whenever a police officer has probable cause to believe that a vehicle is
subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to this chapter, the police officer
shall provide the towing of the vehicle to a facility controlled by the village
or its agents. This section shall not apply if the vehicle used in the
violation of section
6-8-2 of this chapter was stolen at the time of the alleged violation and the
theft was reported to the appropriate police authorities within seventy two
(72) hours after the theft was discovered or reasonably should have been
discovered. For any towing company or storage facility to become approved by
the village, such must provide proof of insurance coverage to cover loss by
fire, theft or other risks and be open or available for business as required by
the police department. (Ord. 12-09, 5-15-2012)
6-8-4: INITIAL NOTICE:
At the time the vehicle is towed, the police department shall notify or make a
reasonable attempt to notify the owner, lessee, or person identifying himself
or herself as the owner or lessee of the vehicle, or any person who is found to
be in control of the vehicle at the time of the alleged offense as follows:
   A.   The fact of the seizure of the vehicle.
   B.   The vehicle owner's or lessee's right to an administrative hearing.
   C.   The vehicle will remain impounded pending the completion of an
administrative hearing, unless the owner or lessee of the vehicle or a
lienholder posts with the municipality a bond equal to the administrative fee
as provided by ordinance and pays for all towing and storage charges. (Ord. 12-
09, 5-15-2012)
6-8-5: FOLLOW UP NOTICE:
Within ten (10) days after a vehicle is impounded, the police department shall
provide further notice by personal service or by first class mail to interested
parties (including the registered owner or lessee of the vehicle and any
lienholder of record) to the address(es) of the interested parties as
registered with the secretary of state. Such further notice shall contain the
date, time, and location of the administrative hearing. An initial hearing
shall be scheduled and convened no later than forty five (45) days after the
date of the mailing of the notice of hearing. (Ord. 12-09, 5-15-2012)
6-8-6: FEES FOR RELEASE OF VEHICLE:
The following fees or bond (being in addition to any other penalties that may
be assessed by a court of law for the underlying violations) are imposed on the
registered owner of the motor vehicle or the agents of that owner and shall be
paid to the police department for the release of an impounded vehicle: The sum
of three hundred dollars ($300.00) for village administrative fee plus towing
and storage fees as established by the village or an approved towing and
storage contractor of the village.
If the owner or agent of the owner does not seek a hearing, they shall pay the
required fee and sign a waiver of hearing. If the owner or agent of the owner
seeks a hearing, they shall pay the required fee and costs which the village
treasurer shall hold as a bond pending the results of the administrative
hearing as initially scheduled by the police department. (Ord. 12-09, 5-15-
2012)
6-8-7: HEARINGS:
Administrative hearings shall be conducted by an administrative hearing officer
being the village attorney or other attorney as time to time appointed by the
village who is an attorney licensed to practice law in this state for a minimum
of three (3) years.
The date and time of the initial hearing shall be scheduled by the police
department and notice of such shall be provided by the above mentioned follow
up notice. An interested party may request a change to the date and time of the
initial hearing by contacting the village clerk. The initial hearing shall be
conducted no later than forty five (45) days after the date of the follow up
notice.
At the hearing, the administrative hearing officer shall determine by a
preponderance of the evidence whether or not the police officer directing the
impoundment of the vehicle had cause to believe that the vehicle was subject to
impoundment under this chapter. The party seeking return of the vehicle shall
bear the burden of proof. Formal rules of evidence shall not be applicable to
the hearing. The party seeking return of the vehicle fails to appear at the
hearing, the hearing officer shall enter a default order sustaining the
impoundment.
At the conclusion of the administrative hearing, the hearing officer shall
issue a written decision either sustaining or overruling the vehicle
impoundment. If the administrative hearing officer overrules the impoundment,
the vehicle shall be released (if not already released) and any bond posted
shall be refunded to the party posting the bond. If the administrative hearing
officer sustains the vehicle impoundment, any bond posted to secure the release
of the vehicle shall be forfeited to the municipality. If no bond was posted,
the vehicle shall remain impounded until all fees are paid or the vehicle is
deemed abandoned. Fees owed the village may be collected and enforced in the
same manner as a judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction unless
such collection action is stayed by a court of competent jurisdiction. All
final decisions of the administrative hearing officer shall be subject to
review under the provisions of the administrative review law. (Ord. 12-09, 5-
15-2012)
6-8-8: ABANDONED VEHICLES:
Vehicles not retrieved from the towing facility or storage facility within
thirty five (35) days after the administrative hearing officer issues a written
decision shall be deemed abandoned and disposed of in accordance with the
provisions of article II of chapter 4 of the Illinois vehicle code. (Ord. 12-
09, 5-15-2012)
6-8-9: MONIES DEPOSITED:
All fees collected and retained by the village for a violation of this chapter,
after payment of towing and storage charges, shall be deposited with the
village treasurer. The funds will be directed for the police department. (Ord.
12-09, 5-15-2012)
CHAPTER 9
GOLF CARTS
SECTION:
6-9-1: Definition
6-9-2: Operation On Streets
6-9-3: Required Equipment
6-9-4: Lights
6-9-5: Age Of Operator; License
6-9-6: Daylight Hours
6-9-7: Speed Limit
6-9-8: Vehicle Code Application
6-9-9: Village License
6-9-10: Display Of Village License
6-9-11: Mandatory Insurance
6-9-12: License Revocation
6-9-13: Violations; Punishment
6-9-14: Exemption
6-9-1: DEFINITION:
GOLF CART: A vehicle specifically designed and intended for the purposes of
transporting one or more persons and their golf clubs or maintenance equipment
while engaged in the playing of golf, supervising the play of golf, or
maintaining the condition of the grounds on a public or private golf course.
UTILITY TASK VEHICLE: Any motorized off-highway device designed to travel
primarily off-highway, 64 inches or less in width, having a manufacturer's dry
weight of 2,000 pounds or less, traveling on 3 or more non-highway tires,
designed to seat between two and four people, with a steering wheel for
steering control, except equipment such as lawnmowers. (Ord. 11-09, 8-16-2011;
amd. Ord. 19-18, 11-19-2019)
6-9-2: OPERATION ON STREETS:
It shall be lawful to operate a golf cart and/or all terrain vehicle on village
streets subject to the requirements and regulations of this chapter, except
that it shall be unlawful to operate a golf cart and/or utility task vehicle on
village roads or highways that are posted at thirty five (35) miles per hour or
higher. It shall be unlawful to operate a golf cart and/or utility task vehicle
on Illinois Route 170, other than to cross while traveling on a village street.
(Ord. 11-09, 8-16-2011; amd. Ord. 19-18, 11-19-2019)
6-9-3: REQUIRED EQUIPMENT:
A golf cart and/or utility task vehicle to be operated on a village street
shall have the following equipment in good working condition at all times:
   A.   Brakes.
   B.   Steering apparatus.
   C.   Tires.
   D.   A rearview mirror.
   E.   A red reflectorized warning device on the front and rear.
   F.   A slow moving emblem, as required by 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
12-709, attached to the rear.
   G.   A headlight that emits white light visible from at least five hundred
feet (500') to the front.
   H.   A tail lamp that emits red light visible from at least one hundred feet
(100') from the rear.
   I.   Brake lights on the rear.
   J.   Turn signals on the front and rear.
   K.   Seatbelts.
   L.   Windshield. (Ord. 11-09, 8-16-2011; amd. Ord. 19-18, 11-19-2019; Ord.
20-13, 8-4-2020)
6-9-4: LIGHTS:
A golf cart and/or utility task vehicle operated on a village street shall have
the headlights and taillights on at all times. (Ord. 11-09, 8-16-2011; amd.
Ord. 19-18, 11-19-2019)
6-9-5: AGE OF OPERATOR; LICENSE:
No person shall operate a golf cart or utility task vehicle on a village street
unless the operator is at least eighteen (18) years old and has a valid
Illinois driver's license. (Ord. 11-09, 8-16-2011; amd. Ord. 19-18, 11-19-2019)
6-9-6: DAYLIGHT HOURS:
Golf carts and utility task vehicles shall only be allowed to be operated
within the village of Seneca daylight hours only. (Ord. 11-09, 8-16-2011; amd.
Ord. 19-18, 11-19-2019)
6-9-7: SPEED LIMIT:
No person shall operate a golf cart or utility task vehicle on a village street
in excess of twenty (20) miles per hour. (Ord. 11-09, 8-16-2011; amd. Ord. 19-
18, 11-19-2019)
6-9-8: VEHICLE CODE APPLICATION:
The operator of a golf cart or utility task vehicle on a village street shall
obey all ordinances of the village of Seneca and the provisions of the Illinois
vehicle code as amended from time to time. (Ord. 11-09, 8-16-2011; amd. Ord.
19-18, 11-19-2019)
6-9-9: VILLAGE LICENSE:
No person shall operate a golf cart or utility task vehicle on a village street
unless the golf cart or utility task vehicle has been issued a license by the
village. A person desiring a license shall make application to the Village
Clerk or Chief of Police, on their designee, on forms provided by the village.
 The license shall be valid for a period of one year from the date of issuance.
 Prior to the issuance of the license, or any renewal thereof, a fee of fifty
dollars ($50.00) shall be paid to the Village Clerk by the applicant and the
applicant shall present a valid driver's license and proof of insurance for the
golf cart or utility task vehicle, and the applicant shall pay in full any debt
owed to the village, including but not limited to any past due utility bills.
The applicant shall also present the golf cart or utility task vehicle to the
Chief of Police, or his designee, for an annual inspection to determine whether
the golf cart or utility task vehicle may be operated on a village street. If
the applicant and golf cart or utility task vehicle are qualified, a license
shall be issued to the applicant. (Ord. 11-09, 8-16-2011; amd. Ord. 19-18, 11-
19-2019; Ord. 21-12, 4-6-2021; Ord. 24-24, 12-2-2024)
6-9-10: DISPLAY OF VILLAGE LICENSE:
All golf carts and utility task vehicles shall be required to display the
Village license in the lower left-hand corner of the windshield. (Ord. 20-13,
8-4-2020)
6-9-11: MANDATORY INSURANCE:
No person shall operate, and no owner shall permit another person to operate a
golf cart or utility task vehicle on a village street unless:
   A.   The golf cart or utility task vehicle is covered by a liability
insurance policy as required by section 7-601 of the Illinois vehicle code 1 ;
and
   B.   The operator of the golf cart or utility task vehicle carries with him/
her proof of liability insurance as required by section 7-602 of the Illinois
vehicle code 2 . (Ord. 11-09, 8-16-2011; amd. Ord. 19-18, 11-19-2019)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/7-601.
2 2. 625 ILCS 5/7-602.
6-9-12: LICENSE REVOCATION:
   A.   The license of an operator of a golf cart or utility task vehicle
issued pursuant to section
6-9-9 of this chapter may be revoked by the chief of police, or his designee
if:
      1.   There is any material misrepresentation made by the applicant on the
application; or
      2.   The required liability insurance is no longer in full force and
effect;
      3.   There is evidence that the license holder can no longer safely
operate the golf cart or utility task vehicle;
      4.   The licensed vehicle is found to be operated by anyone under the age
of 18; or
      5.   The licensed vehicle is operated by anyone found to be driving under
the influence.
   B.   The chief of police, or his designee, shall issue a notice of
revocation of a license in writing and either hand deliver the notice to the
license holder, or send the notice by certified mail to the license holder at
the address on the application. The revocation of the license shall be
effective immediately after personal service, or on the third day after the
postmark of the certified mail receipt. (Ord. 11-09, 8-16-2011; amd. Ord. 19-
18, 11-19-2019; Ord. 23-13, 8-1-2023)
6-9-13: VIOLATIONS; PUNISHMENT:
   A.   Any person violating or aiding or abetting the violation of any
provisions of this chapter is guilty of a petty offense and shall be fined not
less than seventy-five dollars ($75.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00).
   B.   Each day a person fails to comply with the provisions of this chapter
constitutes a separate offense. (Ord. 11-09, 8-16-2011; amd. Ord. 19-18, 11-19-
2019; Ord. 21-02, 2-2-2021)
6-9-14: EXEMPTION:
This chapter does not apply to golf carts and/or utility task vehicles owned
and/or operated by a governmental entity. (Ord. 11-09, 8-16-2011; amd. Ord. 19-
18, 11-19-2019)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Excavations And Right-Of-Way Improvements; Fees
7-1-2: Sidewalk Construction
7-1-1: EXCAVATIONS AND RIGHT-OF-WAY IMPROVEMENTS; FEES:
   A.   Permit Required:
      1.   Streets, Alleys And Sidewalks: No street, alley, sidewalk, public
property or public right of way shall be cut, trenched, excavated or improved
by any person without first having a written permit from the Village. There
shall be a twenty dollar ($20.00) fee payable upon filing of the permit
application.
      2.   Curbs And Driveways: No curb shall be changed or removed and no
driveway on or across a public street or a public right of way or public
property shall be repaired or installed without first having a written permit
from the Village. There shall be a twenty dollar ($20.00) fee payable upon
filing of the permit application.
   B.   Bond Required: Each applicant shall file a bond in the amount of five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00) with surety to be approved by the Council for the
purpose of indemnifying the Village for any loss or damage resulting from the
work undertaken or the manner of doing the same, including any and all repairs
needed to place or keep the surface in a condition as it was before the
excavation for a period of two (2) years. Repairs shall be made pursuant to the
exhibits attached to Ordinance 94-10 on file in the office of the Village
Clerk. The bond shall be for a minimum period of two (2) years.
   C.   Penalty: Any person violating any provision of this Section shall be
fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each day during or on which an offense occurs or continues. (Ord. 94-10, 4-5-
1994)
7-1-2: SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Permit Requirements:
      1.   Permit Required: No person shall construct, build and establish,
upon any portion of the public right of way, a sidewalk, without having
obtained a written permit. All sidewalk construction shall be performed by a
competent contractor who has the requisite skills and knowledge in sidewalk
installation.
      2.   Application For Permit: Applications for permits shall be in writing
to the Village Clerk and accompanied by the fee required. The application shall
contain the name and address of the person making the application; the name of
the contractor or person who is to construct or repair the sidewalk, and the
proposed location and dimensions of the sidewalk.
      3.   Permit Fee: The fee for all permits shall be twenty dollars
($20.00), which said sum shall be returned upon completion of the sidewalk.
      4.   Issuance Of Permit: No permit for the construction, renovation, and/
or improvement of a sidewalk shall be issued, except with the prior approval of
the Commissioner of Streets.
   B.   Village Contribution to Cost:
      1.   Requests for sidewalk cost reimbursement will not be considered in
connection with new building construction or to circumvent the requirements of
the subdivision code.
      2.   These funds will be available for reimbursement on a first-come,
first-served basis. Property owners meeting the requirements in this chapter
and making request for reimbursement in advance of construction on the petition
form will have their petitions approved unless the budgeted concrete sidewalk
reimbursement amount has been exhausted.
      3.   Under this program, property owners must arrange for the
installation of sidewalks through contracted labor. There will be no
reimbursement for sand, gravel, removal of existing sidewalk, labor or other
material including lumber used for forms. Reimbursement will not be made unless
the sidewalk is inspected and approved by the building inspector or
Commissioner of Streets after it is formed and before it is poured, and
inspected and approved again after final finishing. To be eligible for
reimbursement sidewalks must be installed at grades and elevations specified by
the village. This information will be provided by the village prior to initial
petition approval and prior to construction. No reimbursement will be made
until after the new sidewalk has received a successful final inspection.
Reimbursements will be made by check within a month of final approval to the
property owner.
      4.   Reimbursements will only be made for concrete necessary to pour and
complete a five-foot wide sidewalk, unless otherwise previously approved, on
village property parallel to the street. The village will not reimburse for
private walkways on public or private property, or for driveway aprons.
Property owners may pour driveway aprons, driveways, private sidewalks,
retaining walls, public sidewalks in excess of five-foot width and make other
improvements at the same time they are pouring a reimbursable sidewalk, but
only the quantity of concrete necessary to complete a five-foot wide sidewalk,
unless otherwise previously approved, will be reimbursed at the rate delineated
above.
      5.   All sidewalks constructed on village property under the provisions
of this program shall belong to the Village of Seneca.
   C.   Sidewalk Specifications:
      1.   Concrete Required:
         a.   All sidewalks shall be constructed of Portland cement concrete
Class X or Class A, a minimum of four inches (4") thick and five feet (5') wide
where driveway entrances do not cross, except the width can be reduced to four
feet (4') with the prior approval of the Commissioner of Streets.
         b.   Where driveways cross sidewalks, the existing walks shall be
removed and replaced with Portland cement concrete to a minimum thickness of
six inches (6").
      2.   Subgrade Preparation: The subgrade shall be tamped or rolled until
thoroughly compacted to a depth sufficient for the placement of a minimum of a
three inch (3") base. The base shall be tamped or rolled until thoroughly
compacted. At locations where a sidewalk is constructed at entrances, the
sidewalk shall be thickened to the thickness of the adjacent entrance or
driveway pavement.
      3.   Side Forms: Side forms shall be of lumber of not less than two inch
(2") nominal thickness or of steel of equal rigidity. They shall be held
securely in place by stakes or braces with the top edges true to line and
grade. Forms for the sidewalk aprons shall be set so that the slab will have a
uniform fall between the sidewalk proper and the curb grade.
      4.   Placing And Finishing:
         a.   The subgrade shall be moistened just before the concrete is
placed. The concrete shall be placed in successive batches for the entire width
of the slab, struck off, mechanically vibrated, and finished to a true and even
surface with floats and trowels. The final troweling shall be done with a steel
trowel leaving a smooth, even surface. After the water sheen has disappeared
the surface shall be given a final finish by brushing with a whitewash brush.
The brush shall be drawn across the sidewalk at right angles to the edges of
the walk with adjacent strokes slightly overlapping producing a uniform,
slightly roughened surface with parallel brush marks.
         b.   The surface shall be divided by grooves constructed at right
angles to the center line of the sidewalk. These grooves shall extend to one-
fourth inch (1/4") in width, and shall be edged with an edging tool having a
one-fourth inch (1/4") radius. No slab shall be longer than six feet (6') nor
less than four feet (4') on any one side, unless otherwise ordered by the
engineer. The edges of the slabs shall be edged as described above.
      5.   Expansion Joints: Expansion joints of the thickness specified below
shall consist of preformed joint filler. The top of the joint shall be placed
one-fourth inch (1/4") below the surface of the sidewalk.
         a.   One-Half Inch Thick Expansion Joints: Expansion joints one-half
inch (1/2") thick shall be placed between the sidewalk and all structures such
as light standards, traffic light standards, and traffic poles which extend
through the sidewalk.
         b.   Three-Fourths Inch Thick Expansion Joints: Expansion joints
three-fourths inch (3/4") thick shall be placed at intervals of not more than
thirty feet (30') in the sidewalk. Where the sidewalk is constructed adjacent
to pavement or curb having expansion joints, the expansion joints in the
sidewalks shall be placed opposite the existing expansion joints as nearly as
practicable. Expansion joints shall also be placed where the sidewalk abuts
existing sidewalks between driveway pavement and sidewalk and between sidewalk
and curbs where the sidewalk abuts a curb.
      6.   Backfilling: After the concrete has been cured, the spaces along the
edges of the sidewalk shall be backfilled to the required elevation with
approved material. The material shall then be compacted until firm and the
surface neatly graded. (Ord. 90-13, 6-5-1990; amd. Ord. 99-20, 7-6-1999; Ord.
21-27, 8-17-2021)
CHAPTER 2
HOUSE NUMBERING
SECTION:
7-2-1: Base Point
7-2-2: Numbering Scale
7-2-3: Designation of Odd and Even Numbers
7-2-4: Prefix
7-2-5: Application of Provisions
7-2-1: BASE POINT:
The base point for said numbering system shall be located at the intersection
of Main Street and Union Street in the Village. The center line of Main Street,
being a north and south street shall be the base line for all east-west
streets; and the center line of Union Street, being an east-west street, shall
be the base line for north-south streets. (Ord. 212, 6-5-62)
7-2-2: NUMBERING SCALE:
The scale establishing said system shall be at the rate of six (6) city blocks
per mile, except as noted per Exhibit A, which is attached to Ordinance 212 and
on file in the office of the Village Clerk, on certain nonconforming streets
and diagonal streets and the numbers shall be assigned at twenty foot (20')
intervals. Said numbers shall be three (3) digit numbers beginning with the
number 100 at the base point, and increasing successively thereafter in all
directions. (Ord. 212, 6-5-62)
7-2-3: DESIGNATION OF ODD AND EVEN NUMBERS:
The north side of all east-west streets shall be odd numbered; and the west
side of all north-south streets shall be odd numbered; the south side of all
east-west streets shall be even numbered; and the east side of all north-south
streets shall be even numbered. (Ord. 212, 6-5-62)
7-2-4: PREFIX:
Streets crossing the base line streets in either a north-south direction or an
east-west direction shall be further designated by bearing a prefix either N.,
S., E. or W., being the direction in which the property lies from the base
line. (Ord. 212, 6-5-62)
7-2-5: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   The above system of numbering shall prevail for all streets located
within the limits of the Village as of the effective date hereof.
   B.   The foregoing general language shall control and prevail for all
situations; although Ordinance 212 codified herein and on file for reference in
the office of the Village Clerk has attached thereto Exhibits A and B, being a
map of the Village and a list of the present property owners. (Ord. 212, 6-5-
62)
CHAPTER 3
VILLAGE PARK
SECTION:
7-3-1: Park Hours; Fees
7-3-2: Reservation Of Park Shelter
7-3-3: Prohibitions
7-3-4: Penalty
7-3-1: PARK HOURS; FEES:
Public parks within the village shall be open for use from dawn to dusk only;
provided, however, that for programs or events sponsored or approved by the
village, or for which a village permit has been issued, said hours of operation
may be extended during any such program or event and for a period of sixty (60)
minutes following the conclusion of such program or event. Signs stating park
hours shall be posted prominently in the park. There shall be a twenty five
dollar ($25.00) fee for use of the kitchen, and all monies received through the
kitchen rental shall go to the park board for use of the park. (Ord. 01-27, 10-
16-2001; amd. Ord. 21-15, 4-20-2021)
7-3-2: RESERVATION OF PARK SHELTER:
Any group may reserve the park shelter for a specific time and date, in
accordance with the terms of this section:
   A.   Each group shall submit a written application for reservation of the
park shelter, stating its specific purpose and use of the park shelter.
   B.   The village clerk, or any employee designated by him or her, shall
record all reservations.
   C.   The written application for the reservation of the park shall be
submitted to the village clerk twenty four (24) hours before the intended use
of the park shelter, but no reservations shall be accepted prior to January 1
of that year.
   D.   The park board will choose their dates for use of the shelter prior to
January 1 of the year in which the shelter will be used.
   E.   Nothing in this section shall prohibit any organized or informal group
from occasionally using the park facilities without reservation. Such use shall
not interfere with use of facilities by a group having a reservation. (Ord. 01-
27, 10-16-2001)
7-3-3: PROHIBITIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   A.   Interfere with, or in any manner hinder any employee of the village in
the performance of his or her duties.
   B.   Use threatening, abusive, profane or indecent language or be guilty of
any conduct which constitutes a breach of peace.
   C.   Scatter, drop or leave any debris or other rubbish within the parks
except in receptacles provided for that purpose.
   D.   No person shall cut, break, climb on, or in any way injure or deface
any tree, shrub, plant, turf, or any of the buildings, fences, lamps, posts or
other structure or property within the Village parks.
   E.   No person shall violate any of the posted park rules or regulations at
any of the Village parks. (Ord. 01-27, 10-16-2001; amd. Ord. 21-15, 4-20-2021)
7-3-4: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter shall
be fined not less than seventy-five dollars ($75.00), nor more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense, and a separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues. (Ord. 01-27, 10-16-2001; amd. Ord. 21-02, 2-2-2021; Ord. 21-08, 3-2-
2021)
CHAPTER 4
GARBAGE, REFUSE AND SOLID WASTE
SECTION:
7-4-1: Definitions
7-4-2: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
7-4-3: Storage Of Waste; Removal Requirements
7-4-4: Open Burning
7-4-5: Sanitary Landfills
7-4-6: Permitted Burning
7-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
Terms used in this chapter are defined as follows:
ASHES: Waste products of combustion of any materials.
KITCHEN AND HOUSEHOLD GARBAGE: Any and every accumulation of vegetable matter
(liquid or solid), that is received from kitchens and households, also any
decayed or unsound matter, such as vegetables and fruits.
OTHER REFUSE: Sweepings, lawn rakings, paper, tin cans, bottles, dirt or other
accumulations not giving off noxious odors.
WASTE PRODUCTS: Any other product or material not covered above, that may be
deemed by the council a general health hazard or nuisance to the people of the
village. (Ord. 87-11, 12-1-1987)
7-4-2: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Deposit Of Leaves And Rubbish In Streets: It shall be unlawful for any
person to dump or deposit or cause to dump or deposit, any leaves, grass,
twigs, branches or any other debris in the traveled way or gutter of any street
or alley in the village.
   B.   Littering:
      1.   No person shall litter any public or private property with paper or
other debris or foreign matter. Any stored or transportable materials
susceptible to blowing or scattering shall be adequately covered or protected
to prevent littering.
      2.   Unless otherwise provided, whoever violates any of the provisions of
this subsection shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not less than
seventy-five dollars ($75.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for
each offense.
   C.   Uncovered Deposits Of Refuse: It shall be unlawful for any person to
deposit anywhere in the village any uncovered pile of refuse, garbage, offal or
such similar material. Any uncovered piles of refuse, garbage, offal or other
material, is hereby declared to be a nuisance 1 .
   D.   Storage Or Accumulation Of Garbage, Trash, Refuse Or Ashes Near
Transport Vehicles:
      1.   At no time shall it be permitted for garbage, trash, refuse, ashes
or any like material, accumulations in excess of one thousand (1,000) pounds,
to be piled, stacked, "parked" in or around a motor vehicle, barge, rail car or
any other conveyance within the corporate limits of the village.
      2.   The only exception to this provision would be local permitted
residential and industrial waste collectors 2  on regular scheduled pick up
days. However, the collection vehicle shall at no time, remain parked in excess
of thirty (30) minutes within the corporate limits. (Ord. 286, 1-8-1974; amd.
Ord. 87-11, 12-1-1987; Ord. 21-02, 2-2-2021)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 4, chapter 2 of this code.
2 2. See title 3, chapter 6 of this code regarding scavenger regulations.
7-4-3: STORAGE OF WASTE; REMOVAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Containers:
      1.   Garbage Containers: It shall be the duty of every tenant, lessee or
occupant of every dwelling, tenement house, lodging house, hotel, restaurant,
tavern, any other business, industry or commercial operation, boarding house,
or other person on whose premises kitchen or household garbage collects, to
provide, and at all times to keep within such buildings, or on the premises,
garbage containers sufficient to hold all kitchen and household garbage which
may accumulate on the premises between collections. Such containers shall be of
metal or plastic, watertight, and with a tight fitting cover and equipped with
suitable handles and of such size to be easily handled by one man. However, no
container shall be smaller than ten (10) gallons or larger than thirty (30)
gallons. The container/containers shall be placed on the curb, not more than
twenty four (24) hours prior to the designated pickup, and shall be removed
from the curb, not more than twenty four (24) hours following pickup for the
various areas of the village.
      2.   Refuse And Ashes: All other refuse and ashes or cinders may be
placed in a separate receptacle, and of such size as to be easily handled by
one man; it being understood that no receptacle shall be used so as to create a
public nuisance.
      3.   Plastic Bags: Sweepings, lawn rakings, paper, tin cans, bottles,
dirt or other accumulations not giving off noxious odors, may be put in plastic
bags securely tied, and of such size as to be easily handled by one man.
      4.   Interference With Containers Prohibited: No person, unless
authorized or licensed for that purpose, shall interfere with the containers or
contents thereof.
   B.   Removal Of Waste From Alleys: No person authorized and licensed for the
purpose of collecting and hauling garbage 1  within the limits of the village
shall utilize or permit any vehicle utilized for the purpose of collecting and
hauling garbage 2 , to be operated upon any alley within the corporate limits
of the village except those alleys located within the commercially zoned
district of the village.
   C.   Transportation Of Ashes And Nonnoxious Matter: All ashes and nonnoxious
matter must be hauled in vehicles of such construction and so covered as not to
permit the sifting out or spilling or scattering by the wind or leaking of any
matter to be hauled or transported. (Ord. 87-11, 12-1-1987)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 3, chapter 6 of this code.
2 2. See section
  3-6-4 of this code.
7-4-4: OPEN BURNING:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to burn any garbage or any organic refuse outside
of any building, at any time within the village.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to burn paper, excelsior or other material which
may be blown about by the wind anywhere in the village unless the same is
burned in the stove, fireplace, furnace or incinerator, sufficiently bound to
prevent the escape of ignited particles.
   C.   Leaves, twigs, or grasses which are dry, may be burned when raked into
piles of a reasonable size, but it shall be unlawful to burn such material at
any time except as follows:
      1.   On Saturdays between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and
seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. between the dates of April 15 to November 15 of each
year; so long as some person is in attendance to control the fire; and
      2.   On Saturdays between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and four
o'clock (4:00) P.M. between the dates of November 15 to April 15 of each year,
so long as some person is in attendance to control the fire.
   No leaves, twigs, grass or other material, shall be burned upon the traveled
way of any street or alley within the village limits.
   D.   Penalty: Any person violating this Section shall be fined not less than
seventy-five dollars ($75.00) and not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00)
for each offense and be responsible for the Village's cost of prosecution,
including attorney fees incurred by the Village. Each day that a violation
occurs or continues shall be considered a separate offense. (Ord. 87-11, 12-1-
1987; amd. Ord. 00-14, 12-5-2000; Ord. 20-02, 2-18-2020; Ord. 21-07, 3-2-2021)
7-4-5: SANITARY LANDFILLS 1 :
   A.   Definition: As used in this section, "landfill" means any operation or
activity which is a "sanitary landfill" within the meaning of the Illinois
environmental protection act, 415 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1 et seq.
   B.   Landfill Restricted: The placement of a sanitary landfill is hereby
prohibited within fifteen thousand feet (15,000') of any water source within
the village.
   C.   Violation; Injunctive Relief: Violation of this section is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance, enforceable by injunctive relief.
   D.   Cost Of Abatement: In addition to the penalty imposed by this section
for the erection, contrivance, creation, continuance or maintenance of a
landfill, the cost of abating a public nuisance by the village shall be
collected as a debt from the owner, occupant or person causing, permitting or
maintaining the nuisance, and if notice to abate the nuisance has been given to
the owner, such cost shall be assessed against the real estate as other special
taxes.
   E.   Penalty: The owner, occupant or person causing a landfill to be
operated, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than four hundred
dollars ($400.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which
such nuisance is permitted to exist. (Ord. 88-05, 8-4-1988)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 10-2-6 of this code.
7-4-6: PERMITTED BURNING:
The burning of charcoal or gas for food preparation, outdoor recreational fires
of seasoned wood within a fire pit or fireplace, and branches or twigs not
exceeding two inches (2") in diameter is permitted at any time in the village.
(Ord. 03-17, 8-19-2003)
CHAPTER 5
TOBACCO PRODUCTS
SECTION:
7-5-1: Statement Of Purpose
7-5-2: Definitions
7-5-3: Illegal Distribution Of Tobacco Products, Alternative Nicotine Products,
Electronic Cigarettes, Nicotine Or Smokeless Tobacco
7-5-4: Tobacco Products, Alternative Nicotine Products, Electronic Cigarettes,
Nicotine Or smokeless Tobacco Purchase
7-5-5: Parent, Guardian Or Caretaker
7-5-6: Penalty
7-5-7: Conflict Of Laws
7-5-1: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
Vending machines and sales to persons under the age of 21 are prohibited. The
U.S. Surgeon General has repeatedly stated that cigarette smoking is a leading
cause of cancer, heart disease, and various other medical disorders. The
Director of the National Institute on Drug Abuse has found that the majority of
Americans who die each year from cigarette smoking became addicted to nicotine
before the legal age of majority. The Director of the National Institute on
Drug Abuse found that cigarette smoking may be predictive of adolescent illicit
drug use. Cigarette vending machines have provided persons under the age of
twenty-one (21) with easy access to cigarettes in contravention of the public
policy of the State of Illinois and the Village of Seneca. (Ord. 98-15, 7-7-
1998; amd. Ord. 19-11, 6-18-2019)
7-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCT: A product or device not consisting of or
containing tobacco that provides for the ingestion into the body of nicotine,
whether by chewing, smoking, absorbing, dissolving, inhaling, snorting,
sniffing, or by any other means. "Alternative nicotine product" does not
include: cigarettes as defined in Section 1 of the Cigarette Tax Act and
tobacco products as defined in Section 10-5 of the Tobacco Products Tax Act of
1995; tobacco product and electronic cigarette as defined in this Section; or
any product approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration for sale
as a tobacco cessation product, as a tobacco dependence product, or for other
medical purposes, and is being marketed and sold solely for that approved
purpose.
DISTRIBUTION: To give, sell, deliver, dispense, issue or offer to give, sell,
deliver, dispense or issue.
ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE:
   (1)   Any device that employs a batter or other mechanism to heat a solution
or substance to produce a vapor or aerosol intended for inhalation;
   (2)   Any cartridge or container of a solution or substance intended to be
used with or in the device or to refill the device; or
   (3)   Any solution or substance, whether or not it contains nicotine
intended for use in the device.
"Electronic cigarette" includes, but is not limited to, any electronic nicotine
delivery system, electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe,
electronic hookah, vape pen, or similar product or device, and any components
or parts that can be used to build the product or device. "Electronic
cigarette" does not include: cigarettes as defined in Section 1 of the
Cigarette Tax Act and tobacco products as defined in Section 10-5 of the
Tobacco Products Tax Act of 1995; tobacco product and alternative nicotine
product as defined in this Section; any product approved by the United States
Food and Drug Administration for sale as a tobacco cessation product, as a
tobacco dependence product, or for other medical purposes, and is being marked
and sold solely for that approved purpose; any asthma inhaler prescribed by a
physician for that condition and is being marketed and sold solely for that
approved purpose; or any therapeutic product approved for use under the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act.
EMPLOYEE: Any person who may be required to or directed by any employer in
consideration of direct or indirect gain or profit, to engage in any
employment, or to go, or work, or be at any time in any place of employment.
EMPLOYER: Any person, firm, corporation, agent, management, representative, or
other person having control or custody of any employment, place of employment,
or employee.
ESTABLISHMENT: Any physical facility operated by a commercial enterprise,
nonprofit entity, government agency or other person.
NICOTINE: Any form of the chemical nicotine, including any salt or complex,
regardless of whether the chemical is naturally or synthetically derived.
ORGANIZATION: A corporation for profit, or not-for-profit, partnership, limited
partnership, joint venture, unincorporated association, estate, trust, or other
commercial legal entity.
SMOKELESS TOBACCO: Any tobacco products that are suitable for dipping or
chewing.
TOBACCO PRODUCT: Any product containing or made from tobacco that is intended
for human consumption, whether smoked, heated, chewed, absorbed, dissolved,
inhaled, snorted, sniffed, or ingested by any other means, including, but not
limited to, cigarettes, cigars, little cigars, chewing tobacco, pipe tobacco,
snuff, snus, and any other smokeless tobacco product which contains tobacco
that is finely cut, ground, powdered, or leaf and intended to be placed in the
oral cavity. "Tobacco Product" includes any component, part, or accessory of a
tobacco product, whether or not sold separately. "Tobacco product" does not
include: an electronic cigarette and alternative nicotine product as defined in
this Section; or any product that has been approved by the United States Food
and Drug Administration for sale as a tobacco cessation product, as a tobacco
dependence product, or for other medical purposes, and is being marketed and
sold solely for that approved purpose. (Ord. 98-15, 7-7-1998; amd. Ord. 19-11,
6-18-2019)
7-5-3: ILLEGAL DISTRIBUTION OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS, ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCTS,
ELECTRONIC CIGARETTES, NICOTINE OR SMOKELESS TOBACCO:
No manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler, or retailer of tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, electronic cigarettes, nicotine or
smokeless tobacco, or any agent, employee or representative of a manufacturer,
producer, distributor, wholesaler, or retailer of tobacco products, alternative
nicotine products, electronic cigarettes, nicotine or smokeless tobacco, shall
do any of the following:
   (A)   Give, sell or otherwise distribute tobacco products, alternative
nicotine products, electronic cigarettes, nicotine or smokeless tobacco to any
person under twenty-one (21) years of age.
   (B)   Give, sell, or otherwise distribute tobacco products, alternative
nicotine products, electronic cigarettes, nicotine or smokeless tobacco in any
place that does not have posted in a conspicuous place a sign stating that
giving, selling or otherwise distributing tobacco products, alternative
nicotine products, electronic cigarettes, nicotine or smokeless tobacco to a
person under twenty-one (21) years of age is prohibited by law.
   (C)   Give, sell, or otherwise distribute tobacco products, alternative
nicotine products, electronic cigarettes, nicotine or smokeless tobacco to any
person without first verifying, via a photo identification such as a driver's
license, that the person is twenty-one (21) years of age or older. (Ord. 98-15,
7-7-1998; amd. Ord. 19-11, 6-18-2019)
7-5-4: TOBACCO PRODUCTS, ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCTS, ELECTRONIC CIGARETTES,
NICOTINE OR SMOKELESS TOBACCO PURCHASE:
Cigarette purchase and possession by persons under twenty-one (21) years of age
is prohibited. No person under twenty-one (21) years of age shall purchase,
possess or consume in any manner or form tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products, electronic cigarettes, nicotine or smokeless tobacco. (Ord. 19-11, 6-
18-2019)
7-5-5: PARENT, GUARDIAN OR CARETAKER:
No parent, guardian or caretaker shall permit or facilitate, actively or
passively, a child for whom they are responsible under twenty-one (21) years of
age to purchase, possess or consume in any manner or form of tobacco products,
alternative nicotine products, electronic cigarettes, nicotine or smokeless
tobacco. (Ord. 19-11, 6-18-2019)
7-5-6: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this Chapter shall be fined no less than
seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for
each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 98-15, 7-7-1998; amd.
Ord. 19-11, 6-18-2019)
7-5-7: CONFLICT OF LAWS:
Any provision of this Chapter in conflict with Federal or State statutory
enactments shall be subordinate to said enactments; all other provisions of
this Chapter being severable and remain valid. (Ord. 98-15, 7-7-1998; amd. Ord.
19-11, 6-18-2019)
CHAPTER 6
TELECOMMUNICATIONS INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTENANCE FEE
SECTION:
7-6-1: Definitions
7-6-2: Registration Of Telecommunications Providers
7-6-3: Municipal Telecommunications Infrastructure Maintenance Fee
7-6-4: Collection, Enforcement, And Administration
7-6-5: Compliance With Other Laws
7-6-6: Existing Franchises And Licenses
7-6-7: Penalties
7-6-8: Waiver And Fee Implementation
7-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
GROSS CHARGES: The amount paid to a telecommunications retailer for the act or
privilege of originating or receiving telecommunications within the Village,
and for all services rendered in connection therewith, valued in money whether
paid in money or otherwise, including cash, credits, services, and property of
every kind or nature, and shall be determined without any deduction on account
of the cost of such telecommunications, the cost of the materials used, labor
or service costs, or any other expense whatsoever. In case credit is extended,
the amount thereof shall be included only as and when paid. "Gross charges" for
private line service shall include charges imposed at each channel point within
the Village charges for the channel mileage between each channel point within
the Village, and charges for that portion of the interstate interoffice channel
provided within the Village. However, "gross charges" shall not include:
   A.   Any amounts added to a purchaser's bill because of a charge made under:
1) the fee imposed by this Section, 2) additional charges added to a
purchaser's bill under section 9-221 or 9-222 of the Public Utilities Act, 3)
amounts collected under section 8-11-17 of the Illinois Municipal Code, 4) the
tax imposed by the Telecommunications Excise Tax Act, 5) 911 surcharges, or 6)
the tax imposed by section 4251 of the Internal Revenue Code;
   B.   Charges for a sent collect telecommunication received outside the
Village;
   C.   Charges for leased time on equipment or charges for the storage of data
or information or subsequent retrieval or the processing of data or information
intended to change its form or content. Such equipment includes, but is not
limited to, the use of calculators, computers, data processing equipment,
tabulating equipment, or accounting equipment and also includes the usage of
computers under a time- sharing agreement;
   D.   Charges for customer equipment, including such equipment that is leased
or rented by the customer from any source, wherein such charges are
desegregated and separately identified from other charges;
   E.   Charges to business enterprises certified under section 9-222.1 of the
Public Utilities Act to the extent of such exemption and during the period of
time specified by the Village;
   F.   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment provided
in connection therewith between a parent corporation and its wholly owned
subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, and only to the extent that
the charges between wholly owned subsidiaries represent expense allocation
between the corporations and not the generation of profit other than a
regulatory required profit for the corporation rendering such services;
   G.   Bad debts ("bad debt" means any portion of a debt that is related to a
sale at retail for which gross charges are not otherwise deductible or
excludable that has become worthless or uncollectible, as determined under
applicable Federal income tax standards; if the portion of the debt deemed to
be bad is subsequently paid, the retailer shall report and pay the tax on that
portion during the reporting period in which the payment is made);
   H.   Charges paid by inserting coins in coin- operated telecommunications
devices; or
   I.   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment provided
to the Village.
PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY: Any Municipal street, alley, water or public right of way
dedicated or commonly used for utility purposes, including utility easements
wherein the Village has acquired the right and authority to locate or permit
the location of utilities consistent with telecommunications facilities.
"Public right of way" shall not include any real or personal Village property
that is not specifically described in the previous sentence and shall not
include Village buildings and other structures or improvements, regardless of
whether they are situated in the public right of way.
RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE (Or Any Like Term):
Means and includes any retailer having or maintaining within the State of
Illinois, directly or by a subsidiary, an office, distribution facilities,
transmission facilities, sales office, warehouse, or other place of business,
or any agent or other representative operating within this State under the
authority of the retailer or its subsidiary, irrespective of whether such place
of business or agent or other representative is located here permanently or
temporarily, or whether such retailer or other representative is located here
permanently or temporarily, or whether such retailer or subsidiary is licensed
to do business in this State.
SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying, or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross charge made by one such corporation
to another such corporation is not greater than the gross charge paid to the
retailer for their use or consumption and not for sale.
SERVICE ADDRESS: The location of telecommunications equipment from which
telecommunications services are originated or at which telecommunications
services are received. If this is not a defined location, as in the case of
wireless telecommunications, paging systems, maritime systems, air-to- ground
systems, and the like, "service address" shall mean the location of the
customer's primary use of the telecommunications equipment as defined by the
location in Illinois where bills are sent.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: Includes, but is not limited to, messages or information
transmitted through use of local, toll, and wide area telephone service,
channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer exchange
services, private line services, specialized mobile radio services, or any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. Unless the context clearly requires
otherwise, "telecommunications" shall also include "wireless
telecommunications" as hereinafter defined. "Telecommunications" shall not
include value added services in which computer processing applications are used
to act on the form, content, code, and protocol of the information for purposes
other than transmission. "Telecommunications" shall not include purchase of
telecommunications by a telecommunications service provider for use as a
component part of the service provided by him or her to the ultimate retail
consumer who originates or terminates the end-to-end communications. Retailer
access charges, right of access charges, charges for use of intercompany
facilities, and all telecommunications resold in the subsequent provision and
used as a component of, or integrated into, end-to-end telecommunications shall
not include the provision of cable services through a cable system as defined
in the Cable Communications Act of 1984 (47 USC sections 521 and following) as
now or hereafter amended or cable or other programming services subject to an
open video system fee payable to the Village through an open video system as
defined in the Rules of the Federal Communications Commission (47 CDF 76.1550
and following) as now or hereafter amended.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER:
   A.   Any telecommunications retailer; and
   B.   Any person that is not a telecommunications retailer that installs,
owns, operates or controls equipment in the public right of way that is used or
designed to be used to transmit telecommunications in any form.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER OR RETAILER OR CARRIER: Means and includes every
person engaging in the business of making sales of telecommunications at retail
as defined in this Section. The Village may, in its discretion, upon
application, authorize the collection of the fee hereby imposed by any retailer
not maintaining a place of business within this State, who, to the satisfaction
of the Village, furnishes adequate security to ensure collection and payment of
the fee. When so authorized, it shall be the duty of such retailer to pay the
fee upon all of the gross charges for telecommunications in the same manner and
subject to the same requirements as a retailer maintaining a place of business
within the Village.
WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS: Includes cellular mobile telephone services,
personal wireless services as defined in section 704(C) of the
Telecommunications Act of 1996 (Public Law No. 104-104), 42 USC section 332(C)
(7), as now or hereafter amended, including all commercial mobile radio
services, and paging services. (Ord. 98-13, 6-2-1998)
7-6-2: REGISTRATION OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDERS:
   A.   Every telecommunications provider as defined by this Chapter shall
register with the Village within thirty (30) days after the effective date
hereof or becoming a telecommunications provider, whichever is later, on a form
to be provided by the Village. Provided, however, that any telecommunications
retailer that has filed a return pursuant to subsection 7-6-4C of this Chapter
shall be deemed to have registered in accordance with this Chapter.
   B.   Every telecommunications provider who has registered with the Village
pursuant to subsection A of this Section has an affirmative duty to submit an
amended registration form or current return as required by subsection 7-6-4C of
this Chapter as the case may be, to the Village within thirty (30) days from
the date of the occurrence of any changes in the information provided by the
telecommunications provider in the registration form of most recent return on
file with the Village. (Ord. 98-13, 6-2-1998)
7-6-3: MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTENANCE FEE:
   A.   A Village telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee is hereby
imposed upon all telecommunications retailers in the amount of three-fourths
percent (3/4%) 1  of all gross charges charged by the telecommunications
retailer to service addresses within the Village for telecommunications
originating or received in the Village.
   B.   Upon the effective date of the infrastructure maintenance fee
authorized in this Chapter, the Village infrastructure maintenance fee
authorized hereunder shall be the only fee or compensation for the use of all
public rights of way within the Village by telecommunications retailers.
Imposition of the infrastructure maintenance fee provided under this Chapter
does not, however, serve as a limitation on the levying of any taxes or
imposition of any fees otherwise authorized by law.
   C.   The Village telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee
authorized by this Section shall be collected, enforced, and administered as
set forth in Section
7-6-4 of this Chapter. (Ord. 98-13, 6-2-1998)
 
Notes
1 1. Fee may be imposed in quarter percent increments of not more than 1.0%.
7-6-4: COLLECTION, ENFORCEMENT, AND ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   A telecommunications retailer shall charge to and collect from each
customer an additional charge in an amount equal to the Village infrastructure
maintenance fee attributable to that customer's service address.
   B.   Unless otherwise approved by the Village Council the infrastructure
maintenance fee shall be remitted by the telecommunications retailer to the
Village not later than the last day of the month subsequent to the month in
which a bill is issued to the customer; provided, however, that the
telecommunications retailer may retain an amount not to exceed two percent (2%)
of the Village infrastructure maintenance fee collected by it to reimburse
itself for expenses incurred in accounting for and remitting the fee.
   C.   Remittance of the Municipal infrastructure fee to the Village shall be
accompanied by a return, in a form to be prescribed by the Village Council,
which shall contain such information as the Village Council may reasonably
require.
   D.   Any infrastructure maintenance fee required to be collected pursuant to
this Chapter and any such infrastructure maintenance fee collected by such
telecommunications retailer shall constitute a debt owed by the
telecommunications retailer to the Village. The charge imposed under subsection
A of this Section by the telecommunications retailer pursuant to this Chapter
shall constitute a debt of the purchaser to the telecommunications retailer who
provides such services until paid and, if unpaid, is recoverable at law in the
same manner as the original charge for such services.
   E.   If it shall appear that an amount of infrastructure maintenance fee has
been paid that was not due under the provisions of this Chapter, whether as a
result of a mistake of fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be
credited against any infrastructure maintenance fee due, or to become due,
under this Chapter, however, the Village Council may request, and
telecommunications retailer shall provide, written substantiation for such
credit. However, no claim for such credit may be made more than three (3) years
after the date of the erroneous payment unless: 1) the credit is used only to
offset a claim of underpayment made by the Village within the applicable
statutory period of limitations, and 2) the credit derives from an overpayment
made by the same telecommunications retailer during the applicable statutory
period of limitations.
   F.   Amounts paid under this Chapter by telecommunications retailers shall
not be included in the tax base under any of the following acts as described
immediately below:
      1.   "Gross charges" for purposes of the Telecommunications Excise Tax
Act;
      2.   "Gross receipts" for purposes of the municipal utility tax as
prescribed in section 8-11-2 of the Illinois Municipal Code;
      3.   "Gross charges" for purposes of the municipal telecommunications tax
as prescribed in section 8-11-17 of the Illinois Municipal Code;
      4.   "Gross revenue" for purposes of the tax on annual gross revenue of
public utilities prescribed in section 2-202 of the Public Utilities Act.
   G.   The Village shall have the right, in its discretion, to audit the books
and records of all telecommunications retailers subject to this Chapter to
determine whether the telecommunications retailer has properly accounted to the
Village for the Village infrastructure maintenance fee. Any underpayment of the
amount of the Village infrastructure maintenance fee due to the Village plus
five percent (5%) of the total amount of the underpayment determined in an
audit, plus any costs incurred by the Village in conducting the audit, in an
amount not to exceed five percent (5%) of the total amount of the underpayment
determined in an audit. Said sum shall be paid to the Village within twenty one
(21) days after the date of issuance of an invoice for same.
   H.   The Village Council, or its designee, may promulgate such further or
additional regulations concerning the administration and enforcement of this
Chapter, consistent with its provisions, as may be required from time to time
and shall notify all telecommunications retailers that are registered pursuant
to Section
7-6-2 of this Chapter, of such regulations. (Ord. 98-13, 6-2-1998)
7-6-5: COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER LAWS:
Nothing in this Chapter shall excuse any person or entity from obligations
imposed under any law, including, but not limited to:
   A.   Generally applicable taxes; and
   B.   Standards for construction on, over, under, or within, use of or repair
of the public rights of way, including standards relating to freestanding
towers and other structures upon the public rights of way, as provided; and
   C.   Any liability imposed for the failure to comply with such general
applicable taxes or standards governing construction on, over, under, or
within, use of or repair of the public rights of way; and
   D.   Compliance with any ordinance or provision of this Code concerning uses
or structures not located on, over, or within the right of way. (Ord. 98-13, 6-
2-1998)
7-6-6: EXISTING FRANCHISES AND LICENSES:
Any franchise, license, or similar agreements between telecommunications
retailers and the Village entered into before the effective date hereof
regarding the use of public rights of way shall remain valid according to and
for their stated terms except for any fees, charges or other compensation to
the extent waived. (Ord. 98-13, 6-2-1998)
7-6-7: PENALTIES:
Any telecommunications provider who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or
refuses to comply with any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be subject
to fine in accordance with the general penalty provisions of this Code. (Ord.
98-13, 6-2-1998)
7-6-8: WAIVER AND FEE IMPLEMENTATION:
   A.   The Village hereby waives all fees, charges, and other compensation
that may accrue, after the effective date of the waiver, to the Village by a
telecommunications retailer pursuant to any existing Village franchise,
license, or similar agreement with a telecommunications retailer during the
time the Village imposes the telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee.
This waiver shall only be effective during the time the infrastructure
maintenance fee provided for in this Chapter is subject to being lawfully
imposed on the telecommunications retailer and collected by the
telecommunications retailer from the customer.
   B.   The Village Clerk shall send a notice of waiver by certified mail,
return receipt requested to each telecommunications retailer with whom the
Village has a franchise.
   C.   The Village infrastructure maintenance fee provided for in this Chapter
shall become effective and imposed on the first day of the month not less than
ninety (90) days after the Village provides written notice by certified mail to
each telecommunications retailer with whom the Village has an existing
franchise, license, or similar agreement that the Village waives all
compensation under such existing franchise, license, or similar agreement
during such time as the fee is subject to being lawfully imposed and collected
by the retailer and remitted to the Village. The infrastructure maintenance fee
shall apply to gross charges billed on or after the effective date as
established in the preceding sentence. (Ord. 98-13, 6-2-1998)
TITLE 8
WATER AND SEWER
CHAPTER 1
WATER AND SEWER SYSTEM
SECTION:
8-1-1: Separate Water and Sewer System
8-1-2: Water and Sewer Department
8-1-3: Rules Part of Contract
8-1-4: Water and Sewer Connections
8-1-5: Extension of Water Mains and Sanitary Sewers Outside Village
8-1-6: Water Service Pipes and Appurtenances
8-1-7: Water Meters
8-1-8: Turning Water On and Off; Discontinuance of Use
8-1-9: Water Use by Contractors
8-1-10: Water Conservation
8-1-11: Use of Fire Hydrants
8-1-12: Supplying Water to Others
8-1-13: Water Supply Other than Village Water
8-1-14: Information Available
8-1-15: Inspections, Right of Entry
8-1-16: Penalty
8-1-1: SEPARATE WATER AND SEWER SYSTEM:
The waterworks and sewerage systems of the Village are hereby declared to be
separate and distinct systems. Both systems shall be operated for the benefit
of the inhabitants of the Village, and charges and rates 1  for the operation
and use thereof shall be established sufficient to pay the cost of maintenance,
operation, depreciation and payment of interest to principal on any revenue
bonds that may be issued by the Village for the purpose of making repairs or
constructing improvements and extensions to said systems. (Ord. 85-05, 6-5-84)
 
Notes
1 1. See Chapter 3 of this Title.
8-1-2: WATER AND SEWER DEPARTMENT:
   A.   Supervision: The Water and Sewer Department of the Village shall be
under the supervision of the Commissioner of Department of Public Property, who
shall also be the Superintendent of Water and Sewer. In the absence of the
Commissioner the Department shall be under the direct supervision of the Mayor.
   B.   Management of Department:
      1.   Powers and Duties of Commissioner of Department of Public Property:
The active supervision of the Water and Sewer Department and of any and all
property pertaining thereto, shall be in the hands of the Commissioner in
charge of the Department of Public Property or his designated employee. It
shall be his duty to:
         a.   Protect the same from unnecessary damage or loss and keep the
Water and Sewer Department in good running order and repair, and he shall
superintend and direct all work pertaining to the future extension of the Water
and Sewer Department and all the repairs upon the same of every kind and
nature; subject however, to the advice and approval of the Commissioner of the
Department of Public Property and the Council.
         b.   Keep a correct map and profile of all the mains now or
hereinafter laid in the Village on file in his office with their dimensions,
locations and connections, hydrants and cut- offs.
         c.   Keep just, true and correct books of account in such a manner as
at all times to show the true condition and state of business of his office.
Such books shall at all times be subject to inspection by the Council.
         d.   Deliver such books of account, maps and profiles to his successor
in office, and he shall also perform such other duties as shall be encumbered
upon him.
      2.   Purchases: The Commissioner of the Department of Public Property
shall make the necessary purchase of material and supplies for use in the
Department to the amount of two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00), but
when the cost of the same would exceed the amount of five hundred dollars
($500.00), a written estimate, previously made by him, must be presented to the
Council and said material estimate shall be approved by them before ordered or
contracted for by him, and when the cost shall exceed two thousand five hundred
dollars ($2,500.00) an estimate shall be furnished the council and they shall
advertise for bids according to law before contracting for the same, unless
approved by four (4) council members to be done without bids.
   C.   Employees Of Department:
      1.   Appointment: The commissioner of the department of public property
shall have the authority to appoint all employees necessary for the proper
operation and management of the water and sewer department subject to the
approval of the council.
      2.   Salaries: The salaries of all employees of the water and sewer
department shall be fixed by the council.
   D.   Agents Of Departments; Badges: Inspectors, foremen, meter readers or
any other employees of the water and sewer department, whose duty it may be to
enter upon private premises to make inspection and examination of water meters,
pipes, fixtures or appurtenances thereto, for any reason whatever in connection
with the village water supply, will be provided with a badge or other
credential to identify him or them as authorized agents and representatives of
the water and sewer department. (Ord. 84-05, 6-5-1984)
8-1-3: RULES PART OF CONTRACT:
The following rules and regulations shall be considered a part of the contract
with every person who takes water supplied by the village through the water and
sewer department, and every such person who takes water shall be considered as
having expressed his agreement to be bound thereby. (Ord. 84-05, 6-5-1984)
8-1-4: WATER AND SEWER CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Application For Water Service Connections; Water Tap Fees:
      1.   Applications for water service connections must be made in writing
to the superintendent of water and sewer by the owner or agent of the property
to be served. Such application shall state the official house number or numbers
of the premises to be served, the size of pipe required and the approximate
location where such service will enter the premises. (Ord. 84-05, 6-5-1984)
      2.   Taps or connections to the water mains must be done by a licensed
plumber, with inspection by the village before being covered. The applicant
will pay a fee of one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) per connection.
Taps shall be paid for before they will be made. No taps or connections to the
water main shall be made by anyone except an authorized employee of the water
and sewer department without written permission from the commissioner of public
property.
      3.   The village reserves the right to render special services in
connection with furnishing water, such as installing and maintaining water
service connections, repairing leaks, etc., at prices and terms to be
determined from time to time by the council upon recommendations of the
superintendent. When no prices have been determined, charges shall be made at
the actual cost of labor and material, plus twenty percent (20%) for overhead
expenses.
      4.   No person, either owner or tenant, who in changing residence from
one location to any other location served by the department, shall be given
water service until any and all delinquent water rentals which were charged at
former place of residence, shall have been paid in full. No water at a new
location shall be turned on and if so, shall be turned off until settlement of
such delinquent water rental at former location is made. A charge of ten
dollars ($10.00) will be made for turning on water and renewing service.
      5.   Proper records and accounts of each consumer shall be made in the
department office.
   B.   Sewer Connection Permit: Unless specifically stated otherwise,
"connection", when used in this chapter, means permit to connect to any sewer
in the village and adjacent to the property sought to be connected. No permits
shall be issued for the connection of any lot or premises which has not paid
the sewer connection fee in full, which fee is fixed at one thousand five
hundred dollars ($1,500.00) per connection. Each building or residence on a lot
or lots requires a separate connection. (Ord. 84-05, 6-5-1984; amd. Ord. 92-13,
6-2-1992; 1994 Code; Ord. 05-13, 11-1-2005; Ord. 24-10, 5-6-2024)
8-1-5: EXTENSION OF WATER MAINS AND SANITARY SEWERS OUTSIDE VILLAGE:
No extensions of water mains or sanitary sewers shall be made outside the
village limits, unless such property to be serviced shall first have been
annexed to the village, and any such extension shall be at the cost of the
property owner and subject to installation plan acceptable to the village.
(Ord. 84-05, 6-5-1984)
8-1-6: WATER SERVICE PIPES AND APPURTENANCES:
   A.   Service Pipes Across Private Property: No consumer shall be permitted
to connect water pipes across lots or buildings to adjoining premises, but all
service pipes shall be laid on streets, alleys, or public ground to the
premises to be served, and enter at the front or rear of the building nearest
the main.
   B.   Separate Connections: There shall be separate service pipes laid from
the main to each building wherever there is a water main adjacent to the
property on which such building is located, with such extensions as may be
allowed by the Commissioner of Public Property in writing. Such service pipe
shall be laid on as near a straight line as possible from the point on the
water main nearest to such building to where it enters such building with such
exceptions as may be allowed by the Commissioner in writing. No two (2) or more
services shall be interconnected. (Ord. 85-05, 6-5-1984)
   C.   Service Curb Cocks:
      1.   A curb stop box and shutoff for controlling the supply of water to
consumers shall be placed on every service. When connections are made in
streets or avenues the stop box shall be placed twelve inches (12") outside the
sidewalk line on the owner's side; and when made in an alley it shall be placed
twelve inches (12") outside the lot line. The cover of said stop box shall be
maintained at the same height as the sidewalk or the surrounding ground. Where
area walls or curb lines prevent the location of stop box and shutoff at the
point indicated, they shall be placed immediately within the area wall or curb
line. All stop boxes must be set on a line drawn at right angles to the main
through the service corporation or connection in the main. (Ord. 99-21, 8-3-
1999)
      2.   Every service pipe must also have a stop placed in the building
within nine inches (9") of the point where the pipe enters the building. Said
stop must have a handle or wrench attached to turn the same, and be kept in
working order at all times so that the water may be shut off by the occupant of
the premises. There shall also be a gate valve placed on the outlet side of the
water meter not more than three feet (3') from the meter so that the meter can
be taken out or replaced without draining the pipe system in the building.
      3.   All stopcocks on the line of service must have round ways of the
same diameter as the pipe with which they are placed with proper locking
device, and with proper handles for turning on and off, and of a make and
pattern approved by the assistant Superintendent of Water and Sewer Department.
      4.   The outside shutoff and stop box shall be under the sole control of
the Water and Sewer Department and no one except an employee or person
specially authorized by the Water and Sewer Department shall open the cover of
such box, or turn on or off water. Provided, however, that licensed plumbers
may turn on or off water for testing plumbing or making repairs, but whenever
so used the shutoff must be left closed if found closed, and open if found
open, by the plumber who uses it.
      5.   The stop box on every service must be kept flush with the
surrounding ground or sidewalk surface, and must be visible from the sidewalk.
The curb box and shutoff must be kept in good condition and ready for use at
all times by the owner. Should the owner neglect to maintain such a box and
shutoff in proper condition to be used, and if stop box is found to be filled
up, or the stop box or shutoff found to be out of repair at any time, the Water
and Sewer Department shall have the right to clean or repair the same when
needed after giving notice and charge the cost thereof to the owner and if
payment is refused may turn off the water in the service until the same is
paid.
      6.   Owners of premises having water services which do not have separate
curb stopcocks and boxes for each building or which otherwise do not conform to
the requirements in this Chapter at the time of its passage shall be required
to put in such curb stopcock or make such other changes as are necessary to
conform to these requirements when so instructed by the Superintendent of Water
and Sewer.
   D.   Service Pipe Specifications:
      1.   That portion of the water service pipe from the water main to the
meter up to one and one-half inches (11/2") in size inclusive must be laid of
Type "K" copper or polybutylene plastic meeting the requirements of ASTM
specification D-2666. Said service line shall be capable of withstanding an
internal pressure of one hundred sixty (160) pounds per square inch. For two
inches (2") or over services polyvinyl chloride (PVC 1120) Class 22, or cast
iron, may also be used, all nonmetallic service lines shall be marked with a
continuous wire or metallic tape capable of detection with Village equipment
and meeting the approval of the Plumbing Inspector or Commissioner of Public
Property.
      2.   No water service pipe or tap for any building shall be less than
three-fourths inch (3/4") internal diameter, and pipes supplying sill cocks or
hydrants outside of buildings shall not be less than one-half inch (1/2")
internal diameter.
      3.   Plumbers installing water service pipes shall close the curb shutoff
and leave it closed upon completion of their work, and when pipes are laid to
the curb only they shall close the end of the pipe or fitting with a tight
metal plug or cap.
   E.   Depth Of Water Service Pipe: Service pipes must be laid at least four
feet (4') below the surface of the ground. When pipes are laid in streets or
grounds subject to fixed grades, where the surface of the ground is higher than
the established grade, they shall be so laid that they will be at least four
feet (4') below the established grade, except in sandy soil formation, the
Commissioner of Public Property may require pipes be laid to a depth of at
least five feet (5') below the established grade. (Ord. 85-05, 6-5-1984)
   F.   Repairs And Maintenance:
      1.   Maintenance Of Service Pipes: All service pipes and fixtures from
the street water main up to and including the service curb stop and box
described in subsection C of this Section shall be maintained at the expense of
the Village. All service pipes and fixtures from the premises up to the service
curb stop and box shall be maintained at the expense of the owners, and any
leaks or other defects in the same shall be promptly repaired by them, or if
not promptly repaired the water shall be turned off until such repairs have
been made, and the expense thereby shall be charged against such owner and must
be paid before water shall be turned on again. (Ord. 99-21, 8-3-1999)
      2.   Breaks In Service Or Fixtures: The Village shall not be held
responsible by reason of the breaking of any service pipe or apparatus, or for
failure in the supply of water.
   G.   Abandoned Service Pipes:
      1.   All service pipes that may become useless because of laying of
larger or other new services, or because water will be no longer used through
them, must be permanently closed off at the water main at the expense of the
owner of the premises, and so reported to the Superintendent of Water and
Sewer. No plumber or owner of property shall disconnect or remove water supply
fixtures or piping from any premises served by Village water, or alter the same
in such a way as to make the service connection unnecessary for the premises,
without permanently closing off the connections at the water main and reporting
the same to the Superintendent of Water and Sewer or Commissioner of Public
Property in writing.
      2.   If a service pipe or connection which is not being used is found to
be leaking, the Water and Sewer Department may, after giving notice, repair or
turn off the same and charge the expense thereof to the owner of property for
which the connection was made. (Ord. 85-05, 6-5-1984)
8-1-7: WATER METERS:
   A.   Metered Water Required: All water furnished consumers shall be metered.
   B.   Village To Furnish Meters: All meters shall be furnished and set by the
Water and Sewer Department at customer expense, but owners must provide
suitable location in piping system for same.
   C.   Installation:
      1.   Meters shall be placed on service pipe not to exceed two feet (2')
from the wall where such pipe enters the premises. There shall be a stop
between the meter and the wall, and a suitable place provided for the meter so
as to keep it dry and clean, and readily accessible at all times to the meter
reader and inspectors of the Department. A gate valve shall also be placed on
the pipe on the meter. All valves and fittings necessary to comply with these
requirements and to provide connection to meter, except a coupling or flange at
each end of meter, shall be provided by the owner of premises to be served.
      2.   Where a service pipe larger than two inches (2") in diameter is
used, the plumber shall call at the Department office for instructions
regarding the fittings and space to be provided for the water meters.
      3.   In the case that two (2) or more meters are desired for measuring
water to different tenants in the same building from one service connection,
they shall be so placed that no one of them shall measure water which has
passed through another one.
      4.   Every mobile home park or multiple-family dwelling shall have a
separate water meter for each dwelling unit or shall pay such minimum rates or
charges for water service under subsection 8-3-1A of this Title, based upon the
number of mobile homes or individual dwelling units located within a multiple-
family building or structure, and such other rates and charges as provided in
Chapter 3 of this Title.
      5.   When it is necessary to install a meter or meters in newly
constructed houses or buildings, or when it is necessary by reason of
alterations in a house or building to install one or more additional meters, or
when it is necessary to install a larger size meter in a house or building, the
owner of the premises or the contractor doing the construction or alterations
on said premises shall reimburse the Water and Sewer Department for the actual
cost of the meter or meters furnished by the Department plus ten percent (10%)
for overhead expenses.
   D.   Type of Meter:
      1.   All meters to new dwellings or new connections shall be of the
"remote read" variety. The owner shall protect the reading device and maintain
accessibility and visibility for reading of the meter.
      2.   Customers may request a remote reading adapter to be attached to
their present meter or the Village may install such a device if the owner is
habitually absent during working hours, or the Village elects to install such
devices. The fee for installation of the remote reading adapter is thirty
dollars ($30.00) and the same shall be paid by the customer.
   E.   Replacement Meters: The Village Council may from time to time institute
a water meter replacement program to the extent that it deems the same
necessary and advisable for the efficient operation of the water system. All
water meters installed under any such program shall be of the remote reading
variety, and all customers shall permit access to their premises for the
purpose of implementing the program.
   F.   Protection and Maintenance of Meters: The owner or occupant of premises
where a meter is installed shall be held responsible for its care and
protection from freezing or hot water and from other injury or interference
from any person. In case of any injury to the meter, or in case of its stoppage
or imperfect working, he shall give immediate notice to the office of the Water
and Sewer Department. In all cases where meters are broken or damaged by
negligence of owners or occupants of premises, or by freezing, hot water, or
other injuries, the necessary repairs to the meter shall be made by the
Department and the cost of such repairs paid for by such owner or occupant, and
in case payment thereof is neglected or refused, the water supply shall be
turned off and shall not be turned on until full payment has been made,
together with ten dollars ($10.00) for turning on the water again. Damaged
meters may be repaired by the Department without first giving notice thereof to
the owner of premises served by such meter.
   G.   Tampering with Meters Prohibited: No one shall in any way interfere
with the proper registration of a water meter, and no one except an authorized
employee of the Department shall break a seal on a meter; provided, however,
that the Superintendent of Water and Sewer Department may grant written permits
to licensed plumbers in case of emergency to break such seal for draining pipes
or stopping water leaks.
   H.   Removal of Unused Meters: Wherever a water meter is installed on a
water service in premises that is to be remodeled, removed or destroyed, or
where the service is discontinued so that the water meter is no longer needed,
the owner of such premises shall give notice in writing to the Superintendent
to remove such meter, and free access to such meter must be provided at least
twenty four (24) hours after notice is given so that the meter may be removed.
The owner of the premises shall be held responsible for the meter until such
written notice is given, and if the meter is covered or lost, he shall be
required to pay for the same at the actual value.
   I.   Service Calls; Costs: When the Water and Sewer Department is called by
the owner or occupant of a premises to inspect the water system or perform some
service to the water connections of said premises to the Village water system,
on Saturdays, Sundays, holidays or any other day except between seven o'clock
(7:00) A.M. and three thirty o'clock (3:30) P.M., the owner or occupant who has
requested such inspection or service call shall pay the Village man hour cost
at a minimum of two (2) hours for each such inspection or service call, except
that no such payment shall be required if a leak, flaw, break or other defect
is found to exist in the Village water system adjacent to the premises rather
than on the premises of the owner or occupant. (Ord. 85-05, 6-5-84; 1994 Code)
8-1-8: TURNING WATER ON AND OFF; DISCONTINUANCE OF USE:
   A.   Turning on Water: In turning on water, the Village or the Water and
Sewer Department shall not be responsible for any damage that may occur by
reason of improper fixtures, open or improper connections, or for any other
causes.
   B.   Turning Off Water:
      1.   The Village may, when necessary, shut the water off in its mains for
the purpose of making repairs or extensions or for other purposes and no claims
shall be made against the Village by reason of the breaking of any service pipe
or service cock, or from any other damage that may result from shutting off
water for repairing, laying or re-laying mains, hydrants or other connections.
The Water and Sewer Department shall give notice of shutting off water if
conditions are such that it is possible to do so.
      2.   When water is shut off for making repairs in premises having water
heat-coils in heaters, consumers should turn off the water at the basement
shut-off and open a faucet in the hot water pipe and leave it open until water
is turned on in order to protect piping and fixtures from excessive pressures
from hot water or steam.
   C.   Water Use Discontinuance: Owners or consumers desiring to discontinue
the use of water shall give notice thereof in writing to the Superintendent of
Water and Sewer at the Village office who shall then cause the water to be
turned off and the meter removed. Water rents or charges for services shall be
made until such notice is given. When water service is discontinued all water
rentals for such service shall become due and payable. When water service is
again desired after having been discontinued, a charge of ten dollars ($10.00)
shall be made and collected before turning on water and renewing service. (Ord.
85-05, 6-5-1984)
8-1-9: WATER USE BY CONTRACTORS:
   A.   Temporary Service, Fees: When a temporary service is desired by
contractors and builders for water to be used on construction work, they shall
make application to the Superintendent of the Water and Sewer Department for
such temporary service and deposit with the Water and Sewer Department the sum
of fifty dollars ($50.00) for a swing meter to be used on such services.
   B.   Charges And Rates: The charges for such water service shall be at the
same rate as other services, including minimum monthly charges 1 . No one shall
use water that is not measured by a meter furnished by the Department.
   C.   Swing Meters: All swing meters shall be returned to the meter room of
the Department office at the end of each construction or building job for
reading and tests. A penalty of ten dollars ($10.00) per month shall be charged
for swing meters that are not returned as specified herein. (Ord. 85-05, 6-5-
1984)
   D.   Security Deposit For Water Shutoff:
      1.   All contractors who request water shutoff will be required to
deposit a five hundred dollar ($500.00) security deposit.
      2.   The security deposit will be returned to the contractor upon proper
completion of the work.
      3.   If the contractor fails to perform the work in the agreed upon time
or fails to show up on the stated time, the five hundred dollar ($500.00)
security deposit will be forfeited to the Village. (Ord. 96-20, 9-3-1996)
 
Notes
1 1. See Chapter 3 of this Title.
8-1-10: WATER CONSERVATION:
   A.   Unnecessary Waste Prohibited: Consumers shall prevent unnecessary waste
of water and keep all water outlets closed when not in actual use. If
unnecessary waste of water takes place, the Water and Sewer Department reserves
the right to cut off the supply.
   B.   Use May Be Restricted: The Village reserves the right to prohibit the
use of water for yard sprinklers and large consumers of water when in the
judgment of the Village it shall be necessary to do so. (Ord. 85-05, 6-5-1984)
8-1-11: USE OF FIRE HYDRANTS:
No person except members of the Fire Department or Department of Streets and
Public Improvements of the Village, or officers or employees of the Water and
Sewer Department acting in the regular performance of their duties, shall open
any hydrant belonging to the Department at any time without a permit in writing
signed by the Superintendent of Water and Sewer. (Ord. 85-05, 6-5-1984)
8-1-12: SUPPLYING WATER TO OTHERS:
No consumer shall supply water to other persons, nor suffer them to take it
except by special permission from the Superintendent of Water and Sewer or his
agents. Where such permission is granted, the owner of the service from which
the water is taken shall be responsible for payment of the rates. (Ord. 85-05,
6-5-1984)
8-1-13: WATER SUPPLY OTHER THAN VILLAGE WATER 1 :
   A.   On premises where water is supplied from two (2) sources, the Village
meter being one of them, the piping system for Village water must be entirely
separated from that of the other source. If other than Village water is to be
furnished to premises previously supplied with Village water, the owner or his
plumber must give notice at the office of the Water and Sewer Department when
he will make this change and must also cut off the Village water at the
corporation cock and disconnect the service pipe.
   B.   Premises now having direct connection between the Village water supply
and another supply shall forthwith disconnect the same. (Ord. 85-05, 6-5-1984)
 
Notes
1 1. See Chapter 4 of this Title for cross-connection regulations.
8-1-14: INFORMATION AVAILABLE:
Such information as may be obtained from the records, maps, employees, etc., of
the Water and Sewer Department relative to the location of water mains and
service pipes, will be furnished to licensed plumbers and interested parties,
but the Department does not guarantee the accuracy of the same. (Ord. 85-05, 6-
5-1984)
8-1-15: INSPECTIONS, RIGHT OF ENTRY:
The Superintendent or other officer or employee of the Water and Sewer
Department shall be permitted at all reasonable hours to enter the premises or
buildings of consumers for the purpose of reading meters and to examine the
water pipe and fixtures and the manner in which water is used. The Department
reserves the right to set or remove a meter whenever it is deemed advisable so
to do. (Ord. 85-05, 6-5-1984)
8-1-16: PENALTY:
Any violation of this Chapter shall be punishable by a fine not exceeding five
hundred dollars ($500.00) for each violation. (Ord. 85-05, 6-5-1984)
CHAPTER 2
SEWER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
8-2-1: Definitions
8-2-2: Use of Public Sewers Required
8-2-3: Private Sewage Disposal
8-2-4: Building Sewers and Connections
8-2-5: Use Restrictions
8-2-6: Protection from Damage
8-2-7: Power and Authority of Inspectors
8-2-8: Sewage Input License and Fee Requirements
8-2-9: Violation; Penalties
8-2-10: Forms for Sewer Permit Applications
8-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of terms used
in this Chapter shall be as follows:
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT:
   Administrator: The Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency.
   Federal Act: The Federal Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. 46 et seq.) as amended,
(Pub. L. 95-217).
   Federal Grant: The U.S. government participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by title II, Grants for
Construction of Treatment Works of the Act and implementing regulations.
LOCAL GOVERNMENT:
   Approving Authority: The Village of Seneca, Illinois, of LaSalle County.
   The Village: The Village of Seneca, Illinois, of LaSalle County.
NPDES PERMIT: Any permit or equivalent document or requirements issued by the
Administrator, or, where appropriated by the Director, after enactment of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Amendments of 1972, to regulate the discharge
of pollutants pursuant to section 402 of the Federal Act.
PERSON: Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any individual,
firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association, society,
institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
SEWER TYPES AND APPURTENANCES:
   Building Drain: That part of the lowest piping of a drainage system which
receive the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside the
walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer or other approved
point of discharge, beginning five feet (5') (1.5 meters) outside the inner
face of the building wall.
   Building Sewer: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   Combined Sewer: A sewer which is designed and intended to receive
wastewater, storm, surface and groundwater drainage.
   Easement: An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   Public Sewer: A sewer provided by or subject to the jurisdiction of the
Village. It shall also include sewers within or outside the Village boundaries
that serve one or more persons and ultimately discharge into the Village
sanitary (or combined) sewer system, even though those sewers may not have been
constructed with Village funds.
   Sanitary Sewer: That which conveys sewage or industrial wastes or a
combination of both, and into which storm, surface, and groundwater or
unpolluted industrial wastes are not intentionally admitted.
   Sewer: A pipe or conduit for conveying sewage or any other waste liquids,
including storm, surface and groundwater drainage.
   Sewerage: The system of sewers and appurtenances for the collection,
transportation and pumping of sewage.
   Storm Sewer: A sewer that carries storm, surface and groundwater drainage
but excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted cooling water
   Storm Water Runoff: That portion of the precipitation that is drained into
the sewers.
SHALL; MAY: "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissible.
STATE GOVERNMENT:
   Director: The Director of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   State Act: The Illinois Anti-Pollution Bond Act of 1970.
   State Grant: The State of Illinois participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for in the Illinois Anti-Pollution
Bond Act and for making such grants as filed with the Secretary of State of the
State of Illinois.
TREATMENT:
   Pretreatment: The treatment of wastewaters from sources before introduction
into the wastewater treatment works.
   Wastewater Treatment Works: An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes, and sludge. Sometimes used as
synonymous with "waste treatment plant" or "wastewater treatment plant",
"pollution control plant" or "sewage treatment plant".
TYPES OF CHARGES:
   Basic User Charge: The basic assessment levied on all users of the public
sewer system.
   Debt Service Charge: The amount to be paid each billing period for payment
of interest, principal and coverage of (loan, bond, etc.) outstanding and shall
be computed by dividing the annual debt service by the number of users
connected to the wastewater facilities.
   Replacement: Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of
the treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such
works were designed and constructed. The term "operation and maintenance"
includes replacement.
   Surcharge: The assessment in addition to the basic user charge and debt
service charge which is levied on those persons whose wastes are greater in
strength than the concentration values established in this Chapter.
   Useful Life: The estimated period during which the collection system and/or
treatment works will be operated and shall be twenty (20) years from the date
of start-up of any wastewater facilities constructed with a State or Federal
grant.
   User Charge: A charge levied on users of treatment works for the cost of
operation and maintenance.
   Waterworks and Sewerage Fund: The principal accounting designation for all
revenues received in the operation of the waterworks and sewerage system.
   Wastewater Service Charge: The charge per quarter or month levied on all
users of the wastewater facilities. The service charge shall be computed as
outlined in Section
8-3-3 of this Chapter and shall consist of the total of the basic user charge,
the debt service charge and a surcharge, is applicable.
USER TYPES:
   Commercial User: Includes transit lodging, retail and wholesale
establishments or places engaged in selling merchandise or rendering services.
   Control Manhole: A structure located on a site from which industrial wastes
are discharged. Where feasible, the manhole shall have an interior drop. The
purpose of a "control manhole" is to provide access for the Village
representatives to sample and/or measure discharges.
   Industrial Users: Includes establishments engaged in manufacturing
activities involving the mechanical or chemical transformation of materials of
substance into products.
   Institutional/Governmental User: Includes schools, churches, penal
institutions, and users associated with Federal State and local governments.
   Major Contributing Industry: An industrial user of the publicly owned
treatment works that:
   A.   Has a flow of fifty thousand (50,000) gallons or more per average work
day; or
   B.   Has a flow greater than ten percent (10%) of the flow carried by the
Municipal system receiving the waste;
   C.   Has in its waste, a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
standards issued under section 307(a) of the Federal Act; or
   D.   Is found by the permit issuant authority, in connection with the
issuance of the NPDES permit to the publicly owned treatment works receiving
the waste, to have significant impact, either singly or in combination with
other contributing industries, on that treatment works or upon the quality of
effluent from that treatment works.
   Metered User: A user of the wastewater facilities whose wastewater flow is
metered either directly or the user's water consumption, from either public or
private sources or both, is metered.
   Nonmetered User: A user of the wastewater facilities whose wastewater flow
is not metered either directly or the users water consumption, from either
public or private sources or both, is either metered in part or not at all.
   Residential User: All dwelling units such as houses, mobile homes,
apartments, permanent multi-family dwellings.
   User Claims: The type of user "residential", "institutional/governmental",
"commercial", or "industrial" as defined herein.
WASTEWATER AND ITS CHARACTERISTICS:
BOD (denoting Biochemical Oxygen Demand): The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five (5) days at twenty degrees (20o) Celsius, expressed in milligrams per
liter.
   Effluent Criteria: Defined in any applicable "NPDES Permit".
   Floatable Oil: Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable oil if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
   Garbage: Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   Industrial Waste: Any solid, liquid or gaseous substances discharged,
permitted to flow or escaping from any industrial, manufacturing, commercial or
business establishment or process or from the development, recovery or
processing of any natural resources as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   Major Contributing Industry: An industrial user of the publicly owned
treatment works that:
   A.   Has a flow of fifty thousand (50,000) gallons or more per average work
day; or
   B.   Has a flow greater than ten percent (10%) of the flow carried by the
Municipal system receiving the waste; or
   C.   Has in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amount as defined in
standards issued under section 307(a) of the Federal Act; or
   D.   Is found by the permit issuance authority, in connection with issuance
of the NPDES permit to the publicly owned treatment works receiving the waste,
to have significant impact, either singly or in combination with other
contributing industries, on that treatment works or upon the quality of
effluent from the treatment works.
   Milligrams Per Liter: A unit of the concentration of water or wastewater
constituent. It is 0.001 g of the constituent in one thousand (1,000) ml of
water. It has replaced the unit formerly used commonly, parts per million, to
which it is approximately equivalent, in reporting the results of water and
wastewater analysis.
   pH: The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen-ion
concentration expressed by one of the procedures outlined in "Standard
Methods".
   ppm: Parts per million by weight.
   Population Equivalent: A term used to evaluate the impact of industrial or
other waste on a treatment works or stream. One population equivalent to one
hundred (100) gallons of sewage per day, containing seventeen one-hundredths
(0.17) pounds of BOD and twenty one-hundredths (0.20) pounds of suspended
solids.
   Properly Shredded Garbage: The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") (1.27 centimeters)
in any dimension.
   Sewage: Used interchangeably with "wastewater".
   Slugs: Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes more than five (5) times
the average twenty four (24) hour concentration of flows during normal
operation.
   Standard Methods: The examination and analytical procedures set forth in the
most recent edition of "Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Waste
Water" published jointly by the American Health Association, the American Water
Works Association and the Water Pollution Control Federation.
   Suspended Solids: Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage or industrial waste, and which are removable by
laboratory filtration device. Quantitative determination of suspended solids
shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in "Standard Methods".
   Unpolluted Water: Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefited by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   Wastewater: The spent water of a community. From this standpoint of course,
it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried waste from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions, together with any
groundwater, surface water and storm water that may be present.
   Water Quality Standards: Are defined in the Water Pollution Regulations of
Illinois.
WASTEWATER FACILITIES: The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes and transport
effluent to a watercourse.
WATERCOURSE AND CONNECTIONS:
   Natural Outlet: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or groundwater.
   Watercourse: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently. (Ord. 83-20, 12-20-83)
8-2-2: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
Village or in any area under the jurisdiction of the Village, any human or
animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
Village or in any area under the jurisdiction of said Village, any sewage or
other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this Chapter.
   C.   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   D.   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the
Village and abutting on any street, alley or right of way in which there is now
located or may in the future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of
the Village, is hereby required at his expense to install suitable toilet
facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper
public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter, within ninety
(90) days after date of official notice to do so; provided, that said public
sewer is within one hundred feet (100') of the property line. (Ord. 83-20, 12-
20-83)
8-2-3: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
   A.   Connection to Private Disposal System: Where sanitary or combined sewer
is not available under the provisions of subsection 8-2-2D of this Chapter, the
building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal system complying
with the provisions of this Section.
   B.   Permit Required; Fee: Before commencement of construction of a private
sewage disposal system the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by
the Village, (see subsection 8-2-9C of this Chapter) which the applicant shall
supplement by any plans, specifications and other information as are deemed
necessary by the Village. A permit and inspection fee of fifty dollars ($50.00)
shall be paid to the Village at the time the application is filed.
   C.   Inspection of Work: A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall
not become effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of
the Village. The Village shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
Village when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any underground
portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within seventy two (72)
hours of the receipt of notice by the Village.
   D.   Compliance with State Regulations: The type, capacities, location and
layout of a private sewage disposal system shall comply with all
recommendations of the State of Illinois Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act
and Code 1  and with the State of Illinois Environmental Protection Agency. No
permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system employing
subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is less than
fifteen thousand (15,000) square feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be
permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
   E.   Abandonment of Private Systems:
      1.   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property
served by a private sewage disposal system, as provided in subsection 8-2-2D of
this Chapter, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in
compliance with this Chapter and any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar
private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable
material.
      2.   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to said sewer within sixty (60) days and the private sewage disposal
system shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank run gravel or
dirt.
   F.   Sanitary Maintenance: The owner shall operate and maintain the private
sewage disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, and at no expense
to the Village.
   G.   Additional Requirements: No statement contained in this Section shall
be construed to interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed
by the Village. (Ord. 83-20, 12-20-83)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 225 ILCS 225/1.
8-2-4: BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Permit Requirements:
      1.   Permit Required: No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any
connections with, or opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or
appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the Village
1 .
      2.   Classes of Permits; Application; Fees:
         a.   There shall be two (2) classes of building sewer permits:
            (1)   For residential, wastewater service, and
            (2)   For commercial, institutional/governmental or industrial
wastewater service. In either case, the owner or his agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the Village, (see subsection 8-2-
9A). The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications
or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of the Village. A
permit and inspection fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) for a residential or
commercial building sewer permit shall be paid to the Village at the time the
application is filed. The industry, as a condition of permit authorization,
must provide information describing its wastewater constituents,
characteristics, and type of activity.
      3.   Condition for Issuance: A building sewer permit will only be issued
and a sewer connection shall only be allowed if it can be demonstrated that the
downstream sewerage facilities, including sewers, pump stations and wastewater
treatment facilities, have sufficient reserve capacity to adequately and
efficiently handle the additional anticipated waste load.
   B.   Separate Sewer for Each Building: A separate and independent building
sewer shall be provided for every building except, where one building private
sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear building through an
adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building sewer from the front
building may be extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one
building sewer.
   C.   Use of Old Building Sewers: Old building sewers may be used in
connection with new buildings only when they are found, upon examination and
test by the Village to meet all requirements of this Chapter.
   D.   Construction Specifications:
      1.   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench shall all conform to the requirements of the
Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
Village. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
"American Society of Testing Materials, Water Pollution Control Federation
Manual of Practice No. 9," and "Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer
Main Construction in Illinois" shall apply.
      2.   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which
any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer,
sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by a means which
is approved in accordance with subsection A2 of this Section and discharges to
the building sewer.
   E.   Connections to Public Sewers:
      1.   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Village
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the Village or its
appointed representative.
      2.   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the Village, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the "American Society of Testing Materials, Water
Pollution Control Federation Manual of Protection No. 9", and "Standard
Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois". All such
connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any deviation from the
prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the Village before
installation.
   F.   Excavations: All excavations for building sewer installations shall be
adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from
hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in
the course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the
Village.
   G.   Surface Water Runoff: No person shall make connection of roof
downspouts, exterior foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of
surface runoff or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in
turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   H.   Costs Borne by Owner: All costs and expenses incidental to the
installation and connection of the building sewer including but not limited to
the restoration of the roadway, its surface, curb and berm and any damages
caused during said construction, shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall
indemnify the Village from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly
occur by the installation of the building sewer. (Ord. 83-20, 12-20-83)
 
Notes
1 1. See also Chapter 1 of this Title.
8-2-5: USE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Discharge of Effluent; Storm Water Drainage Systems:
      1.   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any storm
water, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage,
uncontaminated cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any
sanitary sewer.
      2.   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the Village. Industrial cooling water or
unpolluted process waters may be discharged, upon approval from the Village, to
a storm sewer, combined sewer or a natural outlet. (Ord. 83-20, 12-20-83)
      3.   Storm Water Drainage Systems:
         a.   It shall be unlawful for any person to connect or cause to be
connected any drain carrying, or to carry, any toilet, sink, basement, septic
tank, cesspool, industrial waste or any fixture or device discharging polluting
substances, to any open ditch, drain, or drainage structure installed solely
for street or high drainage purposes in the Village.
         b.   This subsection is intended to and shall be in addition to all
other ordinances, State statutes, rules and regulations concerning pollution
and shall not be construed as repealing or rescinding any other ordinance or
part of any ordinance unless in direct conflict herewith.
         c.   Any person violating this subsection A3 shall be fined not less
than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for
each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed for each and
every day during which a violation continues or exists. (Ord. 89-12, 6-6-89)
   B.   Prohibited Discharges: No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any of the following described waters or wastes to any public sewer:
      1.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas.
      2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant.
      3.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the sewage works.
      4.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole
or ground by garbage grinders.
   C.   Materials Under Special Review:
      1.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the Village that such wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage
treatment process, or equipment; have an adverse effect on the receiving
stream; or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a
nuisance. In forming its opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the
Village will give consideration to such factors as to the quantities of subject
wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of
the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage
treatment plant, and maximum limits established by regulatory agencies. The
substances prohibited are:
         a.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees (150o) Fahrenheit (65o C.).
         b.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous materials; or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances
which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between thirty two degrees
(32o) and one hundred fifty degrees (150o) Fahrenheit (0o and 65o C.).
         c.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths (3/
4) horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Village.
         d.   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling
wastes, or concentrated solutions whether neutralized or not.
         e.   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc or
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the Village for such materials.
         f.   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor-
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Village as necessary, after treatment of the composite
sewage, to meet the requirements of the State, Federal or other public agencies
or jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
         g.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Village in compliance
with applicable State or Federal regulations.
         h.   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5.
         i.   Any mercury or any of its compounds in excess of 0.0005 mg/l as
Hg at any time except as permitted by the Village in compliance with applicable
State and Federal regulations.
         j.   Any cyanide in excess of 0.025 mg/l at any time except as
permitted by the Village in compliance with applicable State and Federal
regulations.
         k.   Materials which exert or cause:
            (1)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as,
but not limited to, fuller's earth, lime slurries and lime residue) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate);
            (2)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye
wastes and vegetable tanning solutions);
            (3)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand (COD), or chlorine
requirements in such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the
sewage treatment works.
            (4)   Unusual volume of flow or concentrations of wastes
constituting "slugs" as defined herein.
            (5)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable
to treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment process employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such a degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters.
      2.   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in subsection C1 above and/or which are in
violation of the standards for pretreatment provided in chapter 1, EPA Rules
and Regulations, subchapter D, Water Programs Part 128-Pretreatment Standards,
Federal Register Volume 43, No. 123, dated Monday, June 26, 1978, and any
amendments thereto, and which in the judgment of the Village may have a
deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment or receiving
waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public
nuisance, the Village may:
         a.   Reject the wastes;
         b.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
         c.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         d.   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges, under the provisions
of subsection 8-2-5E2.
If the Village permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows, the
design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject to the
review and approval of the Village, and subject to the requirements of all
applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
   D.   Required Treatment and Control Facilities:
      1.   Interceptors: Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided
when, in the opinion of the Village, they are necessary for the proper handling
of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable
wastes, sand or other harmful ingredients; except, that such interceptors shall
not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors
shall be of a type and capacity approved by the Village, and shall be located
as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
      2.   Preliminary Treatment: Where preliminary treatment or flow-
equalizing facilities are provided, they shall be maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at his expense.
      3.   Control Manhole: Each new industry shall be required to install a
control manhole, and, when required by the Village, the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable control manhole together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and
measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be easily
accessible and safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with
plans and specifications approved by the Village. The manhole shall be
installed by the owner at his expense, and shall be maintained by him so as to
be safe and accessible at all times.
   E.   Measurements, Tests and Analyses:
      1.   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall provide laboratory measurements, tests and analyses of
waters and wastes to illustrate compliance with this Chapter and any special
conditions for discharge established by the Village or regulatory agencies
having jurisdiction over the discharge. The number, type and frequency of
laboratory analyses to be performed by the owner shall be as stipulated by the
Village, but no less than once per year the industry must supply a complete
analysis of the constituents of the wastewater discharge to assure that
compliance with the Federal, State and local standards are being met. The owner
shall report the results of measurements and laboratory analyses of the Village
at such times and in such a manner as prescribed by the Village. The owner
shall bear the expense of all measurements, analyses and reporting required by
the Village. At such times as deemed necessary the Village reserves the right
to take measurements and samples for analysis by an outside laboratory service.
      2.   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of
waters and wastes to which reference is made in this Chapter shall be
determined in accordance with the latest edition of "Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater", published by the American Public Health
Association, and shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon
suitable samples taken at said control manhole. In the event that no special
manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the
nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the
building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily
accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works
and to determine the existence of hazards to life, limb and property. The
particular analyses involved will determine whether a twenty four (24) hour
composite of all outfalls of a premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample
should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses
are obtained from twenty four (24) hour composites of all outfalls whereas pH's
are determined from periodic grab samples.
   F.   Special Agreements: No statement contained in this Section shall be
construed as preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the
Village and any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual
strength or character may be accepted by the Village for treatment, subject to
payment therefor, in accordance with Section
8-2-8 hereof, by the industrial concern. (Ord. 83-20, 12-20-83)
8-2-6: PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE:
No unauthorized person shall maliciously, wilfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which
is a part of the sewage works. Any person violating this provision shall be
submitted to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct. (Ord. 83-20,
12-20-83)
8-2-7: POWER AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS:
   A.   Officials of the Village and its duly authorized employees, the
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency and the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency, bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling and testing in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter. The
Village or its representatives shall have no authority to inquire into any
processes, including metallurgical, chemical, oil refining, ceramic, paper or
other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and
source of discharge to the sewers or waterway or facilities for waste
treatment.
   B.   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in subsection A of this Section, the Village or duly authorized employees of
the Village shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises
established by the company, and the company shall be held harmless for injury
or death to the Village employees, and the Village shall indemnify the company
against loss or damage to its property by the Village employees and against
liability claims and demands for personnel injury or property damage asserted
against the company and growing out of the gauging and sampling operation,
except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of the company to
maintain safe conditions as required in subsection 8-2-5E2 of this Chapter.
   C.   The Village and other duly authorized employees of the Village bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the Village holds a duly negotiated easement. All
entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement, shall be done in full
accordance with the terms of the fully negotiated easement pertaining to the
private property involved. (Ord. 83-20, 12-20-83)
8-2-8: SEWAGE INPUT LICENSE AND FEE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Definitions: Unless the contract specifically indicates otherwise, the
meaning of the terms used in this Section shall be as follows:
   BOD (Biochemical Oxygen Demand): The quantity of oxygen used in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter in five (5) days at twenty degrees
(20°) Celsius, determined by standard laboratory test procedures and expressed
in mg/l.
   mg/l: Milligrams per liter.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS: Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage, industrial wastes or other wastewaters; the
quantity of which is determined by standard laboratory filtering test
procedures and referred to as nonfilterable residue expressed in mg/l.
   B.   License and Fee Required: All owners, operators and drivers of tank
trucks or other vehicles or devices who discharge septic tanks with larger
commercial waste into the sewage system of the Village shall first obtain a
license from the Village Clerk for a sum as set forth in Section
3-1-7 of this Municipal Code, and shall post a bond issued by the insurance
company licensed to do business in the State of Illinois in the sum of five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00) payable to the Village for the purpose of
indemnifying the Village against any and all damage resulting from the use of
the Village sewage system. In addition:
      1.   A sample of each load of materials to be discharged into the sewage
system in the Village shall be taken by the plant operator to determine its
safety and suitability for discharging into the sewage system of the Village.
The charge for said testing shall be paid by the owner, operator or driver in
the amount of fifteen dollars ($15.00) for testing of BOD, fifteen dollars
($15.00) for suspended solids and seven dollars ($7.00) for pH.
      2.   Dumping hours for tank trucks and other such devices are hereby
restricted to the hours between seven thirty o'clock (7:30) A.M. to three
o'clock (3:00) P.M. Monday through Friday excluding Village holidays.
      3.   All dumping and discharge of matter into the sewage system of the
Village is further restricted to such areas and to such days as is specified by
the treatment plant operator of the Village.
      4.   A ticket shall be made prior to the discharge of each load of
material into the sewage system of the Village showing who the hauler or
discharger is and from where the load was obtained. The ticket shall be signed
by the driver of the vehicle transporting this material.
      5.   The fees for the discharging into the Village sewer system shall be
twenty dollars ($20.00) per load, plus the following surcharge:
         a.   Surcharge Rate: The rates of surcharges for BOD and suspended
solids shall be in accordance with the following schedules (based on metered
sewage flow):
 BOD
Concentration in mg/l Rate per lb. BOD
 BOD
Concentration in mg/l Rate per lb. BOD
256 to 360            $0.38
361 to 500            0.40
501 to 600            0.43
601 to 700            0.47
701 to 800            0.52
801 to 900            0.58
901 to 1,000          0.65
1,001 to 1,100        0.73
1,101 to 1,200        0.82
1,201 to 1,300        0.92
1,301 to 1,400        1.03
1,401 to 1,500        1.15
All over 1,500        1.17
Suspended Solids
Concentration in mg/l Rate per lb. SS
156 to 200            $0.33
201 to 300            0.35
301 to 400            0.37
All over 400          0.41
 
         b.   Computation of Surcharge (Special Industrial User Only): The
volume and concentration of wastes shall be used for computing surcharges and
shall be established by sewage flow metering and waste sampling. Waste sampling
and testing by an approved laboratory shall be completed by the discharger as
often as may be deemed necessary by the Village Council. The Village shall
reserve the right to sample and test all discharges at any time. The Village
shall establish discharge loads and surcharges based on either or both tests
and this shall be binding as a basis for surcharges. (Ord. 92-23)
      6.   The village and its employees hereby retain the right to prohibit
and deny all owners, operators, and drivers of tank trucks or other vehicles or
devices the discharge of sewer waste. (Ord. 04-11, 6-15-2004)
8-2-9: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter except
section
8-2-6 of this chapter shall be served by the village with written notice
stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for
the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of
time stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   B.   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in subsection A of this section, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor,
and upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in the amount not exceeding five
hundred dollars ($500.00) for each violation. Each day in which any such
violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
   C.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall become
liable to the village by reason of such violation. (Ord. 83-20, 12-20-1983)
8-2-10: FORMS FOR SEWER PERMIT APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Residential Or Commercial Building Sewer Application:
To the Village of Seneca, Illinois:
A. THE UNDERSIGNED, being the              
(Owner, Owner's Agent)
property located at              
Number Street
DOES HEREBY REQUEST a permit to install and connect a building to serve the
             
(Residence, Commercial Building, etc.)
at said location.
1. The following indicated fixtures will be connected to the proposed building
sewer:
   Number   Fixtures   Number   Fixtures
             Kitchen Sinks                   Water Closet
             Lavatories                   Bath Tubs
             Laundry Tubs                    Showers
             Urinals                    Garbage
Grinders
Specify other fixtures    .
2. The maximum number of persons who will use the above fixtures is    .
3. The name and address of the person or firm who will perform the proposed
work is    .
4. Plans and specifications for the proposed building sewer area are attached
hereto as "Exhibit A".
B. In consideration of the granting of this permit, THE UNDERSIGNED AGREES:
1. To accept and abide by all provisions of the Village Code and of all other
pertinent ordinance regulations that may be adopted in the future.
2. To maintain the building sewer at no expense to the Village of Seneca.
3. To notify the Village when the building sewer is ready for inspection and
connection to the public sewer, but before any portion of the work is covered.
DATED:                   SIGNED:
                                                   
(Applicant)
                                                                  
(Address of Applicant)
$                applicant fee paid this day of           , 199   .
VILLAGE OF SENECA:
BY:                                                  
Application approved and construction permit issued:
DATE:                                      VILLAGE OF SENECA
   BY:                                         
   B.   Industrial Sewer Connection Application:
To the Village of Seneca, Illinois:
A. THE UNDERSIGNED, being the              
(Owner, Owner's Agent)
of the property located at              
Number Street
DOES HEREBY REQUEST a permit              
(install, use)
an industrial sewer connection serving the              
(Name of Company)
which company is engaged in              
at said location.
1. A plat of the property showing accurately all sewers and drains now existing
is attached hereunto as "Exhibit A".
2. Plans and specifications covering any work proposed to be performed under
this permit is attached hereunto as "Exhibit B".
3. A complete schedule of all process waters and industrial wastes produced or
expected to be produced at said property, including a description of the
character of each waste, the daily volume and maximum rates of discharges, and
representative analyses, is attached hereunto as "Exhibit C".
4. The name and address of the person or firm who will perform the work covered
by this permit is
                                                                           .
B. In consideration of the granting of this permit THE UNDERSIGNED AGREES:
1. To furnish any additional information relating to the installation or use of
the industrial sewer for which this permit is sought as may be adopted in the
future.
2. To operate and maintain a control manhole and any waste pretreatment
facilities, as may be required as a condition of the acceptance into the public
sewer of the industrial wastes involved in an efficient manner at all times,
and at no expense to the Village.
3. To cooperate at all times with the Village and its representatives in their
inspecting, sampling and study of the industrial wastes, and any facilities
provided for pretreatment.
4. To notify the Village immediately in event of any accident, negligence, or
other occurrence that occasions discharge to the public sewers of any wastes or
process waters not covered by this permit.
DATED:                   SIGNED:
                                                   
(Applicant)
                                                                  
(Address of Applicant)
$                applicant fee paid this day of           , 199   .
VILLAGE OF SENECA:
BY:                                                  
Application approved and construction permit issued:
DATE:                                      VILLAGE OF SENECA
   BY:                                         
   C.   Private Sewage Disposal Applicant:
To the Village of Seneca, Illinois:
A. THE UNDERSIGNED, being the              
(Owner, Owner's Agent)
of the property located at              
Number Street
DOES HEREBY REQUEST a permit to install sanitary sewage disposal facilities to
serve the              
(Residence, Commercial
Building, etc.)
at said location.
      1.   The proposed facilities include:
                                                                                       
to be constructed in complete accordance with the plans and specifications
attached hereunto as "Exhibit A".
      2.   The area of the property is                  square feet (or
                  square meters).
      3.   The name and address of the person or firm who will perform the work
is:   .
      4.   The maximum number of persons to be served by the proposed
facilities is:                      .
      5.   The locations and nature of all sources of private or public water
supply within the one hundred feet (100') (30.5 meters) of any boundary of said
property are shown on the plat attached hereunto as "Exhibit B".
   B.   In consideration of the grant of this permit, THE UNDERSIGNED AGREES:
      1.   To furnish any additional information relating to the proposed work
that shall be requested by the Village.
      2.   To accept and abide by all provisions of the Village Code, and of
all other pertinent ordinances or regulations that may be adopted in the
future.
      3.   To operate and maintain the wastewater disposal facilities covered
by this application in a sanitary manner at all times, in compliance with all
requirements of the Village and at no expense to the Village.
      4.   To notify the Village at least twenty four (24) hours prior to
commencement of the work proposed, and again at least twenty four (24) hours
prior to the covering of any underground portions of the installation.
DATED:                   SIGNED:
                                                   
(Applicant)
                                                                  
(Address of Applicant)
$                applicant fee paid this day of           , 199   .
VILLAGE OF SENECA:
BY:                                                  
Application approved and construction permit issued:
DATE:                                      VILLAGE OF SENECA
   BY:                                         
(Ord. 83-20, 12-20-83)
CHAPTER 3
WATER AND SEWER RATES
SECTION:
8-3-1: Water User Charges
8-3-2: Wastewater Service Charge
8-3-3: Rendering Bills; Collection Of Monies
8-3-4: Payment Of Charges; Liability
8-3-5: Delinquent Charges
8-3-6: Disconnection Of Service And Additional Late Payment Penalty
8-3-7: Water Service Accounts; Deposits And Refunds
8-3-8: Disposition Of Revenues
8-3-9: Accounts And Records
8-3-10: Notice Of Sewer Rates
8-3-11: Penalty
8-3-1: WATER USER CHARGES:
The following rates shall be considered a part of the contract of every person
who takes water supplied by the village through the village waterworks system,
and every such person who takes water shall be considered as having expressed
his agreement to be bound thereby. (Ord. 09-18, 11-3-2009, eff. 1-1-2010)
   A.   Inside Village Limits: Within the corporate limits of the village there
are hereby established rates and charges for the use of and for the services
supplied by the municipal waterworks system of the village of Seneca, county of
LaSalle.
The charge for water service shall be based upon the amount of water consumed
each month on each premises supplied with water service by said system as
follows:
 
Gallons     Rate
First 1,000 $11.50 (minimum charge)
Over 1,000  5.75 per 1,000 gallons
 
The charge for senior citizens sixty five (65) years or over shall be:
 
Gallons     Rate
First 1,000 $4.00 (minimum charge)
Over 1,000  5.75 per 1,000 gallons
 
Provided, however, that the minimum charges shall apply for each apartment,
flat, place of business, mobile home, family unit or dwelling unit served by or
through each service connection for each month or fraction thereof. (Ord. 09-
18, 11-3-2009, eff. 1-1-2010; amd. Ord. 10-04, 3-16-2010)
   B.   Outside Village Limits: Outside the corporate limits of the village
there are hereby established rates and charges for the use of and for the
services supplied by the municipal waterworks system of the village of Seneca,
county of LaSalle.
      1.   Water Service: The charge for water service shall be based upon the
amount of water consumed each month on each premises supplied with water
service by said system as follows:
 
Gallons     Rate
First 1,000 $17.00 (minimum charge)
Over 1,000  6.90 per 1,000 gallons
 
Provided, however, that the minimum charges shall apply for each apartment,
flat, place of business, mobile home, family dwelling unit served by or through
each service connection for each month or fraction thereof.
   C.   Water Hookups: The charge for connection to new or existing water
mains, or for reconnection to new or rebuilt water mains, shall be one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00), and such connection or reconnection shall only be with the
permission of the village.
   D.   Late Charges: Any person (with the exception of taxing bodies and
churches) that does not pay any bill or account rendered for water or water
service furnished by the village within fifteen (15) days from the date of said
bill or account, shall pay a late charge of ten percent (10%) of the amount of
said bill.
   E.   Review Of Charges: The adequacy of the water service charge shall be
reviewed not less often than annually by certified public accountants for the
village in their annual audit report. The water service charge shall be revised
periodically to reflect a change in local capital costs or OM&R costs. In
addition, there shall be an automatic increase of two percent (2%) of water and
sewer rates effective April 1 each year, commencing April 1, 2010.
   F.   Revenues:
      1.   Revenues To Be Separate: All revenues and monies derived from the
operation of the water system shall be deposited in the water account of the
water fund. All such revenues and monies shall be held by the village treasurer
separate and apart from his private fund and separate and apart from all other
funds of the village, not more than ten (10) days after receipt of the same or
at such more frequent intervals as may be from time to time directed by the
president and board of trustees. The village treasurer shall receive all such
revenues and all other funds and monies incident to such system as the same may
be delivered to him and be deposited the same in the account of the fund
designated as the water fund of the village. Said treasurer shall administer
such fund in every respect in the manner provided by statute of the revised
cities and villages act, effective January 1942.
      2.   Accounts: The village treasurer shall establish a proper system of
accounts and shall keep proper books, records and accounts in which complete
and correct entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the water
system and at regular annual intervals, he shall cause to be made an audit by
an independent auditing concern of the books to show the receipts and
disbursements of the water system.
      3.   Audit Report: In addition to the customary operating statements, the
annual audit report shall also reflect the revenues and operating expenses of
the water facilities, including a replacement cost. The financial information
to be shown on the audit report shall include the following:
         a.   Flow data showing total gallons received at the water plant for
the current fiscal year.
         b.   Billing data to show total number of gallons billed per fiscal
year.
         c.   Number of users connected to the system.
         d.   Number of nonmetered users.
   G.   Computation Of Rates And Charges: The method for computation of rates
and service charges established for user charges in subsections A and B of this
section shall be made available to a user within thirty (30) days of receipt of
a written request for such. Any disagreement over the method used, or in the
computations thereof, shall be remedied by the village council within sixty
(60) days after notification of a formal written appeal outlining the
discrepancies.
   H.   Access To Records: The Illinois environmental protection agency or its
authorized representatives shall have access to any books, documents, papers
and records of the village which are applicable to the village system of user
charges for the purpose of making audit, examination, excerpts and
transcriptions thereof, to ensure compliance with the terms of the loan
agreement and rules for any state loan. (Ord. 09-18, 11-3-2009, eff. 1-1-2010)
8-3-2: WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE:
   A.   Basis For Wastewater Service Charge:
      1.   The wastewater service charge for the use of and for service
supplied by the wastewater facilities of the village shall consist of a basic
user charge for operation and maintenance plus replacement.
 
Gallons    Rate
1,000      $15.00
Over 1,000 3.35 per 1,000 gallons
 
      2.   The adequacy of the wastewater service charge shall be reviewed
annually by certified public accountants for the village in their annual audit
report. The wastewater service charge shall be revised periodically to reflect
a change in debt service or a change in operation and maintenance costs
including replacement costs.
   B.   Wastewater Hookups: The charge for connection to new or existing sewer
mains, or for reconnection to new or rebuilt sewer mains, shall be one thousand
two hundred fifty dollars ($1,250.00), and such connection or reconnection
shall only be with the permission of the village.
   C.   Late Charges: Any person (with the exception of taxing bodies and
churches) that does not pay any bill or account rendered for water or water
service furnished by the village within fifteen (15) days from the date of said
bill or account, shall pay a late charge of ten percent (10%) of the amount of
said bill.
   D.   Review Of Charges: The adequacy of the water service charge shall be
reviewed not less often than annually by certified public accountants for the
village in their annual audit report. The water service charge shall be revised
periodically to reflect a change in local capital costs or OM&R costs. In
addition, there shall be an automatic increase of two percent (2%) of water and
sewer rates effective April 1 each year, commencing April 1, 2010.
   E.   Measurement Of Flow: The volume of flow used for computing the basic
user charges and surcharges shall be the metered water consumption read to the
lowest even increments of one thousand (1,000) gallons.
      1.   If the person discharging wastes into the public sewers procures any
part, or all, of his water from sources other than the village public
waterworks system, all or a part of which is discharged into the public sewers,
the person shall install and maintain, at his expense, water meters of a type
approved by the village for the purpose of determining the volume of water
obtained from these other sources.
      2.   Devices for measuring the volume of waste discharged may be required
by the village if these volumes cannot otherwise be determined from the metered
water consumption records.
      3.   Metering devices for determining the volume of waste shall be
installed, owned and maintained by the person. Following approval and
installation, such meters may not be removed, unless service is canceled,
without the consent of the village.
   F.   Computation Of Charges:
      1.   Basic User Rate: The basic user charge shall be based on water usage
as recorded by water meters and/or sewage meters for wastes having the
following normal concentrations:
         a.   A five (5) day, twenty degree centigrade (20°C) biochemical
oxygen demand (BOD) of one hundred seventy five milligrams per liter (175 mg/
l).
         b.   A suspended solids (SS) content of two hundred milligrams per
liter (200 mg/l). It shall consist of operation and maintenance costs plus
replacement and shall be computed as follows:
            (1)   Estimate and project annual review required to operate and
maintain the wastewater facilities including a replacement fund for the year,
for all work categories.
            (2)   Proportion the estimated costs to wastewater facility
categories by volume, suspended solids and BOD, if possible.
            (3)   Estimate wastewater volume, pounds of SS and pounds of BOD to
be treated.
            (4)   Proportion the estimated costs to nonindustrial and
industrial users by volume, suspended solids and BOD.
            (5)   Compute costs per one thousand (1,000) gallons for normal
sewage strength.
            (6)   Compute surcharge costs per one thousand (1,000) gallons per
milligrams per liter in excess of normal sewage strength for BOD and SS.
      2.   Surcharge:
         a.   Surcharge Rates: The rate for surcharge of BOD shall be eighty
six cents ($0.86) and the rate for surcharge of SS shall be sixty seven cents
($0.67).
         b.   Surcharge Levied: A surcharge will be levied to all users whose
waters exceed the normal concentration for BOD (175 mg/l) and SS (200 mg/l).
The surcharge will be based on water usage as recorded by water meters and/or
sewage meters for all wastes which exceed the one hundred seventy five
milligrams per liter (175 mg/l) and two hundred milligrams per liter (200 mg/l)
concentration for BOD and SS respectively.
         c.   Computing Surcharge: The concentration of wastes used for
computing surcharges shall be established by waste sampling. Waste sampling
shall be performed as often as may be deemed necessary by the village and shall
be binding as a basis for surcharges.
   G.   Adjustments Related to Filling Swimming Pools.
      1.   Once during any calendar year, a user of the combined water and
wastewater system of the Village of Seneca may apply to receive an adjustment
of no more than $50.00 to the wastewater user rate ordinarily charged by the
Village of Seneca for any water to be used to fill a qualifying swimming pool.
A qualifying swimming pool is defined as a swimming pool with a total capacity
of not less than three thousand (3,000) gallons.
      2.   The Village Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to receive
applications for said credit. Such applications shall set forth sufficient
information necessary to determine the amount of water to be used to fill the
swimming pool, along with such other information as may be required by the
Village. The Village Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to review such
application and confirm and verify the accuracy of the information contained on
such application, which review may include an inspection of the pool to be
filled by the applicant.
      3.   The following limitations and conditions shall apply to this credit:
         a.   A user of the combined water and wastewater system shall only be
eligible to receive this credit once per calendar year;
         b.   A user of only the water system will not be eligible to receive
this credit; and
         c.   The application to the Village Clerk must be submitted and
approved prior to the credit being applied to the user’s account.
      4.   Upon receipt of an application by the Village Clerk and a review of
the application to the satisfaction of the Village Clerk, and upon a
determination that each of the requirements of this section have been
satisfied, the Village Clerk shall approve such application and give notice to
the user. Upon approval of his or her application, the applicant shall receive
a credit of no more than $50.00 to be applied towards the wastewater portion of
the user’s account. (Ord. 09-18, 11-3-2009, eff. 1-1-2010; amd. Ord. 24-07, 4-
16-2024)
8-3-3: RENDERING BILLS; COLLECTION OF MONIES:
It is hereby made the duty of the village to render bills for service and for
all rates and charges in connection therewith and to collect all monies due
thereon. (Ord. 09-18, 11-3-2009, eff. 1-1-2010)
8-3-4: PAYMENT OF CHARGES; LIABILITY:
The rates and intervals as established by the commissioner of public property
with the consent of the council. The owner of the premises, the occupant and
the user of the service shall be jointly and severally liable to pay for the
service on such premises and the service is furnished to the premises by the
village, only upon the condition that the owner of the premises, occupant and
user of the service are jointly and severally liable therefor to the village.
All bills for service shall be mailed on the twenty eighth day of each month
and shall be payable not later than the close of the business day on the
seventeenth day of the following month. A penalty of ten percent (10%) shall be
added to all bills not paid on the seventeenth day of the month following the
billing. When the seventeenth day shall be a weekend or a legal holiday, then
such bills of service shall be payable on the next succeeding secular day
without any additional penalty. (Ord. 09-18, 11-3-2009, eff. 1-1-2010)
8-3-5: DELINQUENT CHARGES:
   A.   Delinquency Declared: In the event the charges for service are not paid
within thirty (30) days after rendition of the bill for such service, such
charges shall be deemed and are hereby declared to be delinquent, and
thereafter such delinquencies shall constitute liens upon the real estate for
which such service is supplied. The village collector is hereby authorized and
directed to file from time to time as directed by the council sworn, detailed
statements showing such delinquencies in the office of the recorder of deeds of
LaSalle County, and the filing of such statements shall be deemed notice of the
lien for payment of the service rendered.
   B.   Collection Of Delinquency:
      1.   Duty Of Village Attorney; Liens: It shall be the duty of the village
attorney or corporation counsel to assist in the collection of water and
sewerage bills if the same is requested by the village collector. It shall also
be the duty of the village attorney or corporation counsel to prepare all liens
and lien notices against persons and owners of property, whose bills are deemed
delinquent by the provisions of this chapter (and to have the village clerk
sign and swear to same) and file said liens and lien notices in the office of
the recorder of deeds of LaSalle County.
      2.   Foreclosure: The village shall have the power to foreclose such lien
in like manner and with like effect as in the foreclosure of mortgages on real
estate.
      3.   Civil Action: The village is authorized from time to time to sue the
occupant or users of real estate in a civil action to recover money due for
water and sewerage services, plus a reasonable attorney fee to be fixed by the
court; provided, however, when judgment is obtained in such civil action, the
foregoing provisions in this section with respect to filing sworn statements of
such delinquencies in the office of the recorder of deeds and creating a lien
against such real estate for such delinquency and judgment in such civil suit,
shall operate as a release and waiver of such lien for said amount.
   C.   Notice Of Intention To Purchase Or Foreclose: It shall be the duty of
any person about to purchase any premises within the corporate limits of the
village, or of any mortgagee, trustee or lien claimant holding any mortgage,
trust deed or lien against any premises within the village, to first ascertain
from the office of the village clerk as to any delinquent water or sewer bill,
tax, rate, rent or service that may have accrued or be against said premises,
before purchasing the premises or instituting proceedings foreclosing said
mortgage, trust deed, or lien and to notify the village clerk in writing as to
his intention of purchasing said property or foreclosing said mortgage, trust
deed or lien, and twenty four (24) hours' notice shall be deemed sufficient
notice under this section.
   D.   Additional Remedies: In addition to any other remedy provided herein
for the enforcement or collection of any water or sewer tax, rate of rent, all
such rates or rents shall be a lien upon the premises and real estate upon and
for which the same is used or supplied. Such liens shall attach when the water
or sewer bill becomes delinquent, which is hereby declared to be fifteen (15)
days after the due date of payment as set forth on said bill, and may be
enforced together with the cost and penalties by foreclosure in equity in any
court having jurisdiction in the same manner and with like force and effect as
the foreclosure of liens of mortgages and trust deeds. (Ord. 84-05, 6-5-1984;
amd. 1994 Code)
8-3-6: DISCONNECTION OF SERVICE AND ADDITIONAL LATE PAYMENT PENALTY:
If the rates or charges for such service are not paid within thirty (30) days
after rendition of the bill for such services, or upon a violation of any rule,
regulation or provision contained in this chapter, the village collector or
attorney is hereby authorized and directed to notify in writing the owner of
the premises, the occupant thereof, and the user of the service that such
delinquency or violation exists and that service shall be discontinued. Such
notice shall be given at least fifteen (15) days prior to the discontinuation
of service and shall state the amount of any delinquency or shall state the
rule, regulation or provision of this chapter deemed to be in violation; said
notice shall further state that if the delinquency or violation is not cured or
paid within fifteen (15) days, there will be an additional late charge of
twenty five dollars ($25.00), and the service shall be discontinued. The twenty
five dollar ($25.00) late fee shall apply whether or not the service is
discontinued. If the owner, or occupant or user of the service disputes the
alleged violation or delinquency, they may within said fifteen (15) day period
request a consultation with the commissioner of the department of public
property or the village council. The decision of the commissioner of the
department of public property or the council shall be final. Reconnection shall
be made as long as all delinquent amounts are paid, and upon the cessation of
all violations of this chapter. (Ord. 12-17, 11-6-2012)
8-3-7: WATER SERVICE ACCOUNTS; DEPOSITS AND REFUNDS:
   A.   In order to establish a new water/sewer account, the property owner
must provide a copy of their warrant deed, quitclaim deed, or other proof of
ownership of the property.
   B.   Account names will not be altered without proof of change of ownership.
   C.   Effective August 1, 2020, water service accounts shall be kept in the
name of the owner of the property served, and only such owner shall be
recognized as the consumer.
   D.   The owner of the premises served shall be held responsible for the
payment of all water rentals and all other proper charges in connection with
water service to his premises, but such payments will be accepted from tenants
residing at the premises if tendered by them, provided that accepting payments
from tenants shall not subsequently relieve the owner of the premises from the
responsibility of paying water rentals or other service charges when due.
   E.   No refunds or discounts on water rentals shall be made on account of
the premises having been vacant or no water used unless water has been shut off
by the Water and Sewer Department upon written request of the owner or
consumer. (Ord. 84-05, 6-5-84; amd. Ord. 95-09, 5-16-95; Ord. 20-10, 7-7-2020;
Ord. 22-11, 8-16-2022)
8-3-8: DISPOSITION OF REVENUES:
   A.   Funds Separated: All revenues and monies derived from the operation of
the waterworks and sewerage system shall be held separate and apart from all
other funds of the Village, and all of said funds without any deductions
whatever, shall be delivered to the Village Treasurer not more than fourteen
(14) days after receipt of the same or at such more frequent intervals as may
from time to time be directed by the Council.
   B.   Waterworks and Sewerage Funds: The Village Treasurer shall receive all
such revenues from the waterworks and sewerage system and all other funds and
monies incident to the operation of such system as the same may be delivered to
him and deposit the same in a separate fund designed as the "Water and Sewer
Operation" of the Village, and the Treasurer shall administer such funds in
every respect in the manner provided by the Illinois Municipal Code and all
other laws thereunto enabling.
   C.   Transfer of Funds: The Council shall not transfer any funds out of any
of the Water and Sewer Department accounts to any other department. (Ord. 84-
05, 6-5-84)
8-3-9: ACCOUNTS AND RECORDS:
   A.   Books and Accounts; Audit: The Village Clerk shall establish a proper
system of accounts and shall keep proper books, records and accounts in which
complete and correct entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the
waterworks and sewerage systems, and at regular annual intervals he shall cause
to be made an audit by an independent auditing concern of the books to show the
receipts and disbursements of the waterworks and sewerage systems. (Ord. 84-05,
6-5-84; 1994 Code)
   B.   Access to Sewer Records: The Environmental Protection Agency or its
authorized representative shall have access to any books, documents, papers and
records of the Village which are applicable to the Village system of sewer user
charges for the purpose of making audit, examination, excerpts and
transcriptions thereof to insure compliance with the terms of the special and
general conditions to any State or Federal grant. (Ord. 83-20, 12-20-83)
8-3-10: NOTICE OF SEWER RATES:
Each sewer user will be notified annually by the Village in conjunction with a
regular bill, of the rate and that portion of the user charge or ad valorem
taxes which are attributable to wastewater treatment services, including the
financial information of Section
8-3-8 of this Chapter. (Ord. 83-20, 12-20-83)
8-3-11: PENALTY:
Any violation of this Chapter shall be punishable by fine not exceeding five
hundred dollars ($500.00) for each violation. (Ord. 84-05, 6-5-84)
CHAPTER 4
CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL
SECTION:
8-4-1: Cross Connection Control; General Policy
8-4-2: Definitions
8-4-3: Water System
8-4-4: Cross Connection Prohibited
8-4-5: Survey And Investigations
8-4-6: Where Protection Is Required
8-4-7: Type Of Protection Required
8-4-8: Backflow Prevention Devices
8-4-9: Inspection And Maintenance
8-4-10: Booster Pumps
8-4-11: Violations
8-4-1: CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL; GENERAL POLICY:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is:
      1.   To protect the public water supply from contamination or pollution
by isolating within the customer's water system contaminants or pollutants
which could backflow through the service connection into the public water
supply system.
      2.   To promote the elimination or control of existing cross connections,
actual or potential, between the public or consumer's potable water system and
nonpotable water systems, plumbing fixtures and sources or systems containing
substances of unknown or questionable safety.
      3.   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross
connection control which will prevent the contamination or pollution of the
public and consumer's potable water systems.
   B.   Application: This chapter shall apply to all premises served by the
public potable water supply system of the village of Seneca.
   C.   Policy: The owner or official custodian shall be responsible for
protection of the public water supply system from contamination due to backflow
or backsiphonage of contaminants through the customer's water service
connection. If, in the judgment of the superintendent of water or his
authorized representative, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary
for the safety of the public water supply system, the superintendent of water
shall give notice to the consumer to install such approved backflow prevention
device at each service connection to the premises. The consumer shall
immediately install such approved device or devices at his own expense;
failure, refusal or inability on the part of the consumer to install such
device or devices immediately shall constitute grounds for discontinuing water
service to the premises until such device or devices have been installed. The
consumer shall retain records of installation, maintenance, testing and repair
as required in subsection 8-4-5D4 of this chapter for a period of at least five
(5) years. The superintendent of water may require the consumer to submit a
cross connection inspection report to the village of Seneca to assist in
determining whether or not service line protection will be required. All cross
connection inspections shall be conducted by a cross connection control device
inspector certified by the Illinois environmental protection agency. (Ord. 15-
03, 3-17-2015, eff. 4-1-2015)
8-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and
enforcement of these regulations:
    AGENCY: Illinois environmental protection agency.
   APPROVED: Backflow prevention devices or methods approved by the Research
Foundation For Cross Connection Control of the University Of Southern
California, Association Of State Sanitary Engineers, American Water Works
Association, American National Standards Institute or certified by the National
Sanitation Foundation, or listed in the Illinois plumbing code, 77 Illinois
administrative code 890.
   AUXILIARY WATER SYSTEM: Any water source or system on or available to the
premises other than the public water supply system and includes the water
supplied by the system. These auxiliary waters may include water from another
purveyor's public water supply system; or water from a source such as wells,
lakes, or streams, or process fluids; or used water. These waters may be
polluted or contaminated or objectionable or constitute a water source or
system over which the water purveyor does not have control.
   BACKFLOW: The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures, or substances into
the distribution pipes of a potable water system from any source other than the
intended source of the potable water supply.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: Any device, method, or type of construction
intended to prevent backflow into a potable water system. All devices used for
backflow prevention in Illinois must meet the standards of the Illinois
plumbing code and the Illinois environmental protection agency.
   CONSUMER OR CUSTOMER: The owner, official custodian or person in control of
any premises supplied by or in any manner connected to a public water system.
   CONSUMER'S WATER SYSTEM: Any water system located on the customer's
premises. A building plumbing system is considered to be a customer's water
system.
   CONTAMINATION: An impairment of the quality of the water by entrance of any
substance to a degree that could create a health hazard.
   CROSS CONNECTION: Any physical connection or arrangement between two (2)
otherwise separate piping systems, one of which contains potable water and the
other a substance of unknown or questionable safety or quality, whereby there
may be a flow from one system into the other.
   DIRECT CROSS CONNECTION: A cross connection formed when a water system is
physically joined to a source of unknown or unsafe substance.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY: An assembly composed of two (2) single,
independently acting check valves approved under ASSE standard 1015. A double
check valve assembly must include tight shutoff valves located at each end of
the assembly and suitable connections for testing the watertightness of each
check valve.
   FIXED PROPER AIR GAP: The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the water discharge point and the flood level rim of the
receptacle.
   HEALTH HAZARD: Any condition, device or practice in a water system or its
operation resulting from a real or potential danger to the health and well
being of consumers. The word "severe" as used to qualify "health hazard" means
a hazard to the health of the user that could be expected to result in death or
significant reduction in the quality of life.
   INDIRECT CROSS CONNECTION: A cross connection through which an unknown
substance can be forced, drawn by vacuum or otherwise introduced into a safe
potable water system.
   INSPECTION: A plumbing inspection to examine carefully and critically all
materials, fixtures, piping and appurtenances, appliances and installations of
a plumbing system for compliance with requirements of the Illinois plumbing
code, 77 Illinois administrative code 890.
   NONPOTABLE WATER: Water not safe for drinking, personal, or culinary use as
determined by the requirements of 35 Illinois administrative code 601 et seq.
   PLUMBING: The actual installation, repair, maintenance, alteration or
extension of a plumbing system by any person. Plumbing includes all piping,
fixtures, appurtenances and appliances for a supply of water for all purposes,
including, without limitation, lawn sprinkler systems, from the source of a
private water supply on the premises or from the main in the street, alley or
at the curb, to within and about any building or buildings where a person or
persons live, work or assemble. Plumbing includes all piping, from discharge of
pumping units to and including pressure tanks in water supply systems. Plumbing
includes all piping, fixtures, appurtenances, and appliances for a building
drain and a sanitary drainage and related ventilation system of any building or
buildings where a person or persons live, work or assemble from the point of
connection of such building drain to the building sewer or private sewage
disposal system five feet (5') beyond the foundation walls.
   POLLUTION: The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic,
radiological, or biological) in water that tends to degrade its quality so as
to constitute a hazard or impair the usefulness of the water.
   POTABLE WATER: Water which meets the requirement of 35 Illinois
administrative code 601 et seq., for drinking, culinary, and domestic purposes.
   POTENTIAL CROSS CONNECTION: A fixture or appurtenance with threaded hose
connection, tapered spout, or other connection which would facilitate extension
of the water supply line beyond its legal termination point.
   PROCESS FLUID(S): Any fluid or solution which may be chemically,
biologically or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form or concentration
such as would constitute a health, pollution, or system hazard if introduced
into the public or a consumer's potable water system. This includes, but is not
limited to:
      1.   Polluted or contaminated waters;
      2.   Process waters;
      3.   Used waters originating from the public water supply system which
may have deteriorated in sanitary quality;
      4.   Cooling waters;
      5.   Questionable or contaminated natural waters taken from wells, lakes,
streams, or irrigation systems;
      6.   Chemicals in solution or suspension;
      7.   Oils, gases, acids, alkalis and other liquid and gaseous fluids used
in industrial or other processes, or for firefighting purposes.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY: All mains, pipes and structures through which water is
obtained and distributed to the public, including wells and well structures,
intakes and cribs, pumping stations, treatment plants, reservoirs, storage
tanks and appurtenances, collectively or severally, actually used or intended
for use for the purpose of furnishing water for drinking or general domestic
use and which serve at least fifteen (15) service connections or which
regularly serve at least twenty five (25) persons at least sixty (60) days per
year. A public water supply is either a "community water supply" or a
"noncommunity water supply".
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: A device containing a
minimum of two (2) independently acting check valves together with an
automatically operated pressure differential relief valve located between the
two (2) check valves and approved under ASSE standard 1013. During normal flow
and at the cessation of normal flow, the pressure between these two (2) checks
shall be less than the supply pressure. In case of leakage of either check
valve, the differential relief valve, by discharging to the atmosphere, shall
operate to maintain the pressure between the check valves at less than the
supply pressure. The unit must include tightly closing shutoff valves located
at each end of the device, and each device shall be fitted with properly
located test cocks.
   SERVICE CONNECTION: The opening, including all fittings and appurtenances,
at the water main through which water is supplied to the user.
   SURVEY: The collection of information pertaining to a customer's piping
system regarding the location of all connections to the public water supply
system and must include the location, type and most recent inspection and
testing date of all cross connection control devices and methods located within
the customer's piping system. The survey must be in written form, and should
not be an actual plumbing inspection.
   SYSTEM HAZARD: A condition through which an aesthetically objectionable or
degrading material not dangerous to health may enter the public water supply
system or a consumer's potable water system.
   USED WATER: Any water supplied by a public water supply system to a
consumer's water system after it has passed through the service connection and
is no longer under the control of the water supply official custodian.
   WATER PURVEYOR: The owner or official custodian of a public water system.
(Ord. 15-03, 3-17-2015, eff. 4-1-2015)
8-4-3: WATER SYSTEM:
   A.   The water system shall be considered as made up of two (2) parts: the
public water supply system and the consumer's water system.
   B.   The public water supply system shall consist of the source facilities
and the distribution system, and shall include all those facilities of the
potable water system under the control of the superintendent of water up to the
point where the consumer's water system begins.
   C.   The source shall include all components of the facilities utilized in
the production, treatment, storage, and delivery of water to the public water
supply distribution system.
   D.   The public water supply distribution system shall include the network
of conduits used to deliver water from the source to the consumer's water
system.
   E.   The consumer's water system shall include all parts of the facilities
beyond the service connection used to convey water from the public water supply
distribution system to points of use. (Ord. 15-03, 3-17-2015, eff. 4-1-2015)
8-4-4: CROSS CONNECTION PROHIBITED:
   A.   Connections between potable water systems and other systems or
equipment containing water or other substances of unknown or questionable
quality are prohibited except when and where approved cross connection control
devices or methods are installed, tested and maintained to ensure proper
operation on a continuing basis.
   B.   1. No physical connection shall be permitted between the potable
portion of a supply and any other water supply not of equal or better
bacteriological and chemical quality as determined by inspection and analysis
by the agency.
      2.   There shall be no arrangement or connection by which an unsafe
substance may enter a supply. (Ord. 15-03, 3-17-2015, eff. 4-1-2015)
8-4-5: SURVEY AND INVESTIGATIONS:
   A.   The consumer's premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the
approved cross connection control device inspector for the inspection of the
presence or absence of cross connections within the consumer's premises, and
testing, repair and maintenance of cross connection control devices and
assemblies within the consumer's premises.
   B.   On request by the superintendent of water, or his authorized
representative, the consumer shall furnish information regarding the piping
system or systems or water use within the consumer's premises. The consumer's
premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the superintendent of water
for the verification of information submitted by the consumer to the public
water supply custodian regarding cross connection survey or inspection results.
   C.   It shall be the responsibility of the water consumer to arrange
periodic surveys of water use practices on his premises to determine whether
there are actual or potential cross connections to his water system through
which contaminants or pollutants could backflow into his or the public potable
water system. All cross connection control or other plumbing inspections must
be conducted in accordance with the Illinois plumbing license law, 225 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 320/3(1).
   D.   It is the responsibility of the water consumer to prevent backflow into
the public water system by ensuring that:
      1.   Removal Of Cross Connections: All cross connections are removed; or
approved cross connection control devices are installed for control of backflow
and backsiphonage.
      2.   Installation Of Cross Connection Control Devices: Cross connection
control devices shall be installed in accordance with the manufacturer's
instructions.
      3.   Inspection: Cross connection control devices shall be inspected at
the time of installation and at least annually by a person approved by the
agency as a cross connection control device inspector (CCCDI). The inspection
of mechanical devices shall include physical testing in accordance with the
manufacturer's instructions.
      4.   Testing And Records:
         a.   Each device shall be tested at the time of installation and at
least annually or more frequently if recommended by the manufacturer.
         b.   Records submitted to the community public water supply shall be
available for inspection by agency personnel in accordance with 415 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/19.
         c.   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of the
most recent test, name of CCCDI, and type and date of repairs.
         d.   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
            (1)   Date of each test;
            (2)   Name and approval number of person performing the test;
            (3)   Test results;
            (4)   Repairs and servicing required;
            (5)   Repairs and date completed; and
            (6)   Service performed and date completed. (Ord. 15-03, 3-17-2015,
eff. 4-1-2015)
8-4-6: WHERE PROTECTION IS REQUIRED:
   A.   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections to
the public water supply as described in the plumbing code, 77 Illinois
administrative code 890 and the agency's regulations 35 Illinois administrative
code 653. In addition, an approved backflow prevention assembly shall be
installed on each service line to a consumer's water system serving premises,
where, in the judgment of the superintendent of water, actual or potential
hazards to the public water supply system exist.
   B.   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer's water system serving premises where the following
conditions exist:
      1.   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless such auxiliary
supply is accepted as an additional source by the superintendent of water and
the source is approved by the Illinois environmental protection agency.
      2.   Premises on which any substance is handled which can create an
actual or potential hazard to the public water supply system. This shall
include premises having sources or systems containing process fluids or waters
originating from the public water supply system, which are no longer under the
sanitary control of the superintendent of water.
      3.   Premises having internal cross connections that, in the judgment of
the superintendent of water and the cross connection control device inspector,
are not correctable or intricate plumbing arrangements which makes it
impractical to determine whether or not cross connections exist.
      4.   Premises where, because of security requirements or other
prohibitions or restrictions, it is impossible or impractical to make a
complete cross connection survey.
      5.   Premises having a repeated history of cross connections being
established or reestablished.
   C.   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections to
the public water supply as described in the plumbing code, 77 Illinois
administrative code 890 and the agency's regulations 35 Illinois administrative
code 653. In addition, an approved backflow prevention device shall be
installed on each service line to a consumer's water system serving, but not
necessarily limited to, the following types of facilities unless the
superintendent of water determines that no actual or potential hazard to the
public water supply system exists:
      1.   Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics, nursing homes.
      2.   Laboratories.
      3.   Piers, docks, waterfront facilities.
      4.   Sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations or stormwater
pumping stations.
      5.   Food or beverage processing plants.
      6.   Chemical plants.
      7.   Metal plating industries.
      8.   Petroleum processing or storage plants.
      9.   Radioactive material processing plants or nuclear reactors.
      10.   Car washes.
      11.   Pesticide, herbicide or extermination plants and trucks.
      12.   Farm service and fertilizer plants and trucks. (Ord. 15-03, 3-17-
2015, eff. 4-1-2015)
8-4-7: TYPE OF PROTECTION REQUIRED:
   A.   The type of protection required under section
8-4-6 of this chapter shall depend on the degree of hazard, which exists as
follows:
      1.   An approved fixed proper air gap separation shall be installed where
the public water supply system may be contaminated with substances that could
cause a severe (high) health hazard.
      2.   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention device shall be installed where the
public water supply system may be contaminated with a substance that could
cause a system or (high) health hazard.
      3.   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention assembly, or a double check valve
assembly, shall be installed where the public water supply system may be
polluted with substances that could cause a pollution hazard not dangerous to
health (low health hazard).
   B.   Where a public water supply or an auxiliary water supply is used for a
fire protection system, reduced pressure principle backflow preventers shall be
installed on fire safety systems connected to the public water supply when:
      1.   The fire safety system contains antifreeze, fire retardant or other
chemicals;
      2.   Water is pumped into the system from another source; or
      3.   Water flows by gravity from a nonpotable source; or water can be
pumped into the fire safety system from any other source;
      4.   There is a connection whereby another source can be connected to the
sprinkler system.
   C.   All other fire safety systems connected to the potable water supply
shall be protected by a double check valve assembly on metered service lines
and a double detector check valve assembly on unmetered service. (Ord. 15-03,
3-17-2015, eff. 4-1-2015)
8-4-8: BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES:
   A.   All backflow prevention devices or methods required by this chapter
shall be approved by the Research Foundation For Cross Connection Control of
the University Of Southern California, American Water Works Association,
American Society Of Sanitary Engineering, or American National Standards
Institute or certified by the National Sanitation Foundation to be in
compliance with applicable industry specification, and listed in the Illinois
plumbing code, 77 Illinois administrative code 890.
   B.   Installation of approved devices shall be made in accordance with the
manufacturer's instructions and 35 Illinois administrative code 653.802, and
only as specified by the Research Foundation For Cross Connection Control of
the University Of Southern California or applicable industry specifications.
Maintenance as recommended by the manufacturer of the device shall be
performed. Manufacturer's maintenance manual shall be available on site. (Ord.
15-03, 3-17-2015, eff. 4-1-2015)
8-4-9: INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the consumer at any premises on which backflow
prevention devices required by these regulations are installed to have
inspection, tests, maintenance and repair made in accordance with the following
schedule or more often where inspections indicate a need or are specified in
manufacturer's instructions:
      1.   Fixed proper air gap separations shall be inspected to document that
a proper vertical distance is maintained between the discharge point of the
service line and the flood level rim of the receptacle at the time of
installation and at least annually thereafter. Corrections to improper or
bypassed air gaps shall be made within twenty four (24) hours.
      2.   Double check valve assemblies shall be inspected and tested at time
of installation and at least annually thereafter, and required service
performed within fifteen (15) days.
      3.   Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention devices shall be
tested at the time of installation and at least annually or more frequently if
recommended by the manufacturer, and required service performed within five (5)
days.
   B.   Testing shall be performed by a person who has been approved by the
agency as competent to service the device. Proof of approval shall be in
writing.
   C.   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most recent
test or visual inspection, name of tester, and type and date of repairs.
   D.   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
      1.   Date of each test or visual inspection;
      2.   Name and approval number of person performing the test or visual
inspection;
      3.   Test results;
      4.   Repairs or servicing required;
      5.   Repairs and date completed; and
      6.   Servicing performed and date completed.
   E.   Whenever backflow prevention devices required by these regulations are
found to be defective, they shall be repaired or replaced at the expense of the
consumer without delay as required by subsection A of this section.
   F.   Backflow prevention devices shall not be bypassed, made inoperative,
removed or otherwise made ineffective without specific authorization by the
superintendent of water. (Ord. 15-03, 3-17-2015, eff. 4-1-2015)
8-4-10: BOOSTER PUMPS:
   A.   Where a booster pump has been installed on the service line to or
within any premises, such pump shall be equipped with a low pressure cutoff
device designed to shut off the booster pump when the pressure in the service
line on the suction side of the pump drops to twenty (20) psi or less.
   B.   It shall be the duty of the water consumer to maintain the low pressure
cutoff device in proper working order and to certify to the superintendent of
water, at least once a year, that the device is operable. (Ord. 15-03, 3-17-
2015, eff. 4-1-2015)
8-4-11: VIOLATIONS:
   A.   The superintendent of water shall deny or discontinue, after reasonable
notice to the occupants thereof, the water service to any premises wherein any
cross connection control survey is not completed and turned in or backflow
prevention device required by these regulations is not installed, tested,
maintained and repaired in a manner acceptable to the superintendent of water,
or if it is found that the backflow prevention device has been removed or
bypassed, or if an unprotected cross connection exists on the premises, or if a
low pressure cutoff required by these regulations is not installed and
maintained in working order.
   B.   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the consumer
has completed, corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in
conformance with these regulations and to the satisfaction of the
superintendent of water, and the required reconnection fee is paid.
   C.   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the consumer
has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in conformance with
these regulations to the satisfaction of the superintendent of utilities/
operations.
   D.   Neither the superintendent of water, or its agents or assigns shall be
liable to any customers of the village of Seneca for any injury, damages, or
lost revenues which may result from termination of said customer's water supply
in accordance with the terms of this chapter, whether or not said termination
of the water supply was with or without notice.
   E.   The consumer responsible for backsiphoned material or contamination
through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs
through an illegal cross connection or an improperly installed, maintained or
repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear the cost of
cleanup of the potable water supply system.
   F.   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter shall be
served with written notice stating the notice of the violation and providing a
reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender
shall, within the period of time stated in such notice, permanently cease all
violation.
   G.   Any person who has knowledge of a backflow into any potable water
system or the public water system must report that backflow to the water
department immediately upon becoming aware of the backflow. Any person
violating any of the provisions of these rules and regulations in addition to
the fine provided, shall become liable to village of Seneca for any expense,
loss or damage occasioned by reason of such violations, whether the same was
caused before or after notice. (Ord. 15-03, 3-17-2015, eff. 4-1-2015)
TITLE 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
9-1-1: Building Code Adopted
9-1-2: Additions, Insertions And Changes
9-1-3: Evaluating Committee Established (Rep. by Ord. 16-08, 10-18-2016)
9-1-4: Saving Clause
9-1-5: Effective Date
9-1-6: Jurisdictional Limits
9-1-7: Debts Owed; Permits
9-1-1: BUILDING CODE ADOPTED:
The international building code, 2024 edition, and the international
residential code, 2021 edition, are hereby adopted as the building code of the
Village of Seneca, LaSalle and Grundy Counties, in the State of Illinois; for
the control of buildings and structures as herein provided; and each and all of
the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of the
international building code, 2024 edition, and the international residential
code, 2021 edition, are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof as
if fully set out in this section, and all future editions of the international
building code and international residential code, as published by the
International Code Council, except as set forth below. (Ord. 16-08, 10-18-2016;
amd. Ord. 24-26, 12-16-2024; Ord. 25-04, 2-3-2025)
9-1-2: ADDITIONS, INSERTIONS AND CHANGES:
   A.   The village hereby adopts the following changes to the international
building code, 2021 edition:
      1.   Delete section R313 automatic fire sprinkler systems in its
entirety. (Ord. 25-04, 2-3-2025)
9-1-3: EVALUATING COMMITTEE ESTABLISHED:
(Rep. by Ord. 16-08, 10-18-2016)
9-1-4: SAVING CLAUSE:
Nothing in this chapter or in the building code hereby adopted shall be
construed to affect any suit or proceeding pending in any court, or any rights
acquired, or liability incurred, or any cause or causes of action acquired or
existing under any act or ordinance repealed by the adoption of this chapter,
nor shall any just or legal right or remedy of any character be lost, impaired
or affected by this chapter. (Ord. 93-21, 8-3-1993)
9-1-5: EFFECTIVE DATE:
The village shall certify to the adoption of this chapter and cause the same to
be published as required by law; and this chapter shall take full force and
effect October 1, 1993. (Ord. 93-21, 8-3-1993)
9-1-6: JURISDICTIONAL LIMITS:
This title shall cover all areas within the corporate limits of the village.
(Ord. 95-15, 9-19-1995)
9-1-7: DEBTS OWED; PERMITS:
No building permit for any purpose shall be issued to any persons, businesses,
or entities of any kind having any debt or delinquent accounts with the
village, including but not limited to any past due utility bills. (Ord. 24-24,
12-2-2024)
CHAPTER 2
SWIMMING POOLS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Definition
9-2-2: Permit Requirements
9-2-3: Construction Requirements
9-2-4: Fences
9-2-5: Electrical Requirements
9-2-6: Maintenance; Winter Care
9-2-7: Additional Regulations
9-2-8: Penalty
9-2-1: DEFINITION:
   A.   A swimming pool within the meaning of this Chapter shall be any
depression in the ground, either temporary or permanent, or a container of
water, either temporary or permanent, and either above or below the ground in
which water of more than twenty four inches (24") in depth is contained and
which is used primarily for the purpose of bathing and swimming. (Ord. 90-09,
5-15-1990)
   B.   A residential pool is that used by single-family residents and
occasional guests.
   C.   A private pool is that used by clubs, apartments or serving a complex
of dwellings (not open to public).
   D.   A public pool is open to the general public.
   E.   A jacuzzi/hot tub is included in requirements of this Chapter (outside
only). (1994 Code)
9-2-2: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to construct,
install, enlarge or alter any swimming pool unless a building permit has first
been obtained from the Building Inspector.
   B.   Application For Permit: Application shall be on forms provided by the
Building Inspector, and shall be accompanied by plans drawn to scale showing
the following:
      1.   Pool dimensions and volume of water in gallons (liters).
      2.   Location and type as per the sewer regulations in Title 8, Chapter 2
of this Code.
      3.   Location of pool on lot, distance from lot lines, and distance from
structure.
      4.   Fencing and landscape plan, or a combination thereof. (Ord. 90-09,
5-15-1990; amd. 1994 Code)
   C.   Fees: The permit fee shall be as set forth in subsection 10-6-4B of
this Code. (Ord. 98-16, 7-21-1998)
9-2-3: CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS:
No pool shall be located, erected, constructed or maintained closer to any side
or rear lot line than allowed by zoning regulations for permitted accessory
building uses. (Ord. 90-09, 5-15-1990; amd. 1994 Code)
9-2-4: FENCES:
   A.   Fence Required; Height; Construction Regulations:
      1.   Pools within the scope of this Chapter or not enclosed within a
permanent building shall be completely enclosed by a fence of sufficient
strength to prevent access to the pool and shall be not less than five feet
(5') in height, so constructed as not to have voids, holes or openings larger
than four inches (4") in one dimension.
The wall of the house or building faced to a pool may be incorporated as a
portion of such fence.
   B.   Self-Closing Gates: Gates or doors shall be equipped with a self-
closing and self-latching device for keeping the gate or door securely closed
at all times when not in actual use.
   C.   Aboveground Pools:
      1.   Aboveground pools with self-provided fencing to prevent unguarded
entry will be allowed without separate additional fencing, providing the self-
provided fence is of minimum required height and design as heretofore
specified.
      2.   Permanent access from grade to aboveground pools having stationary
ladders, stairs or ramps shall have not less than equal safeguard fencing and
gates.
   D.   Location: Location of required fencing shall be subject to all other
applicable ordinances.
   E.   All required fencing must be completed prior to filling the pool with
water, but in any case, no later than thirty (30) days after completion of
construction or installation of the pool. (Ord. 90-09, 5-15-1990; amd. 1994
Code; Ord. 23-16, 8-15-2023)
9-2-5: ELECTRICAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   BOCA Regulation Required: All electrical installations provided for,
installed, and used in conjunction with a private swimming pool shall be in
conformance with the local, State and Federal BOCA regulations.
   B.   Lights: If overhead flood or other artificial lights are used to
illuminate the pool at night, such lights shall be shielded to direct light
only on the pool. (Ord. 90-09, 5-15-1990)
9-2-6: MAINTENANCE; WINTER CARE:
A swimming pool or swimming pools shall be maintained in a sanitary manner.
(Ord. 95-15, 9-19-1995)
9-2-7: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS:
No pool shall be so operated or maintained as to create a nuisance, a hazard,
an eyesore or otherwise to result in a substantial adverse effect of
neighboring properties, or to be in any other way detrimental to public health,
safety and welfare. (Ord. 90-09, 5-15-1990)
9-2-8: PENALTY:
The penalty shall be as set forth in subsection 10-6-5A of this Code. (Ord. 90-
09, 5-15-1990; amd. 1994 Code; Ord. 98-16, 7-21-1998)
CHAPTER 3
SIGNS
SECTION:
9-3-1: Definitions
9-3-2: Compliance with Regulations
9-3-3: Permit and Fee Schedule
9-3-4: General Restrictions
9-3-5: Standards in Zoning Districts
9-3-6: Exemptions
9-3-7: Penalty
9-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this Chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them:
ACTIVITY: The specific use or uses to which a premises is put.
ERECT: Includes build, construct, assemble, affix, attach, create, paint or
draw.
MARQUEE SIGN: A sign attached to or hung from a marquee, canopy or other
covered structure, projecting from and supported by the building and extending
beyond the building wall, building line or street lot line.
PERMANENT SIGN: A sign which is lasting or meant to last indefinitely.
PERSON: Includes a firm, association, organization, partnership, trust, company
or corporation as well as an individual but does not include a governmental
unit.
PORTABLE SIGN: A sign, usually of a temporary nature, not securely anchored to
the ground or to a building or structure and which obtains some or all of its
structural stability with respect to wind or other applied forces by means of
its geometry or character.
PREMISES: One or more parcels of land which are in the same ownership and are
contiguous.
PROJECTING SIGN: A display sign which is attached directly to the building wall
and which extends more than fifteen inches (15") from the face of the wall.
PUBLIC WAY: Any way designated for vehicular or pedestrian use maintained by
either public or private funds and open for public use, i.e., streets, alleys,
sidewalks, pathways, etc.
ROOF SIGN: A sign which is erected, constructed and maintained on or above the
roof of a building.
SIGN: Any fabricated sign or display structure, including its structure,
consisting of any letter, figure, character, mark, point, plane, marquee sign,
design, poster, pictorial, picture, stroke, stripe, line, trademark, reading
matter or illuminating device, which is constructed, attached, erected,
fastened or manufactured in any manner so that the same shall be used for the
attraction of the public to any place, subject, person, firm, corporation,
public performance, article, machine or merchandise and displayed in any manner
out of doors or visible from the traveled portion of the public way for
recognized advertising purposes. All visible faces or sides of a sign shall be
considered part of a single sign.
SIGN AREA: The area of the smallest square, rectangle, triangle, circle or a
combination thereof, which encompasses the facing of a sign, including copy,
insignia, background and borders. The structural supports of a sign are to be
excluded in determining the signable area. Where a supporting structure bears
more than one sign, all such signs on the structure shall be considered as one
sign, and so measured.
TEMPORARY SIGN: A sign constructed of cloth, fabric or other lightweight
temporary materials with or without a structural frame intended for a limited
period of display; including decoration displays for holidays or public
demonstrations. Banners, pennants, streamers, ribbons, and similar devices
shall be considered as temporary signs. Temporary signs left in place over a
reasonable period of time, shall be considered permanent signs and shall be
subject to permit and fee accordingly.
VISIBLE: Capable of being seen without visual aid by a person of normal visual
acuity.
WALL SIGN: A sign which is painted on or attached directly to a fence or on the
surface of masonry, concrete, frame or other approved building walls and which
extends not more than fifteen inches (15") from the face of the fence or wall.
(1994 Code)
9-3-2: COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to erect any sign that is visible in a
public way except in conformance with this Chapter. (1994 Code)
9-3-3: PERMIT AND FEE SCHEDULE:
   A.   Permanent Signs: A permit shall be required issuable through the zoning
and building office. Fee shall be as set forth in subsection
10-6-4B of this Code.
   B.   Temporary Signs:
      1.   Temporary signs erected by private landowners or lessee's on their
own residential premises for uses not involving a home occupation or an
established commercial enterprise; i.e., garage or rummage sales for sale by
owner, campaign or political signs, holiday displays are exempt from permits
and fees; provided, they meet all other criteria within this Chapter.
      2.   Temporary signs erected by established commercial businesses are
exempt from permits and fees, provided the sign is portable and is not visible
other than during the normal hours of operation of the business. The sign must
be physically moved to within the establishment or to some other location not
visible to the general public. Disconnecting lighting or covering up the sign
will not meet this criteria.
      3.   Temporary signs, other than previously listed, shall not be
displayed for a period of over forty five (45) days, with a maximum of three
(3) periods in any twelve (12) month consecutive period and a minimum of thirty
(30) days between display periods.
      4.   All temporary signs must be removed within seventy two (72) hours
after the completion of the event for which the sign exists. (1994 Code; amd.
Ord. 98-16, 7-21-1998; Ord. 23-01, 2-21-2023)
9-3-4: GENERAL RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Affixing To Poles, Trees: No sign shall be painted upon, attached to or
otherwise directly affixed to any utility pole, tree, rock, ledge or other
natural fixture.
   B.   Placement: No sign shall be erected where, by reason of position,
shape, wording, color or location, it may be confused with a traffic sign,
signal or device, or interferes with or obstructs the view of pedestrian or
vehicular traffic. No sign shall be permitted which, in any way obstructs a
clear view of any street intersection, alley, driveway or walkway.
   C.   Maintenance: All signs and their supporting structures shall be
properly maintained to prevent rust, rot, peeling or similar deterioration and
shall be maintained to present an acceptable appearance.
   D.   Removal: Any sign which advertises, identifies or pertains to an
activity no longer in existence shall be removed by its owner or persons
otherwise responsible within thirty (30) days from the time the activity ceases
existence. After thirty (30) days, the village shall cause the sign to be
removed and the property owner of record shall have pecuniary liability for
removal costs. This provision does not apply to seasonal activities during the
regular periods in which they are closed.
   E.   Moving Parts, Lights: No temporary or portable sign shall have visible
moving parts, moving lighted messages or displays; glaring, moving or blinding
illumination; or flashing lights.
   F.   Erection In Street: No sign shall be erected in the highway or on
street right of way.
   G.   Anchoring: All signs shall be securely anchored according to accepted
practices, so that they will not swing or endanger users of sidewalks or
roadways or be subject to movement as a result of normal winds.
   H.   Lights: Where a sign is illuminated by reflected light, direct rays of
light shall not beam upon any part of an existing residential building nor into
a residential district, not into a street.
   I.   Bottom Elevation: Any permanent sign, awning or marquee located within
three feet (3') of a driveway or parking area shall have a bottom elevation not
lower than thirteen feet six inches (13'6") above adjacent traffic surface (per
Illinois department of transportation regulations). (1994 Code)
   J.   Vehicle Or Trailer Signs: No sign shall be attached to, or placed on, a
vehicle or trailer parked on public or private property, except for signs
meeting the following conditions:
      1.   The primary purpose of such a vehicle or trailer is not the display
of signs.
      2.   The signs are magnetic, decals or painted upon an integral part of
the vehicle or equipment as originally designed by the manufacturer, and do not
break the silhouette of the vehicle.
      3.   The vehicle or trailer is in operating conditions, currently
registered and licensed to operate on public streets when applicable, and
actively used or available for use in the daily function of the business to
which such signs relate. (Ord. 02-04, 5-21-2002)
9-3-5: STANDARDS IN ZONING DISTRICTS:
   A.   Residential Districts: Signs in all residential districts shall be
governed by the following regulations, and all signs not specifically permitted
are prohibited:
      1.   Nameplates And Address Signs: Nameplates and address signs are
permissible without permit or fee, subject to the following regulations:
         a.   A maximum of one per dwelling unit not to exceed six (6) square
feet in area.
      2.   Temporary Signs: Temporary signs are permissible subject to the
following regulations:
         a.   Campaign signs:
            (1)   Limit of two (2) signs per dwelling unit or one sign per
fifty feet (50') of street frontage, or a maximum of five (5) signs, whichever
is greater. (1994 Code)
            (2)   No sign shall exceed nine (9) square feet. (Ord. 02-04, 5-21-
2002)
            (3)   No sign shall be erected prior to one hundred twenty (120)
days prior to election day and shall be removed within seventy two (72) hours
following an election.
         b.   "For Sale" and "For Rent" signs are permissible subject to the
following regulations:
            (1)   There shall not be more than one sign per lot, except that on
a corner lot, two (2) signs (1 facing each street) shall be permissible. No
sign shall exceed nine (9) square feet in area.
         c.   On a premises undergoing new construction or remodeling, a
maximum of five (5) temporary signs may be erected. Such signs must be related
to the construction or sale of the premises. No sign may exceed nine (9) square
feet in area.
      3.   Permanent Signs: Permanent signs are permissible subject to the
following regulations:
         a.   Home occupation signs are permitted subject to the following
regulations:
            (1)   There shall not be more than one sign per dwelling unit,
except that on a corner lot, two (2) signs (1 facing each street) shall be
permitted. No such sign shall exceed four (4) square feet in area or exceed six
feet (6') overall in height. Signs so located as to be viewed through a window
from outside the building are included under these regulations.
            (2)   Permit and fee as per section
9-3-3 of this chapter.
         b.   Identification signs for structures other than a dwelling unit
are permitted subject to the following regulations:
            (1)   For a structure other than a dwelling unit, one
identification sign not exceeding sixteen (16) square feet in area or eight
feet (8') overall in height.
            (2)   Permits and fee as per section
9-3-3 of this chapter.
      4.   Illumination: A sign may be illuminated by not more than one white
light which shall be arranged, directed and shaded to preclude the casting of
any direct or indirect beam of light beyond the lot line. Neon signs, colored
illumination signs and flashing lights are prohibited. A premises may only
display an illuminated sign during the daylight hours or when it is open to the
public.
   B.   Nonresidential Districts:
      1.   Permanent Signs:
         a.   Construction criteria as per the Seneca building code 1  shall be
met.
         b.   Permits and fees shall be required as per section
9-3-3 of this chapter.
         c.   Approval authority for permit of permanent signs shall rest with
the Seneca planning commission 2 . Criteria for approval shall include: size,
shape, wording, location, character, illumination and harmony with
neighborhood.
      2.   Temporary Signs: Temporary signs are permissible with fees and
permit as per section
9-3-3 of this chapter.
         a.   Special Permits: Temporary signs used for holidays, public
demonstrations or promotions of civic welfare or charitable purposes, which
extend across streets or other public spaces shall be subject to special
approval of the authority having jurisdiction.
         b.   Compliance: Temporary signs shall comply with provisions as
outlined in the Seneca building code. (1994 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 1 of this title.
2 2. See title 2, chapter 1 of this code.
9-3-6: EXEMPTIONS:
The following types of signs are exempted from all the provisions of this
chapter, except for construction and safety regulations and the following
standards:
   A.   Signs of a noncommercial nature and in the public interest, erected by,
or on the order of a public officer in the performance of his public duty, such
as directional signs, regulatory signs, warning signs and informational signs
and traffic control signs.
   B.   Names of buildings, dates of erection, monumental citations,
commemorative tablets and the like, when carved into stone, concrete or similar
material, or made of bronze, aluminum or other permanent type construction, and
made an integral part of the building structure.
   C.   Signs directing traffic movement within a premises, not exceeding four
(4) square feet in area or four feet (4') in height and with no advertising and
horizontal directional signs, on and flush with paved areas.
   D.   Flagpoles and flags of governments are not considered signs and as such
are exempt from the provisions of this chapter. (1994 Code)
9-3-7: PENALTY:
The penalty shall be as set forth in subsection 10-6-5A of this code. (1994
Code; amd. Ord. 98-16, 7-21-1998)
CHAPTER 4
MOBILE HOMES AND TRAILER COACH PARKS
SECTION:
9-4-1: Definitions
9-4-2: Mobile Homes Restricted In Village
9-4-3: Mobile Home Parks
9-4-4: Design And Construction Requirements
9-4-5: Annual License Fees
9-4-6: Violations
9-4-7: Penalty
9-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
The terms used in this Code shall have the following meanings:
AFFIDAVIT:                An oath in writing, sworn before and attested by an
                          individual who has authority to administer an oath.
APPLICANT:                Any person making application for a license or
                          permit.
                          A license certificate issued by the city allowing a
LICENSE:                  person to operate and maintain a mobile home park
                          under the provisions of this Code and the rules and
                          regulations issued hereunder.
LICENSEE:                 Any person having a license or permit under this
                          chapter.
                          A structure designed for permanent habitation and so
                          constructed as to permit its transport on wheels,
                          temporarily or permanently attached to its frame,
                          from the place of its construction to the location or
                          subsequent location at which it is intended to be a
                          permanent habitation and designed to permit the
                          occupancy thereof as a dwelling place for one or more
                          persons. The term "mobile home" shall only include
MOBILE HOME:              manufactured homes constructed after June 30, 1976,
                          in accordance with the Federal "National Manufactured
                          Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of
                          1974". Provided that any such structure resting on a
                          permanent foundation with wheels, tongue and hitch
                          permanently removed shall not be construed as a
                          "mobile home", but shall be an "immobilized mobile
                          home". A mobile home should not be confused with a
                          "camping trailer" or "recreational vehicle". (See 210
                          ILCS Sec. 115/2.1)
MOBILE HOME, DEPENDENT:   A mobile home which does not have a toilet and bath
                          or shower facilities. (See 210 ILCS Sec. 115/2.3)
                          Consists of two mobile units joined at the side into
MOBILE HOME, DOUBLE-WIDE: a single home, but kept on their separate chassis for
                          repeated transportation to a site.
                          A mobile home which has self-contained toilet and
MOBILE HOME, INDEPENDENT: bath or shower facilities. (See 210 ILCS Sec. 115/
                          2.4)
MOBILE HOME LOT:          A parcel of land for the placement of a mobile home
                          and the exclusive use of its occupants.
                          A factory-fabricated building unit transported to a
MOBILE HOME MODULE:       building site, mounted on a permanent foundation
                          supporting the outside perimeter walls, and is
                          designed for residential use.
                          That part of an individual mobile home space or lot
MOBILE HOME PAD:          beneath the mobile home, including the concrete
                          portion of the pad.
                          A tract of land or two or more contiguous tracts of
                          land upon which contain sites with the necessary
                          utilities for two or more independent mobile homes
                          for permanent habitation either free of charge or for
                          revenue purposes, and shall include any building,
                          structure, vehicle, or enclosure used or intended for
MOBILE HOME PARK:         use as a part of the equipment of such mobile home
                          park. Separate ownership of contiguous tracts of land
                          shall not preclude the tracts of land from common
                          licensure as a mobile home park if they are
                          maintained and operated jointly. Neither an
                          immobilized mobile home nor a motorized recreational
                          vehicle shall be construed as being a part of a
                          mobile home park. (See 210 ILCS Sec. 115/2.5)
MOBILE HOME SALES AREA:   A parcel of land used for the display, sale, and
                          repair of new or used mobile homes.
MOBILE HOME SPACE:        A portion of a mobile home park designed for the use
                          or occupancy of one mobile home.
MOBILE HOUSING UNIT:      Includes all forms of housing units listed in this
                          section and as regulated in this Code.
OWNER OR OPERATOR:        The licensee.
PERMANENT HABITATION:     A period of two or more months (See 210 ILCS Sec.
                          115/2.2).
                          A certificate issued by the city, permitting the
PERMIT:                   construction, alteration, or reduction in number of
                          spaces of a mobile home park under the provisions in
                          this Code.
                          Any individual, group of individuals, association,
                          trust, partnership, corporation, person doing
PERSON:                   business under an assumed name, county, municipality,
                          the State of Illinois, or any political subdivision
                          or department thereof or any other entity.
                          To declare invalid a permit or license issued to the
REVOCATION:               applicant or licensee by this city for an indefinite
                          period of time.
SITE:                     The lot on which the mobile home is located for
                          permanent habitation (See 210 ILCS Sec. 115/2.7).
SPACE:                    Shall be synonymous with "mobile home space".
                          To declare invalid a permit or license issued to the
SUSPENSION:               applicant or licensee by this city for a temporary
                          period of time with an expectation of resumption.
                          (1994 Code; amd. Ord. 21-10, 3-16-2021)
 
9-4-2: MOBILE HOMES RESTRICTED IN VILLAGE:
   A.   Temporary Parking and Use of Mobile Homes:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to park for more than six (6)
hours or use and occupy any mobile home upon the public streets or other public
places in the village.
      2.   Nothing herein shall prohibit a bona fide guest of any householder
in the village from using and maintaining a trailer with the permission of the
owner and occupant of said dwelling house, for a period of not more than thirty
(30) days in any calendar year; provided, however, such trailer may be used
only for sleeping purposes during such thirty (30) day period.
      3.   Nothing herein shall prohibit any householder from parking a trailer
owned by him or members of his household on or about his premises or other
private property in the village; provided, that such trailer shall not be used
for living, dining or sleeping purposes during such time it is so parked for
storage purposes; and provided, that the parking thereof does not constitute a
nuisance or a fire hazard.
      4.   Nothing herein shall prohibit the use of trailers in public parks or
other public places assigned for that purpose temporarily, by resolution of the
mayor or permission in connection with any carnival, show, circus or other
exposition, duly authorized and permitted for any period not exceeding fourteen
(14) days.
   B.   Permanent Use of Mobile Homes:
      1.   Required Use in Mobile Home Parks: It shall be unlawful for any
person to maintain any trailer coach, used for human habitation, upon any plot
of ground in the municipality except in a licensed trailer camp at such times
as the trailer camp is licensed.
      2.   Removal of Wheels; Compliance with Other Provisions: It shall be
unlawful to occupy for sleeping or other residence purposes any trailer coach
which has been rendered immobile by the removal of wheels, or placing the same
on a foundation or on the ground, unless such coach, in construction and
location, complies with the ordinances relating to the construction, wiring,
plumbing, sewer facilities and other regulations applicable to single-family
dwellings, if any. (1994 Code; amd. Ord. 21-10, 3-16-2021)
9-4-3: MOBILE HOME PARKS:
   A.   State requirements adopted by reference: The Mobile Home Park Act and
the Mobile Home Tiedown Act of the Illinois Compiled Statutes, Chapter 210, as
passed, approved and amended by the Illinois General Assembly are hereby
adopted by the village. The applicable provisions as they pertain to mobile
homes shall be controlling within the corporate limits of the village.
   The "Rules and Regulations for Mobile Home Parks", as approved by the
Illinois Department of Public Health are hereby adopted by the village, the
applicable provisions as they pertain to mobile homes and immobilized mobile
homes shall be controlling within the city.
   B.   National safety standards: No mobile home or manufactured home shall be
located in the village unless the unit has the National Manufactured Housing
Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974 metal seal affixed or the
Illinois Mobile Home and Manufactured Housing Safety Act yellow seal affixed
thereto.
   C.   License or Permit Required: Any person seeking to establish, operate,
alter, or expand a mobile home park shall obtain a permit to construct or a
license to operate a mobile home park. Possession of a permit does not relieve
the applicant from complying with this or any other applicable village
ordinance
   D.   Application for License or Permit: Every applicant shall file with the
village a written application and plan documents for the proposed construction
or alteration of a mobile home park. The application shall be completed by the
applicant and the engineer or architect and shall include:
      1.   The full name and address of the applicant or applicants, or names
and addresses of the partners if the applicant is a partnership, or the names
and addresses of the officers if the applicant is a corporation, and the
present or last occupation of the applicant at the time of the filing of the
application. If the applicant is a corporation, a copy of the certificate of
incorporation must be filed with the application.
      2.   The proposed method of lighting the structures and land upon which
the mobile home park is to be located.
      3.   The plot plans of the mobile home park, building plans and
specifications for existing buildings and facilities, and the plans and
specifications for new buildings and facilities or the proposed alterations in
existing facilities.
      4.   An affidavit of the applicant as to the truth of the matters
contained in the application shall be attached.
      5.   Each application shall be accompanied by an application fee equal to
two hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00) times the number of lots sought in the
permit to construct, or the number of additional lots sought in the permit to
alter or increase the size of the park.
   E.   Permits for establishing or expanding mobile home parks: The Plan
Commission shall review each application and plan documents submitted. When the
application and plan documents are found to be in compliance with the "Rules
and Regulations for Mobile Home Parks", as promulgated by the Illinois
Department of Public Health, the village council may issue the proper permit to
construct or alter a mobile home park to the applicant. Permits shall be valid
for one year from date of issue.
   F.   Plan Documents: In order to obtain a permit to construct or an original
license to operate a mobile home park, the applicant shall file with the code
enforcement officer a written application and plan documents and such plan
documents shall be prepared by a registered engineer or architect licensed to
practice in the State of Illinois, with registration seal affixed. Two copies
of the plan document shall accompany the application filed with the code
enforcement officer to obtain a permit to construct or alter a mobile home park
or an original license to operate a mobile home park, not previously licensed
by the department. These plans shall include, but not be limited to the design
and construction criteria set forth herein.
   G.   Inspection: Upon completion of the proposed construction of a mobile
home park or the proposed alteration of a mobile home park, the applicant shall
notify the code enforcement officer in order that an inspection of the complete
facilities can be made.
   H.   Permits for individual mobile homes: Each mobile home that locates on a
lot in a mobile home park shall secure an initial building (zoning) permit from
the village. The permit fee shall be two hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00),
plus the cost of inspection.(Ord. 21-10, 3-16-2021)
9-4-4: DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Location: Sites selected for mobile home development shall be well-
drained and free from topographical or geological hindrances and from other
conditions unfavorable to a proper residential environment. The mobile home
development shall not be located near swamps, marshes, or other breeding places
of insects, rats and mice. When a good, natural drainage is not available,
storm drainage shall be provided by developer/applicant and such drainage shall
not endanger any water supply or surface watercourse.
   B.   Roadways and Parking:
      1.   All streets and driveways in every park shall, at a minimum, have a
gravel base of at least six (6) inches.
      2.   All streets shall have a minimum right-of-way of fifty (50) feet and
a minimum road width of thirty-two (32) feet for the purpose of this Code, and
shall be considered private streets to be maintained by the park owner or
operator. If a mobile home park has more than fifty (50) units, a wider street
may be required by the village council.
      3.   Every owner or operator of a mobile home park shall provide for a
dustless, off-street parking area in accordance with Section
10-2-8 of the village zoning code.
   C.   Lot Size: The minimum lot size for a mobile home lot in any mobile home
park licensed after January 1, 2021 shall be six thousand (6,000) square feet,
with a minimum frontage of fifty (50) feet.
   D.   Skirting: Skirting shall be used to conceal all underpinning, plumbing,
and support piers whether on a permanent foundation or otherwise. All skirting
shall be installed on all mobile housing units within sixty (60) days of the
placement of the unit.
   E.   Smoke Detectors: All mobile housing units located in the city shall be
equipped with a fire detector. All fire detectors shall be approved by the fire
chief or his designated representative prior to installation. (See 425 ILCS
Secs. 60/1-60/4)
   F.   Age Requirement for Mobile Home Units: No permit may be issued for the
placement of a mobile home in the village and no permit may be issued to move a
mobile home to another location within the village if the mobile home was
manufactured during a calendar year which was more than ten (10) years prior to
the calendar year in which the permit is requested, without the prior consent
of the Village Council. (Ord. 21-10, 3-16-2021)
9-4-5: ANNUAL LICENSE FEES:
The annual license fee per mobile home park shall be an amount equal to twenty-
five dollars ($25.00) times the number of lots (including vacant lots) in the
park. Annual fees shall be due and payable on or before September 1st of each
year. The village clerk shall notify the owner or operator of the annual fee at
least thirty (30) days prior to its due date. (Ord. 21-10, 3-16-2021)
9-4-6: VIOLATIONS:
Any license granted hereunder shall be subject to revocation or suspension by
the Mayor. However, the Mayor or his representative shall first serve or cause
to be served upon the licensee a written notice in which shall be specified the
way or ways in which such licensee has failed to comply with the statutes, or
any rules or regulations promulgated by the village pertaining thereto. The
notice shall require the licensee to remove or abate such nuisance, unsanitary
or objectionable condition, specified in such notice within five days or within
a longer period of time as may be allowed by the city council. If the licensee
fails to comply with the terms and conditions of the notice within the time
specified or such extended period of time, the Mayor or his representative may
revoke or suspend such license. (Ord. 21-10, 3-16-2021)
9-4-7: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined not less than
two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) or more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for each violation, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1994
Code; amd. Ord. 95-15, 9-19-1995; Ord. 21-10, 3-16-2021)
CHAPTER 5
PLUMBING CODE
SECTION:
9-5-1: Adoption Of Minimum Code Of Plumbing Standards
9-5-2: Adoption Of Plumbing Code
9-5-3: Enforcement
9-5-1: ADOPTION OF MINIMUM CODE OF PLUMBING STANDARDS:
That governmental units are authorized to regulate plumbing and the fixtures,
materials, design and installation methods of plumbing systems and may adopt
Minimum Code of Standards pursuant to 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 320/36.
The Minimum Code of Standards promulgated by the Illinois Department of Public
Health may be incorporated in this Chapter by reference. (Ord. 96-05, 1-16-
1996)
9-5-2: ADOPTION OF PLUMBING CODE:
It is hereby adopted as the Plumbing Code of the Village of Seneca, LaSalle and
Grundy Counties, in the State of Illinois, the Illinois Plumbing Code; each and
all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of the
Illinois Plumbing Code are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof
as if fully set out in this Chapter. (Ord. 96-05, 1-16-1996)
9-5-3: ENFORCEMENT:
The Village shall report to the Illinois Department of Public Health any person
violating any provision of this Chapter and the Illinois State Plumbing Code.
(Ord. 96-05, 1-16-1996)
CHAPTER 6
ELECTRICAL CODE
SECTION:
9-6-1: National Electrical Code Adopted
9-6-2: Saving Clause
9-6-3: Penalty
9-6-1: NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED:
A certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the office of the
Village Clerk, being marked and designated as "The National Electrical Code" be
and is hereby adopted as the National Electrical Code (N.E.C.) of the Village
of Seneca, LaSalle and Grundy Counties, in the State of Illinois; for the
control of electrical work as herein provided; and each and all of the
regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said N.E.C.
National Electrical Code, are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part
hereof as if fully set out in this Chapter. (Ord. 96-12, 6-4-1996, eff. 6-14-
1996)
9-6-2: SAVING CLAUSE:
Nothing in this Chapter or in the Electrical Code hereby adopted shall be
construed to affect any suit or proceeding impending in any court, or rights
acquired, or liability incurred, or any cause or causes of action acquired or
existing under any act or ordinance repealed by the adoption of this Chapter,
nor shall any just or legal right or remedy of any character be lost, impaired
or affected by this Chapter. (Ord. 96-12, 6-4-1996, eff. 6-14-1996)
9-6-3: PENALTY:
Whoever violates any provision of this Chapter is guilty of a petty offense and
will be fined no less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) and no greater than
five hundred dollars ($500.00). Each day of violation shall constitute a
separate violation. (Ord. 96-12, 6-4-1996, eff. 6-14-1996)
CHAPTER 7
BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION SITE OPERATIONS
SECTION:
9-7-1: Construction Hours
9-7-2: Noise
9-7-3: Streets/Traffic
9-7-4: Safeguards; Barricades; Lights
9-7-5: Silt Fabric
9-7-6: Storage Of Building Materials And Equipment On Streets Or Sidewalks
9-7-7: Removal Of Material And Debris After Building Operations
9-7-8: Toilet Facilities To Be Provided For Building Operations
9-7-9: Use Of Fire Hydrants
9-7-10: Open Burning
9-7-1: CONSTRUCTION HOURS:
It shall be unlawful to conduct any construction operation, including the
delivery of equipment, supplies or materials, except between the hours of seven
o’clock (7:00) a.m. and seven o'clock (7:00) p.m., Monday through Friday, and
between the hours of eight o’clock (8:00) a.m. and five o’clock (5:00) p.m. on
Saturdays. It shall be unlawful to conduct any construction operation,
including the delivery of equipment, supplies or materials, at any time on
Sundays or holidays on any lot where a Building Permit has been issued for
demolition, new construction, room addition or other project where fencing is
required to be installed around the entire perimeter of the construction site
or around the perimeter of the construction areas, unless the construction
operation is necessary to prevent property damage and prior written approval is
given by a Building Official or the Official's designee. This Section shall not
apply to any construction operation by any governmental agency or governmental
contractor. (Ord. 23-22, 11-7-2022)
9-7-2: NOISE:
From seven o'clock (7:00) a.m. until seven o'clock (7:00) p.m., noise from
construction and demolition activity is unrestricted. Playing loud music is not
considered a construction-related activity. (Ord. 23-22, 11-7-2022)
9-7-3: STREETS/TRAFFIC:
The streets and parkway are to be kept clear of any equipment, debris and/or
obstruction and passable at all times. Do not block access to private drives;
the street shall be kept clear and open to traffic at all times. (Ord. 23-22,
11-7-2022)
9-7-4: SAFEGUARDS; BARRICADES; LIGHTS:
   A.   It shall be the duty of a person or entity doing any constructing,
altering or wrecking to do such work with proper care for the safety of persons
and property;
   B.   Warning barricades and lights shall be maintained whenever necessary
for the protection of pedestrians or traffic; and temporary roofs over
sidewalks shall be constructed whenever there is danger from falling articles
or materials to pedestrians. (Ord. 23-22, 11-7-2022)
9-7-5: SILT FABRIC:
Erosion measures, including silt fencing, shall be installed and maintained
during demolition and construction. (Ord. 23-22, 11-7-2022)
9-7-6: STORAGE OF BUILDING MATERIALS AND EQUIPMENT ON STREETS OR SIDEWALKS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to store tools, equipment or building
materials in the streets or upon sidewalks in the village for a period of more
than twenty-four (24) hours without special permission from the Building
Enforcement Officer or his/her designee. (Ord. 23-22, 11-7-2022)
9-7-7: REMOVAL OF MATERIAL AND DEBRIS AFTER BUILDING OPERATIONS:
Upon completion of any work for which a permit is required by this chapter, it
shall be the duty of the builder, contractor, owner and person holding the
permit to remove all surplus building materials, supplies and equipment and all
debris from the work site and adjacent streets, sidewalks, alleys and lots, and
dispose of the same in accord with the provisions of this chapter. Upon the
failure of such person to comply with this section, after notice to do so from
a village officer, elected official or employee, the village may cause such
supplies, material, equipment or debris to be removed and the cost of such
removal shall be billed to the permit holder. Such removal by the village shall
not relieve such person from any penalty imposed for the violation of this
section. (Ord. 23-22, 11-7-2022)
9-7-8: TOILET FACILITIES TO BE PROVIDED FOR BUILDING OPERATIONS:
It shall be unlawful for the owner of any building or any person employing or
in charge of any workers to begin the construction, alteration or repair of any
building, or the construction of any public or private works, without having
provided proper and sufficient toilet facilities, consisting of water closets,
chemical closets, or privies of a type approved by the Building Enforcement
Officer, for the use of all employees engaged in such work. There shall be at
least one such water closet, chemical closet, or privy for every thirty (30)
employees or fraction thereof.
All toilet facilities required by this section shall be maintained in a
sanitary condition and each closet shall be properly enclosed to secure privacy
and tissue toilet paper must be provided. (Ord. 23-22, 11-7-2022)
9-7-9: USE OF FIRE HYDRANTS:
The use of fire hydrants in connection with building operations is prohibited
except with permission of the Water Department. (Ord. 23-22, 11-7-2022)
9-7-10: OPEN BURNING:
Burning of brush by contractors outside of normal burn hours (See 7-4-4) for
construction purposes requires a burn permit, which must be approved by the
Village Clerk. Cost is twenty-five dollars ($25.00). (Ord. 23-22, 11-7-2022)
TITLE 10
ZONING
CHAPTER 1
TITLE, INTENT AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Title
10-1-2: Intent And Purpose
10-1-3: Definitions
10-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known, cited, and referred to as the SENECA ZONING
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 10-09, 8-17-2010)
10-1-2: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
This title is adopted for the following purposes:
   A.   To protect the quality of life and character of existing neighborhoods
for the village residents to the end that adequate light, pure air and safety
from fire and other dangers may be secured.
   B.   To ensure that the taxable value of land and buildings throughout the
municipality may be conserved.
   C.   To provide that congestion in the public streets may be lessened or
avoided.
   D.   To provide that the hazards to persons and damage to property resulting
from the accumulation or runoff of storm or flood waters may be lessened or
avoided, and that the public health, safety, comfort, morals and welfare may
otherwise be promoted.
   E.   To regulate and limit the height and bulk of buildings hereafter to be
erected.
   F.   To establish, regulate and limit the building or setback lines on or
along any street, trafficway, drive, parkway or storm or flood water runoff
channel or basin.
   G.   To regulate and limit the intensity of the use of lot areas, and to
regulate and determine the area of open spaces, within and surrounding such
buildings.
   H.   To classify, regulate and restrict the location of trade and industries
and the location of buildings designed for specified industrial, business,
residential and other uses.
   I.   To divide the entire municipality into districts of such number, shape,
area, and of such different classes according to use of land buildings, height
and bulk of buildings, intensity of the use of lot area, area of open spaces,
or other classification as may be deemed best suited to carry out the purposes
of this title.
   J.   To fix standards to which buildings or structures therein shall
conform.
   K.   To prohibit uses, buildings or structures incompatible with the
character of such districts.
   L.   To prevent additions to and alteration or remodeling of existing
buildings or structures in such a way as to avoid the restrictions and
limitations lawfully imposed under this title.
   M.   To provide for the elimination of such uses of unimproved lands or lot
areas when the existing rights of the persons in possession thereof are
terminated or when the uses to which they are devoted are discontinued.
   N.   To provide for the limitation of uses to which such buildings and
structures are devoted, if they are adaptable for permitted uses.
   O.   To provide for the elimination of such buildings and structures when
they are destroyed or damaged in major part, or when they have reached the age
fixed by the corporate authorities of the municipality as the normal useful
life of such buildings or structures.
   P.   To define and limit the powers and duties of the administration
officers and bodies as provided herein.
   Q.   Facilitating the provision of adequate public services such as water,
sewage, and utilities.
   R.   Implementing the village's policies and goals, to include those of the
comprehensive plan.
   S.   Nothing contained in this title shall be deemed to be a consent,
license or permit to use any property or to locate, construct or maintain any
building, structure or facility or to carry on any trade, industry, occupation
or activity.
The provisions in this title are cumulative and are additional to the
limitations of all other laws and ordinances, heretofore passed or which may be
passed hereafter, governing any subject matter in this title. (Ord. 10-09, 8-
17-2010)
10-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases in this title shall be
interpreted giving them the same meaning as they have in this code and in
common usage and so as to give this title its most reasonable applications.
ACCESS DRIVE:                    An internal drive that provides access to out lots within a major development.
                                 A subordinate building, the use of which is incidental to that of the main building,
                                 and which is located on the same lot as the main building.
                                 A.   A building which:
                                    1.   Is subordinate to and serves a principal building or principal use; and
                                    2.   Is subordinate in area, extent or purpose to the principal building or
                                 principal use served; and
                                    3.   Contributes to the comfort, convenience or necessity of occupants of the
                                 principal building or principal use served; and
                                    4.   Is located on the same zoning lot as the principal building or principal use
                                 served, with the single exception of any accessory off street parking facility
                                 permitted to locate elsewhere than on the same zoning lot with the building or use
                                 served.
                                 B.   An accessory building, structure or use includes, but is not limited to, the
                                 following:
                                    1.   A children's playhouse, garden house, or private greenhouse;
ACCESSORY BUILDING:                 2.   A garage, shed, or building for storage incidental to a permitted use;
                                    3.   Incinerators/boiler houses incidental to a permitted use;
                                    4.   Storage of goods used in or produced by manufacturing activities, on the
                                 same zoning lot with such activities, unless such storage is excluded by the
                                 district regulations;
                                    5.   The production, processing, cleaning, servicing, altering, testing, repair,
                                 or storage of merchandise normally incidental to a retail service or business use if
                                 conducted by the same ownership as the principal use;
                                    6.   Off street motor vehicle parking areas and loading facilities;
                                    7.   Carports;
                                    8.   A nonpaying guesthouse (without kitchen facilities) or rooms for guests
                                 within an "accessory building", providing such facilities are used for the
                                 occasional housing of guests of the occupants of the principal building and not for
                                 permanent occupancy by others.
                                    9.   Portable on demand storage (PODS) storage units including intermodal
                                 containers, shipping containers, tractor trailers, and enclosed trailers that are
                                 intended for transporting goods do not meet the criteria for an accessory building.
                                 A use of land or a portion of the building customarily incidental to the actual
ACCESSORY USE:                   principal use of the land or building and located on the same parcel of property
                                 with such principal use.
                                 Any act or process which changes one or more of the exterior architectural features
ADDITION:                        of a building or structure designated for preservation by adding to, joining with,
                                 or increasing the size or capacity of the structure.
ADULT USE:                       Adult use includes the following:
                                 An establishment having a substantial or significant portion of its sales or stock
                                 in trade, books, magazines, films for sale or viewing on premises by use of motion
                                 picture devices or any other coin operated means, and other periodicals which are
                                 distinguished or characterized by their emphases on matter depicting, describing or
                                 relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas or an
   Adult Bookstore:           establishment with a segment or section devoted to the sale or display of such
                                 material, or an establishment that holds itself out to the public as a purveyor of
                                 such materials based upon its signage, advertising, displays, actual sales, presence
                                 of video review or coin operated booths, the exclusion of minors from the
                                 establishment's premises, or any other factors showing that the establishment's
                                 primary purpose is to purvey such material.
                                 A public or private establishment which: a) features topless dancers, strippers,
                                 male or female impersonators; or b) not infrequently features entertainers who
   Adult Cabaret/Club:        display specified anatomical areas; or c) features entertainers who by reason of
                                 their appearance or conduct perform in a manner which is designed primarily to
                                 appeal to the prurient interest of the patron or entertainers who engage in, or
                                 engage in explicit simulation of specified sexual activities.
                                 An establishment where, for any form of consideration, massage, alcohol rub,
                                 fomentation, electric or magnetic treatment, or similar treatment or manipulation of
                                 the human body is administered for the primary purpose of sexual stimulation or
                                 arousal, unless such treatment or manipulation is administered by a medical
   Adult Massage Parlor:      practitioner, chiropractor, acupuncturist, physical therapist, or similar
                                 professional person licensed by the state. This definition does not include an
                                 athletic club, health club, school gymnasium, reducing salon, spa, or similar
                                 establishment where massage or similar manipulation of the human body is offered as
                                 an incidental or accessory service.
                                 An enclosed building with a capacity for fewer than fifty (50) persons used for
   Adult Mini- Motion Picture presenting material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter
Theater:                         depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or "specified
                                 anatomical areas".
                                 An establishment where the primary business is the provision to customers of figure
                                 models who are so provided with the intent of providing sexual stimulation or sexual
   Adult Modeling Studio:     gratification to such customers and who engage in specified sexual activities or
                                 display specified anatomical areas while being observed, painted, painted upon,
                                 sketched, drawn, sculptured, photographed, or otherwise depicted by such customers.
                                 An enclosed building with a capacity for fifty (50) or more persons used regularly
   Adult Motion Picture Theateand routinely for presenting material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis
                                 on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or
                                 specified anatomical areas.
                                 Any retail store specializing in the sale of paraphernalia, devices, or equipment
   Adult Paraphernalia Store: distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or
                                 relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
                                 An establishment having a substantial portion of its stock in trade, films,
   Adult Video Store:         videotapes, videodisks, or similar items whether for sale or rental, which are
                                 distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or
                                 relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS BUSINESS      An adult-use cannabis cultivation center, craft grower, processing organization,
ESTABLISHMENT:                   infuser organization, dispensing organization or transporting organization.
                                 A facility operated by an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois
                                 Department of Agriculture to cultivate, dry, cure and package cannabis and perform
ADULT-USE CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER: other necessary activities to make cannabis available for sale at a dispensing
                                 organization or use at a processing organization, per the Cannabis Regulation and
                                 Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations
                                 promulgated thereunder.
                                 A facility operated by an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois
ADULT-USE CANNABIS CULTIVATION   Department of Agriculture to cultivate, process, transport and perform necessary
CENTER:                          activities to provide cannabis and cannabis-infused products to licensed cannabis
                                 business establishments, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027),
                                 as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
                                 A facility operated by an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois
                                 Department of Financial and Professional Regulation to acquire cannabis from
ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING    licensed cannabis business establishments for the purpose of selling or dispensing
ORGANIZATION:                    cannabis, cannabis-infused products, cannabis seeds, paraphernalia or related
                                 supplies to purchasers or to qualified registered medical cannabis patients and
                                 caregivers, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be
                                 amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
                                 A facility operated by an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois
ADULT-USE CANNABIS INFUSER       Department of Agriculture to directly incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate
ORGANIZATION OR INFUSER:         into a product formulation to produce a cannabis-infused product, per the Cannabis
                                 Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and
                                 regulations promulgated thereunder.
                                 A facility operated by an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois
                                 Department of Agriculture to either extract constituent chemicals or compounds to
ADULT-USE CANNABIS PROCESSING    produce cannabis concentrate or incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
ORGANIZATION OR PROCESSOR:       product formulation to produce a cannabis product, per the Cannabis Regulation and
                                 Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations
                                 promulgated thereunder.
                                 An organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
ADULT-USE CANNABIS TRANSPORTING  Agriculture to transport cannabis on behalf of a cannabis business establishment or
ORGANIZATION OR TRANSPORTER:     a community college licensed under the Community College Cannabis Vocational
                                 Training Pilot Program, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as
                                 it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
ALLEY:                           A public way that affords only a secondary means of access to abutting property.
                                 Any act or process which changes one or more of the exterior architectural features
ALTERATION:                      of a structure, including, but not limited to, the erection, construction,
                                 reconstruction or removal of any structure.
                                 An establishment or place where animals are bathed, clipped, or combed for the
ANIMAL GROOMING SERVICE:         purpose of enhancing their aesthetic value and/or health and for which a fee is
                                 charged.
                                 A facility where animals are given medical or surgical treatment and are cared for
ANIMAL HOSPITAL:                 during the time of such treatment. Use as a kennel is limited to short time boarding
                                 and is only incidental to such hospital use.
                                 A facility used to house or contain stray, homeless, abandoned, or unwanted animals
                                 and that is owned, operated, or maintained by a public body, an established humane
ANIMAL SHELTER:                  society, animal welfare society, society for the prevention of cruelty to animals,
                                 or other nonprofit organization devoted to the welfare, protection, and humane
                                 treatment of animals.
ANNUAL:                          Plants whose life cycle lasts only one year, from seed to blooms to seed.
APARTMENT:                       A room or suite of rooms used as dwelling for one family which does its cooking
                                 therein.
APPLICANT:                       Any individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or organization
                                 applying for a permit.
                                 An establishment where the primary business is based on the offering for public use
ARCADE, AMUSEMENT:               five (5) or more of any form of game machine, instrument or apparatus operated by
                                 coin, slug, or similar medium.
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE:           An element of a building design intended to be functional or ornamental.
ARCHITECTURAL GRADE VINYL:       Vinyl siding meeting ASTM D3679 standards including a minimum thickness of .044 with
                                 foam backed corners.
                                 Embodying the distinctive characteristics of a type, period style or method of
ARCHITECTURAL SIGNIFICANCE:      construction or use of indigenous construction, or representing the work of an
                                 important builder, designer, architect, or craftsman who has contributed to the
                                 development of the community, county, state or nation.
AREA:                            A specific geographic division of the village of Seneca.
                                 A home, building, residence, or any other place where sleeping accommodations are
                                 provided for at least three (3) unrelated adults, at least eighty percent (80%) of
                                 whom are fifty five (55) years of age or older, and where the following are
                                 provided:
                                 A.   Community based residential care for persons who need assistance with
                                 activities of daily living, including personal, supportive, and intermittent health
                                 related services available twenty four (24) hours per day, if needed, to meet the
                                 scheduled and unscheduled needs of a resident; and
ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY:        B.   Mandatory services, whether provided directly by the facility or by another
                                 entity arranged for the facility, with the consent of the resident or the resident's
                                 representative; and
                                 C.   A physical environment that is a homelike setting that includes individual
                                 living units and common space that permits individual and group activities.
                                 "Assisted living facility" does not mean:
                                 A.   A long term care facility licensed under the nursing home care act;
                                 B.   A hospital, sanatorium, or other institution, the principal activity or
                                 business of which is the diagnosis, care, and treatment of human illness.
                                 A pennant, propeller, spinner, streamer, string of lights, searchlight, or similar
ATTENTION GETTING DEVICE:        device or ornamentation; a sign with a bright, intense, or fluorescent color scheme
                                 or background.
                                 An establishment, building, or land used for the repair and maintenance of
                                 automobiles, motorcycles, trucks, trailers, or similar vehicles including, but not
                                 limited to, body, fender, muffler or upholstery work, oil change and lubrication,
AUTO BODY AND REPAIR SERVICE:    painting, brake service, tire service and sales, or installation of CB radios, car
                                 alarms, stereo equipment or cellular telephones, but excluding dismantling and
                                 salvage (see definition of Junkyard) and establishments and facilities where the
                                 servicing and repair of vehicles is incidental to marketing and selling activities
                                 (see definition of Automobile, Light Truck Sales And Service).
AUTOMOBILE, LIGHT TRUCK SALES    An establishment, building, or land used for the display and sale of automobiles,
AND SERVICE:                     motorcycles, and light trucks, either new or used, and which may include any
                                 warranty repair work and other repair service conducted as an accessory use.
AWNING:                          A temporary or permanent shelter supported entirely from the exterior wall of a
                                 building which extends over a doorway or window.
                                 An establishment primarily engaged in the retail sale of baked products for
BAKERY, RETAIL:                  consumption off site. The products may be prepared either on or off site. Such use
                                 may include incidental food service.
BALLED AND BURLAPPED (B&B):      Trees and shrubs dug from soil with soil left intact around the roots and secured
                                 with burlap.
BANNER:                          A temporary sign made of lightweight durable, all weather material, either enclosed
                                 or not enclosed in a rigid frame and secured or mounted to a permanent structure.
                                 A temporary sign made of cloth or a similar durable all weather material, typically
BANNER, ADVERTISING:             without a rigid frame, used for a specific time period to advertise a grand opening,
                                 a sale, or any other temporary special event.
BANNER, CIVIC:                   A temporary canvas sign installed on a light pole or wall for the purpose of
                                 advertising the village logo, seasonal messages, or community events.
BAR:                             See definition of Tavern.
BARE ROOT:                       Plants that are not transplanted in soil at time of installation, rendering them
                                 effectively dormant.
BASEMENT:                        A story partly underground and having at least eight inches (8") of its height
                                 aboveground.
BED AND BREAKFAST:               A private, owner occupied business in a single-family residence where overnight
                                 accommodations and a morning meal are provided to transients for compensation.
                                 A large, changeable ground or wall mounted sign that exceeds three hundred (300)
                                 square feet in sign face area and twenty five feet (25') in height. Any structure or
BILLBOARD:                       portion thereof upon which a sign or advertisement used as an outdoor display for
                                 the purpose of making anything known is displayed. This definition does not include
                                 any bulletin boards used to display official court or public office notices (See
                                 definition of "sign" in section 9-3-1 of this code).
                                 An area of land bounded by a street, or by a combination of streets and public
BLOCK:                           parks, cemeteries, railroad rights of way, exterior boundaries of a subdivision,
                                 waterways, or corporate boundaries.
BOAT AND RV SALES, SERVICE, OR   An establishment, building, or land which is primarily engaged in or used for the
STORAGE:                         retail sales, service, or storage of: a) RVs and trailers used for camping and/or
                                 recreational purposes, or b) boats sixteen feet (16') or more in length.
                                 The practice of physical body adornment by establishments or artists using, but not
BODY ART:                        limited to, the techniques of body piercing and tattooing. For the purposes of this
                                 code, body art does not include the use of a mechanized, presterilized ear piercing
                                 system that penetrates the outer perimeter or lobe of the ear or both.
BORDER PLANTINGS/FOUN DATION     Perennial flowers, shrubs or bushes of various height and diameter used to screen
PLANTINGS:                       building foundations, appurtenances and property boundaries.
                                 A facility that brews malt beverages on site for retail or wholesale distribution,
BREWERY:                         with a capacity of fifteen thousand (15,000) or more barrels per year. A barrel is
                                 the equivalent of thirty one (31) gallons. See also definitions of Brewpub and
                                 Microbrewery.
                                 A restaurant that brews beer as an accessory use, either for consumption on site or
                                 in hand capped, sealed containers in quantities up to one-half (1/2) barrel sold
                                 directly to the consumer. Production capacity is limited to five thousand (5,000)
BREWPUB:                         barrels of beverage (all beverages combined) per year. The area used for brewing,
                                 bottling and kegging shall not exceed thirty percent (30%) of the total floor area
                                 of the commercial space. A barrel is equivalent to thirty one (31) gallons. See also
                                 definitions of Microbrewery and Brewery.
                                 A parcel of land or portion of an existing tract or lot of record with sufficient
BUILDABLE ACREAGE:               area and dimensional configuration to be developed independently of preceding
                                 improvements and in accordance with village zoning and subdivision standards.
                                 Any structure having a roof supported by columns or by walls and intended for the
                                 shelter, housing, or enclosure of any person, animal, or chattel. When any portion
BUILDING:                        thereof is completely separated from every other portion by masonry or a firewall
                                 without any window, which wall extends from the ground to the roof, then such
                                 portion shall be deemed to be a separate building.
BUILDING COVERAGE:               The horizontal area measured within the outside of the exterior walls of the ground
                                 floor of all principal and accessory buildings on a lot.
BUILDING LINE:                   A line between which any street line of a district, lot, tract or parcel of land,
                                 where no building or parts of buildings may be erected, altered, or maintained.
                                 Establishments or places of business engaged in the repair, maintenance, and
BUILDING MAINTENANCE SERVICE:    remodeling of existing buildings and grounds. Such services include, but are not
                                 limited to, those of a: general contractor, electrician, plumber, carpenter, roofer,
                                 and mason.
                                 Establishments or places of business that have a substantial portion of their
                                 business and require that a substantial portion of the floor or lot area be devoted
                                 to sale and rental or storage of building materials such as lumber, cement, bricks,
BUILDING MATERIAL SALES:         paving stones, garden and landscaping items, and finished or semifinished building
                                 components such as windows and doors. Building material sales does not include
                                 hardware stores where the substantial portion of the business and floor area is
                                 devoted to power tools, and smaller construction and maintenance items such as
                                 nails, screws, plumbing fixtures, electrical supplies, cleaning supplies.
BUILDING, PRINCIPAL:             A building or structure in which the primary use of the lot on which the building is
                                 located is conducted.
                                 The controls in this title and other ordinances that specify limitations on the size
BULK AND DENSITY REGULATIONS     of buildings and yards and the location of buildings with respect to one another.
(Also Referred To As BULK AND    These controls include the following: building height, building setbacks, yard
DENSITY PROVISIONS):             requirements, building coverage, impervious area coverage, floor area ratio, lot
                                 area, lot depth, lot width, and various measures used to indicate buildings or
                                 dwelling units per acre.
                                 Establishments or places of business engaged in the sale, rental, or repair of
                                 office equipment, supplies, and materials, or the provision of services used by
BUSINESS SUPPORT SERVICES:       office, professional, or service establishments. Typical uses include office and
                                 equipment and supply firms, small business machine repair shops, convenience
                                 printing and copying establishments, as well as temporary labor services.
CAFE (Also Referred To As COFFEE An establishment primarily offering coffee, tea and other nonalcoholic beverages,
SHOP):                           and where light refreshments and limited menu meals may also be sold.
CALIPER:                         A size measurement (usually the diameter in inches) of the trunk or main leader of
                                 an overstory, ornamental, or parkway tree.
                                 The use of a site for provision of indoor or outdoor activities for children,
CAMP, DAY OR YOUTH:              including sports, arts and crafts, entertainment, recreation, educational
                                 activities, swimming, fishing, horseback riding, and incidental food service. Also
                                 see definition of Campground.
                                 Any area that is occupied, intended, designed, or improved for occupancy by
CAMPGROUND:                      transients using recreational vehicles, motor homes, mobile trailers or tents for
                                 dwelling, lodging, or sleeping purposes and is held out as such to the public. Also
                                 see definition of Camp, Day Or Youth.
                                 A structure deriving its support from a framework of posts or other means
CANOPY:                          independent of a connected structure for the purpose of shielding from the elements,
                                 commonly found at a bank or gasoline service station.
CAR WASH:                        Mechanical facilities for the washing or waxing of private automobiles, light trucks
                                 and vans, but not commercial fleets.
CELLAR:                          A portion of a building having more than one-half (1/2) of its height belowground.
                                 Special physical characteristics of an existing or proposed building or structure or
                                 an area that set it apart from its surrounding and contributes to it individually.
CHARACTER:                       Character defining considerations, include, but are not limited to, building height,
                                 shape, materials, orientation and architectural style and features, as well as the
                                 site's interior spaces and relationship to the surrounding area.
                                 Any person, group of persons, agency, association or organization, whether
                                 established for gain or otherwise, who or which receives or arranges for care or
                                 placement of one or more children, unrelated to the operator of the facility, apart
                                 from the parents, with or without the transfer of the right of custody in any
                                 facility as defined under Illinois law that is established and maintained for the
CHILDCARE FACILITY:              care of children. "Childcare facility" includes a relative who is licensed under
                                 Illinois law as a foster family home under Illinois law. arranges for care or
                                 placement of one or more children, unrelated to the operator of the facility, apart
                                 from the parents, with or without the transfer of the right of custody in any
                                 facility as defined under Illinois law that is established and maintained for the
                                 care of children. "Childcare facility" includes a relative who is licensed under
                                 Illinois law as a foster family home under Illinois law.
COFFEE SHOP:                     See definition of Cafe.
COMMERCIAL ENTRY:                The entryway of a commercial building that would be perceived by the public to be an
                                 entrance available for public use.
                                 A "commercial solar energy system" as such term is defined in Section 10-720 of the
                                 Property Tax Code as any device or assembly of devices that:
COMMERCIAL SOLAR ENERGY          A.   Is ground installed; and
FACILITY:                        B.   Uses solar energy from the sun for generating electricity for the primary
                                 purpose of wholesale or retail sale and not primarily for consumption on the
                                 property on which the device or devices reside.
                                 The land and water areas within a PD that are devoid of buildings and other
                                 structures, other than accessory recreational and pedestrian facilities and uses,
                                 and are suitable for active and passive recreational activities. Common open space
COMMON OPEN SPACE:               specifically excludes: parking lots, streets, required setbacks for individually
                                 owned lots and buildings, the building footprint of schools, and retention ponds
                                 that are unsuitable for water based recreation. Common open space can include areas
                                 intended for active (e.g., softball fields) and passive (e.g., picnic areas)
                                 recreation.
COMMUNICATION S SALES AND        Establishments or places of business engaged in the sale, rental, and repair of
SERVICE:                         communications devices such as telephones, cellular telephones, and ancillary
                                 electronic supplies and devices.
                                 The act of altering an existing structure, building an addition to an existing
CONSTRUCTION:                    structure, or the erection of a new principal or accessory structure on a lot or
                                 property.
CONTAINER, CARGO:                See definition of Outdoor Storage Facility.
                                 A building, structure, or site that may not necessarily have architectural or
                                 historic significance as a single property, but which adds to the overall character
CONTRIBUTING (BUILDING,          and significance of a historic district due to its architectural or historical merit
STRUCTURE, OR SITE):             and its compatibility with other buildings, structures, and sites within an
                                 architectural or historic setting such as a neighborhood. Contributing buildings,
                                 structures, and sites are considered to be an integral part of a historic district.
                                 A retail store with a floor area of less than four thousand (4,000) square feet that
CONVENIENCE STORE:               sells a limited line of groceries, tobacco, periodicals, and other household goods.
                                 See also definition of Service Station, Automotive.
                                 Convenience stores are distinct from other retail uses because their operating
   Commentary:                characteristics (traffic generation, hours of operation, noise and litter) tend to
                                 be more intensive than many other retail uses.
COPING:                          The top layer or course of a masonry wall, usually having a slanting upper surface
                                 to shed water.
                                 Developments having their main or public entrance facing a central public open space
COURTYARD DEVELOPMENTS:          or parking area that serves the overall development. Such buildings shall be geared
                                 toward pedestrian traffic versus typical automobile traffic.
                                 Any childcare facility which regularly provides daycare for less than twenty four
DAYCARE CENTER:                  (24) hours per day for: a) more than eight (8) children in a family home, or b) more
                                 than three (3) children in a facility other than a family home, including senior
                                 citizen buildings1.
DAYCARE HOME:                    A family home that receives more than three (3) and up to a maximum of twelve (12)
                                 children for less than twenty four (24) hours per day2.
                                 A family home which receives more than three (3) up to a maximum of sixteen (16)
DAYCARE HOME, GROUP:             children for less than twenty four (24) hours per day. The number counted includes
                                 the family's natural or adopted children and all other persons under the age of
                                 twelve (12).
DECIDUOUS:                       A term that indicates that a plant sheds its foliage at the end of the growing
                                 season. The term, deciduous is used especially in reference to trees and shrubs.
DECK:                            A platform, either freestanding or attached to a building, without a roof, three (3)
                                 or more feet above grade. Also see definitions of Patio and Porch.
DEMOLITION:                      Any act or process which destroys in part or in whole a landmark or a building,
                                 structure, or site within a historic district.
DENSITY:                         The total number of dwelling units divided by the site acreage. Density is not based
                                 upon gross area of the site but upon "gross buildable area" as defined herein.
DESIGN CRITERIA:                 Standards of appropriate activity that will preserve the historic, architectural,
                                 scenic, or aesthetic character of a historic landmark or district.
DONATION COLLECTION BOX:         A container used to temporarily store donated items, typically operated by a
                                 charitable organization.
                                 An establishment in a building which has an opening in the wall of the structure
DRIVE-THROUGH FACILITY:          which is designed to provide for sales to and/or service to patrons who remain in
                                 their vehicles.
DRIVEWAY:                        A private roadway providing access for vehicles to a parking space, garage,
                                 dwelling, or other building.
DRY CLEANING AND LAUNDRY PICK UP An establishment or business for the delivery and pick up of dry cleaning and/or
FACILITY:                        laundry without the maintenance or operation of any laundry or dry cleaning
                                 equipment or machinery on the premises.
                                 A building, or portion of a building for the cleaning of fabrics, textiles, wearing
DRY CLEANING PLANT:              apparel, or articles of any sort by immersion and agitation, or by immersion only,
                                 in volatile solvents.
DUPLEX:                          A building containing two (2) dwelling units, each of which has direct access to the
                                 outside.
                                 A building, or portion of a building, used for residential occupancy, including
                                 single-family detached dwellings, two-family dwellings, duplexes, single-family
DWELLING:                        attached dwellings, multiple-family dwellings, boarding and rooming houses,
                                 dormitories, and apartment hotels, but excluding cabins, tents, hotels, motels,
                                 trailers, and recreational vehicles.
                                 A building or portion thereof, used or designed as a residence for three (3) or more
DWELLING, MULTIPLE (MULTI-       families living independently of each other and doing their own cooking in said
FAMILY):                         building. This definition includes three- family houses, four-family houses,
                                 apartment houses, and apartment hotels, but does not include automobile courts,
                                 trailer camps and tourist camps.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY:         A building designed exclusively for occupancy by one family, detached from all other
                                 dwellings, and surrounded by open space, but not including manufactured housing.
DWELLING, TWO- FAMILY:           A detached building, designed for or occupied exclusively by two (2) families living
                                 independently of each other.
                                 A room or group of rooms providing complete, independent living facilities for one
DWELLING UNIT:                   or more persons, including permanent provisions for living, sleeping, eating,
                                 cooking, and sanitation. A single-family home is one dwelling unit; each apartment
                                 within a multi-family residential building is a separate dwelling unit.
EIFS:                            Exterior insulation and finish systems meeting ASTM C1535-04 standards of
                                 application.
EMERGENCY:                       A life or health threatening condition requiring immediate attention, as determined
                                 by the fire chief or building official.
EVERGREEN:                       Having foliage that persists and remains green throughout the year, in contrast to
                                 plants that are classified as deciduous.
EVERGREEN TREE:                  Needle bearing, self-supporting woody plant with a single trunk or leader and an
                                 expected mature height of thirty feet (30') or more.
                                 The architectural character and general composition of the exterior of a building or
EXTERIOR ARCHITECTURAL           structure including, but not limited to, the kind and texture of the building
APPEARANCE:                      materials and the type, design, arrangement, and character of all architectural
                                 elements.
FACADE FRONTAGE:                 The width of the face of the front building wall or the width of the front wall face
                                 of the area devoted to an individual tenant of a commercial retail center.
                                 Two (2) or more persons related to each other by blood, marriage, or legal adoption
FAMILY:                          living together as a single housekeeping unit; or a group of not more than four (4)
                                 persons who need not be related by blood, marriage or legal adoption, living
                                 together as a single housekeeping unit and occupying a single dwelling unit.
                                 A small, often open air structure, situated at the side of a road, in which
FARM STAND:                      agricultural products are publicly displayed and offered for sale. Its use is
                                 generally seasonal. Also see definition of Roadside Market.
                                 A building or land intended or used for the confined feeding, breeding, raising, or
                                 holding of animals and specifically designed as a confinement area in which manure
                                 may accumulate, or where the concentration of animals prevents the maintenance of a
FEEDLOT:                         vegetative cover within the enclosure. Open lots used for the feeding and rearing of
                                 poultry and barns, dairy barns, swine facilities, beef lots and barns, and horse
                                 stalls shall be considered animal feedlots. Pastures shall not be considered animal
                                 feedlots.
FIBER-CEMENT BOARD:              Cement based siding such as hardi-board or hardi-plank siding designed to have the
                                 look of wood siding with reduced maintenance requirements.
                                 A list of conclusions concerning a zoning issue properly adopted by an
                                 administrative body. Such conclusions are arrived at by examination of documents,
FINDINGS OF FACT:                listening to testimony, or listening to statements at a public hearing or public
                                 meeting. Findings of fact are generated in order to ensure that the grounds for an
                                 administrative decision are clearly disclosed and adequately sustained.
                                 A sign printed or painted on cloth, plastic, canvas, or other like material with
FLAG:                            distinctive colors, patterns or symbolic devices used for attracting attention of
                                 the public.
FLAG, CORPORATE:                 A sign printed on a flag representing the symbol of any corporation.
FLAG, OFFICIAL:                  Any sign printed on a flag representing the symbol of any nation, state or political
                                 subdivision.
FLOOR AREA:                      See definition of Gross Floor Area (GFA).
FLOOR AREA RATIO:                The gross floor area of all buildings on a zoning lot divided by the area of the
                                 zoning lot.
                                 Any floor area within outside walls of a residential building exclusive of areas in
FLOOR AREA, USABLE:              cellars, basements, unfinished attics, garages, open or unheated porches and
                                 accessory buildings.
FORTUNE TELLING SERVICE:         An establishment providing advice, predictions, or interpretations of planetary
                                 effects on or about future human affairs.
FREIGHT TERMINAL, RAIL OR        A facility for the receipt, transfer, short term storage, and dispatching of goods
INTERMODAL:                      transported by rail and/or serving as a transfer point for changing goods from rail
                                 to truck transport.
                                 A facility for the receipt, transfer, short term storage, and dispatching of goods
FREIGHT TERMINAL, TRUCK:         transported by truck. Truck freight terminals include express and other mail and
                                 package distribution facilities, including those operated by the U.S. postal
                                 service.
GFA:                             See definition of Gross Floor Area (GFA).
GARAGE:                          A building or part of a building used or designed to be used for the parking and
                                 storage of vehicles.
GARDEN CENTER:                   A building and outside sales areas in which annual plants, potted plants, nursery
                                 stock, fertilizer, pesticides, tools, or related items are offered for sale.
                                 Property owned and occupied by the federal, state, county, municipal, or township
GOVERNMENTAL FACILITY:           government or a school district, park district, library district, fire district, or
                                 police department.
GRADE:                           The average level of the finished surface of the ground adjacent to the exterior
                                 walls of the building.
GRAIN STORAGE:                   A facility or land primarily used for the storage of more than one ton of
                                 unprocessed grains such as corn, soybeans, or wheat.
                                 A structure, covered with transparent material that uses solar radiant energy to
GREENHOUSE, COMMERCIAL:          grow plants intended for retail or wholesale distribution. The structure may have
                                 heating and ventilating equipment for the purpose or optimum temperature control.
                                 A retail establishment with the primary business of selling foodstuffs, to include
GROCERY STORE:                   fruits and vegetables, and with a floor area of less than thirty thousand (30,000)
                                 square feet.
                                 The total acreage of the property minus the following:
                                 A.   Wetlands. Only those wetlands which fall under current regulations by the army
                                 corps of engineers shall be considered in this calculation;
                                 B.   All of the floodway shown on the official FEMA maps or as approved by the army
                                 corps of engineers. Where a defined floodway is not known, an area seventy five feet
GROSS BUILDABLE AREA:            (75') on both sides of the creek or river centerline shall be used for this
                                 calculation until additional engineering studies detail the actual floodway;
                                 C.   Land within the right of way or easement of an existing roadway;
                                 D.   Land within an existing permanent easement prohibiting development (including
                                 electrical transmission lines and pipelines).
                                 E.   Land identified in the comprehensive plan for exclusive business use such as
                                 commercial or industrial areas.
                                 The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the floors of the building measured from
                                 the exterior faces of the exterior walls or from the centerline of walls separating
                                 two (2) buildings. The floor area includes: basement floor area when more than one-
                                 half (1/2) of the basement height is above the established curb level or above the
GROSS FLOOR AREA (GFA):          finished lot grade level where the curb level has not been established; elevator
                                 shafts and stairwells at each floor; floor space used for mechanical equipment;
                                 attic space having headroom of six feet nine inches (6'9") or more; interior
                                 balconies and mezzanines; and enclosed porches, and floor area devoted to accessory
                                 uses. However any space devoted to off street parking or loading shall not be
                                 included in the floor area.
                                 Grass from sod or seed, other low lying planted material no more than twelve inches
GROUND COVER, LIVING:            (12") in height used for erosion control. Not including pollen producing varieties,
                                 not briars, brambles, nor plants generally accepted as weeds.
                                 A dwelling or facility used to provide a socially dependent family environment for
                                 developmentally or mentally disabled patients, as specified in the 1988 fair housing
GROUP HOME:                      act amendments of the civil rights act of 1968. For purposes of this title, this
                                 definition shall not include "halfway houses", uses for the recovering chemically
                                 dependent, prison work release programs or any use that does not house solely the
                                 developmentally or mentally disabled.
                                 A group of five (5) or more persons, not related by blood, marriage, legal adoption,
                                 or foster care status residing in a single dwelling unit or facility. Examples of
GROUP LIVING:                    group living arrangements include, but are not limited to, fraternity houses,
                                 halfway houses, and transitional shelters. Also see definitions of Family and Group
                                 Home.
                                 A licensed home for inmates on release from more restrictive custodial confinement
HALFWAY HOUSE:                   or initially placed in lieu of such more restrictive custodial confinement, where
                                 supervision, rehabilitation, and counseling are provided to bring residents into the
                                 mainstream of society.
HATCHERY, POULTRY:               See definition of Feedlot.
                                 Any substance that, because of its quantity, concentration, or physical or chemical
HAZARDOUS MATERIAL:              characteristics, poses a significant hazard or potential hazard to human health and
                                 safety or to the environment. The term includes, but is not limited to, hazardous
                                 substances and hazardous wastes.
                                 A facility where members or nonmembers use equipment or space for the purpose of
HEALTH CLUB:                     physical exercise. The facility may also offer sauna, massage, or spa services, but
                                 does not include "adult use: adult massage parlor".
                                 A movable or transportable vehicle or other apparatus commonly used in commercial,
HEAVY EQUIPMENT:                 industrial, or construction enterprises, such as, but not limited to, trucks,
                                 trailers, bulldozers, cranes, backhoes, rollers, loaders, and lifts having a weight
                                 of 2.5 tons or more.
                                 For buildings with flat roofs, the building height shall be the vertical distance to
                                 the highest point of the roof. For buildings with mansard roofs, the building height
                                 shall be the vertical distance to the deck line. For buildings with gable, hip, and
HEIGHT, BUILDING:                gambrel roofs, the building height shall be: the vertical distance to the eaves plus
                                 one-half (1/2) of the vertical distance from the eaves to the exterior ridge of the
                                 roof. Regardless of the type of roof, the vertical distance shall be from the curb
                                 level if the building is not more than ten feet (10') from the front lot line or
                                 from the top of foundation in all other cases.
                                 An area designed to be used for the landing or takeoff of helicopters including
HELIPORT:                        operations facilities, such as maintenance, loading and unloading, storage, fueling,
                                 or terminal facilities.
                                 An area designated as a "historic district" pursuant to this code and which contains
                                 within definable geographic boundaries one or more historic landmarks and which may
HISTORIC DISTRICT:               have within its boundaries other properties, areas, sites, landscapes, or
                                 structures, while not of such historic, architectural, or scenic significance to be
                                 designated as landmarks, nevertheless contribute to the overall visual
                                 characteristics of the district.
                                 A building, structure, or site which has been designated as a "historic landmark"
HISTORIC LANDMARK:               pursuant to this code which is worthy of rehabilitation, restoration, or
                                 preservation because of its historic, architectural, or scenic significance or by
                                 its inclusion in the national register of historic places.
                                 Having character, interest or value as part of the development, heritage, or culture
                                 of the community, county, state or nation; as the location of an important local,
HISTORIC SIGNIFICANCE:           county, state or national event; or through identification with a person or persons
                                 who made important contributions to the development of the community, county, state
                                 or nation.
HOME OCCUPATION:                 A business, profession, or other activity engaged in for income or profit by any
                                 owner, tenant, or occupant of a residential property.
                                 An institution which maintains and operates facilities for the diagnosis, treatment,
HOSPITAL:                        medical care or surgical care of persons suffering from illness, disease, injury,
                                 deformity or other abnormal physical condition and which permits overnight lodging
                                 for patients.
IMPERVIOUS AREA COVERAGE:        The horizontal area of a lot that is covered by an impervious surface.
                                 Any hard surfaced, manmade area that does not readily absorb or retain water,
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE:              including, but not limited to, building roofs, parking and driveway areas,
                                 sidewalks, graveled areas, and paved recreation areas.
                                 For the purposes of regulating prohibited truck signs, an inconspicuous area shall
INCONSPICUOUS AREA:              be defined as follows:
                                 A.   An area designated for truck or semitrailer only parking; or
                                 B.   An area on the interior side yard or rear yard area of the subject site.
                                 A planned, coordinated development of a tract of land with two (2) or more separate
                                 industrial buildings. Such development is planned, designed, constructed, and
INDUSTRIAL PARK:                 managed on an integrated and coordinated basis with special attention given to on
                                 site vehicular circulation, parking, utility needs, building design and orientation,
                                 and open space.
                                 Enterprises in which goods are generally mass produced from raw materials on a large
                                 scale through use of an assembly line or similar process. Heavy industry produces
INDUSTRY, HEAVY:                 significant external effects such as smoke, noise, soot, dirt, vibration, or odor.
                                 Heavy industry may also pose substantial risks due to the involvement with
                                 explosives, radioactive materials, poisons, pesticides, herbicides, or other
                                 hazardous materials used in the manufacturing process.
                                 Enterprises engaged in the processing, manufacturing, compounding, assembly,
                                 packaging, treatment, or fabrication of materials and products, from processed or
INDUSTRY, LIGHT:                 previously manufactured materials. Light industry operates in such a manner as to
                                 control the external effects of the manufacturing process, such as smoke, noise,
                                 soot, dirt, vibration, or odor. A machine shop is included in this category.
                                 Enterprises in which goods are generally mass produced from raw materials on a large
INDUSTRY, MEDIUM:                scale through use of an assembly line or similar process. Medium industry produces
                                 moderate external effects such as smoke, noise, soot, dirt, vibration, or odor.
                                 Land, improvements to land, equipment, and appliances necessary for the receipt,
INTERMODAL TERMINAL FACILITY:    short term storage and transfer of goods between one mode of transportation and
                                 another, at least one of which must be transportation by rail.
                                 Any space for storage, abandonment or sale of junk, scrap material or similar waste,
JUNKYARD:                        including the dismantling, demolition or abandonment of vehicles, machinery or
                                 parts. Junkyard shall be synonymous with salvage yard.
                                 A facility for the keeping, boarding, raising, or training of four (4) or more dogs,
KENNEL:                          cats, or other household pets of any age not owned by the owner or occupant of the
                                 premises, except for pet shops or animal hospitals.
KEY LOT:                         Lots within a residential development that are located at highly visible
                                 intersections as well as other strategic points within the development.
LAND USE:                        A description of how land is occupied or utilized.
LANDFILL:                        Any operation or activity which is a "sanitary landfill" within the meaning of the
                                 Illinois environmental protection act, 415 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1 et seq.
                                 Cattle, horses, sheep, goats, swine, fowl, ducks, geese, turkeys, confined domestic
LIVESTOCK:                       hares and rabbits, pheasants and other birds and animals raised and/or maintained in
                                 confinement for home use or profit, other than traditional household pets, are for
                                 the purpose of this title, considered livestock.
LIVING SPACE:                    One or more rooms in a building designed for occupancy by one or more persons for
                                 living or sleeping.
                                 For zoning purposes, as covered by this title, a lot is a parcel of land of at least
                                 sufficient size to meet minimum zoning requirements for use, coverage and area, and
                                 to provide such yards and other open spaces as are herein required. Such lot shall
                                 have frontage on an improved public street and may consist of any of the following,
                                 provided that in no case of division or combination shall any residual lot or parcel
LOT:                             be created which does not meet the requirements of this title:
                                 A.   A single lot of record;
                                 B.   A portion of a lot of record;
                                 C.   A combination of complete lots of record, of complete lots of record and
                                 portions of lots of record, or of portions of lots of record;
                                 D.   A parcel of land described by metes and bounds.
LOT AREA:                        The area of a horizontal plane bounded by the vertical planes through front, side
                                 and rear lot lines.
                                 A lot located at the junction of two (2) or more intersecting streets, having an
LOT, CORNER:                     interior angle of less than one hundred thirty five degrees (135°), with a boundary
                                 line bordering on two (2) of the streets.
LOT DEPTH:                       The mean horizontal distance between the front lot line and the rear lot line of a
                                 lot, measured within the lot boundaries.
LOT, FLAG:                       A lot that has access to a public right of way by means of a narrow strip of land.
LOT, INTERIOR:                   A lot other than a corner or through lot.
LOT LINE:                        A line dividing one lot from another lot or from a street or alley.
LOT LINE, CORNER SIDE:           That boundary of a corner lot, which abuts a public street and is not a front lot
                                 line.
                                 That boundary of a lot which abuts a public street. In the case of a corner lot, the
                                 front lot line is the shortest of the lot lines abutting public streets. In cases
                                 where the lot lines abutting public streets are equal, the front lot line shall be
                                 the one that faces the primary building's main entrance.
                                 Both lots are at the intersection of two (2) streets. The lot on the left, with an
LOT LINE, FRONT:                 interior angle at the intersection of one hundred thirty five degrees (135 ), is not
                                 a corner lot. The lot on the right has an interior angle at the intersection of less
                                 than one hundred thirty five degrees (135 ); therefore it is a corner lot.
                                 In the case of a flag lot the front lot line is the closest boundary that is, in
                                 general, parallel to the street and is not the boundary line of the narrow strip of
                                 land that abuts the street.
LOT LINE, INTERIOR SIDE:         A lot line not abutting a public street.
                                 That boundary of a lot which is most distant from and is, or is approximately,
                                 parallel to the front lot line. If the rear lot line is less than ten feet (10') in
LOT LINE, REAR:                  length, or if the lot forms a point at the rear, the rear lot line shall be deemed
                                 to be a line ten feet (10') in length within the lot, parallel to, and at the
                                 maximum distance from, the front lot line.
LOT LINE, SIDE:                  Any boundary of a lot which is not a front or rear lot line. On a corner lot a side
                                 lot line may be a street lot line.
LOT LINE, STREET:                A lot line dividing a lot from a street.
LOT, REVERSED CORNER:            A corner lot where the street side lot line is substantially a continuation of the
                                 front lot line of the first lot to its rear.
LOT SIZE:                        See definition of Lot Area.
                                 A lot which has a pair of opposite lot lines along two (2) substantially parallel
LOT, THROUGH:                    streets, and which is not a corner lot. On a through lot both street lot lines shall
                                 be deemed front lot lines.
                                 The horizontal distance between the side lot lines measured at the front yard line
LOT WIDTH:                       as established in this chapter, and calculated on the arc measurement for
                                 curvilinear lots.
LOT, ZONING:                     A parcel of land indicated as such upon a subdivision or assessment plat recorded in
                                 the office of the county recorder.
LUMBERYARD:                      See definition of Building Material Sales.
MAINTENANCE:                     Regular upkeep of a property that does not significantly alter its historic
                                 character or identity and, therefore, does not require a permit.
MAJOR WORK:                      Exterior changes that involve significant alterations, additions, or removals that
                                 could be determined to impair the integrity of a landmark or a district as a whole.
                                 A dwelling unit fabricated in an off site manufacturing facility for installation or
MANUFACTURED HOMES:              assembly at the building site, and built in accordance with the federal manufactured
                                 home construction and safety standards. Also see definition of Modular Home.
MARQUEE:                         A permanent canopy often made of metal and glass, projecting over an entrance,
                                 usually of a hotel or theater.
MASSAGE PARLOR:                  See definition of Adult Use: Adult Massage Parlor.
MASSAGE THERAPIST:               A person who is licensed by the Illinois department of professional regulation and
                                 administers massage for compensation.
                                 A system of structured palpation or movement of the soft tissue of the body. The
                                 system may include, but is not limited to, techniques such as effleurage or stroking
                                 and gliding, petrissage or kneading, tapotement or percussion, friction, vibration,
                                 compression, and stretching activities as they pertain to massage therapy. These
                                 techniques may be applied by a licensed massage therapist with or without the aid of
                                 lubricants, salt or herbal preparations, hydromassage, thermal massage, or a massage
MASSAGE THERAPY:                 device that mimics or enhances the actions possible by human hands. The purpose of
                                 the practice of massage, as licensed under the Illinois massage licensing act1, is
                                 to enhance the general health and well being of the mind and body of the recipient.
                                 Massage does not include the diagnosis of a specific pathology. Massage does not
                                 include those acts of physical therapy or therapeutic or corrective measures that
                                 are outside the scope of massage therapy as defined in the Illinois massage
                                 licensing act.
                                 A facility for providing medical, psychiatric, dental or optometric services on an
MEDICAL CLINICS:                 outpatient basis, including diagnostic services, training, administration,
                                 incidental or nonprimary surgical procedures, and services to outpatients, employees
                                 or visitors.
MENU BOARD:                      A ground sign identifying a menu associated with ordering at drive-through
                                 facilities.
                                 A facility for the production and packaging of malt beverages for retail and/or
                                 wholesale distribution, with a capacity of not more than fifteen thousand (15,000)
                                 barrels per year. The facility may include a restaurant or tavern where the
MICROBREWERY:                    beverages produced on site or sold directly to patrons, either for consumption on
                                 site or in hand capped, sealed containers in quantities up to one- half (1/2)
                                 barrel. A barrel is the equivalent of thirty one (31) gallons. See also definitions
                                 of Brewpub and Brewery.
MINOR WORK:                      Exterior changes that do not involve substantial alterations, additions, or removals
                                 that could impair the integrity of the property and/or the district as a whole.
                                 A development or area in which more than one type of land use is provided. Some
MIXED USE:                       examples of mixed uses are residential and retail, retail and office, residential
                                 and office.
                                 For purposes of this title, a dwelling unit not completely factory built or
                                 assembled, that when assembled takes on all the indications of a residential home in
                                 that it has siding, shingled roof, and is completely attached to a solid permanent
                                 foundation and not on jacks or wheels. In addition, a modular home is defined as a
                                 home that is constructed and placed on the owner's land with the intent that the
                                 structure could not or would not be relocated.
                                 A.   The structure must be comprised of two (2) or more units designed to be joined
                                 as a single, complete living unit.
                                 B.   The unit, when complete, must be at least twenty feet (20') wide and not less
MODULAR HOME:                    than forty feet (40') in length, comprising a minimum of eight hundred (800) square
                                 feet of living space.
                                 C.   The unit's framing structure must be a minimum of two inch by four inch (2" x
                                 4") construction with floor joists at no less than two inch by eight inch (2" x 8")
                                 material.
                                 D.   Prior to issuance of a building permit, the applicant must submit to the zoning
                                 enforcement officer the manufacturer's construction and design prints on the modular
                                 home for which their permit is sought.
                                 E.   The applicant and the unit must meet all definitions and criteria of this
                                 title. Failure to do so shall be cause for immediate denial of a permit.
                                 F.   Special permitted uses.
MOTORCYCLE SALES AND SERVICE:    See definition of Automobile, Light Truck Sales And Service.
                                 An area and/or building used for the storage of household furniture and effects, or
MOVING AND STORAGE:              office furnishings. Also an enterprise engaged in the transfer of household or
                                 office furnishings and effects.
MULTI-FAMILY:                    Residential buildings that contain more than six (6) dwelling units and typically
                                 seen as condominiums and apartments.
MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING:           See definition of Dwelling, Multiple (Multi-Family).
NAMEPLATE:                       See definition of Sign, Nameplate.
NEON OR OTHER GAS TUBE           Illumination affected by a light source consisting of a neon or other gas tube which
ILLUMINATION:                    is bent to form letters, symbols, or other shapes.
NET DEVELOPED AREA:              The improved portion of a parcel, lot or tract of land including the land required
                                 to meet minimum yard requirements as established by the zoning ordinance.
                                 A building, structure, or site that may be a part of a historic landmark or
                                 district, but does not possess historic, architectural, or archaeological
                                 significance or integrity per se; however, the relationship of these buildings,
NONCONTRIBUTIN G (BUILDING,      structures, or sites to those that are contributing may be important to the
STRUCTURE, OR SITE):             preservation of the landmark or district. Inclusion of these properties within a
                                 historic district subjects these properties to those design review standards and
                                 guidelines applicable to noncontributing properties as defined by this title and by
                                 the historic preservation commission.
                                 Material which is capable of causing injury or malaise to living organisms by
NOXIOUS MATTER:                  chemical reaction, or is capable of causing detrimental effects upon the health, or
                                 the psychological, social, or economic well being of human beings.
                                 A skilled nursing or intermediate long term care facility, whether public or private
                                 and whether organized for profit or not for profit, that is subject to licensure by
NURSING HOME:                    the Illinois department of public health under the nursing home care act. The term
                                 "nursing home" does not include a facility operated solely as an intermediate care
                                 facility for the mentally retarded within the meaning of title XIX of the social
                                 security act.
OBSTRUCTION:                     Any apparatus, mechanical equipment, fence, or other construction of a long term,
                                 fixed, and permanent nature placed above or on the ground within a yard.
OFFICE:                          A room or group of rooms used for conducting the affairs of a business, profession,
                                 service industry, government, or governmental agency.
                                 A planned, coordinated development of a tract of land with two (2) or more separate
                                 office buildings. Such development is planned, designed, constructed, and managed on
OFFICE PARK:                     an integrated and coordinated basis with special attention given to on site
                                 vehicular circulation, parking, utility needs, building design and orientation, and
                                 open space.
                                 A deciduous self-supporting woody plant with an expected mature height of between
ORNAMENTAL TREE:                 fifteen (15) and thirty five feet (35'). May either be single stemmed or
                                 multistemmed.
                                 An outdoor arrangement of objects, items, products, or other materials, typically in
OUTDOOR SALES DISPLAY:           a fixed position and capable of rearrangement, designed and used for the purpose of
                                 advertising or identifying a business, product, or service. See also definition of
                                 Outdoor Sales, Seasonal.
                                 Temporary outdoor retail operations or display of plants, fruits and vegetables that
OUTDOOR SALES, SEASONAL:         are, by their nature, sold during a specific or peak season, including such items as
                                 Christmas trees, pumpkins, watermelons, sweet corn, and bedding plants.
                                 The keeping of personal or business property or motor vehicles in a required open
OUTDOOR STORAGE:                 parking space or any other area outside of a building for a period exceeding seventy
                                 two (72) consecutive hours.
                                 Any unscreened accessory structure or container that is not permanently affixed to
                                 the ground or to a principal structure, not including solid waste and landscape
OUTDOOR STORAGE FACILITY:        waste containers, which is used to store any personal property or scrap or
                                 recyclable material not generated as a result of construction, demolition, or
                                 related activities.
OUTDOOR STORAGE, SEASONAL:       See definition of Outdoor Sales Display.
                                 A deciduous, self-supporting woody plant with an expected mature height of thirty
OVERSTORY TREE:                  five feet (35') or greater, and a single straight trunk with limbs occurring on the
                                 trunk not less than five feet (5') above the ground.
                                 The determination of whether the application has the endorsement of the owners of
                                 record on behalf of a parcel shall be, if sole owner, by his or her signature, and
OWNER CONSENT:                   if multiple owners, by the owners representing at least fifty percent (50%) of the
                                 title interest in the property. Each parcel is considered independently, regardless
                                 of single ownership of multiple parcels.
OWNER OF RECORD:                 The person, corporation, or other legal entity listed as the owner of a property in
                                 the records of the Will and Kendall County recorders.
PD:                              See definition of Planned Development (PD).
PARKING SPACE:                   An area ten feet by twenty feet (10' x 20') which has adequate access to a public
                                 thoroughfare for the parking or temporary storage of a passenger automobile.
                                 The area between the rear of the curb and the front of a sidewalk. In the absence of
PARKWAY:                         a curb, the area between the nearest edge of the street paving and the front of a
                                 sidewalk. Such areas are used for planting low ground cover and/or street trees.
PARKWAY TREE:                    Same as an overstory tree, except located in the public right of way; typically the
                                 area between the sidewalk and the street.
                                 A level, surfaced area directly adjacent to a principal building at or within three
PATIO:                           feet (3') of the finished grade, without a permanent roof and intended for outdoor
                                 lounging, dining, and the like. Also see definitions of Deck and Porch.
                                 A solid or open roof structure not exceeding twelve feet (12') in height and
                                 covering a patio. Patio covers may be detached or attached to another structure.
PATIO COVER:                     Patio covers may be enclosed and used for recreational and outdoor living purposes,
                                 but do not include structures used as carports, garages, storage rooms, or habitable
                                 rooms.
                                 Any business that loans money on deposit of personal property or deals in the
                                 purchase or possession of personal property on condition of selling the same back
PAWNSHOP:                        again to the pledger or depositor, or loans or advances money on personal property
                                 by taking chattel mortgage security thereon, and takes or receives such personal
                                 property.
PERENNIAL:                       A plant (typically thought of as nonwoody) whose life cycle lasts three (3) or more
                                 years.
PERIMETER OF A SUBDIVISION:      The edges of a subdivision that abut arterial and collector roadways.
                                 A parcel of land which:
                                 A.   Is of sufficient size to create its own environment, and
                                 B.   Is under single ownership or unified control at the time of zoning approval,
PLANNED DEVELOPMENT (PD):        and
                                 C.   May be granted waivers from specific land use regulations and design standards
                                 in order to accomplish the purposes of the planned development regulations as
                                 specified in this title.
PLANT UNIT:                      A numerical equivalent given to trees and shrubs, based on size, which is used to
                                 calculate the planting requirements of this title.
                                 A roofed structure, at an entrance to a building, not more than seventy five percent
PORCH:                           (75%) enclosed by walls and attached to the building for the purpose of sheltering
                                 from the rays of the sun and from the weather, exclusive of vehicles, either persons
                                 or inanimate objects. See also definitions of Deck and Patio.
PORCH, DOMINANT:                 A porch having a minimum depth of three feet (3') and a minimum width of eight feet
                                 (8').
PORCH, NONDOMINANT:              A porch with a dimension less than three feet (3') deep or eight feet (8') wide.
PREVIEW BOARD:                   A ground sign identifying specials or highlighted menu items located ahead of the
                                 menu board at drive-through facilities.
PUBLIC WAY:                      Any street, alley, pathway, bridge, easement, right of way or other way in which the
                                 public has a right of use.
RECREATION FACILITY, PRIVATE,    A commercial or not for profit recreation or sports facility entirely within a
INDOOR:                          building, including such uses as ice rink, indoor tennis court, bowling alley,
                                 swimming pool.
                                 A commercial or not for profit establishment devoted primarily to the pursuit of
RECREATION FACILITY, PRIVATE,    recreational activities, where the primary recreational activity is conducted
OUTDOOR:                         outdoors, such as country club, golf course, riding stable, go-cart racetrack,
                                 amusement park, shooting range, water slide.
                                 A vehicular type unit primarily designed as temporary living quarters for
                                 recreational, camping, or travel use, which either has its own motive power or is
RECREATION VEHICLE:              mounted on or drawn by another vehicle. Excludes camper or other tops mounted on
                                 pickup trucks or sport utility vehicles where the unit does not extend more than two
                                 feet (2') above the top of the cab of the vehicle.
                                 A building or enclosed area used for the collection and/or processing of recyclable
RECYCLING FACILITY:              materials. Processing means the preparation of material for shipment, or an end
                                 user's specifications, by such means as baling, compacting, flattening, grinding,
                                 crushing, mechanical sorting, shredding, cleaning and remanufacturing.
                                 The process of returning a property to a state of utility, through repair or
REHABILITATION:                  alteration, which makes possible efficient contemporary use while preserving those
                                 portions and features of the property which are significant to its historic,
                                 architectural and cultural values.
                                 A use located in a permanent building providing regular organized religious worship
                                 and related incidental activities, except primary or secondary schools and
RELIGIOUS ASSEMBLY:              nonresidential childcare facilities. A rectory or parsonage may be located on the
                                 same lot as the permanent building that provides the place for the religious
                                 assembly.
                                 A place of worship or religious assembly with related facilities such as: rectory or
RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION:           convent; private school; meeting hall; offices for administration of the
                                 institution; licensed child or adult care, playground, cemetery.
REMOVAL:                         Any relocation of a structure from its original site.
REPAIR:                          To restore by replacing, in part or in whole, that which is worn, broken, or
                                 otherwise in a state of disrepair.
                                 An establishment primarily engaged in the provision of repair services to
REPAIR SERVICE, CONSUMER:        individuals and households, rather than businesses, but excluding automotive and
                                 equipment repair use types. Typical uses include appliance repair shops, shoe
                                 repair, watch or jewelry repair shops, or repair of musical instruments.
RESIDENTIAL DENSITY:             The number of dwelling units divided by the gross buildable area of a property.
                                 The interim period between the removal of a balloon or trailer mounted or wheel
REST PERIOD:                     mounted sign in a unified business center, multi-tenant office building, or a
                                 shopping center and the issuance of a subsequent permit in the same location where
                                 the installation of such signage is prohibited.
                                 An establishment primarily engaged in provision of goods and/or services directly to
RETAIL SALES AND SERVICE:        the consumer, where such goods are available for immediate purchase and removal from
                                 the premises by the purchaser, but excluding those commercial establishments
                                 classified more specifically by definition in this zoning ordinance.
ROADSIDE MARKET:                 A building, generally used year round, in which fruits, vegetables, and handicrafts
                                 are offered for sale. Also see definition of Farm Stand.
                                 Either the edge of the roof or the top of the parapet, whichever forms the top line
ROOFLINE:                        of the building silhouette; and where a building has several roof levels, this roof
                                 or parapet shall be the one belonging to that portion of the building on whose wall
                                 the sign is located.
SALVAGE YARD:                    See definition of Junkyard.
                                 Space intended for one individual; in places where patrons or spectators occupy
SEAT:                            benches, pews or other seating facilities, each twenty inches (20") of such seating
                                 facilities shall be counted as one seat.
SELF-STORAGE FACILITY:           A structure containing separate storage spaces of varying sizes leased or rented on
                                 an individual basis. Such facilities are also known as miniwarehouses.
                                 Any building or land used primarily for the dispersal, sale, or offering for sale of
                                 automotive fuels, oils or accessories, including lubrication of automobiles and
SERVICE STATION, AUTOMOTIVE:     replacement of minor parts and accessories, but not including major repair work such
                                 as motor replacement or rebuilding, body and fender repair, or painting. Service
                                 stations may also offer a limited line of groceries, tobacco, periodicals, and other
                                 household goods, and may have a car wash as an accessory use.
                                 The minimum distance by which any building, structure, or obstruction is separated
SETBACK:                         from a lot line, as measured from the lot line to the closest point of the building
                                 or obstruction, excluding open stairs or stoops.
SETBACK, CORNER SIDE:            A setback measured from the corner side lot line.
SETBACK, FRONT:                  A setback measured from the front lot line.
SETBACK, INTERIOR SIDE:          A setback measured from the interior side lot line.
SETBACK, REAR:                   A setback measured from the rear lot line.
SHADE TREE:                      See definition of Overstory Tree.
                                 A concentration of retail stores or service establishments that share customer
SHOPPING MALL:                   parking areas and are located within an enclosure having public walkways whereby a
                                 customer in one store or establishment may walk to another store without leaving the
                                 enclosure.
                                 A deciduous or evergreen, self-supporting woody plant with an expected mature height
SHRUB, LARGE:                    of not less than five feet (5'), and generally not larger than fifteen feet (15'),
                                 with multiple trunks and/or leaders.
SHRUB, SMALL:                    A deciduous or evergreen, self-supporting woody plant with an expected mature height
                                 of less than five feet (5'), with multiple trunks and/or leaders.
                                 A symbol, lettering, pictorial representation, or combination thereof attached to
SIGN:                            fixed property, buildings, or structures readily visible from public property and
                                 used for information, identification, or directional purposes or to sell or
                                 advertise products, services, activities, or events. See section 9-3-1 of this code.
                                 The part of the sign that is or can be used to identify, advertise, or communicate
                                 information or for visual representation that attracts the attention of the public
SIGN AREA:                       for any purpose, plus the area surrounding such parts except for frame, supports, or
                                 structural members. The frame, supports, or structural members may be considered as
                                 part of the sign face if it is so designed with lighting or other ornamentation that
                                 is incorporated for the sign design.
SIGN, AWNING:                    A sign incorporated into or attached to an awning.
SIGN, BANNER:                    A sign applied to cloth, paper or fabric of any kind, with only such nonrigid
                                 material for background.
                                 A board, panel, or tablet used for the display of posters, printed or painted
SIGN, BILLBOARD:                 advertising matter, that directs attention to goods, entertainment, or service
                                 offered elsewhere than the premises where the sign is located.
SIGN, CIVIC EVENT:               A sign installed by the village on public property for the purpose of advertising
                                 public service information.
SIGN, CONSTRUCTION               A temporary sign used to advertise the company or companies involved in the
IDENTIFICATION:                  construction of a specific structure or development or announcing a future occupant
                                 at a particular location.
SIGN, DIRECTIONAL, OFF SITE:     Signage installed for the purpose of directing traffic to a particular lot, site, or
                                 subdivision.
SIGN, DIRECTIONAL, ON SITE:      Signage used to circulate and direct traffic within a particular lot.
                                 A sign that uses changing lights to form a message or messages wherein the sequence
SIGN, ELECTRONIC MESSAGE:        of messages and the rate of change are electronically programmed and may be modified
                                 by electronic processes.
                                 A sign that is permitted in the village that does not require a permit, yet is
SIGN, EXEMPT:                    subject to the provisions and restrictions regarding installation, maintenance,
                                 size, style, and location.
                                 The surface on which the text or copy is printed including framing on internally
SIGN, FACE:                      illuminated signs. Individually lettered signs have a sign face including only each
                                 letter.
                                 A sign that contains an intermittent or sequential flashing light source or a sign
SIGN, FLASHING:                  that contains changing graphics, animation, moving or rotating elements or devices
                                 which otherwise create the illusion of movement.
SIGN, GARAGE SALE:               A temporary sign used to advertise the sale of secondhand merchandise from the
                                 garage or driveway of a residence.
                                 A temporary sign advertising the opening of a new business not previously located on
SIGN, GRAND OPENING:             the premises or the reopening of an established business which has been severely
                                 damaged by catastrophe and has been closed for at least sixty (60) consecutive days
                                 for renovation.
                                 A freestanding sign including, but not limited to, a monument sign, pylon sign, real
SIGN, GROUND:                    estate sign, subdivision project sign, or subdivision entrance sign that is
                                 supported by posts or other supports independent of any building or structure.
SIGN, HEIGHT:                    The vertical distance from grade level at the base of the sign to the top of the
                                 sign structure.
                                 A two- or three-dimensional (e.g., plywood, plastic cutout, or cold air inflatable
SIGN, ICON:                      device) ground sign shaped to resemble or depict a specific object, animal, person,
                                 or place, which is regulated according to the provisions set forth regarding ground
                                 signs in this title.
SIGN, ILLUMINATED:               Illuminated signs can be either "internally illuminated" or "externally
                                 illuminated".
Sign, Externally Illuminated:    A sign, which is illuminated by lamps, not installed on or within the sign face.
                                 A sign, which is illuminated by means of light, transmitted through the sign face.
Sign, Internally Illuminated:    Internally illuminated signs include signs where the lamps are mounted on the sign
                                 face.
SIGN, INDIVIDUAL LETTER:         Any sign, which is comprised of individual letters and mounted independently to a
                                 wall, surface, or brackets.
SIGN, INFLATABLE:                A sign or other device that is inflated by cold air, hot air, or other inflatable
                                 gas.
                                 An auxiliary sign provided for the sole purpose of providing information to
SIGN, INFORMATIONAL:             pedestrian or vehicular traffic as to a particular use or function of a building or
                                 structure.
SIGN, MANUALLY CHANGEABLE COPY:  A sign whereby a message or messages are created on a sign face by manually affixing
                                 the lettering onto/into the sign face.
                                 A permanent rooflike structure extending from part of the wall of a building but not
SIGN, MARQUEE:                   supported by the ground and constructed of durable material such as metal or glass.
                                 A marquee sign normally incorporates changeable copy.
                                 A freestanding sign supported primarily by an internal structural framework or
SIGN, MONUMENT:                  integrated into landscaping or other solid structural features other than support
                                 poles.
SIGN, NAMEPLATE:                 A sign which displays only the name and/or address of the occupant, is
                                 nonelectrical, and is no larger than two (2) square feet.
SIGN, NONCOMMERCIAL :            A sign that does not contain information or advertising for any business, commodity,
                                 service, entertainment, product, or other attraction.
                                 A sign, lawful prior to enactment of this title, which does not comply with all the
SIGN, NONCONFORMING :            regulations of this title. Existing nonconforming signs that are prohibited upon
                                 adoption of this title shall not be considered legal nonconforming.
                                 A sign that directs attention to or advertises a use, business, commodity, service,
SIGN, OFF PREMISES:              or activity not conducted, sold or offered upon the premises where the sign is
                                 located.
SIGN, PERMANENT:                 A sign intended for permanent display.
SIGN, POLE:                      A freestanding sign that is affixed, attached, or erected on a pole that is not
                                 itself an integral part of or attached to a building or structure.
SIGN, POLITICAL:                 A temporary sign identifying a political candidate, issue, or party.
SIGN, PORTABLE:                  A sign designed to be moved from place to place. Portable signs are commonly, but
                                 not always, attached to a trailer.
SIGN, PROJECTING:                A sign attached to a building or other structure and extending in whole or in part
                                 more than twelve inches (12") beyond the building.
SIGN, PROMOTIONAL:               A temporary sign installed for a short, fixed period of time for the purpose of
                                 promoting a special event or sale.
SIGN, REAL ESTATE:               A sign located for purposes of advertising on a parcel of land, building, or
                                 dwelling unit as available for sale, rental, or lease.
                                 A sign erected, maintained or displayed above the parapet or placed or mounted on
SIGN, ROOF:                      any roof surface or any surface constructed at an angle of more than eight degrees
                                 (8°) from the horizontal.
   Commentary:                The allowance of signs where the roof is at an angle of eight degrees (8°) or less
                                 is intended to accommodate signs on mansard roofs.
SIGN, SIDEWALK:                  A temporary sign placed near the sidewalk in front of a business that is used to
                                 advertise the business (e.g., menu items, daily specials, promotions, sales, etc.).
SIGN, SNIPE:                     A sign fastened to a stick, tree, light, or utility pole and is not a banner.
SIGN, SPECIAL EVENT:             A temporary sign (excluding a banner) displaying a special event sponsored by a
                                 church, school, or any other community service organization.
SIGN, SUBDIVISION ENTRANCE:      A ground sign at the street entrance to a subdivision.
SIGN, TEMPORARY:                 A sign installed, affixed, or maintained on a premises for a short, fixed, period of
                                 time.
SIGN, TRAILER MOUNTED (Also      A temporary sign, usually mounted on wheels or a trailer, installed and displayed
Known As WHEEL MOUNTED SIGN):    for a short, fixed, period of time that is designed for easy transport from one
                                 location to another by motor vehicle.
SIGN, WALL:                      A sign affixed against or painted on the outside surface of a wall or building in a
                                 plane parallel to that of the supporting wall, but not including window signs.
SIGN, WINDOW:                    A sign installed inside a window for purposes of viewing from outside the premises.
                                 This term does not include merchandise or displays located in a window.
SINGLE-FAMILY ATTACHED DWELLING: See definition of Dwelling, Single-Family.
                                 The location of a significant event, a prehistoric or historic occupation or
SITE:                            activity, or a building or structure, whether standing, demolished, or vanished,
                                 where the location itself possesses historic, cultural, agricultural, environmental,
                                 or archaeological value regardless of the value of any existing structure.
                                 An establishment primarily offering ice cream and nonalcoholic, carbonated
SODA FOUNTAIN:                   beverages, and where light refreshments and limited menu meals may also be sold, and
                                 where the refreshments can be consumed on the premises.
                                 A zoning device which enables the zoning authorities to place into a zoned district,
SPECIAL USE:                     in addition to the uses permitted there as of right, certain other designated uses,
                                 subject to the zoning authorities' specific approval.
                                 These areas are: a) less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals or
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS:      pubic region or buttock or female breast below a point immediately above the top of
                                 the areola; and b) human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
                                 completely and opaquely covered.
                                 A.   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal; or
SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES:     B.   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy; or
                                 C.   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region, buttock or
                                 female breast.
STABLE:                          A structure or land used, designed, or arranged for the sheltering and keeping of
                                 horses.
                                 That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor and the surface
STORY:                           of the floor above; or if there is no floor above, the space between the floor and
                                 the ceiling above. A basement shall be counted as a story, but a cellar shall not be
                                 counted as a story.
                                 A space under a sloping roof which has the line of intersection for roof decking and
STORY, HALF:                     wall not more than three feet (3') above the top floor level, and in which space not
                                 more than sixty percent (60%) of the floor area is completed for principal or
                                 accessory uses.
STREET (AVENUE, PLACE, ROAD,     A publicly dedicated right of way or permanently reserved easement, not less than
TERRACE OR PARKWAY):             twenty feet (20') wide, which affords a primary means of access to abutting
                                 property.
STREET, LOCAL:                   A street primarily for access to abutting properties.
                                 A street which carries traffic from local streets to the major street system. Minor
STREET, MINOR COLLECTOR:         collector streets include the principal entrance streets of subdivisions and streets
                                 intended for circulation within subdivisions.
STRIP MALL:                      Linear commercial development, usually one store deep, that fronts on a major
                                 street, with shallow on site parking between the stores and the street.
                                 Any change in the number or width of exits, in the supporting members of a building,
STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS:          such as bearing walls, or partitions, columns, beams, or girders or any substantial
                                 change in the roof.
                                 Anything constructed or erected, the use of which required more or less permanent
STRUCTURE:                       location on the ground or is attached to something having a more or less permanent
                                 location on the ground.
                                 Any structure of any kind or character erected or maintained for outdoor advertising
STRUCTURE, OUTDOOR ADVERTISING:  purposes, upon which any outdoor advertising sign may be placed, including also
                                 outdoor advertising statuary.
SUPERMARKET:                     A retail establishment primarily for the sale of foodstuffs and with a floor area of
                                 thirty thousand (30,000) square feet or more.
                                 An establishment in which the primary business is the retail sale of alcoholic
TAVERN:                          beverages for consumption on the premises and where sandwiches and snacks may be
                                 served or sold as an accessory use. Also sometimes referred to as a bar, pub, or
                                 lounge.
THEATER:                         An outdoor or indoor area, building, or part of a building, devoted to showing
                                 motion pictures, or for dramatic, dance, musical, or other live performances.
                                 Single-family lots that have exposure to two (2) streets as seen from the front and
THROUGH LOT:                     rear elevations. An outlot at the rear of the lot does not remove its through lot
                                 designations.
                                 Three (3) or more dwelling units that are attached to each other by vertical party
                                 walls. The party walls extend from the uppermost ceiling or roof to the ground, or
TOWNHOUSE:                       to the roof of a common garage if it is located below the units. The front and rear
                                 walls are typically perpendicular to the party wall, are totally exposed, and
                                 provide access, light, and ventilation. Used interchangeably with "townhome".
                                 Any area or premises on which space available for trailers is rented or leased or
TRAILER PARK:                    held out for rent, or lease, or on which free occupancy or camping is permitted to
                                 trailer owners or users, but not including automobile or trailer sales lots on which
                                 unoccupied trailers are parked for purposes of inspection and sale.
                                 For purposes of this title, a trailer (mobile home) is defined as a structure
                                 designed to be used for residential living, sleeping or commercial purposes and
TRAILERS:                        designed to be portable or mobile, either self-propelled or propelled by any other
                                 means, and supported on wheels, skids, rollers, blocks or any other foundation. A
                                 prefabricated home (modular home) shall not be included in this definition.
                                 A community based residential facility that provides short term (120 days or less)
TRANSITIONAL SHELTER:            room and board in a supervised living environment and generally integrated with
                                 counseling and rehabilitation services to assist in the transition to self-
                                 sufficiency through the acquisition of a stable income and permanent housing.
TREE, ORNAMENTAL:                Deciduous trees generally smaller in stature than shade trees and ranging in size
                                 between fifteen (15) and thirty five feet (35').
                                 Deciduous (hardwood) tree having a mature height of twenty five feet (25') or
TREE, SHADE:                     greater and having a broad spread of branches with leaves providing shade during
                                 summer months and shedding leaves each autumn.
                                 A group of commercial establishments, planned, constructed, and managed as a total
UNIFIED BUSINESS CENTER:         entity with customer and employee parking provided on site. Shopping malls, strip
                                 malls, and lifestyle centers are all examples of a unified business center.
UNIFIED SHOPPING CENTER:         A multi-tenant building occupied by service commercial, retail commercial, and/or
                                 office uses, also referred to as a "commercial retail center".
USE:                             The purpose or activity for which the land, or building thereon, is designed,
                                 arranged or intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained.
                                 A subordinate use, except a sign, which is clearly and customarily incidental to the
USE, ACCESSORY:                  principal use of a building or premises; and which is located on the same lot as the
                                 principal building or use except that accessory parking facilities may be authorized
                                 to be located elsewhere.
                                 Any building, structure, or use lawfully established prior to the effective date
USE, NONCONFORMING :             hereof which does not comply with all of the applicable use regulations or the
                                 zoning district in which such building or premises is located.
                                 A use which may be lawfully established in a particular zoning district or
USE, PERMITTED:                  districts, provided it conforms with all requirements, regulations and standards of
                                 this title.
USE, PRINCIPAL:                  The primary purpose or function of a building, structure, or parcel of land. A
                                 principal use may be either a permitted use or a special use.
                                 Permission for an owner to use his or her property in a manner contrary to the
                                 zoning district in which the property is found, provided that the intended use is
USE, SPECIAL:                    one of those specifically listed in this title and provided the use is approved only
                                 after special consideration of its impact upon neighboring land and of the public
                                 need for the use at the particular location.
                                 Dispensation permitted on individual parcels of property as a method of alleviating
VARIANCE:                        unnecessary hardship by allowing a reasonable use of the building, structure or
                                 property, which, because of unusual or unique circumstances, is denied by the terms
                                 of this title.
                                 An inoperable vehicle is:
VEHICLE, INOPERABLE:             A.   A motor vehicle that does not have a valid license plate.
                                 B.   A motor vehicle incapable of moving under its own power.
                                 An establishment, building or land primarily engaged in the removal and temporary
VEHICLE STORAGE AND TOWING:      storage of vehicles but does not include the dismantling or demolition of vehicles
                                 (see definition of Junkyard).
VETERINARY CLINIC:               See definition of Animal Hospital.
VILLAGE:                         The village of Seneca.
VIOLATION:                       The act of disregarding, disobeying, neglecting, omitting or refusing to comply with
                                 the regulations or enforcement of this chapter.
                                 A triangular area starting from the intersection two (2) right of way lines at a
VISION TRIANGLE:                 corner of the intersection of two (2) roadways extending twenty feet (20') from the
                                 corner along both right of way lines in which signage is prohibited.
                                 A facility for the storage and distribution of manufactured products, supplies, and
WAREHOUSE:                       equipment, but not involving the manufacture of such products, and characterized by
                                 frequent heavy trucking or rail transportation activity. Also see definitions of
                                 Freight Terminal, Rail Or Intermodal and Freight Terminal, Truck.
                                 A commercial activity, building, or land primarily engaged in or used for the
WHOLESALE ESTABLISHMENT:         display, storage, and sale of goods to other firms for resale, or an off price and/
                                 or a retail/warehouse establishment exceeding thirty thousand (30,000) square feet
                                 of floor area and offering a range of general merchandise to the public.
WINDOW:                          An opening in the wall of a building containing transparent or translucent material
                                 such as glass.
                                 An open space at grade between a building and the adjoining lot lines, unoccupied
YARD:                            and unobstructed by any portion of a structure, except as otherwise provided in this
                                 zoning ordinance.
                                 A yard located on a corner lot, immediately adjacent to a street or public right of
YARD, CORNER SIDE:               way, occupying an area that extends from the front yard the entire length of the
                                 street to the rear lot line.
YARD DEPTH, MINIMUM:             The closest distance between a lot line and the principal structure that occupies
                                 the lot. See also definition of Setback.
YARD, FRONT:                     A yard extending along the full width of a front lot line between side lot lines and
                                 from the front lot line to the front building line in depth.
YARD, INTERIOR SIDE:             A side yard located immediately adjacent to another lot or to an alley or other
                                 public right of way other than a street separating such side yard from another lot.
                                 The portion of the yard on the same lot with the principal building, located between
                                 the rear line of the building and the rear lot line and extending for the full width
YARD, REAR:                      of the lot; provided, that on a lot where an alley is dedicated at the rear of the
                                 lot, one-half (1/2) of the width of said alley may be included in the required rear
                                 yard depth.
YARD, SIDE:                      A yard extending along a side lot line. There are two (2) types of side yards:
                                 “interior side yards” and “corner side yards.”
ZBA:                             Abbreviation for the zoning board of appeals.
ZONING LOT:                      See definition of Lot, Zoning. (Ord. 10-09, 8-17-2010; amd. Ord. 21-13, 4-6-2021;
                                 Ord. 23-21, 11-7-2023)
 
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL ZONING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Interpretation
10-2-2: Scope Of Regulations
10-2-3: Zoning Of Annexed Land
10-2-4: Buildings On A Zoning Lot
10-2-5: Trailers (Mobile Homes)
10-2-6: Solid Waste Sanitary Landfill Regulations
10-2-7: Signs
10-2-8: Off Street Parking And Loading
10-2-9: Accessory Buildings/Structures And Uses
10-2-10: Permitted Obstructions In Yards
10-2-11: Fences And Hedges
10-2-12: Building Lots Not Served By Municipal Sewer System
10-2-13: Exemptions
10-2-14: Private Use Wind Energy Conversion Systems
10-2-1: INTERPRETATION:
   A.   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this title
shall be held to be minimum requirements for the promotion of the public
health, safety, morals, and welfare.
   B.   Where the conditions imposed by any provision of this title upon the:
1) use of land or buildings, 2) the bulk of buildings, 3) floor area
requirements, 4) lot area requirements, and 5) yard requirements are either
more restrictive or less restrictive than comparable conditions imposed by any
other provision of this title or of any duly constituted public agency having
jurisdiction, the regulations which are more restrictive or which impose higher
standards or requirements shall govern.
   C.   This title is not intended to abrogate any easement, consent, or other
private agreement; provided, that where the regulations of this title are more
restrictive or impose higher standards or requirements than such easement,
consent, or other private agreement, the requirements of this title shall
govern.
   D.   Interpretations of the zoning enforcement officer are subject to appeal
in accordance with the provisions of this zoning ordinance. (Ord. 10-09, 8-17-
2010)
10-2-2: SCOPE OF REGULATIONS:
The regulations set by this title within each district shall be minimum
regulations and shall apply uniformly to each class or kind of structure or
land, and particularly, except as hereinafter provided.
   A.   Conformity With Regulations: No building, structure or land shall
hereafter be used or occupied, and no building or structure or part thereof
shall hereafter be erected, constructed, reconstructed, moved, or structurally
altered unless in conformity with all of the regulations herein specified of
the district in which it is located.
   B.   Prohibited Alterations: No building or other structure shall hereafter
be erected or altered to:
      1.   Exceed the height;
      2.   Accommodate or house a greater number of families;
      3.   Occupy a greater percentage of lot area;
      4.   Have narrower or smaller rear yards, front yards, side yards, or
other open spaces than herein required; or in any other manner contrary to the
provisions of this title.
Exception: Roof structures for the housing of stairways, tanks, ventilating
fans, or similar equipment required to operate and maintain the building, and
fire or parapet walls, skylights, towers, steeples, flagpoles, chimney,
smokestacks, radio and television aerials, wireless masts, or similar
structures may be erected above the height limits herein prescribed. No such
structure may be erected to exceed by more than twenty five feet (25') the
height limits of the district in which it is located.
   C.   Yards, Off Street Parking And Loading: No part of the yard, or other
open space, or off street parking or loading space required about, or in
connection with any building for the purpose of complying with this title,
shall be included, by reason of change in ownership or otherwise, as part of a
yard, open space, or off street parking or loading space similarly required for
any other building.
   D.   Reduction In Dimension Or Area: No yard or lot existing hereof shall be
reduced in dimension or area below the minimum requirements set forth herein.
Yards or lots created after the effective date hereof shall meet at least the
minimum requirements established by this title.
   E.   Public Street Width: No private street or easement of access to a
public street shall have a width of less than fifty feet (50').
   F.   Certificates Of Zoning Compliance: All articles of title 10 will be
covered by a certificate of zoning compliance in the areas outside of the
corporate limits of the village but within one and one-half (11/2) miles of
those corporate limits. Fee structure for zoning compliance is as outlined in
section
10-6-4 of this title. (Ord. 10-09, 8-17-2010)
10-2-3: ZONING OF ANNEXED LAND:
All territory which may hereafter be added to the area of village zoning
jurisdiction shall be considered to be zoned in the most restrictive zone
district unless otherwise specified in the annexation agreement. Any areas
which shall become added to the area of zoning jurisdiction of the village
shall be studied by the plan commission and a public hearing may be held on the
proposed use district prior to the inclusion of the territory within village
jurisdiction. (Ord. 10-09, 8-17-2010)
10-2-4: BUILDINGS ON A ZONING LOT:
   A.   Not more than one principal residential building shall be located on a
single zoning lot, nor shall a principal residential building be located on the
same zoning lot with any other principal building.
   B.   Every building shall face upon a public street or a permanent easement
of access to a public street, which easement shall have a minimum width of
fifty feet (50'). (Ord. 10-09, 8-17-2010)
10-2-5: TRAILERS (MOBILE HOMES):
No trailer (mobile home) shall be allowed in the zoning jurisdiction except in
a trailer court, excepting on a temporary basis upon the following conditions:
   A.   That construction begin within forty five (45) days of the granting of
such temporary permission.
   B.   That a cash bond in the sum of five hundred dollars ($500.00) be
deposited with the village treasurer, which will be forfeited if the building
is not commenced within the forty five (45) days of the granting hereof, or if
the same is not completed within one year from the granting of such permission.
   C.   Within three hundred sixty five (365) days of posting of bond or in
alternative, completion of home, whichever comes first, the trailer is to be
located and moved from the premises. No refund or bond will be made until the
trailer is removed from the premises. Owner agrees the village has the right to
remove, impound and sell at public sale, the trailer until removal expenses and
all other expenses are paid by the owner and forfeit the bond. (Ord. 10-09, 8-
17-2010)
10-2-6: SOLID WASTE SANITARY LANDFILL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Sanitary landfills will not be allowed in the area governed by the
village unless it complies with the following criteria:
      1.   Complies with all federal, state and local laws and ordinances.
      2.   Applicant shall submit a complete in depth environmental impact
study with petition for site approval. Said study shall include relative facts
as regards adverse impact on public and private water systems within the tri-
zoning jurisdiction. (Tri- zoning is Seneca, Manlius Township, and Brookfield
Township.)
      3.   Site shall not exceed twenty five (25) acre maximum.
      4.   At no time, during operation, or following closing of the site,
shall the landfill exceed the height of the highest point of surrounding
topography, or one hundred feet (100').
      5.   The side shall be no closer than three thousand feet (3,000') to any
residence premises.
      6.   The landfill shall not dramatically change or impact the surrounding
environment or land uses.
      7.   Landfill shall be constructed completely aboveground (no excavation)
and contain a base liner and other technology that would completely restrict
"leaching" and release of contaminants.
      8.   The landfill shall be located in an area zoned industrial.
      9.   Only one landfill site (operating or nonoperating) shall be
permitted in the zoning jurisdiction of the tri-zoning agreement.
      10.   The landfill shall be completely enclosed by fencing at least ten
feet (10') in height on its perimeters to contain landfill debris carried by
wind. The fences are to be cleaned on a daily basis.
      11.   Waste shall be covered immediately upon its arrival at the site.
      12.   Landfill construction, engineering and operation technology shall
meet or exceed EPA minimum standards, and shall modify operations to meet or
exceed changing criteria.
      13.   Recyclable waste arriving at the site shall be recycled.
      14.   All disposable containers or containments shall be biodegradable.
      15.   Hours of operation shall be no earlier than five o'clock (5:00)
A.M. and no later than six o'clock (6:00) P.M.
      16.   Failure to successfully meet all of the above criteria shall be
cause for denial of site approval.
   B.   If section
7-4-5 of this code conflicts with this section, then section
7-4-5 of this code shall control.
   C.   Violation of this section is hereby declared to be a public nuisance,
causing a detriment to the public health, safety and welfare of the people of
the village to be enforceable by injunctive relief. (Ord. 10-09, 8-17-2010)
10-2-7: SIGNS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to erect any outdoor sign that is visible
in a public way except in conformance with title 9, chapter 3 of this code.
(Ord. 10-09, 8-17-2010)
10-2-8: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of these regulations is to alleviate or prevent
the congestion of public streets, and so promote the safety and welfare of the
public by establishing minimum requirements for the off street parking and
loading and unloading of motor vehicles in accordance with the use to which
property is put.
   B.   General Provisions:
      1.   Scope Of Regulations: Off street parking and loading provisions of
this section shall apply as follows:
         a.   For all buildings and structures erected and all uses of land
established after the effective date hereof, accessory parking and loading
facilities shall be provided as required by the regulations of the district in
which such buildings or uses are located.
         b.   When the intensity of use of any building, structure or premises
is increased through gross floor area, seating capacity or other unit of
measurement specified herein for required parking or loading facilities,
parking and loading facilities as required shall be provided for such increase
in intensity of use.
         c.   Whenever the existing use of a building or structure is changed
to a new use, parking or loading facilities shall be provided as required for
such new use.
      2.   Damage Or Destruction: For any conforming or legally nonconforming
building or use which is in existence on the effective date hereof, which is
damaged or destroyed by fire, collapse, explosion or other cause, and which is
reconstructed, reestablished or repaired, off street parking or loading
facilities equivalent to any maintained at the time of such damage or
destruction shall be restored or continued in operation. In no case shall it be
necessary to restore or maintain parking or loading facilities in excess of
those required by this section for equivalent new uses or construction.
      3.   Submission Of Site Plan: Any application for a building permit, or
for a certificate of occupancy where no building permit is required, shall
include a site plan, drawn to scale and fully dimensioned, showing parking or
loading facilities to be provided in compliance with this section.
      4.   Time Of Completion: Off street parking and loading facilities, as
required by this section, shall be constructed at the time of erection,
establishment, alteration, or enlargement of the building, structure or use of
land for which they are required to serve and be available for use no later
than the time the premises are utilized for their intended use.
   C.   Regulations And Requirements:
      1.   Location Of Parking Facilities: Unless otherwise approved as part of
a special use permit, all required off street parking and loading facilities,
which serve a building, structure or land uses, which are erected, established,
altered, enlarged, or intensified after the effective date hereof, and all such
parking facilities which are established or increased voluntarily pursuant to
this title, shall be located on the same lot as the building, structure, or use
of land to be served.
      2.   Joint Parking Facilities:
         a.   In any zoning district where compatible, collective off street
parking facilities are available to serve different buildings, structures or
uses, joint parking may be permitted by the village as a special use, according
to procedures set forth in chapter 8 of this title.
         b.   The total number of spaces provided may be less than the sum of
the separate parking requirements specified in subsection E, "Schedule Of Off
Street Parking Requirements", of this section, for each building or use,
provided that:
            (1)   The parking to be provided for individual land uses shall
reflect the actual peak demand for parking as defined by ordinance.
            (2)   The land uses and the shared parking facility shall be
located close enough to one another, so that individuals would be willing to
walk to each use from most points in the parking facility.
            (3)   Parking spaces to be shared shall not be reserved for certain
individuals or groups on a twenty four (24) hour basis.
            (4)   Any subsequent change in land uses within the shared parking
area shall require a new occupancy permit, and proof that sufficient parking
shall be made available.
      3.   Downtown Parking Zone:
         a.   Purpose: The downtown parking zone (DPZ) approximates an area
that historically has been the village's downtown and also includes the area
around village hall. Generally, the DPZ is occupied with older commercial and
residential buildings on small lots. Such development, which occurred before
the current level of automobile use in today's society, often means that
parcels are not of an adequate size to accommodate the required number of off
street parking spaces. The DPZ allows for an areawide approach to solving the
parking demands of the downtown area. The relaxation in parking requirements
for the DPZ is intended to encourage the preservation of older buildings,
create a pedestrian friendly environment, and ensure robust economic activity
for commercial establishments in the area.
         b.   Standards:
            (1)   Exemption From Parking Requirements: Small residential and
business land uses within the DPZ are exempt from the minimum parking
requirements of this section. However, if a commercial land use has a gross
floor area of five thousand (5,000) square feet or more, then the standards
contained in subsection E, "Schedule Of Off Street Parking Requirements", of
this section shall apply.
            (2)   Inclusion Of On Street Parking: If parking is required of a
particular use in the DPZ, all on street parking spaces within one hundred
fifty feet (150') and any parking spaces within municipal parking lots within
three hundred feet (300') may be included in the calculation for the required
number of off street parking spaces. Such distances shall be measured from the
customer entrance to the commercial use to the parking spaces.
            (3)   Maximum Off Street Parking Limits: Commercial establishments
within the DPZ shall not provide a number of off street parking spaces that is
greater than one hundred percent (100%) of the parking requirement for that
particular establishment's land use found subsection E, "Schedule Of Off Street
Parking Requirements", of this section.
            (4)   Other Parking Arrangements: Shared parking and collective
parking arrangements (subsection C2, "Joint Parking Facilities", of this
section) are permissible and encouraged.
            (5)   Administrative Adjustment: The street commissioner may grant
administrative adjustment of parking requirements for noncommercial and
nonresidential land uses within the DPZ. In order to approve such an
administrative adjustment, the street commissioner must find that:
               (A)   Based on evidence provided by the property owner, parking
demand for the property can be met with available on and off street parking in
the immediate vicinity; and
               (B)   An administrative adjustment of the parking requirements
will have minimal adverse effects on other nearby land uses and surrounding
neighborhoods; and
               (C)   Strict adherence to the parking requirements of subsection
E of this section would cause undue hardship for the property owner.
      4.   Yard Requirements:
         a.   Single-Family Residential: For purposes of this section, required
parking for single-family detached and attached dwellings, may include one
space in a garage and one space on the driveway, provided however, driveways
are at least nine feet (9') wide.
         b.   All Other Districts: There shall be no parking in minimum yards.
Plans shall demonstrate compliance with the Illinois accessibility code and
Americans with disabilities act, as may be amended from time to time.
      5.   Access:
         a.   Each required off street parking space shall open directly upon
an aisle or driveway of such width and design as to provide safe and efficient
means of vehicular access to such parking space. Off street parking facilities
shall be designed with appropriate means of vehicular access to a street or
alley in a manner that will least interfere with traffic movements.
         b.   All areas providing for off street parking facilities shall open
directly upon an aisle or driveway not less than nine feet (9') wide for
single-family, and twelve feet (12') wide for all other dwelling units, or
provide such additional width and design as shown in the "off street parking
chart".
      6.   Floor Area: For the purpose of determining off street parking and
off street loading requirements, floor area shall be calculated as the sum of
the gross horizontal area of the several floors of the building or buildings,
excluding:
         a.   Areas used for off street parking and loading facilities.
         b.   The horizontal areas of the basement that are devoted exclusively
to uses accessory to the operation of the entire building.
         c.   The horizontal areas of boiler and mechanical rooms used for
heating, ventilating and air conditioning equipment.
      7.   Computation:
         a.   When determination of the number of off street parking spaces
required by this section results in a requirement of a fractional space, any
fraction of one-half (1/2) or less may be disregarded while a fraction in
excess of one-half (1/2) shall be counted as one parking space.
         b.   If a particular use is not listed in subsection E, "Schedule Of
Off Street Parking Requirements", of this section, the village engineer shall
determine the requirements of said use by assigning the same requirements as
another use which is deemed to be similar in nature to, and compatible with,
said unlisted use.
      8.   Size:
         a.   Required parking for single-family residential uses, including
single-family detached, attached or duplex dwellings, shall be at least nine
feet by twenty one feet (9' x 21').
         b.   Required parking spaces for all other uses shall be at least nine
feet (9') in width and at least eighteen feet (18') in length, exclusive of
access drives or aisles.
         c.   The number and dimension of parking spaces to be set aside for
the handicapped shall be provided in accordance with the standards of the
Illinois capitol development board, as set forth in "Accessibility Standards,
Illustrated", as may be amended from time to time.
      9.   Design:
         a.   Surface: The surface of a parking lot shall be striped to clearly
define spaces and drive aisles. Proposed striping shall be subject to approval
by the village engineer. All parking facilities and accessways to the parking
areas, except those for single-family residential dwellings, shall have a dust
free surface. Parking areas located between a public road or street and the
principal building on the lot shall be paved.
         b.   Curbing: All off street parking facilities consisting of twelve
(12) or more spaces, shall be improved with curbing, as approved by the village
engineer.
         c.   Lighting:
            (1)   Parking lot lighting shall be required for lots with more
than twelve (12) spaces that are used at night.
            (2)   Lighting shall be extinguished one-half (1/2) hour after the
close of business, except as may otherwise be permitted or required by the
village council.
            (3)   Any lighting shall be arranged and maintained so that it does
not shine directly upon any adjacent residence or street and does not produce
excessive glare.
         d.   Screening And Landscaping:
            (1)   Screening of required off street parking and off street
loading spaces shall be provided according to standards approved by the village
engineer for all nonresidential uses of this zoning ordinance.
            (2)   Unless otherwise approved by the village council, an area
equal to not less than one nine foot by eighteen foot (9' x 18') space for
every twenty five (25) parking spaces, shall be set aside for a landscaped
island, or a landscaped area between the parking lot and the building it
serves, to create visual relief and soften the expanse of pavement:
               (A)   All interior landscaped islands shall be curbed to prevent
the destruction of such areas by vehicles.
               (B)   An area between two (2) and five feet (5') aboveground
shall be kept clear of plant growth, except for tree trunks, in order to assure
that pedestrians and automobiles will be visible to a motorist at all times.
               (C)   Interior landscaping shall include, at a minimum, one
deciduous street tree for each twenty five (25) parking spaces. Trees shall be
not less than three inches (3") in caliper, as measured twelve inches (12")
above grade, when installed.
               (D)   All landscaping shall be permanently maintained in good
condition with at least the same quality of landscaping as initially installed.
         e.   Access Control And Signage:
            (1)   There shall be no more than one entrance and one exit or one
combined entrance and exit along any street unless additional entrance/exit is
approved by the village council.
               (A)   One-way driveways shall be clearly marked with appropriate
entrance and exit signs.
               (B)   If, in the opinion of the village engineer, traffic in the
vicinity of the site warrants the restriction of turning movements or access to
and from a parking facility, signs or driveway modifications necessary to
accomplish said restrictions shall be provided.
            (2)   Accessory, or directional signs may be double sided, but
shall be limited to four (4) square feet of sign area per sign face. Signs
shall not be greater than four feet (4') in height. The village engineer may,
however, approve exceptions to these requirements if additional height and area
is necessary to include essential informational copy.
         f.   Repair And Service:
            (1)   No motor vehicle work or service of any kind shall be
permitted within any off street parking facility that is four (4) or more
spaces in size.
            (2)   No gasoline or motor oil shall be sold in any accessory off
street parking facility.
   D.   Off Street Parking Chart:
 
Parking Aisle Curb Length Stall Depth Stall Width Aisle Width Bay Width
90°          9.0'        18.0'       9.0'        24.0'       60.0'
60°          10.4'       20.0'       9.0'        16.0'       56.0'
45°          12.7'       19.1'       9.0'        12.0'       50.2'
0° 1         24.0'       24.0'       9.0'        12.0'        
 
Note:
   1.    Parallel parking. Assumes one-way traffic flow.
These standards are for a nine foot by eighteen foot (9' x 18') parking space.
   E.   Schedule Of Off Street Parking Requirements: Accessory off street
parking spaces shall be provided as required for the following uses:
Residential:                             
                                        1 space per each 2 bedrooms, plus
Congregate care housing                 spaces for accessory uses according to
                                        this section
Group housing                           1 space per dwelling unit
Senior citizen housing                  1.5 spaces per dwelling unit
Single-family residential               2 spaces per dwelling unit
Townhomes, two-family dwellings and     2.25 spaces per dwelling unit
multiplexes
Two- and three-story apartments         2 spaces per dwelling unit
Retail and service use:                  
                                        2.5 spaces per each 1,000 square feet
Automobile sales                        of floor area, plus 1 space per each
                                        2,000 square feet of outdoor sales area
                                        5 spaces per 1,000 square feet of floor
Banks and financial institutions        area, plus 5 stacking spaces for each
                                        drive-up window provided
Bed and breakfast                       1 space per sleeping room, plus 2
                                        spaces for the permanent residents
                                        5 spaces per 1,000 square feet of floor
Boat dealers                            area, plus 1 space per 3,000 square
                                        feet of outdoor sales area
Convenience food store                  6 spaces per 1,000 square feet of floor
                                        area
Delicatessens                           6 spaces per 1,000 square feet of floor
                                        area
                                        5 spaces per 1,000 square feet of floor
Farm and garden supply                  area, 1 space per each 1,000 square
                                        feet of outdoor sales area, plus 1
                                        space per each 2 employees
                                        15 spaces for each area where a funeral
Funeral parlors                         or wake may take place, 1 space per
                                        employee, plus 1 space per vehicle
                                        owned, leased or rented
Furniture store                         4 spaces per 1,000 square feet of floor
                                        area
Grocery store                           6 spaces per 1,000 square feet of floor
                                        area
Hairstyling salons                      2 spaces per chair, plus 1 space per
                                        employee
                                        1 space per room, 1 space per employee,
Hotels/motels                           plus additional spaces for accessory
                                        uses as required by this section
Kennel                                  1 space per 400 square feet of floor
                                        area, but no fewer than 4 spaces
Laundromat                              1 space per 2 washing machines
                                        3 spaces per 1,000 square feet of floor
Lumberyards                             area, plus 1 space per 3,000 square
                                        feet of outdoor sales area
                                        5 spaces per 1,000 square feet of floor
Mobile home dealers                     area, plus 1 space per each 2,000
                                        square feet of outdoor sales area
                                        5 spaces per 1,000 square feet of floor
Nursery retail sales                    area, plus 1 space per 3,000 square
                                        feet of outdoor sales area
Photography studio                      4 spaces per 1,000 square feet of floor
                                        area
Plumbing and heating supply             4 spaces per 1,000 square feet of floor
                                        area
Printing and publishing                 3 spaces per 1,000 square feet of floor
                                        area
Private clubs and lodges                5 spaces per 1,000 square feet of floor
                                        area
Produce stand                           5 spaces for each stand
Repair shop                             4 spaces per 1,000 square feet of floor
                                        area
                                        13 spaces per 1,000 square feet of
Restaurants, fast food                  floor area, plus 7 stacking spaces for
                                        each drive-up window through which food
                                        and/or drink is dispensed
Restaurants, sit down/family            10 spaces per 1,000 square feet of
                                        floor area
Restaurants, with live entertainment    13 spaces per 1,000 square feet of
and dancing                             floor area
Retail stores                           5 spaces per 1,000 square feet of floor
                                        area
Shoe repair shops                       4 spaces per 1,000 square feet of floor
                                        area
                                        5 spaces per 1,000 square feet of floor
Snowmobile sales and service            area, plus 1 space per 3,000 square
                                        feet of outdoor sales area
Veterinary clinics and animal hospitals 4 spaces per 1,000 square feet of floor
                                        area
Offices:                                 
                                        3 spaces per 1,000 square feet of floor
                                        area for buildings with 5,000 square
                                        feet or more of floor area
Offices (business, professional and     5 spaces per 1,000 square feet of floor
governmental)                           area, for buildings with less than
                                        5,000 square feet of floor area, and
                                        development occurs on an individual
                                        zoning lot
Automotive/service:                      
                                        1 space per each employee, plus
Car wash (automatic)                    stacking spaces equal to 5 times the
                                        capacity of the washing bays
                                        1 space per employee, plus 4 spaces per
Car wash (manual)                       washing bay (includes bay), 1 of which
                                        shall be located directly in front, of
                                        each bay
Oil change shop                         3 spaces per service bay, excluding
                                        service bay
                                        4 spaces per repair stall (including
                                        repair stall), 5 spaces per 5,000
Repair                                  square feet of floor area devoted to
                                        office and/or retail sales, plus 1
                                        space per each vehicle owned, leased or
                                        rented
                                        1 space per each gasoline service bay
                                        (not including the bay), 2 spaces per
Service station (full service)          repair service bay (not including the
                                        bay), 1 space per employee, plus 1
                                        space per vehicle owned or leased
                                        1 space per each gasoline service bay
                                        (not including the bay), 1 space per
Service station (self-serve)            employee, plus 5 spaces per 1,000
                                        square feet of floor area devoted to
                                        retail sales
Religious/institutional:                 
Cemetery                                1 space per full time employee
Childcare centers                       1 space per each employee, plus 1 space
                                        per each 15 children
                                        1 space per each 4 seats, or 1 space
Church or synagogue                     per each 90 linear inches seating
                                        capacity in main chapel or auditorium,
                                        based on design capacity
College or university                   1 space per each employee, plus 1 space
                                        per each 4 students
Convalescent center                     1 space per each 4 beds, plus 1 space
                                        per employee
                                        1 space per each faculty member and
Elementary school                       other full time employee; plus 1 space
                                        per each 2 classrooms for visitors
                                        1 space per each full time employee,
High school                             plus 1 space per each 7 students, based
                                        on design capacity
                                        1 space per each 2 beds, 1 space per
Hospitals or clinics                    each 2 employees, plus 1 space per each
                                        2 doctors on the staff
Library                                 1 space per 300 square feet of floor
                                        area
Police or fire station                  1.5 spaces per each employee
Post office                             4 spaces per 1,000 square feet of floor
                                        area, plus 1 space per each 3 employees
                                        1 space per 5 residents plus 1 space
Religious retreats                      per nonresident employee, plus visitor
                                        parking as recommended by the village
                                        council
Trade school                            1 space per each 5 students, plus 1
                                        space per each 2 employees
Recreational/civic:                      
Art gallery                             4 spaces per 1,000 square feet of floor
                                        area
                                        1 space for each 4 seats or 1 space per
Auditorium/assembly hall                each 50 square feet of floor area,
                                        where there is no fixed seating
Ball fields                             1 space per 4,000 square feet of
                                        playing field
Billiard/pool halls                     5 spaces per 1,000 square feet of floor
                                        area
                                        5 spaces per lane, plus additional
Bowling alley                           spaces for accessory uses as required
                                        by this section
Community center                        4 spaces per 1,000 square feet of floor
                                        area, plus 1 space per employee
Game rooms                              5 spaces per 1,000 square feet of floor
                                        area
                                        65 spaces per 18 holes; 45 spaces per 9
Golf course                             holes; 1 space per each employee; plus
                                        additional spaces for accessory uses as
                                        required by this section
                                        2 parking spaces per tee, plus 1
Golf driving range                      parking space per employee, plus
                                        additional parking for accessory uses
                                        as required by this section
Government building                     5 spaces per 1,000 square feet of floor
                                        area used by the public
Gymnasium/health club                   3 spaces per each 1,000 square feet of
                                        floor area
Indoor racquet courts                   3 spaces per court, plus 1 space per
                                        200 square feet of floor area
Miniature golf course                   2 spaces per hole, plus 5 spaces per
                                        1,000 square feet of floor area
Museum                                  4 spaces per 1,000 square feet of floor
                                        area
                                        Spaces equal to 30 percent of capacity,
Recreational buildings                  but not less than 5 spaces per 1,000
                                        square feet of floor area, plus 1 space
                                        for each 2 employees
Riding academies and stables            2 spaces per each horse stall
Skating rinks                           5 spaces per each 1,000 square feet of
                                        floor area
                                        10 spaces per 1,000 square feet of pool
                                        surface area (not including wading
Swimming pool                           pools or whirlpool baths) plus 5 spaces
                                        per 1,000 square feet of floor area
                                        devoted to accessory uses
                                        2 spaces per court, 1 space per
Tennis courts                           employee, plus additional parking for
                                        accessory uses as required by this
                                        section
Theaters (indoor)                       1 space per each 4 seats
Light industrial:                        
Light Industrial                        1 space per each 1,000 square feet of
                                        floor area
Research and development facility       3 spaces per 1,000 square feet of floor
                                        area up to 50,000 square feet
                                        4 spaces per 1,000 square feet of floor
                                        area devoted to office space, 1 space
Self-storage facility                   per employee, 2 spaces per each
                                        resident manager, plus 1 space per each
                                        50 storage units
Warehouse                               1 space per each 2,000 square feet of
                                        floor area
 
   F.   Off Street Loading: Every building which requires the receipt or
distribution of materials or merchandise by trucks or similar vehicles, shall
be required to have off street loading zones in accordance with requirements of
this section.
      1.   Location Of Off Street Loading Facilities: All required off street
loading facilities which serve a building, structure, or use of land erected,
established, altered, enlarged or intensified after the effective date hereof
shall be located on the same lot as the building, structure or use of land to
be served, unless established in accordance with the following provisions:
         a.   Central Loading Facilities: Central loading facilities, which
serve more than one lot, may be established in accordance with the following
requirements:
            (1)   Each lot to be served shall have direct access to the central
loading facility without crossing streets or alleys.
            (2)   The total number of off street loading zones provided is not
less than the sum of the separate requirements for each use as specified in
subsection G, "Schedule Of Off Street Loading Requirements", of this section.
            (3)   Each lot to be served shall be no more than three hundred
feet (300') from the central loading facility.
         b.   Control Of Central Loading Facilities: Whenever the required off
street loading is collectively provided in central loading areas, written
covenants and easements running with the land assuring the retention,
maintenance, and use of said central loading facility shall be executed by the
parties concerned. Such covenants and easements shall be reviewed by the
village engineer and village attorney, approved as to content and form by the
village council, and filed in the office of the recorder of deeds of LaSalle
County, Illinois.
      2.   Yard Requirements: Required loading areas shall not be located in a
required minimum yard.
      3.   Floor Area: For the purpose of determining off street loading
requirements, floor area shall be calculated as described in subsection C6 of
this section.
      4.   Computation:
         a.   The total number of off street loading spaces required for any
building, structure or use shall be based upon standards set forth in
subsection G, "Schedule Of Off Street Loading Requirements", of this section.
         b.   If, in determining the number of off street loading zones
required, the computation results in a requirement of a fractional zone, any
fraction of less than one-half (1/2) may be disregarded, while a fraction of
one-half (1/2) or more shall be counted as one loading area.
         c.   If a particular use is not listed in subsection G, "Schedule Of
Off Street Loading Requirements", of this section, the village engineer shall
determine the loading requirements of said use by assigning the same loading
facility requirements as another use which is deemed to be similar in nature
to, and compatible with, said unlisted use.
      5.   Design:
         a.   Surfacing: Loading areas shall be striped to clearly define these
areas, and discourage automobile parking. Proposed striping shall be subject to
approval by the village engineer.
         b.   Curbing: All loading areas shall be improved with concrete
curbing, as approved by the village engineer.
         c.   Screening:
            (1)   Landscape screening shall be provided for all unenclosed
loading areas that are adjacent to a residential or institutional use, or are
visible from a public right of way according to standards and approved by the
village engineer for all nonresidential uses of this title.
            (2)   Landscaping shall be permanently maintained in good condition
with at least the same quality of landscaping as initially installed.
      6.   Minimum Loading Facilities:
         a.   Buildings, structures, or parcels of land which require off
street loading facilities, but which have less area than the minimum prescribed
for such required facilities, shall be provided with not less than one nine
foot by eighteen foot (9' x 18') loading area to accommodate delivery and other
service vehicles.
         b.   The loading zone shall not be less than nine feet by eighteen
feet (9' x 18') in size, and shall be exclusive of required parking spaces or
drive aisles, and shall be signed and striped to discourage automobile parking.
   G.   Schedule Of Off Street Loading Requirements: Off street loading berths
shall be provided on the basis of gross floor area in accordance with the
following:
Use Gross Floor Area In Square Feet Required Number And Minimum Horizontal
                                    Dimensions Of Berths
                           Gross Floor Area In Square Required Number And
Use                        Feet                       Minimum Horizontal
                                                      Dimensions Of Berths
                           30,000 to 200,000          1 (12' x 60')
Multiple-family dwellings  For each additional
                           200,000 or fraction        1 additional (12' x 60')
                           thereof
                           10,000 to 100,000          1 (12' x 60')
Hospitals, sanatoriums,    For each additional
nursing homes              100,000 or fraction        1 additional (12' x 60')
                           thereof
Auditoriums, bowling       10,000 to 100,000          1 (12' x 60')
alleys, and civic          For each additional
buildings                  100,000 or fraction        1 additional (12' x 60')
                           thereof
                           10,000 to 100,000          1 (12' x 60')
Hotels and motels          For each additional
                           100,000 or fraction        1 additional (12' x 60')
                           thereof
Hotels, clubs and lodges   10,000 to 20,000           1 (12' x 60')
when containing any of the 20,000 to 150,000          2 (12' x 60')
following: retail shops,
convention halls,          For each additional
auditoriums, exhibition    150,000 or fraction        1 additional (12' x 60')
hall or business or        thereof
professional offices
                           8,000 to 25,000            1 (12' x 60')
Theaters (indoor)          For each additional 50,000 1 additional (12' x 60')
                           or fraction thereof
                           5,000 to 10,000            1 (12' x 60')
                           10,000 to 25,000           2 (12' x 60')
Retail/wholesale stores    25,000 to 40,000           3 (12' x 60')
and service uses           40,000 to 100,000          4 (12' x 60')
                           For each additional
                           150,000 or fraction        1 additional (12' x 60')
                           thereof
                           5,000 to 10,000            1 (12' x 60')
Establishments dispensing  10,000 to 25,000           2 (12' x 60')
food or beverages for      25,000 to 40,000           3 (12' x 60')
consumption on the         40,000 to 100,000          4 (12' x 60')
premises                   For each additional
                           100,000 or fraction        1 additional (12' x 60')
                           thereof
Banks and offices;         10,000 to 100,000          1 (12' x 60')
business, professional and For each additional
governmental               100,000 or fraction        1 additional (12' x 60')
                           thereof
                           5,000 to 40,000            1 (12' x 60')
                           40,000 to 100,000          2 (12' x 60')
Industrial uses            For each additional
                           100,000 or fraction        1 additional (12' x 60')
                           thereof
 
(Ord. 10-09, 8-17-2010)
10-2-9: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS/STRUCTURES AND USES:
   A.   Accessory uses shall be compatible with the principal use and shall not
be established prior to the establishment of the principal use. Accessory uses
are just that, accessory to the principal use. No occupancy and/or living
quarters is allowed in an accessory building.
   B.   In a residential district, there shall be only one detached garage
accessory building with no separate water or sewer service.
   C.   In a residential district, no accessory building shall be greater than
one thousand (1,000) square feet nor more than thirty percent (30%) of the
required open yard space, whichever is smaller.
   D.   In a residential district, no accessory use shall exceed fifteen feet
(15') in height.
   E.   No accessory building shall be erected or altered at, nor be moved to,
a location within ten feet (10') of the nearest wall of the principal building.
No accessory building shall be erected or altered or moved to a location within
the required setback of front or side yards on the lot. An accessory building
in a rear or side yard shall be not less than five feet (5') from any property
line. However, subsection C of this section shall apply to the setback
provision of rear yards for a corner lot.
   F.   No accessory building shall encroach upon the required side yard of a
corner lot, where said side yard borders a street. Side yards that border a
street require a minimum setback of twenty five feet (25').
   G.   Temporary building(s) for uses incidental to construction projects
shall require a special use permit pursuant to chapter 8 of this title. All
temporary buildings shall be removed upon completion or abandonment of
construction. The period of construction for which the temporary building(s)
are necessary shall require the approval of the zoning enforcement officer.
Should said period expire prior to the completion of construction, the owner is
required to remove the temporary building(s) or reapply for the necessary
permit. An extension of the construction period, by permit, shall be solely at
the discretion of the plan commission. All permittees shall be required to post
a ten thousand dollar ($10,000.00) bond to guarantee the removal of all
temporary buildings.
   H.   Donation boxes are permitted provided they are operated in a safe and
tidy manner and do not occupy required parking spaces. All donation boxes that
will be in place more than six (6) months shall require approval of the village
council. All donation boxes that will be in place for less than six (6) months
require approval by the village planner. Applications for placement and
operation of a donation box must:
      1.   Provide proof of charitable status;
      2.   Prove that they have permission from the landowner to have the box
on the property;
      3.   Agree to keep the area around the box free of litter;
      4.   Agree to remove graffiti from the box; and
      5.   Agree to keep the box in good repair.
   I.   Swimming pools, gazebos and satellite dishes, for the purpose of this
chapter, shall be considered accessory buildings/structures, and subject to the
same provisions and conditions as accessory buildings.
   J.   Intermodal containers, portable on demand storage units including,
shipping containers, tractor trailers, and enclosed trailers that are normally
used for the purpose of transportation are not permitted for permanent use as
storage units except in Industrial zoning districts, where they are allowed.
Any such unit shall be considered as being used for storage if it has not been
moved for a period of fifteen (15) days. If used in Industrial zoning
districts, such units shall not exceed 20 feet in height or be stacked more
than two high.
      1.   Residential district:
         a.   Only one allowed at a time.
         b.   May not be located any closer than five feet (5') from the rear
or side property line.
         c.   May not be located any closer than ten feet (10') to any other
structure.
         d.   Height may not exceed eight feet (8'); size restricted to three
hundred twenty (320) square feet.
         e.   May be located in any front yard or any side yard that fronts a
street for a maximum of fifteen (15) days.
         f.   Use restricted to no more than ninety (90) days per calendar
year.
         g.   The unit must be locked or otherwise secured from entry such as
by children.
      2.   Business district:
         a.   A conditional use permit is required.
         b.   All permittees shall be required to post a ten thousand dollar
($10,000.00) bond to guarantee the removal of all temporary buildings.
         c.   Must be located on the property at a site which is furthest
removed from public view, i.e., behind the principal building. (May not be
located in front or in any side yard fronting a street.)
         d.   Must observe setbacks as applicable to each district.
         e.   May not be stacked.
         f.   Use restricted to no more than ninety (90) days per calendar
year. An extended use permit may be obtained with village council approval.
   K.   Private use wind energy conversion systems shall be allowed as
accessory uses in all zoning districts without the requirement of special uses
permit approval provided the system meets all of the requirements of section
10-2-14, "Private Use Wind Energy Conversion Systems", of this chapter. (Ord.
10-09, 8-17-2010; amd. Ord. 21-36, 12-7-2021; Ord. 21-34, 11-16-2021)
10-2-10: PERMITTED OBSTRUCTIONS IN YARDS:
For the purpose of this title the following shall not be considered as
obstructions when located in yards:
   A.   In Any Yards: Chimney, fences not exceeding six feet (6') in height,
overhanging roof eaves, air conditioners, open terraces, trellises and arbors,
and awnings adjoining the principal building, if they do not exceed twenty
percent (20%) of the depth of the yard; ornamental light standards and
flagpoles. On corner lots, no obstruction higher than thirty inches (30") above
curb level shall be located in any portion of a required front or side yard
within twenty feet (20') of the lot corner formed by the intersection of any
two (2) street lines. The table below further outlines permitted obstructions
in yards.
      PERMITTED OBSTRUCTIONS IN YARDS
Projection, Obstruction, Or Accessory Use With Yard
Limitations                                    Front Rear Side Corner Side
Projection, Obstruction, Or Accessory Use With      Yard
Limitations                                         Front Rear Side Corner Side
Air conditioning units, window, provided they do    N     P    P    N
not extend more than 2' from window
Air conditioning units and equipment, other than
window, provided they are at least 4' from all      N     P    P    P
property lines
Arbors and trellises                                P     P    P    P
Awnings and canopies, providing they project less   P     P    P    P
than 6' from facade and at least 7'6" above grade
Balconies, open; providing they project less than   P     P    P    P
6' from facade and at least 7'6" above grade
Basketball goal on nonrecreation land use, limited
to 1 pole or garage mounted goal and shall be at    P     P    P    P
least 5' from all property lines
Garages, detached                                   N     P    P    N
Decks and terraces in a residential district,
provided that they are at least 15' from all        N     P    P    P
property lines
Patios with patio covers in a residential district,
provided that they are at least 4' from all side
yard and rear property lines and at least 15' from  N     P    P    P
front property line and not less than 15' from the
rear property line
Patios without patio covers in a residential
district, provided that they are at least 4' from   N     P    P    N
all side yard property lines and at least 15' from
the front property line
Dish antennas:                                                    
 Greater than 30" diameter                         N     P    N    N
 Less than 30" diameter                            N     P    P    N
Dog runs, enclosed, provided that the minimum
distance to any and all property lines is at least  N     P    N    N
10'
Fences (pursuant to section                         P     P    P    P
10-2-11, "Fences And Hedges", of this chapter)
Flagpoles                                           P     P    P    P
Laundry drying equipment                            N     P    N    N
Ramps for use by disabled persons                   P     P    P    P
Recreation vehicle parking or storage               N     P    P    P
Sheds, and storage buildings                        N     P    P    N
Steps, open without roof                            P     P    P    P
Swimming pools, private                             N     P    P    N
Television or radio towers or antennas, provided    N     P    N    N
that they are at least 5' from all property lines
Tennis courts, private, provided not less than 10'
from any property line or the minimum setback,      N     P    N    N
whichever is more restrictive
Trash dumpsters and/or garbage receptacles (also
subject to other provisions of this zoning          N     P    P    N
ordinance)
Volleyball, basketball, shuffleboard and other
courts, private; provided that they are in          P     P    N    N
residential district and not less than 10' from any
property line
Intermodal containers, portable on demand storage
units including shipping containers, tractor
trailers, and enclosed trailers as outlined in      P     P    P    P
section
10-2-9 of this chapter
Private use wind energy conversion systems as
outlined in section                                 P     P    P    P
10-2-14 of this chapter
 
      1.   Chimneys, ornamental towers, scenery lofts, monuments, cupolas,
domes, spires, steeples, parapet walls, and similar structures and necessary
mechanical appurtenances may be erected to their customary height; and
      2.   Freestanding towers in residential districts may extend to a height
of sixty feet (60'), as measured from the mean elevation of the finished lot
grade; and
      3.   Towers employing guide wires shall be permitted only as a special
use.
      4.   Accessory buildings and structures exclusive of swimming pools, and
open accessory parking spaces shall not occupy more than thirty percent (30%)
of a required rear yard.
   B.   Rural Home Delivery:
      1.   No part of any mailbox or any appurtenance thereto shall be located
or maintained closer than eight inches (8") to the back of the curb or edge of
pavement on streets without curbs on the parkways. Support structures which
hold the mailboxes shall be forty inches (40") in height from the ground to the
bottom of the mailbox. Support structures for mailboxes shall be constructed of
breakaway material, either four inch by four inch (4" x 4") lumber or two
inches (2") in diameter, thin wall steel pipe with a wall thickness less than
0.155 of an inch. The support structure shall be buried no more than twenty
four inches (24") into the ground. Any other mailbox support structure is not
acceptable. Unacceptable support structures include, but are not limited to,
brick, block, stone or concrete masonry columns, wagon wheels, steel pipes, in
excess of the previously defined two inch (2") diameter 0.155 of an inch
thickness and lumber posts in excess of four inches by four inches (4" x 4").
Support structures which do not conform with this section and are in existence
at the time of enactment are exempt from this provision.
      2.   No zoning application nor building permits shall be required for the
purpose of erecting mail receptacles. (Ord. 10-09, 8-17-2010)
10-2-11: FENCES AND HEDGES:
   A.   Fence Permit Required: No fence shall be erected or substantially
altered within the village without a valid building permit issued therefor by
the village building department upon application, approval, and payment of the
required permit fee.
   B.   Private Fences On Public Property: No private fences shall be allowed
or constructed on public streets or highway rights of way. Fences may, by
permit, be placed on public utility easements so long as the structures do not
interfere in any way with existing underground, ground, or overground
utilities. Further, the village or any utility company having authority to use
such easements shall not be liable for repair or replacement of such fences in
the event they are moved, damaged, destroyed by virtue of the lawful use of
said easement. Fences in violation of this section may be summarily removed.
   C.   Prohibited Materials Of Construction:
      1.   No barbed wire or barbed wire fences shall be allowed on private
property in residential zones or on lots in any zone being used for single- or
multiple-family dwelling purposes. No barbed wire or barbed wire fences shall
be allowed on private property in business or industrial zones where the
property lines of such property abut lots or parcels being used or intended for
single- or multiple-family purposes or on fences in front yards.
      2.   No fence shall be constructed of materials obviously intended to
inflict great bodily harm should a person or animal attempt to climb or scale
it. Such material includes, but is not limited to, electrically charged wires
or other electrical conduit, broken glass, razor blades and sharp or ragged
metal spikes or spears.
   D.   Maintenance And Repair: All fences shall be maintained in good,
structurally sound repair and in a neat, clean, presentable condition. If, on
inspection by the zoning officer, any fence, in his determination, does not
meet the requirements of this section, he shall order the owner or occupier of
the premises, by registered or certified mail, to make the necessary repairs or
improvements as directed or he (owner or occupier) shall be in violation of
this code, and the village attorney shall cause a complaint to be issued and
processed against said owner or occupier in accordance with rules of the
circuit court of LaSalle or Grundy County, Illinois. If adjoining property
owner will not allow egress for the purpose of maintaining the fence, then the
responsibility for repair and maintenance of that portion of the fence shall
transfer to that adjacent owner, and he shall be liable the same as the fence
owner.
   E.   Fences In Residential Districts:
      1.   In single- and multiple-family residential zones, no fence may
exceed four feet (4') in height above ground level in front yards. Fences along
the side lines to the rear of the front yard and along the rear lot line may
not exceed six feet (6') in height above ground level. On lot lines abutting
the public right of way or residential property, the fence must face outward
with the support posts on the inside.
      2.   When any fence is installed in the front, side or rear yard, it
shall not extend beyond the property lines or encroach upon adjoining property.
   F.   Visibility On Corner Lots: In residential districts or residential use
areas, the location of buildings, structures, fences, and landscaping on corner
lots shall be regulated as follows, so as not to obstruct the vision of drivers
of motor vehicles: No buildings, structures, or fences shall be erected or
maintained, nor any landscaping shall be planted, grown, or maintained, to a
height of more than three feet (3') above the adjacent curb/roadway height,
within a triangular area determined by a diagonal line connecting two (2)
points measured along the property lines of the abutting streets thirty feet
(30') equidistant from the intersection of those property lines.
   G.   Commercial And Industrial Zones:
      1.   In commercial and industrial zones, fences may not exceed eight feet
(8') in height above ground level, and the use of barbed wire is prohibited;
except, that one foot (1') additional of any fence along side or rear lot lines
in these zones may be constructed of barbed wire.
      2.   When any fence is installed in the front, side or rear yard, it
shall not extend beyond the property line or encroach upon adjoining property.
      3.   Screening which is required for swim and/or tennis clubs, private
and public, shall not exceed a height of twelve feet (12').
   H.   Adjoining Districts:
      1.   Fences installed as a screening between commercial and residential
or between industrial and residential districts shall be of the same design,
construction material, height and color. Height requirement is eight feet (8')
with a solid effect.
      2.   All fences shall join together to provide continuity along the
common lot line of commercial and residential or industrial and residential
districts where a fence for screening is required.
      3.   Screening which is required for swim and/or tennis clubs, private
and public, shall not exceed a height of twelve feet (12').
   I.   Nonconforming Fences: Fences existing at the effective date hereof
which are not in violation of subsection D, "Maintenance And Repair", of this
section, and are not located on public street and highway rights of way but
which violate any other section of this code, may continue to be maintained and
to exist but may not be replaced, if destroyed or removed, to the extent that
the violations would be continued.
   J.   Hedges: Hedges, plantings, shrubbery, etc., when used as a screening,
shall in no way obstruct the view of traffic at any intersection. On corner
lots, no obstruction higher than thirty six inches (36") above curb level shall
be located within thirty feet (30') of the lot corner formed by the
intersection of any two (2) street lines. If it is deemed to create a hazard,
the owner must rectify same upon notice from the zoning officer or chief of
police within thirty (30) days of such notification.
   K.   Exemptions: Agricultural fences in agricultural districts and in other
districts approved for agricultural uses are exempt from this chapter except
where abutting properties are in residential districts or areas predominantly
used for residential use.
   L.   Nuisance Declared; Abatement: Any fence which shall be erected or
maintained contrary to the provisions of this code is deemed a nuisance, and it
shall be the duty of the zoning officer and the chief of police to abate the
same.
   M.   Fines: The fine for failure to comply with this section shall be from
one hundred dollars ($100.00) to five hundred dollars ($500.00) per offense;
each day of noncompliance shall be deemed as a separate offense. (Ord. 10-09,
8-17-2010)
10-2-12: BUILDING LOTS NOT SERVED BY MUNICIPAL SEWER SYSTEM:
Refer to LaSalle County health department. (Ord. 10-09, 8-17-2010)
10-2-13: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   The following public utility uses are permitted in any district:
electric substations, mains, pipes, poles, wires, cables, conduits, vaults,
valves, or any other similar distributing equipment; provided that installation
shall conform with rules and regulations of the applicable administrative
authorities.
   B.   Any governmental or proprietary function, owned or operated by the
village, is a permitted use in any district, but such use must conform with
other requirements herein set forth for the district in which it is located.
(Ord. 10-09, 8-17-2010)
10-2-14: PRIVATE USE WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS:
In order to balance the need for clean, renewable energy resources with the
protection of the health, safety and welfare of the community, the purpose of
this section is to regulate private use wind energy conversion systems (WECS)
for the production of electricity for use on the subject site and for net
metering through the power provider.
   A.   Applicability And Definition:
      1.   Private Use Wind Energy Conversion System (WECS): A private use wind
energy conversion system consists of a wind turbine, tower, and associated
control or conversion electronics for the purpose of providing electrical power
to a lawful principal use. A system having a rated capacity of ten (10)
kilowatts (kW) or less for residential use or one hundred (100) kW or less for
nonresidential uses shall be considered a private system for the purposes of
these regulations. Not more than one machine shall be allowed per parcel of
land when the parcel is less than one acre in size.
      2.   Wind Machine: The individual component of a wind energy conversion
system that converts kinetic energy from the wind into electrical energy,
independent of the electrical conductors, electrical storage system, electrical
metering, or electrical inverters. This term shall include the towers or
supporting structures.
      3.   Requirements: Private use wind energy conversion systems shall be
allowed as accessory uses in all zoning districts without the requirement of
special uses permit approval provided the system meets all other requirements
of this section.
      4.   Review And Approval: All proposed private wind use energy conversion
systems located within the village of Seneca downtown district or historical
district must receive review and approval from the relevant committee, in
addition to any other required approvals, prior to the submission of a building
permit.
   B.   Standards:
      1.   Placement: A minimum parcel size of one acre is required for the
placement of any horizontal axial wind turbine. Vertical axial wind turbines
are permitted on any parcel. No part of a wind energy conversion system shall
be located within or over drainage, utility or other established easements.
      2.   Maximum Number: A maximum of one wind machine per parcel is
permitted on parcels less than one acre in size; a maximum of one wind machine
per acre is permitted on parcels greater than one acre in size.
      3.   Setbacks; Private Use: Minimum setbacks for private use wind
machines shall be a minimum of 1.25 times the total extended height from the
project property lines adjacent to a residential, conservation or agricultural
zoning district.
      4.   Anchors: Guywire anchors may not extend closer than ten feet (10')
from any property line.
      5.   Setback; Nonresidential: A ten foot (10') minimum setback from any
part of the machine, rotors or guywires to the property line of any
nonresidential zoning district.
      6.   Setback; Residential: Wind machines shall not be located within
front yard setback nor within the street side setback of any parcel of land in
residential zoning districts.
      7.   Height: The maximum total extended height of a wind energy
conversion system is sixty feet (60').
      8.   Tower Height: "Tower height" shall mean the height above adjacent
grade of the fixed portion of the tower, excluding the wind turbine itself.
      9.   Extended Height: "Total extended height" shall mean the height above
adjacent grade to a blade tip at its highest point of travel and including any
other portion of the wind energy conversion system.
      10.   Lighting: Wind system towers shall not be artificially lighted
unless required in writing by the federal aviation administration (FAA) or
other applicable authority that regulates air safety. Where the FAA requires
lighting, the lighting shall be the lowest intensity allowable under FAA
regulations; the fixtures shall be shielded and directed to the greatest extent
possible to minimize glare and visibility from the ground and no strobe
lighting shall be permitted unless expressly required by the FAA.
      11.   Bolts Or Ladders: The tower shall be designed and installed so that
there shall be no exterior bolts or a ladder on the tower readily accessible to
the public for a minimum of twelve feet (12') above the ground. For lattice or
guyed towers, sheets of metal or wood or other barrier shall be fastened to the
bottom tower section such that it cannot be readily climbed.
      12.   Electrical And Control Equipment: All ground mounted electrical and
control equipment shall be labeled or secured to prevent unauthorized access.
      13.   Noise: All wind machines shall comply with the noise requirements
in this section. These levels, however, may be exceeded during short term
events such as utility outages and severe windstorms. A manufacturer's sound
report shall be required with a building permit application.
      14.   Sound Levels: No wind machine or combination of wind machines on a
single parcel shall create noise that exceeds a maximum of twenty five (25)
decibels (dBA) at any property line where the property on which the wind
machine is located or the abutting property is one acre or less or a maximum of
fifty (50) decibels (dBA) at any other property line. Measurement of sound
levels shall not be adjusted for, or averaged with, nonoperating periods. Any
wind machine(s) exceeding these levels shall immediately cease operation upon
notification of the village of Seneca and may not resume operation until the
noise levels have been reduced in compliance with the required standards and
verified by an independent third party inspector, approved by the village of
Seneca, at the property owner's expense. Upon review and acceptance of the
third party noise level report, the village of Seneca will allow operation of
the affected wind machine(s). Wind energy conversion system(s) unable to comply
with these noise level restrictions shall be shut down immediately and removed
upon notification by the village of Seneca, after a period established by the
village of Seneca.
      15.   Sound Below Twenty Hertz: No wind machine or combination of wind
machines shall be operated so that the impulsive sound below twenty (20) hertz
adversely affects the habitability or use of any off site dwelling unit,
hospital, school, library or nursing home.
      16.   Color: Wind machines, unless subject to any applicable standards of
the FAA, shall be a nonreflective, nonobstructive color such as tan, sand,
gray, black or similar colors. Galvanized steel or metal is acceptable for the
support structures. Any painting or coating shall be kept in good repair for
the life of the wind machine. In addition, any changes to the approved color
shall result in the notification by the village of Seneca that the affected
wind machine(s) shall cease operation until a color correction has been made.
If the affected wind machine(s) are not repainted, using an approved color,
within the period established by the village of Seneca, the owner shall remove
the affected wind energy conversion system(s).
      17.   Electrical Wires: All electrical wires leading from the tower to
electrical control facilities shall be located underground.
      18.   Maintenance: Wind machines shall be maintained in good repair, as
recommended by the manufacturer's scheduled maintenance or industry standards,
and shall be free of rust.
      19.   Advertising Sign: The only advertising sign allowed on the wind
machine shall be a manufacturer's label, not to exceed one square foot in size,
located on the generator housing.
      20.   Compliance: All wind machines shall comply with applicable FAA
regulations, including necessary approvals for installation.
      21.   Ice Throw Or Ice Shedding: The potential for ice throw or ice
shedding from the proposed wind machine shall not cross the property lines of
the site.
      22.   Construction: Evidence shall be submitted with a building permit
application that the wind machine has been constructed in accordance with
accepted industry standards and is certified safe by the manufacturer; the wind
machine shall be operated with local best engineering practices.
      23.   Recommended Standards: The following items are recommended
standards to mitigate visual impact:
         a.   Coating And Coloring: Nonreflective, unobtrusive color. Black
blades are acceptable for mitigation of icing.
         b.   Turbine Consistency: To the extent feasible, the project shall
consist of turbines of similar design and size, including tower height.
Further, all turbines shall rotate in the same direction. Turbines shall also
be consistent in color and direction with nearby facilities.
   C.   Repair And Removal Of Wind Machines:
      1.   Any wind machine found to be unsafe by an official of the village of
Seneca shall immediately cease operation upon notification by the village of
Seneca and shall be repaired by the owner to meet federal, state, and local
safety standards or be removed within six (6) months. The owner of the wind
machine shall remove wind machines that have not operated during a continuous
period of twelve (12) months.
      2.   When a wind machine is removed from a site, all associated and
ancillary equipment including batteries, structures or support(s) for that
system shall also be removed. For the purposes of this section, nonoperation
shall be deemed to include, but shall not be limited to, the blades of the wind
machine remaining stationary so that wind resources are not being converted to
electric or mechanical energy, or the wind machine is no longer connected to
the public utility electricity distribution system.
   D.   Mounting Of Wind Machines:
      1.   Attachment of the wind machine, including any support or structural
components to any building or structure shall be in strict compliance with the
village of Seneca building codes and regulations.
   E.   Compliance With Regulations:
      1.   All systems shall comply with applicable fire and building codes.
      2.   All standards are absolute. Once wind machines are permitted, the
owners have the option of compliance with the standards or discontinuation of
operations. If the operation of the wind machine(s) does not comply with the
provisions of this section, the operator shall promptly take all measures to
comply with these regulations, including, but not limited to, discontinued
operation of one or more wind machines.
      3.   Variations to the regulations and standards of this section may only
be permitted by special use permit; approval shall be pursuant to section
10-8-1, "Special Use Permits", of this title. (Ord. 10-09, 8-17-2010)
CHAPTER 3
NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES
SECTION:
10-3-1: Intent
10-3-2: Demolition Permit Required
10-3-3: Nonconforming Lots Of Record
10-3-4: Nonconforming Uses Of Land
10-3-5: Nonconforming Structures
10-3-6: Nonconforming Uses Of Structures
10-3-7: Repairs And Maintenance
10-3-1: INTENT:
   A.   Intent: This chapter governs nonconformities: those uses, lots,
buildings or other aspects of development that may have complied with previous
zoning regulations, but through zoning ordinance revisions or amendments no
longer conform to the current regulations. The intent of this chapter is to
clarify to what extent and under what circumstances such nonconformities can be
altered, expanded, or allowed to continue. Other intentions of this chapter are
to: allow for the preservation and reuse of existing buildings; recognize the
interests of landowners whose property and its uses were lawfully established,
and place reasonable limits on nonconformities that have or potentially may
have adverse effects on surrounding properties or the community.
   B.   Authority To Continue A Nonconformity: Any nonconformity, or situation
that becomes a nonconformity upon adoption of any amendment to this zoning
ordinance may be continued in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Continued Status Of Nonconformity: Nonconforming status rests with the
property, not with the owner. Such status is not affected by changes in
ownership, tenancy, or management.
   D.   Repairs And Maintenance: Nonconforming buildings and lots carry the
same obligations and requirements for safe upkeep as conforming buildings and
lots. Incidental repairs and normal maintenance necessary to keep a
nonconformity in compliance with the village building code are permitted unless
otherwise expressly prohibited in this title.
Any other aspect of development not described in the provisions above, such as
landscaping or parking and loading, that was lawfully established but no longer
complies with a standard or standards of this zoning ordinance, shall be
allowed to exist. However, such other nonconforming situations may not be
altered so that the intensity, extent, or nature of the nonconformity
increases. (Ord. 10-09, 8-17-2010)
10-3-2: DEMOLITION PERMIT REQUIRED:
All nonconforming buildings and structures, prior to razing, demolition or
otherwise being removed, shall require a demolition permit authorized by the
zoning enforcement officer of the village. A fee as provided in a fee schedule
available for public inspection in the village clerk's office shall be assessed
for the demolition permit. (Ord. 10-09, 8-17-2010)
10-3-3: NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD:
In any district in which single-family dwellings are permitted, notwithstanding
limitations imposed by other provision of this title, a single-family dwelling
and customary accessory buildings may be erected on any single lot of record at
the effective date hereof. Such lot must be in separate ownership and not of
continuous frontage with other lots in the same ownership. This provision shall
apply even though such lot fails to meet the requirements for area or width, or
both, that are generally applicable in the district; provided, that yard
dimensions and other requirements not involving area or width, or both, of the
lot shall conform to the regulations for the district in which such lot is
located. Variations of yard requirements shall be obtained only through action
of the board of appeals.
   A.   Nonconforming Lots In R Districts: The following provisions shall
apply:
      1.   A nonconforming lot in an R district may be developed with a single-
family house, providing setback requirements and bulk and density standards are
met.
      2.   Likewise, a nonconforming lot that is enlarged, yet remains
nonconforming may be developed with a single-family house, providing setback,
bulk and density restrictions are met.
      3.   If an existing single-family house in an R district is destroyed by
accident, it may be rebuilt, providing setback, bulk and density restrictions
are met.
      4.   Nonresidential development of a nonconforming lot in an R district
may occur only if the zoning board of appeals grants a variance for any and all
of the nonconformities that result from inadequate lot area or lot width (e.g.,
parking requirements cannot be met).
   B.   Nonconforming Lots In Other Districts: In nonresidential zoning
districts, a nonconforming lot may be developed providing that:
      1.   The lot in question existed in its current dimensions at the time of
the effective date hereof; and
      2.   The use is permitted in the zoning district where the nonconforming
lot is located; and
      3.   The zoning board of appeals grants variances for any other
nonconformities that result from inadequate lot area or lot width (e.g.,
parking requirements cannot be met). (Ord. 10-09, 8-17-2010)
10-3-4: NONCONFORMING USES OF LAND:
Where, at the effective date hereof, the lawful use of land that is made no
longer permissible under the terms of this title as enacted or amended, may be
continued, so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following
provisions:
   A.   No such nonconforming use shall be enlarged or increased, nor extended
to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied at the effective date
hereof.
   B.   No such nonconforming use shall be moved in whole or in part of any
other portion of the lot or parcel occupied at the effective date of adoption
or amendment of this title in a way which increases its nonconformities.
   C.   If any such nonconforming use of land ceases for any reason for a
period of more than six (6) months, any subsequent use of such land shall
conform to the regulations specified by this title for the district in which
such land is located. (Ord. 10-09, 8-17-2010)
10-3-5: NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES:
Where a lawful structure exists at the effective date hereof that could not be
built under the terms of this title by reason of restriction on area, lot
coverage, height, yards or other characteristic of the structure of its
location on the lot, such structure may be continued so long as it remains
otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions:
   A.   Enlargement Or Alteration: No such structure may be enlarged or altered
in a way which increases in nonconformity.
   B.   Destruction: Should such structure be destroyed by any means to an
extent of more than fifty percent (50%) of its replacement cost at time of
destruction, it shall not be reconstructed except in conformity with the
provisions of this title or with approved variance.
   C.   Movement: Should such structure be moved for any reason for any
distance whatever, it shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the
district in which it is located after it is moved.
   D.   Elimination Of Nonconforming Buildings And Structures: Any structure or
building, all or substantially all of which is designed or intended for use not
permitted in the district in which it is located shall be removed and its use
thereafter cease, or shall be converted to a building or structure designed or
intended for a use permitted in the district in which it is located at the end
of its useful life as determined by the zoning administrator.
   E.   Condemnation Of Nonconforming Buildings And Structures: The village of
Seneca at any time, and from time to time, by ordinance duly enacted: a) may
acquire by condemnation any nonconforming building or structure, all or
substantially all of which is designed or intended for a use not permitted in
the district in which it is located, and all land which is necessary or
appropriate for the rehabilitation or redevelopment of the area blighted by
such nonconforming buildings or structures; b) may remove or demolish all such
nonconforming buildings and structures so acquired; c) may hold and use any
remaining property for public purposes; and d) may sell, lease or exchange such
property as is not held for public purposes, subject to the provisions of this
comprehensive amendment, or any amendment hereto. No such acquisition by
condemnation shall be made until such time as the plan commission, at the
request of the board of trustees, or upon its own initiative, has made a study
of the area within which such nonconforming building or structure is located
and has filed a written report on such study with the board of trustees. (Ord.
10-09, 8-17-2010)
10-3-6: NONCONFORMING USES OF STRUCTURES:
If a lawful use of a structure, or of structure and premises in combination,
exists at the effective date hereof, that would not be allowed in the district
under the terms of this title, the lawful use may be continued so long as it
remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions:
   A.   No existing structure devoted to a use not permitted by this title in
the district in which it is located shall be enlarged, extended, constructed,
reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered except in changing the use of the
structure to a use permitted in the district in which it is located.
   B.   Any nonconforming use may be extended throughout any parts of a
building which were manifestly arranged or designed for such use at the time of
adoption or amendment of this title, but no such use shall be extended to
occupy any land outside such building.
   C.   If no structural alterations are made, any nonconforming use of a
structure, or structure and premises, may be changed to another nonconforming
use; provided, that the board of appeals either by general rule or by making
findings in the specific case, shall find that the proposed use is equally
appropriate or more appropriate to the district than the existing nonconforming
use. In permitting such change, the board of appeals may require appropriate
conditions and safeguards in accordance with the provisions of this title.
   D.   Any structure, or structure and land in combination in or on which a
nonconforming use is superseded by a permitted use, shall thereafter conform to
the regulations for the district in which such structure is located, and the
nonconforming use may not thereafter be resumed.
   E.   When a nonconforming use of a structure, or structure and premises in
combination, is discontinued or abandoned for six (6) consecutive months, or
where such a nonconforming use is not continuously maintained during normal
business hours for six (6) months out of any consecutive period of twelve (12)
months, the structure, or structure and premises in combination, shall not
thereafter be used except in conformance with the regulations of the district
in which it is located.
   F.   Where nonconforming use status applies to a structure and premises in
combination, removal or destruction of the structure shall eliminate the
nonconforming status of the land. (Ord. 10-09, 8-17-2010)
10-3-7: REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE:
   A.   On any building devoted in whole or in part to any nonconforming use,
work may be done on ordinary repairs, provided that the cubic content of the
building as it existed at the time of passage or amendment hereof shall not be
increased.
   B.   Nothing in this title shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening or
restoring to a safe condition of any building or part thereof declared to be
unsafe by any official charged with protecting the public safety, upon order of
such official. (Ord. 10-09, 8-17-2010)
CHAPTER 4
ZONING DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-4-1: Establishment Of Districts
10-4-2: District Map
10-4-3: Boundaries Of Districts
10-4-4: Zoning Districts Permitted And Special Uses
10-4-5: Planned Unit Developments
10-4-6: Performance Standards
10-4-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS:
In order to carry out the purpose and provisions of this title the village of
Seneca is hereby divided into districts classified as follows:
R1 High density residential multi-family district (5,000 square foot to 7,000
   square foot lot)
R2 High density residential duplex/mixed district (5,000 square foot to 7,000
   square foot lot)
R3 High density residential trailer park/mobile home district
R4 Traditional residential (5,000 square foot to 7,000 square foot lot)
R5 Medium density residential district (7,000 square foot to 14,520 square foot
   lot)
R6 Low density residential district (1/3 acre to 5 acre lot)
R7 Rural countryside residential district (5 acres and greater)
B1 Business district
B2 Service and wholesale district/commercial district
B3 Business park district
I  Industrial district
AC Agricultural areas and conservation open space district
RF Riverfront district
 
(Ord. 10-09, 8-17-2010)
10-4-2: DISTRICT MAP:
   A.   The location and boundaries of the districts, established by this title
are shown on the district map, updated annually by the village engineer with
new, dated maps showing all changes as approved by the village council, dated
October 1993, which is incorporated herein and hereby made a part of this
title. The said district map, together with everything shown thereon and all
amendments thereto, shall be as such a part of this title as though fully set
forth and described herein. The said district map shall be filed with the
office of the village clerk and shall be open to public reference at all times
during which that office is open for business.
   B.   Printed copies of the district map, dated October 1993, shall be
prepared as soon as is practicable after the adoption of this title. No later
than March of each year thereafter, a district map shall be published clearly
showing the existing zoning uses, divisions, restrictions, regulations and
classifications for the preceding calendar year; except that, if in any
calendar year there are no changes in zoning uses, divisions, restrictions,
regulations and classifications, no map shall be published for such calendar
year.
   C.   Regardless of the existence of printed copies of the district map, the
district map dated October 1993, which shall be located in the office of the
village clerk, shall be the final authority as in the current zoning status of
all land within the village. (Ord. 10-09, 8-17-2010)
10-4-3: BOUNDARIES OF DISTRICTS:
When uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of the various zoning
districts as shown on the official zoning map, the following rules shall apply:
   A.   In areas not subdivided into lots and blocks, wherever a district is
indicated as a strip adjacent to and paralleling a street, highway, or
railroad, the depth of such strips shall be in accordance with dimensions shown
on the map measured at right angles from the centerline of a street, highway,
or railroad, and the length of frontage shall be in accordance with dimensions
shown on the map from centerlines of streets, highways or railroad rights of
way unless otherwise indicated.
   B.   The zoning officer maintains the official zoning map. In case of any
dispute regarding the zoning classification of any property subject to the
zoning ordinance, the official zoning map maintained by the zoning officer
governs.
   C.   District boundary lines are the centerlines of highways, streets,
alleys, easements, railroad rights of way, toll roads, expressways, rivers and
other bodies of water, or section, division of section, tract and lot lines, or
such lines extended unless otherwise indicated. Boundaries indicated as
approximately following such centerlines shall be construed to follow such
centerlines.
   D.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines shall
be construed as following such lot lines.
   E.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following village limits shall be
construed as following village limits.
   F.   Boundaries indicated as following the centerlines of rivers or other
bodies of water shall be construed to follow such centerlines, and in the event
of change in the centerline, shall be construed as moving with the centerline.
The centerline shall be construed as being midway between the shorelines.
   G.   Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of features indicated
in subsections A through D of this section shall be so construed.
   H.   Whenever any street, alley or other public right of way is vacated by
official action of the village council the zoning district line adjoining each
side of such street, alley or other public right of way shall be automatically
extended to the centerline of such vacated street, alley or public right of
way.
   I.   Boundaries indicated as dividing a lot or tract shall be construed as
being located as shown on the official zoning map.
   J.   The scale of the map shall determine distances not specifically
indicated on the official zoning map.
   K.   Where a district boundary line divides a lot in single ownership, the
regulations applicable to either portion of the lot may, at the owner's
discretion, extend to the entire lot, but for not more than twenty five feet
(25') beyond the boundary line of the district.
   L.   All streets, alleys and railroad rights of way of not otherwise
specifically designated zones, shall be deemed to be in the same zone as the
property immediately abutting upon such streets, alleys, or railroad rights of
way. Where a street or alley serves as a district boundary, the zoning of such
street or alley, unless otherwise specifically designated, shall be deemed to
be the same as that of the abutting property up to the existing centerline of
such street or alley. (Ord. 10-09, 8-17-2010)
10-4-4: ZONING DISTRICTS PERMITTED AND SPECIAL USES:
   A.   Permitted Uses: Uses identified with a "P" in table 10-4-4T, "Zoning
Districts Special And Permitted Uses", of this section are permitted as of
right in the subject district, provided the uses comply with all other
applicable standards of this title. No building or parcel of land shall be
devoted to any use other than a use permitted in the zoning district in which
it is located, except for:
      1.   Uses lawfully established prior to the effective date of this zoning
ordinance in accordance with sections
10-3-3 and
10-3-4 (nonconformities), of this title.
      2.   Special uses allowed in accordance with section
10-8-1 (special uses) of this title.
   B.   Special Uses: Uses identified with an "S" in table 10-4-4T, "Zoning
Districts Special And Permitted Uses", of this section are considered special
uses and may be permitted in the subject district only after review and
approval in accordance with section
10-8-1 (special uses) of this title.
TABLE 10-4-4T, ZONING DISTRICTS SPECIAL AND PERMITTED USES
 Zoning Districts
 R1 R2 R3 R4 R5 R6 R7 B1 B2 B3 I AC RF
                                          Zoning Districts
                                          R1 R2 R3 R4 R5 R6 R7 B1 B2 B3 I AC RF
Abrasive manufacturing                                        S    
Accessory uses and buildings as regulated
by section                                P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P P  P
10-2-9 of this title
Adult-Use Cannabis Craft Grower                               P P   
Organization
Adult-Use Cannabis Cultivation Center                         P P   
Adult-Use Cannabis Dispensing                           P  P    P    
Organization
Adult-Use Cannabis Infuser Organization                       P P   
Adult-Use Cannabis Processing                                 P P   
Organization
Adult-Use Cannabis Transporting                           P    P P   
Organization
Agriculture and farming uses including                P         P   
livestock operations
Agriculture and farming uses including
livestock operations, single-family                   P         P   
dwelling, public or private elementary,
junior, or senior high school, or nursery
Air, motor, rail, freight terminals                           S    
Airfield for private aircraft                                  S  S
Airports and heliports                                        S    
Amusement arcades and game parlors                      P  P  P      
Animal grooming                                         P  P  P      
Animal hospital                                       P  S  S  S   P   
Antenna towers in excess of 60 feet                       S  S  S S  S
Antique shops                             S  S    S  S  S  S  P  P  P   S  S
Any industrial use, including assembly,
cleaning, manufacture, processing,
production, repair, servicing, testing                        P    
and research, but not including salvage
operations or wrecking yards
Art and photographic galleries            S  S    S  S  S  S  P  P  P   S  S
Asphalt products manufacturing                                S    
Auction house                                         S    P  P      
Automobile and truck repair and body                    P  P  P  P S   
shops
Automobile/car wash                                       P        
Automobile sales and showrooms                          P  P  P  P    
Automobile service station                              P  P  P      
Backyard chickens                               P  P  P  P           P
Bakeries, large scale                                   S    P  P    
Baking, small scale                                     P  P  P  P    
Banks, trust companies and savings and                  P  P  P      
loan
Barbershops, beauty shops and hair salons               P  P  P      
Barge terminals                                                  S
Bed and breakfast establishments          S  S    S  S  S  S  S  S  S   S  S
Billiards                                               P  P  P      
Boiler and tank manufacturing                                 S    
Boot and shoe manufacturing                                   P    
Bottling companies                                            P    
Brick and structural clay products                            S    
manufacturing
Catering establishments                   S  S    S  S  S  S  P  P  P   S  P
Cemetery                                                S  S     S   
Chemical and processing manufacturing                         S    
Children's summer recreation camp                                S
Churches and related buildings            P  P    P  P  P  P            
Cleaners, self-service                                  P  P  P      
Cleaning and dyeing, pick up store only                 P  P  P      
Clothes pressing and repair shop                        P  P  P      
Clubhouse, recreation hall or laundromat      P                   P
associated with the trailer park
Clubs and lodges                                        P  P  P   S  P
Clubs and lodges as related to
condominium, row house and townhouse      S  S                      
developments
Cold storage plants                                       P  P  P S   
Commercial indoor recreation                            P  P  P   S  S
Commercial riding stables                                      S   
Commercial services related to river                             S
usage
Commerical solar energy facility                              S    
Concrete mixing plants                                        S    
Contractors or construction shops                       S  P  P      
Country club, private nonprofit                                S  S
Dairy products processing                                 S  S  P S   
Dancing academies and music studios       S  S    S  S  S  S  P  P  P   S  S
Daycare centers                           S  S    S  S  S  S  P  P  P   S  S
Distribution centers                                        S  S    
Dramshops, i.e., tavern, lounge, bar                    P  P  P     S
Dry cleaning, dyeing, and rug cleaning                  P  P  P  S    
establishments
Electroplating                                          P  P  P  P    
Employment agencies                                     P  P  P      
Engineering and testing laboratories and                  S  S  P    
offices
Farm equipment sales and services                             P S   
Feed mills                                                    S    
Fertilizer and feed stores                                P  P   S   
Floral and/or vegetable gardens not to
exceed 20 percent of total lot size, and  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P P  P
not for commercial use or sale
Food manufacturing, packaging, and                            P    
processing
Foundries                                                         
Foundries and forge plants                                    S    
Fuel sales and storage                                    S  S  S   S
Funeral home and undertaking              S  S    S  S  S  S  P  P  P      
establishments
Furniture, bedding and carpet                               P  P    
manufacturing
Garages for storage, repair and service
of motor vehicles including body repair,                P  P  P  P S   
painting and engine rebuilding
General manufacturing                                         P    
General retail and services located
within one of the permitted uses,                       P  P  P  P   P
including, but not limited to,
drugstores, shoe repair, and tailor shops
Glass products production and sales                           P    
Go-cart racetrack                                         S  S   S  S
Golf course, public or private park             S  S  S  S         S  S
Grain elevators                                               S   S
Grain storage and processing                                  S   S
Health and athletic clubs                               P  P  P   S  S
Heavy machinery production                                    S    
Home occupations; as regulated by section P  P  P  P  P    P         P  P
10-4A-0 of this chapter
Hospital and related medical clinics      S  S    S  S  S  S  P  P  P   P  S
Hotels and motels                                       P  P  P     P
Ice production and distribution                           P  P  P    
Incidental outside sales                                S  S  S      
Incidental storage lots                                 S  S  S      
Indoor sports/skills training facilities                P  P  P  S   S
which provide personalized instruction
Industrial; public and private utilities                      P    
facilities
Intermodal terminal facility                                  S    
Janitorial services and equipment                       P  P  P      
Junkyard and auto graveyards                                  S    
Laboratories, offices and other
facilities for research and development
including basic applied development and                 S  S  S  S    
technical services conducted by or for
any individual organization or concern
whether public or private
Laundry                                       P          P  P  P      
Leather tanning and processing                                S    
Light machinery production                                    P    
Lithographing                                                 P    
Livestock sale barns                                           P   
Living facilities as regulated in section               P  P  P      
10-4A-5 of this chapter
Loading and unloading operations related                    S  S   S
to shipping
Locksmith                                               P  P  P      
Low nuisance industrial act including,
but not limited to, electronic and
scientific precision instruments                          P  P  P    
manufacturing, cloth products
manufacturing, light machinery production
and assembly, printing and publishing
Machine shops                                             P  P  P    
Machinery rental, sales and service,                      P  P  P S   
including open sales lots
Marina, including marina related                                 P
activities
Meatpacking                                                   S S   
Media broadcasting station                              S  S  S      
Metal reduction and refinement                                S    
Metal stamping                                                S    
Milk bottling and distribution                            P  P  P P   
Miniature golf                                          P  P  P     P
Mining operations                                             S   S
Mobile home and camper sales                              S  P      
Monument and ornamental stonecutting                      P  P  P    
Motel                                                     P  P     S
Motor freight terminal                                    S  S  S   S
Movie, drive-in                                           S  S  S S   
Movie theater (enclosed)                                P  P  P      
Nurseries and greenhouses and farming     P  P    P  P  P  P    P  P  P P   
Nursing home, retirement homes and other  S  S    S  S  S  S         S  S
similar uses
Offices                                   S  S  S  S  S  S  S  P  P  P   S  S
Open sales lots                                         S  S  S     S
Outdoor recreation club or camp, private                         S
nonprofit
Package liquor stores                                   P  P  P     P
Paper products manufacturing                                  S    
Parking lots and garages, principal                     S  S  S      
Pet shops but not including boarding of                 P  P  P      
animals
Petrol products processing and storage,                       S    
refining
Photographers, commercial studio                        P  P  P      
Pilot plants in which processes planned
for use in production elsewhere can be
tested to the extent reasonably necessary                     P    
for full investigation of the merits of a
product, or process including commercial
viability
Planned unit developments                 S  S  S  S  S  S  S  S  S  S  S S  S
Plumbing, heating and carpentry shops                   P  P  P      
Pottery and ceramics manufacture                        S  S  S  S    
Privately owned wind energy conversion
systems as described in section           P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P P  P
10-2-14 of this title
Produce stands                                        P  P  P  P   P  P
Public open land, refuge or preserve                           S  S
Public utility uses, including public
transportation facilities such as                       P  P  P      
shelters, and service buildings
Publicly owned playgrounds, recreation    P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P   P  P
areas and recreation buildings
Quarry                                                         S  S
Radio, TV, and studios                                  P  P  P  P    
Recycling collection facilities, not
involving recycling manufacturing                             S    
processes
Recycling facilities involving recycling                      S    
manufacturing processes
Refuse disposal business                                      S    
Restaurant, snack bar                                   P  P  P  P   P
Retail distribution of goods: As an
incidental function the store may also
provide for the service and repair of
goods of the type it sells. Any storage
or wholesale distribution shall also be                 P  P  P  S   P
clearly incidental to the retail
function. Goods stored and sold shall not
be injurious or offensive by reason of
emission or creation of odors, fire or
explosive hazard
Roomers, lodgers, boarders or permanent
guests who are not members of a family as P  P    P  P  P  P            
defined in this title; 1 or 2, but not
more than 2
Rubber processing and manufacturing                           S    
Self-storage facility                                       P  P    
Sexually oriented businesses                                  P    
Shops for soldering and welding                           P  P  P    
Sign manufacture                                              P    
Sign painting                                           P  P  P  P    
Single-family detached dwellings                P  P  P  P         P  P
Stadiums                                                      S    
Steel manufacturing                                           S    
Stone manufacturing                                           S    
Storage and warehousing establishments                      P  P   P
Storage and warehousing establishments
including open storage, but not including                 P  P  P    
junkyards
Taxi and bus terminals                                  P  P  P      
Trailer parks                                 P                    
Trailer sales and rental, including open                  P  P  S    
sales lots
Two-family dwellings                      P  P    P  P                
Vending companies                                       P  P  P  P    
Veterinarians, boarding kennels and                   P  S  S  S   P   
animal shelters
Wearing apparel manufacturing                               P  P    
Wholesale establishments, including open                  P  P  S    
storage, but not including junkyards
Woodworking                                             S  S  S  S S   
 
(Ord. 10-09, 8-17-2010; amd. Ord. 21-13, 4-6-2021; Ord. 23-21, 11-7-2023; Ord.
25-12, 4-7-2025)
10-4-5: PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following words shall mean:
    COMMON OPEN SPACE: An area within a development designed and intended for
the use or enjoyment of all residents of the development or for the use and
enjoyment of the public in general.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT: The development of an area of land as a single
entity for a number of dwelling units or a number of uses, according to a plan
which does not correspond in lot size, bulk or type of dwelling, density, lot
coverage, or required open space to the regulations otherwise required by the
building and zoning ordinances.
   B.   Applicability Of Planned Unit Development Regulations: The requirements
for a planned unit development set forth in this section are in addition to
other conditional use procedures and standards.
   C.   Purpose For Planned Unit Development Regulations: The planned unit
development authorization serves to encourage developing as one project tracts
of land that are sufficiently large to allow a site design for a group of
structures. Deviation from specific site development standards is allowable as
long as the general purposes for the standards are achieved and the general
provisions of the zoning regulations are observed. It could either promote a
harmonious variety or grouping of uses, or utilize the economy of shared
services and facilities. It is further the purpose of authorizing planned unit
developments to take into account the following:
      1.   Advances in technology and design.
      2.   Recognition and resolution of problems created by increasing
population density.
      3.   A comprehensive development equal to or better than that resulting
from traditional lot by lot land use development, in which the design of the
overall unit permits increased freedom in the placement and uses of buildings
and the locations of open spaces, circulation facilities, off street parking
areas and other facilities.
      4.   The potential of sites characterized by special features of
geography, topography, size or shape.
      5.   Compliance with the zoning ordinance as to height and other
appropriate regulations.
      6.   Compliance with federal and state regulations regarding energy
saving.
   D.   Findings For Project Approval: The plan commission shall approve a
planned unit development only if it finds that the planned unit development
will satisfy standards of this section including the following:
      1.   The planned unit development is an effective and unified treatment
of the development possibilities on the project site while remaining consistent
with the comprehensive plan and making appropriate provisions for the
preservation of natural features such as streams and shorelines, ponds, lakes,
trees, grasses, wooded cover and rough terrain.
      2.   The planned unit development will be compatible with the area
surrounding the project site and with no greater demand on village facilities
and services than can be furnished by the village.
      3.   Financing is available to the applicant sufficient to assure
completion of the planned unit development.
   E.   Size Of The Planned Unit Development Site:
      1.   Except as set forth in subsection E2 of this section, a planned unit
development shall be on a tract of land of sufficient size to accommodate sixty
(60) or more dwelling units.
      2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection E1 of this section, a
planned unit development may be for a tract of land that will accommodate more
than five (5) but less than sixty (60) dwelling units if the plan commission
finds, upon a showing by the landowner, that a planned unit development is in
the public interest because one or more of the following conditions exist:
         a.   An unusual physical or topographic feature of importance to the
people of the area or the community as a whole exists on the site or in the
neighborhood, which can be conserved and still leave the landowner equivalent
use of the land by the use of a planned unit development.
         b.   The property or its neighborhood has a historical character of
importance to the community that will be protected by the use of a planned unit
development.
         c.   The property is adjacent to or across a street from property
which has been developed or redeveloped under a planned unit development, and a
planned unit development will contribute to the maintenance of the amenities
and values of the neighboring planned development.
   F.   Dimensional And Bulk Standards And Type Of Construction: The type of
proposed construction, whether conventional, solar, or solar assisted or other
types of energy conservation construction, shall be described in the
application.
      1.   The minimum lot area, width, frontage, and yard requirements
otherwise applying to individual buildings in the zone in which a planned unit
development is proposed do not apply within a planned unit development.
      2.   If the spacing between main buildings is not equivalent to the
spacing which would be required between buildings similarly developed under
this section on separate parcels, other design features shall provide light,
ventilation and other characteristics equivalent to that obtained from the
spacing standards.
      3.   Buildings, off street parking and loading facilities, open space,
landscaping, and screening shall provide protection outside the boundary lines
of the development comparable to that otherwise required of development in the
zone.
      4.   The maximum building height shall, in no event, exceed those
building heights prescribed in the zone in which the planned unit development
is proposed, except that a greater height may be approved if surrounding open
space within the planned unit development, building setbacks and other design
features are used to avoid any adverse impact due to the greater height.
      5.   The building coverage for any planned unit development shall not
exceed sixty percent (60%) of the land area being developed exclusive of public
and private streets.
   G.   Density And Lot Sizes: Lot sizes need not be equal to the lot sizes
required in the zoning district, but there shall be no more buildings or
building sites per acre than permitted in the same zoning district for
subdivisions not designed as planned developments. If the regulations
pertaining to the zoning district do not provide a figure for the maximum
number of buildings or building sites per acre, the figure will be determined
by determining the maximum number of building sites per acre that could be
achieved using the minimum area requirements for each lot and using the minimum
street size permitted in the area. Common open spaces and common open
facilities such as playgrounds, swimming pools and community buildings
available only to persons living in the subdivision may be considered in
determining the area of the subdivision.
   H.   Project Density:
      1.   Within a planned unit development, the plan commission may authorize
the following increase in density in excess of the density otherwise allowed in
the zone:
         a.   For an approved scheme of common open space, a maximum increase
of three percent (3%) if the space is to be continuously maintained undeveloped
and a maximum increase of five percent (5%).
      2.   If the plan commission finds that any of the following conditions
would be created by an increase in density permitted by this section, it may
either prohibit any increase in density or limit the increase in density by an
amount which is sufficient to avoid the creation of any of these conditions:
         a.   Inconvenient or unsafe access to the planned unit development.
         b.   Traffic congestion in the streets which adjoin the planned unit
development.
         c.   An excessive burden on sewerage, water supply, parks,
recreational areas, schools or other public facilities which serve or are
proposed to serve the planned unit development.
   I.   Alternate Provisions For Project Density:
      1.   The planned unit development may result in a density in excess of
the density otherwise permitted within the zone in which the planned unit
development is to be constructed not to exceed five percent (5%), but less than
ten percent (10%), can be permitted by the plan commission if the arrangement
of yards and common open space is found to provide superior protection to
existing or future development on adjacent property.
      2.   If the plan commission finds that any of the following conditions
would be created by an increase in density permitted by this section, it may
either prohibit any increase in density or limit the increase in density by an
amount which is sufficient to avoid the creation of any of these conditions:
         a.   Inconvenient or unsafe access to the planned unit development.
         b.   Traffic congestion in the streets which adjoin the planned unit
development.
         c.   An excessive burden on sewerage, water supply, parks,
recreational areas, schools or other public facilities which serve or are
proposed to serve the planned unit development.
   J.   Common Open Space:
      1.   No open area may be accepted as common open space within a planned
unit development unless it meets the following requirements:
         a.   The location, shape, size and character of the common open space
is suitable for the planned development.
         b.   The common open space is for amenity or recreational purposes and
the uses authorized are appropriate to the scale and character of the planned
unit development, considering its size, density, expected population,
topography, and the number and type of dwelling provided.
         c.   Common open space will be suitably improved for its intended use,
except that common open space containing natural features worthy of
preservation may be left unimproved. The buildings, structures and improvements
to be permitted in the common open space must be appropriate to the uses which
are authorized for the common open space.
         d.   The development schedule which is part of the development plan
coordinates the improvement of the common open space and the construction of
buildings and other structures in the common open space with the construction
of residential dwellings in the planned unit development.
         e.   If buildings, structures or other improvements are to be made in
the common open space, the developer provides a bond or other adequate
assurance that the buildings, structures and improvements will be completed.
The village council shall release the bond or other assurances when the
buildings, structures and other improvements have been completed according to
the development plan.
      2.   Land shown on the final development plan as common open space shall
be conveyed under one of the following options:
         a.   To a public agency which agrees to maintain the common open space
and any buildings, structures or other improvements which have been placed on
it.
         b.   To an association of owners or tenants, created as a nonprofit
corporation under the laws of the state, which shall adopt and impose articles
of incorporation and bylaws and adopt and impose a declaration of covenants and
restrictions on the common open space that is acceptable to the plan commission
as providing for the continuing care of the space. Such an association shall be
formed and continued for the purpose of maintaining the common open space.
      3.   No common open space may be put to a use not specified in the final
development plan unless the final development plan is first amended to permit
the use. However, no change of use may be considered as a waiver of any of the
covenants limiting the use of common open space areas, and all rights to
enforce these covenants against any use permitted are expressly reserved.
      4.   If the common open space is not conveyed to a public agency, the
covenants governing the use, improvement and maintenance of the common open
space shall authorize the village to enforce their provisions.
   K.   Accessory Uses In A Planned Unit Development: In addition to the
accessory uses typical of the primary uses authorized, accessory uses approved
as part of a planned unit development may include the following uses:
Golf course.
Private park, lake or waterway.
Recreation area.
Recreation building, clubhouse or social hall.
Other accessory structure uses which the planning committee finds are designed
to serve primarily the residents of the planned unit development, and are
compatible with the design of the planned unit development.
   L.   Application Submission: An applicant shall include with the application
for approval of a planned unit development either an outline development plan
as described in subsection M of this section or a preliminary development plan
as described in subsection N of this section. Except as otherwise described in
this section the procedure for review and approval of a planned unit
development is the same as contained in this title for other conditional uses.
   M.   Outline Development Plan: If an outline development plan is prepared,
it shall include both maps and written statement as described in this
subsection. The information shall deal with enough of the area surrounding the
proposed planned unit development to demonstrate the relationship of the
planned unit development with adjoining uses, both existing and allowable.
      1.   The maps which are part of the outline plan may be in general
schematic form, and shall contain the following information:
         a.   The existing topographic character of the land.
         b.   Existing and proposed land uses and the approximate location of
buildings and other structures.
         c.   The character and approximate density of the proposed buildings.
         d.   The approximate location of major thoroughfares.
         e.   Public uses, including schools, parks, playgrounds and other
public open spaces.
         f.   Common open spaces and a description of the proposed use of these
spaces.
         g.   Access to any building, open space or other area by police cars,
firefighting equipment, ambulances and other emergency services.
      2.   The written statement which is part of the outline development plan
shall contain the following information:
         a.   An explanation of the character of the planned unit development
and the manner in which it has been planned to take advantage of the planned
unit development regulations.
         b.   A statement of the proposed financing, including evidence of
sufficient financing to complete the development and a certified financial
statement of the owner of the development.
         c.   A statement of the present ownership of all the land included
within the planned unit development.
         d.   A general indication of the expected schedule of development.
         e.   Copy of articles of incorporation where the owner is a
corporation or a partnership agreement where the owner is a partnership; copy
of the bylaws or proposed bylaws of any homeowners' association formed or to be
formed pursuant to subsection J2b of this section.
      3.   Approval of the outline development plan shall constitute
provisional approval of the planned unit development contingent upon approval
of the preliminary development plan.
   N.   Preliminary Development Plan: A preliminary development plan shall be
prepared and shall include the following information:
      1.   A map showing street systems, lot or partition lines and other
divisions of land for management, use or allocation purposes.
      2.   Areas proposed to be conveyed, dedicated or reserved for public
streets, parks, parkways, playgrounds, school sites, public buildings and
similar public and semipublic uses, including all utilities.
      3.   A plot plan for each building site and common open space area,
showing the approximate location of buildings, structures, and other
improvements and indicating the open spaces around buildings and structures.
      4.   Elevation and perspective drawings of proposed structures.
      5.   A development schedule indicating:
         a.   The approximate date when construction of the project can be
expected to begin.
         b.   The stages in which the project will be built and the approximate
date when construction of each stage can be expected to begin.
         c.   The anticipated rate of development.
         d.   The approximate dates when each stage in the development will be
completed.
         e.   The area, location and degree of development of common open space
that will be provided at each stage.
      6.   Agreements, provisions or covenants which govern the use,
maintenance and continued protection of the planned unit development and any of
its common open space area.
      7.   The following plans and diagrams, insofar as the reviewing body
finds that the planned unit development creates special problems of traffic,
parking, landscaping, or economic feasibility:
         a.   An off street parking and loading plan.
         b.   A circulation diagram indicating proposed movement of vehicles,
goods and pedestrians within the planned unit development and to and from
thoroughfares. Any special engineering features and traffic regulation devices
needed to facilitate or ensure the safety of this circulation pattern shall be
shown.
         c.   Proof that no buildings or other structures will be built on
"filled land" which overlays an earthquake zone.
         d.   A landscaping and tree plan.
         e.   An economic feasibility report or market analysis.
      8.   If no outline development plan has been filed, the preliminary plan
shall contain the written statement required by subsection M2 of this section
and shall include enough information on the area surrounding the proposed
development to show the relationship of the planned unit development to
adjacent uses, both existing and proposed.
   O.   Separate Approval Of The Preliminary Development Plan:
      1.   If an outline development plan has been submitted and the planned
unit development has been provisionally approved based on the information in
the outline development plan, the applicant shall file the preliminary
development plan with the plan commission within six (6) months following the
provisional approval of the outline development plan. The plan commission shall
refer the proposal to the body which approved the planned unit development and
that body shall give notice and provide an opportunity to be heard to each of
the following:
         a.   A person who is on record as having appeared at the hearing on
the outline development plan.
         b.   A person who has indicated in writing a desire to be notified.
         c.   A person or persons who submitted the proposal.
The body which provisionally approved the planned unit development shall then
either approve, disapprove or approve with modifications the planned unit
development based on the preliminary development plan.
      2.   If an outline development plan has been submitted and approved, a
preliminary development plan may be submitted in stages. If a preliminary
development plan covering at least twenty percent (20%) of the area of the
outline development plan has not been submitted within six (6) months following
the approval of the planned unit development by the plan commission, the
preliminary development plan shall terminate unless, for good cause, the plan
commission extends for three (3) months the period for the filing of the
preliminary development plan.
   P.   Approval Of The Final Development Plan:
      1.   Within six (6) months following the approval of the preliminary
development plan, the applicant shall file with the plan commission a final
development plan containing in final form the information required in the
preliminary plan. Provided, however, the plan commission may extend for six (6)
months the period for filing of the final development plan, when adequate need
is shown.
      2.   If the plan commission finds evidence of a material deviation from
the preliminary development plan, they shall advise the applicant to submit an
application for amendment of the planned unit development. An amendment shall
be considered in the same manner as an original application.
   Q.   Control Of The Development After Completion: The final development plan
shall continue to control the planned unit development after it is finished and
the following shall apply:
      1.   The building official in issuing a certificate of completion of the
planned unit development shall note the issuance on the filed final development
plan.
      2.   After the certificate of completion has been issued, the use of the
land and the construction, modification or alteration of a building or
structure within the planned unit development shall be governed by the approved
final development plan.
      3.   After the certificate of completion has been issued, no change shall
be made in development contrary to the approved final development plan without
approval of an amendment to the plan except as follows:
         a.   Minor modifications of existing buildings or structures may be
authorized by the plan commission if they are consistent with the purposes and
intent of the final plan and do not increase the cubic footage of the building
or structure.
         b.   A building or structure that is totally or substantially
destroyed may be reconstructed without approval of an amended planned unit
development if it is in compliance with the purpose and intent of the final
development plan.
      4.   An amendment to a completed planned unit development may be approved
if it is consistent with the planned unit development, or if it is appropriate
because of changes in conditions that have occurred since the final development
plan was approved or because there have been changes in the development policy
of the community as reflected by the comprehensive plan or related land use
regulations.
      5.   No modification or amendment to a completed planned unit development
is to be considered as a waiver of the covenants limiting the use of the land,
buildings, structures and improvements within the area of the planned unit
development, and all rights to enforce these covenants against any change
permitted by this section are expressly reserved.
   R.   Public Hearing: Public hearings shall be held and the procedures set
forth in this title shall be followed.
   S.   Fees: Fees shall be paid to the village clerk by the developer of a
planned unit development as provided in section
10-6-4 of this title. (Ord. 10-09, 8-17-2010)
10-4-6: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
Any use established in any nonresidential district after the effective date of
this comprehensive amendment shall be so operated as to comply with the
performance standards set forth hereinafter for the district in which such use
shall be located. No use lawfully established on the effective date of this
comprehensive amendment shall be so altered or modified as to conflict with, or
further conflict with, the performance standards established for the district
in which such use is located.
   A.   Noise:
      1.   Permitted Noise Levels: At no point beyond the boundary of any lot
shall the sound pressure level resulting from any use or activity, whether open
or enclosed (except noises not directly under the control of the property user,
noises resulting from the construction and maintenance of buildings and
facilities including site preparation, and the noises of safety signals,
warning devices, and railroads), exceed the maximum permitted decibel levels
for the designated octave band as set forth in the table below.
MAXIMUM PERMITTED SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL IN DECIBELS
Octave Band Frequency In Cycles At Point Abutting Any At Any Other Point
Per Second                      Residential Zone
Octave Band Frequency In Cycles At Point Abutting Any At Any Other Point
Per Second                      Residential Zone
0 - 74                          67                    76
75 - 149                        59                    71
150 - 299                       52                    63
300 - 599                       46                    59
600 - 1,199                     40                    50
1,200 - 2,399                   34                    45
2,400 - 2,799                   32                    38
4,800 and over                  32                    36
 
      2.   The following uses and activities shall be exempt from the noise
level regulations:
         a.   Noises not directly under the control of the property user.
         b.   Between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and sunset, noises
customarily resulting from construction and the maintenance of grounds.
         c.   The noise of safety signals, warning devices, aircraft and
railroads, snowplowing, and mosquito abatement.
         d.   Church bells, chimes and carillons.
Sound levels shall be measured with a sound level meter and associated octave
band filter and impact noise filter manufactured according to standards
prescribed by the American Standards Association. Measurements shall be made
using the flat network and "slow" meter response of the sound level meter.
Impulsive type noises shall be subject to the performance standards herein
prescribed, provided that such noises are capable of being accurately measured
with such equipment. Noises capable of being so measured, for the purpose of
this subsection, shall be those noises which cause rapid fluctuations of the
needle of the sound level meter with a variation of no more than plus or minus
two (±2) decibels. Noises incapable of being so measured, but objectionable
because of intermittence, beat, frequency, or shrillness, shall be controlled
so as not to become a nuisance to adjacent uses.
   B.   Smoke And Particulate Matter:
      1.   Emissions: The emission, from all sources within any lot, of
particulate matter containing more than five percent (5%) by weight of
particles having a particle diameter larger than forty four (44) microns is
prohibited. Dust and other types of air pollution borne by the wind from such
sources as storage areas, yards, and roads within the boundaries of any lot
shall be kept to a minimum by appropriate landscaping, paving, oiling, or other
acceptable means. Emission of particulate matter from such sources in excess of
the weight limitations specified herein is prohibited. The emission of smoke or
particulate matter of a density equal to or greater than no. 2 on the
Ringelmann chart is prohibited at all times, except as otherwise provided
herein.
      2.   Smoke Units: Sixty (60) smoke units not exceeding Ringelmann no. 1
are permitted each hour. However, once during any three (3) hour period each
stack may be permitted up to forty (40) additional smoke units, not to exceed
Ringelmann no. 2, for soot blowing and fire cleaning. Only during fire cleaning
period, however, shall smoke of a density of Ringelmann no. 3 be permitted, and
then for not more than four (4) minutes per period.
      3.   Particulate Matter Emission: The rate of emission of particulate
matter from all sources within the boundaries of any lot shall not exceed the
rate established in the following table:
PARTICLE MATTER EMISSIONS
Height In Emission Rate In Pounds Per Hour Per Acre
Height In Emission Rate In Pounds Per Hour Per Acre
Under 50'          3.00
Over 50'           3.00
Over 100'          3.50
Over 150'          3.80
Over 200'          4.20
Over 300'          5.00
Over 400'          7.00
 
For the purpose of grading the density of emission of smoke, the Ringelmann
chart, published and used by the United States bureau of mines, shall be
employed. For the purpose of determining smoke units, the Ringelmann density
reading shall be made at least every minute during the period of observation.
Each reading (Ringelmann number) shall be multiplied by the time in minutes for
which it is observed, and the products added together to give the total number
of smoke units observed during the total period of observation.
Determination of the total net rate of emission of particulate matter within
the boundaries of any lot shall be made as follows: Determine the maximum
emission in pounds per hour from each source of emission and divide this figure
by the number of acres of lot area, thereby obtaining the hourly rate of
emission in pounds per acre. Add together the individual rates of emission as
derived above to obtain the total rate of emission from all sources of emission
within the boundaries of the lot. It is this total that shall not exceed the
rate established in particulate matter emission table.
   C.   Odors: No continuous, frequent, or repetitive emission of odors or odor
causing substances which would be offensive at or beyond any property line will
be permitted. An odor emitted no more than fifteen (15) minutes in any one day
and on not more than two (2) days in any calendar month shall not be deemed as
continuous, frequent or repetitive within the meaning of these regulations. The
existence of an offensive odor shall be presumed when the concentration of the
odor causing substance or substances in the air at any point at or beyond the
property line exceeds the lowest concentration listed as the odor threshold for
such substance or substances in table III (odor thresholds) appearing in
chapter 5 of the "Air Pollution Abatement Manual", copyright 1952 by the
Manufacturing Chemists' Association, or as subsequently amended. Substances not
cited in said table shall be deemed odorous and offensive when analysis by a
competent technician demonstrates that a discernible odor is being emitted.
   D.   Toxic And Noxious Matter: No emission which would be demonstrably
injurious to human health, animals or plant life common to the region, on the
ground at or beyond any lot line will be permitted. Where such emission could
be produced as a result of accident or equipment malfunction, adequate
safeguards considered standard for safe operation in the industry involved
shall be taken. This shall not be construed to prohibit lawful spraying of
pesticides on public or private property. The measurement of toxic matter shall
be at ground level or habitable elevation and shall be the average of any
twenty four (24) hour sampling period. The release of any airborne toxic matter
shall not exceed the fractional quantities permitted of those toxic materials
currently listed in threshold limit values adopted by the American Conference
Of Governmental Industrial Hygienists. If a toxic substance is not contained in
this listing, the applicant shall satisfy the village of Seneca that the
proposed levels will be safe to the general population. The release of airborne
toxic matter shall not exceed 2.5 percent of the threshold limit value across
lot lines and shall not exceed 2.5 percent of the threshold limit value across
district boundary lines.
   E.   Heat And Glare: At no point at or beyond the boundary of any lot shall
heat or glare be detectable to the human senses as determined by the zoning
enforcement officer. In all nonresidential districts, any operation or activity
producing glare shall be conducted so that direct or indirect light from the
source shall not cause illumination in excess of 0.5 foot- candle when measured
in a residential district.
   F.   Fire And Explosive Hazards:
      1.   The storage, utilization or manufacture of solid materials or
products with the potential for free or active burning to intense burning
(excluding household items in quantities customarily found in the home) shall
be subject to approval of the local fire protection district.
      2.   Activities involving the transportation, storage or utilization of
materials or products which decompose by detonation are prohibited unless
specifically licensed by the village of Seneca.
      3.   The storage or utilization of flammable liquids or materials which
produce flammable or explosive vapors shall be permitted in accordance with the
following limitation, exclusive of storage in underground tanks and exclusive
of storage of finished products in original sealed containers:
         a.   Said materials or products shall be stored or utilized within
completely enclosed buildings or structures having incombustible exterior walls
and handled in accordance with the standards and regulations of the village of
Seneca and the local fire protection district.
         b.   All such buildings shall be set back at least forty feet (40')
from all lot lines, or in lieu thereof; all such buildings shall be protected
throughout by an automatic fire extinguishing system installed in accordance
with the standards and regulations of the village of Seneca and the local fire
protection district.
   G.   Vibration:
      1.   Steady state vibrations are vibrations which, for the purpose of
this title, are continuous, or vibrations in discrete pulses more frequent than
one hundred (100) per minute. Discrete pulses which do not exceed one hundred
(100) pulses per minute shall not cause displacement in excess of twice the
values established in subsection G2a, "Permitted Vibration Displacements", of
this section.
      2.   Impact vibrations shall mean vibrations occurring in discrete pulses
separated by an interval of at least one minute and numbering no more than
eight (8) per twenty four (24) hour period.
         a.   Permitted Vibration Displacements: At no point on or beyond the
boundary of any lot shall the ground transmitted steady state or impact
vibration caused by any use or activity (except those not directly under the
control of the property user) exceed the limits as established in the following
table:
MAXIMUM PERMITTED VIBRATION DISPLACEMENT
(In Inches)
Steady State Vibrations
 
Frequency In Cycles Per Second At Point Abutting Any At Any Other Point
                               Residential Zone
Less than 10                   0.0004                0.0020
10 through 19                  0.0002                0.0010
20 through 29                  0.0001                0.0006
30 through 39                  0.0001                0.0004
40 through 49                  0.0001                0.0003
50 and over                    0.0001                0.0002
 
Impact Vibrations
 
Frequency In Cycles Per Second At Point Abutting Any At Any Other Point
                               Residential Zone
Less than 10                   0.0006                0.0100
10 through 19                  0.0003                0.0050
20 through 29                  0.0002                0.0030
30 through 39                  0.0001                0.0020
40 through 49                  0.0001                0.0015
50 and over                    0.0001                0.0010
 
         b.   Method Of Measurement: For the purpose of measuring vibrations, a
three (3) component measuring system shall be used.
   H.   Liquid And Solid Waste:
      1.   No waste which is dangerous to the public health and safety shall be
discharged on the ground, into a stream or into the public sewer system.
      2.   Wastes shall not contain any grease or oil or an oily substance in
excess of one hundred (100) ppm or exceed a daily average of twenty five (25)
ppm.
      3.   Acidity or alkalinity shall be neutralized to within a variation of
pH 4.5 to 10.0.
      4.   Water or wastes shall not contain toxic substances in quantities
which are sufficient to interfere with the biological processes of the sewage
treatment works.
      5.   Wastes shall not include garbage that has not been ground or
comminuted to such a degree that all particles will be carried freely in
suspension under conditions normally prevailing in public sewers, with no
particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") in any dimension.
      6.   Solid or viscous wastes shall not be such as to cause obstruction to
the flow in sewers or other interference with the proper operation of the
sewerage system or sewage treatment works, such as grease, uncomminuted
garbage, animal guts or tissues, paunch manure, bone, hair, hides, fleshings,
entrails, feather, sand, cinders, ashes, spent lime, stone or marble dust,
metal, glass, straw, shavings, grass clippings, rags, spent grain, wastepaper,
wood, plastic, gas, tar, asphalt residues, residues from refining or processing
fuel or lubrication oil, gasoline, naphtha, and similar substances.
      7.   Liquids or vapors having a temperature higher than one hundred fifty
degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) at the point of entrance into a public sewer are
prohibited.
   I.   Investigations, Measurements And Analyses:
      1.   Control Manhole: Any person discharging industrial wastes into a
sewer shall construct and maintain a suitable control manhole or manholes
downstream from any such place of discharge to permit observation, measurement
and sampling of such wastes by the village. Where no manhole has been
constructed or can be constructed, as in the case of some existing industries,
the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in
the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is connected.
      2.   Right Of Entry: The zoning enforcement officer or his assistant
shall have the right to enter and set up, on company property, such devices
necessary to conduct a gauging and sampling operation.
      3.   Adequate Controls Or Devices Required: The administrative official
may require evidence that adequate controls or devices have been or will be
installed and used so that all operations are conducted in a manner which will
protect the public health, safety, comfort and welfare from any nuisances.
      4.   Enforcement: Where, in the opinion of the zoning enforcement
officer, there is a probable violation of any provision of this section, he is
empowered to have a qualified technician perform such investigations,
measurements, and analyses as may be necessary to determine whether or not
there is in fact a violation of this title. Upon confirmation of a violation,
the offending industry or activity shall bear the costs incurred by the village
in retaining the qualified technician. (Ord. 10-09, 8-17-2010)
ARTICLE A. RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-4A-0: General Requirements
10-4A-1: (R1) High Density Residential Multi-Family (5,000 Square Foot To 7,000
Square Foot Lot)
10-4A-2: (R2) High Density Residential Duplex/Mixed (5,000 Square Foot To 7,000
Square Foot Lot)
10-4A-3: (R3) High Density Residential Trailer Park/Mobile Home
10-4A-4: (R4) Traditional Residential (5,000 Square Foot To 7,000 Square Foot
Lot)
10-4A-5: (R5) Medium Density Residential (7,000 Square Foot To 14,520 Square
Foot Lot)
10-4A-6: (R6) Low Density Residential (1/3 Acre To 5 Acre Lot)
10-4A-7: (R7) Rural Countryside Residential (5 Acres And Greater)
10-4A-0: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Home Occupations: A home occupation is an incidental and accessory use
to a residential use. The standards for home occupations are intended to ensure
compatibility with other permitted uses and maintain the residential character
of the surrounding residential uses.
      1.   Location: A home occupation may be conducted in any dwelling unit or
in any building or structure accessory to the dwelling unit in any zoning
district in which dwelling units are permitted. The building in which the home
occupation is located shall be subject to the regulations of the zoning
district in which it is located.
      2.   Operation:
         a.   Home occupations shall be conducted only by residents of the
subject property.
         b.   The home occupation shall be conducted completely within the
dwelling unit or accessory building.
         c.   Outside storage, outdoor display, or outdoor use of land is
prohibited.
         d.   The home occupation shall not generate noise, vibration, glare,
fumes, odors, electrical interference, or garbage beyond which normally occurs
in the zoning district or planned development in which it is located.
      3.   Extent And Effect: A home occupation shall be limited in extent and
shall be incidental and secondary to the use of the property and shall not
occupy more than twenty five percent (25%) of the gross floor area of the
dwelling unit in which the home occupation is located. If located in an
accessory building, the home occupation may occupy one hundred percent (100%)
of that structure.
      4.   Traffic, Deliveries, And Parking:
         a.   The home occupation shall not generate traffic beyond what is
normally expected in the zoning district or planned development in which it is
located. In no case shall traffic volume created by the home occupation exceed
ten (10) trips per day, including deliveries.
         b.   Deliveries to home occupations shall not exceed two (2) per day.
         c.   Off street parking for the home occupation shall be provided in
accordance with the provisions of section
10-2-8, "Off Street Parking And Loading", of this title.
      5.   Prohibited Home Occupations: The following activities are expressly
prohibited as home occupations:
         a.   Animal hospitals (animal grooming service is permitted);
         b.   Kennels;
         c.   Medical clinics;
         d.   Eating and drinking establishments;
         e.   Jobbing, wholesale or retail business, unless it is conducted
entirely by mail or telephone and does not involve the receipt, sale, shipment,
delivery or storage of merchandise on or from the premises, provided, however,
that articles produced by members of the immediate family residing on the
premises may be sold from and stored upon the premises;
         f.   Undertaking establishments and funeral parlors;
         g.   Repair or maintenance of motor vehicles, to include trucks and
motorcycles;
         h.   Any activity that produces noxious matter or employs or produces
flammable matter;
         i.   Use of any mechanical equipment except of a type that is similar
in character to that normally used for purely domestic or hobby purposes.
      6.   Permitted Home Occupations: The zoning ordinance does not attempt to
define or list all permitted home occupations. However, the following
activities and uses are expressly permitted, provided that the other provisions
of this section are met:
         a.   Barber/beauty shop;
         b.   Animal grooming services;
         c.   Baby sitting services and daycare activities that do not meet
state law thresholds for licensing and regulation;
         d.   Licensed daycare homes;
         e.   Instruction in music, dance, home crafts and arts, provided that
the total class size does not exceed four (4) students at any time;
         f.   Offices of architects, brokers, engineers, insurance agents,
lawyers, real estate agents, urban planners, landscape architects, accountants
and secretarial services;
         g.   Offices of ministers, priests and rabbis or other religious
leaders;
         h.   Offices of sales representatives or manufacturer's
representatives;
         i.   Studios of artists, authors, composers and photographers;
         j.   Workrooms of dressmakers, seamstresses and tailors;
         k.   Workrooms for home crafts, such as model making, rug weaving, or
cabinetmaking.
   B.   Signs: Signs in all residential districts shall conform to the
provisions of title 9, chapter 3 of this code.
   C.   Off Street Parking: Off street parking in the amount of four hundred
(400) square feet minimum shall be required for each dwelling unit.
   D.   Accessory Buildings And Uses: Accessory buildings and uses as described
in section
10-2-9, "Accessory Buildings/Structures And Uses", of this title.
   E.   Household Sales: All sales from a household residence regardless of
sales classification will be restricted to the following:
      1.   Not more than three (3) consecutive days in any sale period, and not
more than one sale in a thirty (30) day time period.
      2.   Signs at the sale will comply with signs for all residential areas.
      3.   All merchandise will be removed from public view by the end of the
final day of each sale. (Ord. 10-09, 8-17-2010)
10-4A-1: (R1) HIGH DENSITY RESIDENTIAL MULTI-FAMILY (5,000 SQUARE FOOT TO 7,000
SQUARE FOOT LOT):
The high density residential multi-family land use category supports the use of
multiple-family townhomes, condominiums and apartments.
   A.   Permitted And Special Uses: Permitted uses and special uses as outlined
in section
10-4-4, "Zoning Districts Permitted And Special Uses", of this chapter and
listed in section
10-4-4, table 10-4-4T, "Zoning Districts Special And Permitted Uses", of this
chapter.
   B.   Off Street Parking: Parking spaces in accordance with provisions set
forth in section
10-2-8 of this title.
   C.   Lot Area: Not less than five thousand (5,000) square feet of lot area
for each single-family dwelling and not less than three thousand five hundred
(3,500) square feet for each dwelling unit in a two-family or multiple-family
dwelling; except that any lot shown on a plat recorded on the effective date
hereof and having an area of not less than six thousand (6,000) square feet may
be used for a two-family dwelling.
   D.   Lot Width: Not less than fifty feet (50').
   E.   Building Height: Not to exceed two and one-half (21/2) stories or
thirty five feet (35'), whichever is lower.
   F.   Usable Floor Area Per Dwelling Unit:
      1.   Single-family dwellings: Not less than eight hundred (800) square
feet.
      2.   Two-family and multiple-family dwellings: Not less than five hundred
(500) square feet per dwelling unit. Efficiency apartments shall have not less
than three hundred (300) square feet per dwelling unit.
   G.   Yards:
      1.   Front Yard: Not less than twenty five feet (25') in depth.
      2.   Side Yards:
         a.   Two (2) side yards, each not to be less than ten percent (10%) of
the lot width or five feet (5') in width, whichever is greater.
         b.   On a lot to be improved with a nonresidential building, a side
yard shall be provided along each side lot line not less than fifteen feet
(15') in width.
      3.   Rear Yard: As required in the R4 district. (Ord. 10-09, 8-17-2010)
10-4A-2: (R2) HIGH DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DUPLEX/MIXED (5,000 SQUARE FOOT TO 7,000
SQUARE FOOT LOT):
The high density residential duplex/mixed land use category supports the use of
multiple-family or attached housing.
   A.   Permitted And Special Uses: Permitted uses and special uses as outlined
in section
10-4-4, "Zoning Districts Permitted And Special Uses", of this chapter and
listed in section
10-4-4, table 10-4-4T, "Zoning Districts Special And Permitted Uses", of this
chapter.
   B.   Off Street Parking: Parking spaces in accordance with provisions set
forth in section
10-2-8 of this title.
   C.   Conversion Of Existing Structures: The conversion of existing single-
family dwellings to two-family dwellings shall be permitted subject to the
regulations of the district and limited by the following requirements:
      1.   No existing dwelling shall be converted to conflict with the yard or
floor area requirements of the district.
      2.   Where applicable, a lodging room shall be considered as one- half
(0.50) dwelling unit in determining compliance with subsection C1 of this
section.
   D.   Lot Area: Not less than five thousand (5,000) square feet of lot area
for each single-family dwelling and not less than three thousand five hundred
(3,500) square feet for each dwelling unit in a two-family dwelling; except
that any lot shown on a plat recorded on the effective date of this title and
having an area of not less than six thousand (6,000) square feet may be used
for a two-family dwelling.
   E.   Lot Width: Not less than fifty feet (50').
   F.   Building Height: Not to exceed two and one-half (21/2) stories or
thirty five feet (35'), whichever is lower.
   G.   Usable Floor Area Per Dwelling Unit:
      1.   Single-family dwellings: Not less than eight hundred (800) square
feet.
      2.   Two-family dwellings: Not less than four hundred (400) square feet
each.
   H.   Yards:
      1.   Front yard: Not less than twenty five feet (25') in depth.
      2.   Side yards: As required in the R4 district.
      3.   Rear yard: As required in the R4 district. (Ord. 10-09, 8-17-2010)
10-4A-3: (R3) HIGH DENSITY RESIDENTIAL TRAILER PARK/MOBILE HOME:
Existing mobile home park developments are included in this high density
residential land use category however any future mobile home park developments
are subject to the provisions established in the village's zoning ordinance.
   A.   Permitted And Special Uses: Permitted uses and special uses as outlined
in section
10-4-4, "Zoning Districts Permitted And Special Uses", of this chapter and
listed in section
10-4-4, table 10-4-4T, "Zoning Districts Special And Permitted Uses", of this
chapter.
   B.   Trailer Park Requirements: Trailers shall be permitted in the R3
district in parks with a minimum total area of seven (7) acres. A maximum of
ten (10) mobile home lots per gross acre of park land shall be permitted.
   C.   Trailer Park Perimeter Requirements: The following trailer park
perimeter requirements shall apply:
      1.   Front Yards: The park shall have a front yard of not less than fifty
feet (50') in depth.
      2.   Side Yards: The park shall have two (2) side yards each not less
than twenty five feet (25') in depth.
      3.   Rear Yards: The park shall have a rear yard not less than twenty
five feet (25') in depth.
   D.   Trailer Lot Requirements:
      1.   Lot Area: Within the park each lot shall contain a minimum area of
six thousand (6,000) square feet.
      2.   Lot Requirements: There shall be a minimum of twenty feet (20')
clearance between mobile homes.
         a.   Front Yards: The lot shall have a front yard of not less than ten
feet (10') in depth.
         b.   Side Yards: The lot shall have two (2) side yards each not less
than ten feet (10') in depth.
         c.   Rear Yards: The lot shall have a rear yard not less than ten feet
(10') in depth.
         d.   Floor Area Per Dwelling: There shall be a minimum of four hundred
fifty (450) square feet of floor area within each mobile home.
   E.   Accessory Buildings:
      1.   Accessory buildings for other than individual trailer lots shall
conform with section
10-2-9 of this title.
      2.   For individual trailer lots, accessory buildings:
         a.   Maximum Size: One hundred fifty (150) square feet.
         b.   Front Yards: Shall not be permitted in front yards.
         c.   Distance From Lot Line: Shall be a minimum of two feet (2') from
a lot line.
         d.   Distance From Trailer: Shall be a minimum of two feet (2') from
the trailer.
         e.   Off Street Parking: Parking spaces in accordance with provisions
set forth in section
10-2-8 of this title. (Ord. 10-09, 8-17-2010; amd. Ord. 21-19, 5-4-2021)
10-4A-4: (R4) TRADITIONAL RESIDENTIAL (5,000 SQUARE FOOT TO 7,000 SQUARE FOOT
LOT):
The traditional residential land use category represents a majority of the
village's existing residential areas, particularly in the established
neighborhoods near the village's future downtown/core area. This category
includes smaller lot single-family homes and multiple-family units.
   A.   Permitted And Special Uses: Permitted uses and special uses as outlined
in section
10-4-4, "Zoning Districts Permitted And Special Uses", of this chapter and
listed in section
10-4-4, table 10-4-4T, "Zoning Districts Special And Permitted Uses", of this
chapter.
   B.   Off Street Parking: Parking spaces in accordance with provisions set
forth in section
10-2-8 of this title.
   C.   Conversion Of Existing Structures: The conversion of existing single-
family dwellings to two-family dwellings shall be permitted subject to the
regulations of the district and limited by the following requirements:
      1.   No existing dwelling shall be converted to conflict with the yard or
floor area requirements of the district.
      2.   Where applicable, a lodging room shall be considered as one- half
(0.50) dwelling unit in determining compliance with subsection C1 of this
section.
   D.   Lot Area: Not less than five thousand (5,000) square feet of lot area
per dwelling unit.
   E.   Lot Width: Not less than fifty feet (50').
   F.   Building Height: Not to exceed two and one-half (21/2) stories, or
thirty five feet (35'), whichever is lower.
   G.   Usable Floor Area Per Dwelling: Not less than eight hundred (800)
square feet.
   H.   Yards:
      1.   Front Yard: Must be in line with existing structures in the
neighborhood.
      2.   Side Yards:
         a.   Two (2) side yards, each not to be less than five feet (5') in
width.
         b.   On a lot to be improved with a nonresidential building, a side
yard shall be provided along each side lot line not less than fifteen feet
(15') in width.
         c.   A side yard abutting a street, not to be less than twenty five
feet (25') in width. If a corner lot, duly recorded prior to the effective date
of this title, has insufficient width to provide a side yard twenty five feet
(25') in width and still maintain a buildable width of twenty seven feet (27'),
then the side yard abutting the street may be reduced in width by the distance
necessary to maintain a buildable width of twenty seven feet (27'), provided
such side yard is not less than five feet (5') in width.
      3.   Rear Yard: Depth of not less than twenty percent (20%) of the depth
of the lot measured from the rear lot line but such yard need not exceed thirty
feet (30') in depth. (Ord. 10-09, 8-17-2010)
10-4A-5: (R5) MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL (7,000 SQUARE FOOT TO 14,520 SQUARE
FOOT LOT):
The medium density residential category is appropriate for the newer
subdivisions consisting of single-family detached homes, or a combination of
single-family detached homes, and duplex units or townhomes. In these
developments, municipal utilities such as sewer and water are provided. Senior
housing proposed in medium density residential land use category may require
higher densities and shall be reviewed accordingly to ensure compatibility with
adjacent existing or future land uses.
   A.   Permitted And Special Uses: Permitted uses and special uses as outlined
in section
10-4-4, "Zoning Districts Permitted And Special Uses", of this chapter and
listed in section
10-4-4, table 10-4-4T, "Zoning Districts Special And Permitted Uses", of this
chapter.
   B.   Off Street Parking: Parking spaces in accordance with provisions set
forth in section
10-2-8 of this title.
   C.   Conversion Of Existing Structures: The conversion of existing single-
family dwellings to two-family dwellings shall be permitted subject to the
regulations of the district and limited by the following requirements:
      1.   No existing dwelling shall be converted to conflict with the yard or
floor area requirements of the district.
      2.   Where applicable, a lodging room shall be considered as one- half
(0.50) dwelling unit in determining compliance with subsection C1 of this
section.
   D.   Lot Area: Not less than seven thousand five hundred (7,500) square feet
per dwelling unit.
   E.   Lot Width: Not less than sixty feet (60').
   F.   Building Height: Not to exceed two and one-half (21/2) stories, or
thirty five feet (35'), whichever is lower.
   G.   Floor Area Per Dwelling: Not less than eight hundred (800) square feet.
   H.   Yards:
      1.   Front Yard: Not less than thirty feet (30') in depth.
      2.   Side Yards:
         a.   Two (2) side yards, each not to be less than ten feet (10') in
width.
         b.   On a lot to be improved with nonresidential building, a side yard
shall be provided along each side lot line not less than twenty five feet (25')
in width.
         c.   A side yard abutting a street not to be less than twenty five
feet (25') in depth.
      3.   Rear Yard: Depth of not less than twenty five percent (25%) of the
depth of the lot measured from the rear lot line, but such yard need not exceed
forty feet (40') in depth. (Ord. 10-09, 8-17-2010)
10-4A-6: (R6) LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL (1/3 ACRE TO 5 ACRE LOT):
The low density residential land use category represents opportunities for
estate type single-family development that may not include the provision of
municipal sewer and water services. The low density residential category is
likely to provide for a density of 1.0 dwelling unit per acre or less.
   A.   Permitted And Special Uses: Permitted uses and special uses as outlined
in section
10-4-4, "Zoning Districts Permitted And Special Uses", of this chapter and
listed in section
10-4-4, table 10-4-4T, "Zoning Districts Special And Permitted Uses", of this
chapter.
   B.   Off Street Parking: Parking spaces in accordance with provisions set
forth in section
10-2-8 of this title.
   C.   Conversion Of Existing Structures: The conversion of existing single-
family dwellings to two-family dwellings shall be permitted subject to the
regulations of the district and limited by the following requirements:
      1.   No existing dwelling shall be converted to conflict with the yard or
floor area requirements of the district.
      2.   Where applicable, a lodging room shall be considered as one- half
(0.50) dwelling unit in determining compliance with subsection C1 of this
section. (Ord. 10-09, 8-17-2010)
10-4A-7: (R7) RURAL COUNTRYSIDE RESIDENTIAL (5 ACRES AND GREATER):
The rural countryside residential land use category allows for an individual
residential property comprising at least five (5) acres in size, and including
farming activities, stables, etc. The property is served by a private well and
septic system.
   A.   Permitted uses and special uses as outlined in section
10-4-4, "Zoning Districts Permitted And Special Uses", of this chapter and
listed in section
10-4-4, table 10-4-4T, "Zoning Districts Special And Permitted Uses", of this
chapter.
   B.   The following yard requirements shall apply:
      1.   Number Provided: Except as otherwise provided herein, each principal
building shall provide for one front yard, two (2) side yards and one rear
yard; or, if on a corner, two (2) front yards, one side yard and one rear yard.
      2.   Minimum Yard Requirements:
 
Front Yard Side Yard Rear Yard
(Feet)     (Feet)    (Feet)
701        10        30
851        10        30
1001       10        30
 
Note:
   1.    Yard requirements for the front yard vary depending on the
classification of the roadway that the property is facing. Property facing
township roadways have a 70 foot setback from the centerline of the roadway.
Properties facing a county roadway have an 85 foot setback from the centerline
of the roadway. Properties facing a state roadway have a 100 foot setback from
the centerline of the roadway. In all cases the setback shall have a minimum of
30 feet from the edge of the road right of way or edge of the roadway easement.
All yard requirements for the front yard are measured from the centerline of
the roadway. All other yard requirements are measured from the prospective
property line.
      3.   Use Of Yards: All nonagricultural and nonsingle-family detached uses
shall utilize required yards for the purpose of providing site access, fire
access, landscaping and fences. (Ord. 10-09, 8-17-2010)
ARTICLE B. BUSINESS DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-4B-0: General Requirements
10-4B-1: (B1) Business District
10-4B-2: (B2) Service And Wholesale/Commercial District
10-4B-3: (B3) Business Park
10-4B-0: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
All business, service, storage, merchandise, display, and where permitted,
repair and processing within a business district shall be:
   A.   Conducted wholly within a completely enclosed building, except for off
street automobile parking, off street loading. Open sales and storage lots are
permitted only in districts where specifically listed as permitted uses.
   B.   There shall be no manufacture, compounding, processing, or treatment of
products other than that which is clearly incidental to the principal use of
the stores, shops, or businesses.
   C.   Any manufacturing, compounding, processing or treatment of any products
as authorized in subsection B of this section, is limited to that which employs
not more than five (5) persons in the manufacturing, compounding, processing or
treatment.
   D.   Where an accessory building is separate from a main building, it shall
be subject to and must conform to all the regulations of this article,
applicable to main buildings.
   E.   The repair or processing, manufacturing, compounding, or treatment of
goods shall be limited to those, which are not objectionable by reason of odor,
fumes, dust, smoke, noise, vibration, or water carried waste. (Ord. 10-09, 8-
17-2010)
10-4B-1: (B1) BUSINESS DISTRICT:
This land use category is intended to provide for retail businesses that offer
a wide range of goods, services, and employment opportunities in locations
which abut or front major roadways to provide convenient access and visibility.
Given their access to major roadways, general commercial uses generally are set
in an auto oriented setting and are high intensity in character, providing
retail goods and services at a regional level. General commercial uses are
generally recommended at major intersections and roadway corridors, such as
along Route 6 near the I-80 interchange. It is further recommended that
commercial developments within this category incorporate full and/or limited
access driveways and cross access between lots and adjacent commercial
properties as determined by the village engineer and/or respective agency
having jurisdictional control. This land use category is also intended to
provide convenient retail establishments and services to adjacent residential
neighborhoods. Neighborhood commercial uses may be scattered throughout the
village along arterial or collector roadways and their intersections.
Generally, a neighborhood commercial center may be incorporated as part of an
overall residential subdivision proposal, as such it should be screened and
buffered from adjacent residential areas and should provide pedestrian access
to the commercial areas from adjacent residential uses.
   A.   General Conditions:
      1.   New buildings used or intended for use exclusively for residential
purposes are not permitted. Existing residential dwelling units may be
continued in use.
      2.   Where living facilities are erected or constructed as a part of a
building containing a store or business establishment, such structures and such
living facilities shall comply with the regulations for the R1 residential
district with the exception of the yard requirements specified therein. In
addition, where living quarters are erected or constructed on the ground floor
level of any building, such building shall comply with the side yard
requirements of the R1 district and under no circumstances shall such living
quarters be extended to those rooms of the building which are located nearest
the front lot line. The primary means of the building must be business with at
least fifty percent (50%) of the first floor reserved for the business.
   B.   Accessory Buildings And Uses: Accessory buildings and uses as described
in section
10-2-9, "Accessory Buildings/Structures And Uses", of this title.
   C.   Permitted And Special Uses: Permitted uses and special uses as outlined
in section
10-4-4, "Zoning Districts Permitted And Special Uses", of this chapter and
listed in section
10-4-4, table 10-4-4T, "Zoning Districts Special And Permitted Uses", of this
chapter.
   D.   Building Height: Not to exceed thirty five feet (35').
   E.   Yards: No front, side or rear yards shall be required, except that when
a building or group of buildings abut a residential district, a side yard shall
be provided on the side of a lot abutting a residential district, such yard
having a width of not less than five feet (5'); a rear yard shall be provided
where abutting a residential district, such yard having a depth of not less
than twenty feet (20').
   F.   Fencing: All side and/or rear yards, where abutting a residential
district, shall be fenced and screened from view from any adjoining lot in the
adjacent residential district. Rear or side yards adjoining a dedicated alley
are exempt from the fencing requirements. (Ord. 10-09, 8-17-2010)
10-4B-2: (B2) SERVICE AND WHOLESALE/COMMERCIAL DISTRICT:
This land use category is intended for businesses that complement and provide
support services to industrial related land uses. Since this category of land
use may include outdoor storage of materials, equipment, etc., it is essential
that the outdoor storage area be designed with a hard, dust free bituminous
storage or parking surface; a solid fence or wall having a height equivalent to
the materials or equipment being stored; and a landscape buffer yard that
provides year round screening. This land use category is also intended to serve
as a buffering or transitional land use between industrial land uses and less
intense land use categories.
   A.   General Conditions: General conditions as specified in the B1 district.
   B.   Permitted And Special Uses: Permitted uses and special uses as outlined
in section
10-4-4, "Zoning Districts Permitted And Special Uses", of this chapter and
listed in section
10-4-4, table 10-4-4T, "Zoning Districts Special And Permitted Uses", of this
chapter.
   C.   Building Height: Not to exceed thirty five feet (35').
   D.   Yards:
      1.   Front yard: Not less than fifteen feet (15') in depth.
      2.   Side yards: Not less than fifteen feet (15') in width.
      3.   Rear yard: Not less than twenty feet (20') in depth.
   E.   Fencing: Same as provided for in the B1 district. (Ord. 10-09, 8-17-
2010)
10-4B-3: (B3) BUSINESS PARK:
This land use category provides opportunities for nuisance free business parks
and other light industry, preferably in well designed, attractive buildings in
a landscaped campuslike environment. Warehouse distribution (buildings having
less than 100,000 square feet in area), high tech, engineering, office and
research uses are particularly appropriate for this category. Public storage
facilities may also be appropriate if built at a smaller scale than typical
warehousing facilities.
   A.   General conditions: Same as provided for in the B1 district.
   B.   Building height: Same as provided for in the B1 district.
   C.   Fencing: Same as provided for in the B1 district.
   D.   Accessory buildings and uses as described in section
10-2-9, "Accessory Buildings/Structures And Uses", of this title.
   E.   Permitted uses and special uses as outlined in section
10-4-4, "Zoning Districts Permitted And Special Uses", of this chapter and
listed in section
10-4-4, table 10-4-4T, "Zoning Districts Special And Permitted Uses", of this
chapter. (Ord. 10-09, 8-17-2010)
ARTICLE C. INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-4C-0: General Requirements
10-4C-1: Site And Structure Requirements
10-4C-0: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
This land use category provides opportunities for high intensity industrial
uses, including warehousing (buildings over 100,000 square feet in area),
manufacturing, and processing uses. This land use category will have access to
arterial roadways, railroads, and/or waterways. Industrial land uses are to be
well buffered from incompatible land uses, by solid screening, such as fencing
or walls in combination with intense landscaping treatment. When possible,
industrial establishments should be located an appropriate distance away from
other less intense uses.
   A.   Permitted uses and special uses as outlined in section
10-4-4, "Zoning Districts Permitted And Special Uses", of this chapter and
listed in section
10-4-4, table 10-4-4T, "Zoning Districts Special And Permitted Uses", of this
chapter. (Ord. 10-09, 8-17-2010)
10-4C-1: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Area: Any principal use, together with all accessory uses, shall be
located on a lot having a minimum area of forty thousand (40,000) square feet.
   B.   Lot Width: Each lot shall have a width at the building setback line of
not less than one hundred thirty feet (130').
   C.   Yards:
      1.   Front Yard: Each lot shall have a front yard of not less than fifty
feet (50') in depth.
      2.   Side Yards:
         a.   Interior Lot: Each lot shall have two (2) side yards, one along
each side lot line, of not less than twenty feet (20') each;
         b.   Corner Lot: The width of any side yard which abuts a street shall
be not less than fifty feet (50');
         c.   Lots Abutting Residential Zones: The width of any side yard which
abuts a residential zone shall be not less than fifty feet (50').
      3.   Rear Yard: Each lot shall have a rear yard of not less than twenty
feet (20'); the depth of any rear yard which abuts a street or a residential
zone shall be not less than fifty feet (50').
   D.   Fencing: Same as provided for in the B1 district. (Ord. 10-09, 8-17-
2010)
ARTICLE D. AGRICULTURAL AREAS AND CONSERVATION OPEN SPACE DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-4D-0: Intent; Permitted And Special Uses
10-4D-1: General Requirements
10-4D-2: Site And Structure Requirements
10-4D-3: Livestock Restricted
10-4D-0: INTENT; PERMITTED AND SPECIAL USES:
The agricultural areas and conservation open space is intended to preserve
Seneca's traditional rural character by encouraging the protection of
economically viable agricultural land and protecting natural resources and
areas with unique environmental characteristics such as wetlands, floodplains,
streams and woodlands. Protections of natural areas ensure they continue to
provide natural functions such as flood storage and conveyance, pollution
control, and wildlife habitats. Conservation open spaces are distributed around
the village as well as outside municipal limits. As a preservation measure,
this land use category discourages the premature development of vacant or
agricultural lands and is also intended to prevent an incompatible mixture of
urban and rural uses. Combined with conservation open spaces, agricultural
areas help create a "greenbelt" around the village's planning area providing a
safeguard from overdevelopment.
This land use category is also designed to regulate the use of land, building,
and structures within areas of the village where soil and topographic
conditions, excessive high water tables and other natural and physical
characteristics are best adapted to recreation oriented uses, to conservation
purposes and for preservation of open space. This district is established to
conserve the natural and scenic areas of the village of Seneca, to protect the
river, streams and woodlands and to encourage efficient use and orderly
development of these lands. Protection of natural areas ensures they continue
to provide natural functions such as flood storage and conveyance, pollution
control, and wildlife habitats. Open space shall be provided for village
residents in the form of parks and greenbelts, consistent with regulatory and
policy directives of the village. Where parks and greenbelts illustrated on the
land use plan pass through a proposed residential subdivision, land, in lieu of
cash, shall be provided according to the adopted land/cash ordinance, as may be
amended from time to time. The village has determined that the dedication of
land in these areas is essential for implementing the continuous greenbelt and
open space system adopted as part of the village's comprehensive land use plan.
Permitted uses and special uses as outlined in section
10-4-4, "Zoning Districts Permitted And Special Uses", of this chapter and
listed in section
10-4-4, table 10-4-4T, "Zoning Districts Special And Permitted Uses", of this
chapter. (Ord. 10-09, 8-17-2010)
10-4D-1: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Purpose:
      To establish natural limits of growth around the village of Seneca.
      To visually set Seneca apart from adjacent communities and/or the rural
environment.
      To preserve existing natural resources, and protect critical stormwater
drainage corridors.
      To provide conveniently located recreational amenities and facilities for
residents of Seneca.
   B.   Greenbelts:
      1.   Where a greenbelt illustrated on Seneca's comprehensive land use
plan passes through a proposed subdivision, a minimum width of one hundred feet
(100') shall be set aside for this amenity. This one hundred foot (100')
minimum width shall be increased to incorporate floodplains, steep slopes,
wetlands, high quality native plant communities, major stands of trees,
riparian zones, and/or other significant natural features that may exist
within, or adjacent to these areas. The location and extent of a greenbelt
shall be determined at the time of preliminary plan and/or plat.
      2.   For the purpose of this title, these natural features shall include:
         Floodplains: 100-year floodplain, as defined by the federal emergency
management agency (FEMA).
         Steep Slopes: Those land areas with slopes that equal or exceed thirty
five percent (35%), or 2.85:1.
         Wetlands: As defined through the currently applicable criteria
established by the U.S. army corps of engineers.
         Major Stands Of Trees: Mature woodlands, such as stands of oak/hickory
forest, and floodplain forests, such as mature cottonwood, silver maple,
sycamore, hackberry, etc.
         Riparian Zone: Natural vegetation along the edge of a stream that:
modulates temperature; provides nutrient input into the stream system; provides
a buffer that intercepts surface runoff, filtering out sediments and
pollutants; provides erosion control through soil stabilization; and serves as
habitat and migration corridors for wildlife who utilize the stream for food
and drink.
      3.   The greenbelt shall be recorded with the final plan and/or plat of
subdivision as open space to be maintained as such in perpetuity.
      4.   At the time of final platting, an easement, not less than fifteen
feet (15') wide, shall also be recorded to accommodate future development of a
recreation path within the greenbelt. Said path shall be eight feet (8') wide,
and installed at such time as the village of Seneca determines appropriate.
Unless otherwise approved by the village of Seneca board, the path shall
consist of crushed limestone, and shall be engineered to avoid erosion.
      5.   Two inch (2") caliper native trees shall be planted along the
perimeter of the greenbelt to define its limits. The plan commission and
village of Seneca board may waive tree plantings during review of a final plan
or plat, if the greenbelt is wooded, or includes natural features that may be
inconsistent with required tree plantings. Where required:
Not less than one native tree shall be planted on each side of the greenbelt
for each thirty (30) linear feet that passes through the residential
subdivision. Trees shall be planted in naturalistic groupings, and shall be
worked into the existing landscape.
      6.   Native grasses, wildflowers, or other native vegetation shall be
installed where necessary to stabilize slopes within the greenbelt, in lieu of
lawn or other traditional ground cover.
   C.   Parks: The exact location of boundaries and park land shall be
determined as part of the preliminary plan or plat.
   D.   Submittals: Unless otherwise waived by the plan commission and village
of Seneca board, the following shall be submitted for staff review at the time
of preliminary plat or plan to determine the existence, location and extent of
wetlands, floodplains, native prairie, major stands of trees, steep slopes and
other natural features that may fall within the greenbelt depicted on the land
use plan:
      1.   Items listed below shall be included on a site plan, at a scale not
less than one inch equals fifty feet (1" = 50'):
         Location of FEMA floodplain.
         Existing contours at two foot (2') intervals.
         Existing and proposed drainage system, including all discharge points,
collection, conveyance, and storage facilities.
         Proposed contours, at two foot (2') intervals.
         Drainage features, stormwater management facilities, floodplains and
wetland boundaries.
         Boundaries of predominate soil types.
         Location, species and size of trees six inches (6") or greater in
caliper, if any.
         Delineation of riparian zone, if any, and location, species and size
of trees, six inches (6") or greater in caliper, that exist within the zone.
         Delineation of high quality native plant communities, if any, and a
copy of the natural area rating index for the plant communities.
      2.   Where wetlands exist within, or adjacent to the greenbelt, a wetland
delineation report shall be submitted which includes:
         A map showing the exact location of wetlands within the development
boundaries.
         An aerial photograph delineating wetland, development and watershed
boundaries.
         Army corps of engineers data sheets with representative color
photographs.
         Written description of the wetland(s) including a professional
assessment of functional values.
      3.   Protective covenants shall be submitted for the greenbelt or park,
which identify:
         Name, address and telephone number of the individual or group
responsible for maintenance of the park or greenbelt.
         Required maintenance provisions and responsibilities for these
resources.
         Terms and conditions associated with the use of the land.
   E.   Screen Plantings:
      1.   Where a proposed residential subdivision abuts a more intensive land
use, landscape screening shall be provided. Such screening may be accomplished
through the provision of landscaped berms, a compact hedge, fence, wall or a
combination of these methods, as approved by the village of Seneca during the
preliminary and final plan and/or plat review process.
      2.   Required screening shall be a minimum of five feet (5') in height,
at installation.
      3.   The placement of a screen shall not impair the safety of pedestrian
or vehicular traffic.
      4.   Screening shall maintain a year round opacity not less than seventy
five percent (75%).
      5.   Where screening is required, a landscape plan, prepared by a
licensed landscape architect, shall be submitted with the preliminary and final
plan and/or plat of subdivision, and shall show:
         Location, design, and dimensions of proposed fencing, if any.
         Location, species, size and quantity, of proposed trees and shrub
plantings.
         Contours of proposed berms, if any.
         Limits of seed or sod, and identification of ground covers, if any.
(Ord. 10-09, 8-17-2010)
10-4D-2: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Area: Any principal use, together with all accessory uses, shall be
located on a lot having a minimum area of two (2) acres.
   B.   Maximum Lot Coverage: The total ground area occupied by any principal
building, together with all accessory buildings, shall not exceed sixty percent
(60%) of the buildable area of the lot.
   C.   Lot Width: Each lot shall have a width at the building setback line of
not less than one hundred fifty feet (150').
   D.   Yards:
      1.   Front Yard: Each lot shall have a front yard of not less than thirty
feet (30') in depth.
      2.   Side Yard: Each lot shall have two (2) side yards, one along each
side lot line, and each shall not be less than thirty feet (30') in width.
      3.   Rear Yard: Each lot shall have a rear yard of not less than thirty
feet (30'), the depth of any rear yard which abuts a street shall be not less
than thirty feet (30').
   E.   Accessory Building: No accessory building shall be erected or altered
at, nor moved to, a location within fifteen feet (15') of side and rear lot
lines. (Ord. 10-09, 8-17-2010)
10-4D-3: LIVESTOCK RESTRICTED:
All farm animals and/or livestock (with the exception of traditional household
pets) shall not at any time be housed, kept, or pastured within five hundred
feet (500') of the nearest property line of an area zoned, designated or
otherwise developed for residential living. (Ord. 10-09, 8-17-2010)
ARTICLE E. RIVERFRONT DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-4E-0: General Requirements
10-4E-1: Site And Structure Requirements
10-4E-0: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
From Memorial Day through Labor Day, the village experiences a tremendous
tourist draw of boaters, campers and bikers due to its marinas, restaurants and
access to the Illinois River. This land use category is geared toward seasonal
boating and camping activities as well as complementary businesses and services
that meet the needs of the tourists and related activities.
   A.   Permitted uses and special uses as outlined in section
10-4-4, "Zoning Districts Permitted And Special Uses", of this chapter and
listed in section
10-4-4, table 10-4-4T, "Zoning Districts Special And Permitted Uses", of this
chapter.
   B.   For development and property management in the riverfront district,
chapter 9, "Flood Damage Prevention", of this title must be adhered to as
applicable. (Ord. 10-09, 8-17-2010)
10-4E-1: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Area: Any principal use, together with all accessory uses, shall be
located on a lot having a minimum area of two (2) acres.
   B.   Maximum Lot Coverage: The total ground area occupied by any principal
building, together with all accessory buildings, shall not exceed sixty percent
(60%) of the buildable area of the lot.
   C.   Lot Width: Each lot shall have a width at the building setback line of
not less than one hundred eighty feet (180').
   D.   Yards:
      1.   Front Yard: Each lot shall have a front yard of not less than thirty
feet (30') in depth.
      2.   Side Yards: Each lot shall have two (2) side yards, one along each
side lot line; the sum of the widths of the two (2) side yards shall not be
less than seventy five feet (75'), nor shall any one side yard be less than
thirty feet (30').
      3.   Rear Yard: Each lot shall have a rear yard of not less than ten feet
(10'); the depth of any rear yard which abuts a street shall be not less than
thirty feet (30'). (Ord. 10-09, 8-17-2010)
ARTICLE F. ADULT-USE CANNABIS
SECTION:
10-4F-1: Purpose and Applicability
10-4F-2: Conditional Use
10-4F-3: Adult-Use Cannabis Facility Components
10-4F-4: Adult-Use Cannabis Craft Grower
10-4F-5: Adult-Use Cannabis Cultivation Center
10-4F-6: Adult-Use Cannabis Dispensing Organization
10-4F-7: Adult-Use Cannabis Infuser Organization
10-4F-8: Adult-Use Cannabis Processing Organization
10-4F-9: Adult-Use Cannabis Transporting Organization
10-4F-10: Additional Requirements
10-4F-11: Co-Location Of Cannabis Business Establishments
10-4F-1: PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY:
It is the intent and purpose of this Section to provide regulations regarding
the cultivation, processing and dispensing of adult-use cannabis occurring
within the corporate limits of the Village of Seneca. Such facilities shall
comply with all regulations provided in the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act
(P.A. 101-0027) (the "Act"), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and
regulations promulgated thereunder, and the regulations provided below. In the
event that the Act is amended, the more restrictive of the state or local
regulations shall apply. (Ord. 21-13, 4-6-2021)
10-4F-2: CONDITIONAL USE:
Adult-Use Cannabis Business Establishment facilities, as defined herein,
requiring approval of a conditional use in the respective districts in which
they are requested shall be processed in accordance with Chapter 8 (Conditional
Use Permits) of this Title 10. (Ord. 21-13, 4-6-2021)
10-4F-3: ADULT-USE CANNABIS FACILITY COMPONENTS:
In determining compliance with Chapter 8 (Special and Conditional Use Permits)
of this Title 10, the following components of the Adult-Use Cannabis Facility
shall be evaluated based on the entirety of the circumstances affecting the
particular property in the context of the existing and intended future use of
the properties:
   A.   Impact of the proposed facility on existing or planned uses located
within the vicinity of the subject property.
   B.   Proposed structure in which the facility will be located, including co-
tenancy (if in a multi-tenant building), total square footage, security
installations/security plan and building code compliance.
   C.   Hours of operation and anticipated number of customers/employees.
   D.   Anticipated parking demand based on Section
10-2-8 (Off Street Parking and Loading) of this Title 10 and available private
parking supply.
   E.   Anticipated traffic generation in the context of adjacent roadway
capacity and access to such roadways.
   F.   Site design, including access points and internal site circulation.
   G.   Proposed signage plan.
   H.   Compliance with all requirements provided in Section
10-4F-4 (Adult-Use Cannabis Craft Grower) Section
10-4F-5 (Adult-Use Cannabis Cultivation Center); Section
10-4F-6 (Adult-Use Cannabis Dispensing Organization); Section
10-4F-7 (Adult-Use Cannabis Infuser Organization); Section
10-4F-8 (Adult-Use Cannabis Processing Organization); or Section
10-4F-9 (Adult-Use Cannabis Transporting Organization), as applicable.
   I.   Other criteria determined to be necessary to assess compliance with
Chapter 8 (Special and Conditional Use Permits) of this Title 10. (Ord. 21-13,
4-6-2021)
10-4F-4: ADULT-USE CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER:
In those zoning districts in which an Adult-Use Cannabis Craft Grower may be
located, the proposed facility must comply with the following:
   A.   Facility may not be located within two hundred and fifty (250) feet of
the property line of a pre-existing public or private nursery school,
preschool, primary or secondary school, day care center, day care home or
residential care home. Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not
be classified as a public or private school for purposes of this Section.
   B.   Facility may not be located within two hundred and fifty (250) feet of
the property line of a pre-existing property zoned or used for residential
purposes.
   C.   Facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis other
than as authorized by the Act. (Ord. 21-13, 4-6-2021)
10-4F-5: ADULT-USE CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER:
In those zoning districts in which an Adult-Use Cannabis Cultivation Center may
be located, the proposed facility must comply with the following:
   A.   Facility may not be located within two hundred and fifty (250) feet of
the property line of a pre-existing public or private nursery school,
preschool, primary or secondary school, day care center, day care home or
residential care home. Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not
be classified as a public or private school for purposes of this Section.
   B.   Facility may not be located within two hundred and fifty (250) feet of
the property line of a pre-existing property zoned or used for residential
purposes.
   C.   Facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis other
than as authorized by the Act. (Ord. 21-13, 4-6-2021)
10-4F-6: ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION:
In those zoning districts in which an Adult-Use Cannabis Dispensing
Organization may be located, the proposed facility must comply with the
following:
   A.   Facility may not be located within two hundred and fifty (250) feet of
the property line of a pre-existing public or private nursery school,
preschool, primary or secondary school, day care center, day care home or
residential care home. Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not
be classified as a public or private school for purposes of this Section.
   B.   Facility may not be located in a dwelling unit or within one hundred
(100) feet of the property line of a pre-existing property zoned or used for
residential purposes.
   C.   At least seventy-five percent (75%) of the floor area of any tenant
space occupied by a dispensing organization shall be devoted to the activities
of the dispensing organization as authorized by the Act, and no dispensing
organization shall also sell food for consumption on or in the same tenant
space.
   D.   Facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis other
than as authorized by the Act. (Ord. 21-13, 4-6-2021)
10-4F-7: ADULT-USE CANNABIS INFUSER ORGANIZATION:
In those zoning districts in which an Adult-Use Cannabis Infuser Organization
may be located, the proposed facility must comply with the following:
   A.   Facility may not be located within five hundred (500) feet of the
property line of a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool,
primary or secondary school, day care center, day care home or residential care
home. Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as
a public or private school for purposes of this Section.
   B.   Facility may not be located in a dwelling unit or within two hundred
and fifty (250) feet of the property line of a pre-existing property zoned or
used for residential purposes.
   C.   At least seventy-five percent (75%) of the floor area of any tenant
space occupied by an infusing organization shall be devoted to the activities
of the infusing organization as authorized by the Act. (Ord. 21-13, 4-6-2021)
10-4F-8: ADULT-USE CANNABIS PROCESSING ORGANIZATION:
In those zoning districts in which an Adult-Use Cannabis Processing
Organization may be located, the proposed facility must comply with the
following:
   A.   Facility may not be located within five hundred (500) feet of the
property line of a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool,
primary or secondary school, day care center, day care home or residential care
home. Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as
a public or private school for purposes of this Section.
   B.   Facility may not be located in a dwelling unit or within two hundred
and fifty (250) feet of the property line of a pre-existing property zoned or
used for residential purposes.
   C.   At least seventy-five percent (75%) of the floor area of any tenant
space occupied by a processing organization shall be devoted to the activities
of the processing organization as authorized by the Act. Facility may not
conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis other than as authorized by the
Act. (Ord. 21-13, 4-6-2021)
10-4F-9: ADULT-USE CANNABIS TRANSPORTING ORGANIZATION:
In those zoning districts in which an Adult-Use Transporting Organization may
be located, the proposed facility must comply with the following:
   A.   Facility may not be located within (500) feet of the property line of a
pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool, primary or secondary
school, day care center, day care home or residential care home. Learning
centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as a public or
private school for purposes of this Section.
   B.   Facility may not be located in a dwelling unit or within one hundred
(100) feet of the property line of a pre-existing property zoned or used for
residential purposes.
   C.   The transporting organization shall be the sole use of the tenant space
in which it is located. Facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of
cannabis other than as authorized by the Act. (Ord. 21-13, 4-6-2021)
10-4F-10: ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
Petitioner shall install building enhancements, such as security cameras,
lighting or other improvements, as set forth in the conditional use permit, to
ensure the safety of employees and customers of the adult-use cannabis business
establishments, as well as its environs. Said improvements shall be determined
based on the specific characteristics of the floor plan for an Adult-Use
Cannabis Business Establishment and the site on which it is located, consistent
with the requirements of the Act. (Ord. 21-13, 4-6-2021)
10-4F-11: CO-LOCATION OF CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS:
The Village may approve the co-location of an Adult-Use Cannabis Dispensing
Organization with an Adult-Use Cannabis Craft Grower Center or an Adult-Use
Cannabis Infuser Organization, or both, subject to the provisions of the Act
and the Conditional Use Permit criteria set forth in the Seneca Code. In a co-
location, the floor space requirements of 10-4F-6(C) and 10-4F-7(C) shall not
apply, but the co-located establishments shall be the sole use of the tenant
space. (Ord. 21-13, 4-6-2021)
CHAPTER 5
AMENDMENTS
SECTION:
10-5-1: Authority
10-5-2: Petitions
10-5-3: Initiation Of Amendments
10-5-4: Disposition By Plan Commission
10-5-5: Action By Village Council
10-5-1: AUTHORITY:
The village council, after receiving a recommendation from the plan commission,
may amend the regulations imposed and the districts created by this title. The
board may approve, approve with conditions, or deny a text or a map amendment,
pursuant to the procedures set forth herein and within the applicable Illinois
statutes.
   A.   Amendments to the text or map of the zoning ordinance may be granted
to:
      1.   Promote the public health, safety, morals, comfort, and general
welfare of the village of Seneca.
      2.   Conserve the value of property throughout the village.
      3.   Lessen or avoid congestion in the public streets and highways.
   B.   Amendments shall be classified as follows:
      1.   Text amendments, which are amendments to the text of this zoning
ordinance.
      2.   Map amendments, which are amendments to zoning map, adopted pursuant
to this zoning ordinance. (Ord. 10-09, 8-17-2010)
10-5-2: PETITIONS:
   A.   Written Petitions: Written petitions proposing amendments and
requesting the village council to consider such amendments may be made:
      1.   By the plan commission, in such a manner and pursuant to such
procedure as the commission may deem appropriate; or
      2.   By any person, firm, corporation, or governmental agency, but only
in the manner and pursuant to the procedure hereinafter set forth.
   B.   Preliminary Consultation With Plan Commission: Prior to preparation of
a petition, a prospective petitioner should (but is not required to) consult
informally with the plan commission.
   C.   Form Of Petition: A petition or application for an amendment shall be
filed with the zoning officer, and shall include at least the following
information:
      1.   Text Amendments:
         a.   Name, address and telephone number of the petitioner or
applicant.
         b.   The proposed text amendment.
         c.   A statement of how the proposed amendment relates to the
comprehensive land use plan, as may be amended from time to time, or otherwise
promotes the public health, safety and general welfare of the village of
Seneca.
      2.   Map Amendments:
         a.   Name, address and telephone number of the petitioner or
applicant.
         b.   The proposed map amendment, including:
            (1)   Legal description of the property to be affected.
            (2)   Common address and permanent index number.
            (3)   Identification of existing zoning.
            (4)   Identification of proposed zoning.
            (5)   Existing use of the property.
            (6)   Proposed use of the property.
            (7)   Location map showing property lines, streets, and such other
items as the zoning officer may require.
            (8)   A plat map drawn to a scale of not less than one inch to one
hundred feet (1" = 100') showing the land that is proposed to be reclassified,
its present use and zoning classification, the length and location of each of
its boundaries, and the location and existing use of all structures on such
land. The plat map shall also show surrounding lands within two hundred fifty
feet (250') of the land proposed to be reclassified and shall show the same
information for such surrounding land. The shape and dimension of the land that
is proposed to be reclassified, as shown on such plat map, shall be certified
to be correct by a land surveyor or civil engineer licensed by the state of
Illinois.
            (9)   A written statement of how the proposed amendment:
               (A)   Relates to the comprehensive land use plan.
               (B)   Promotes the public health, safety and general welfare.
   D.   Filing Of Petition:
      1.   A petition proposing an amendment shall be presented to the village
clerk for filing. The village clerk shall accept for filing all petitions.
      2.   The plan commission shall also accept for filing all other such
petitions presented, except that:
         a.   A petition shall not be accepted for filing unless it meets the
requirements of this section.
         b.   A petition except a petition presented on behalf of a
governmental agency, shall not be accepted for filing unless accompanied by
payment of a fee as specified in section
10-6-4 of this title; such payment shall be refunded unless the village council
shall, within ninety (90) days after the date of filing, resolve to consider
the proposed amendment, in which event payment shall not be refunded.
         c.   In the event that a petition proposes reclassification of
property that has less than one hundred feet (100') of frontage or less than
ten thousand (10,000) square feet of area, such petition shall not be accepted
for filing, except where in the event of the passage of the proposed amendment
such property would be in the same zoning district as adjoining property.
         d.   A petition proposing the reclassification of any property shall
not be accepted for filing within twelve (12) months after the plan commission
shall have held a public hearing on any other proposed amendment that would, if
adopted, have resulted in the same classification of all or any part of the
same property.
   E.   Disposition Of Petition: The village clerk shall transmit all petitions
or copies thereof to the plan commission. (Ord. 10-09, 8-17-2010)
10-5-3: INITIATION OF AMENDMENTS:
Consideration of any amendment, whether proposed by petition or by a member of
the village council, shall be referred by the village council to the plan
commission without delay. (Ord. 10-09, 8-17-2010)
10-5-4: DISPOSITION BY PLAN COMMISSION:
The plan commission shall make the following disposition of each amendment:
   A.   Investigation: The plan commission shall cause to be made such
investigation as it shall deem necessary to the facts bearing upon each
amendment referred to it.
   B.   Hearing: The plan commission shall hold a public hearing on each
amendment referred to it. The time and place of such hearing shall be
determined by the commission, but said time shall be not more than sixty (60)
days after referral of the amendment to the commission; provided, however, that
if any amendment referred to the commission would, if passed, result in the
reclassification of property located in an area of the village of which the
commission is then conducting a general survey or study, said time shall be not
more than one hundred fifty (150) days after referral of the amendment to the
commission. The hearing shall be conducted and a record of the proceedings
shall be preserved in such manner and according to such procedures as the plan
commission may from time to time prescribe by rule.
   C.   Notice Of Hearing: Notice of the time and place of such hearing shall
be given by the plan commission not more than thirty (30) nor less than fifteen
(15) days before the hearing by publishing a notice thereof in a newspaper of
general circulation in the village. If the amendment under consideration would
result in the reclassification of any property, such notice shall include such
description of the property affected by the proposed amendment as the plan
commission may by rule prescribe from time to time. The published notice may be
supplemented by such additional form of notice as the plan commission may
prescribe.
   D.   Report On Amendment Under Consideration: Within forty (40) days
following the public hearing, the plan commission shall submit to the village
council a report containing a recommendation for action by the village council
on the amendment under consideration. The report shall be accompanied by the
commission's record of the public hearing, or a copy of such record. The report
shall include determinations on the following items, and on such other items as
the commission may deem relevant, and shall state the reasons for the
commission's recommendation:
      1.   Text Amendments: If the amendment under consideration would result
in a change in the text of the zoning ordinance but would not result in
reclassification of any property, the plan commission shall determine:
         a.   Whether such change is consistent with the intent and purpose of
this title in establishing the particular zones affected; and
         b.   Which areas in the village are most likely to be directly
affected by such change and in what way they will be affected; and
         c.   Whether any indirect effects are likely to result from such
change in the foreseeable future, and, if so, the nature of such indirect
effects; and
         d.   Whether the amendment under consideration would correct an error
or oversight in the zoning ordinance as originally adopted; and
         e.   Whether the amendment under consideration is made necessary
because of changed or changing conditions in the areas and zones affected or in
the village generally, and if so, the nature of such changed or changing
conditions; and
         f.   Whether the amendment under consideration meets the spirit and
intent of the comprehensive plan.
      2.   Map Amendments: If the amendment under consideration would result in
the reclassification of any property, the plan commission shall determine:
         a.   Whether the reclassification would be consistent with the intent
and purpose of this title; and
         b.   Whether every use that would be permitted on the property if it
were reclassified would be compatible with the uses permitted on other property
in the vicinity; and
         c.   Whether adequate public school facilities, sewer and water lines,
and all other needed public services exist or can be provided to serve the uses
that would be permitted on the property if it were reclassified; and
         d.   The amount of vacant land that is currently zoned for similar
development in the village, and particularly in the vicinity of the property
that would be reclassified, and any special circumstances that make a
substantial part of such vacant land unavailable for development; and
         e.   In the event that the property, after reclassification, would be
available for use by business or industry, whether additional land is needed in
the village, and particularly in the area in question, to provide business
services or employment for residents of the village; and
         f.   Whether the amendment under consideration would correct an error
in the zoning ordinance as originally adopted; and
         g.   Whether amendment under consideration is made necessary because
of changed or changing conditions in the area affected or in the village
generally, and, if so the nature of such changed or changing conditions. (Ord.
10-09, 8-17-2010)
10-5-5: ACTION BY VILLAGE COUNCIL:
   A.   Action Of Council: Action by the village council is required within
sixty (60) days after the report of the plan commission is submitted to the
village council.
   B.   Amendment: The village council may pass the proposed amendment with or
without change, may reject it, or may recommit it to the plan commission or
zoning board of appeals for further consideration.
   C.   Recommendation Denied: In those instances when the Plan Commission
recommends denying a map or text amendment, a favorable vote of two-thirds (2/
3) of the members of the village council shall be necessary to approve an
ordinance granting the amendment.
   D.   Written Protest:
      1.   A map or text amendment shall not be passed except by a favorable
vote of two-thirds (2/3) of the members of the village council in the case of a
written protest against any proposed text amendment or map amendment when said
protest is signed and acknowledged by the owners of twenty percent (20%) of
the:
         a.   Frontage proposed to be altered.
         b.   Frontage immediately adjoining or across an alley from the
property.
         c.   Frontage directly opposite the frontage proposed to be altered.
      2.   The written protest shall be served by the protester or protesters
on the applicant for the proposed amendment, and a copy served on the village
attorney, and the applicant's attorney, if any, by certified mail at the
address of such applicant and attorney shown in the application or petition for
the proposed amendment. (Ord. 10-09, 8-17-2010; amd. Ord. 25-02, 1-6-2025)
CHAPTER 6
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
10-6-1: Zoning Enforcement Officer; Building Permit
10-6-2: Certificates Of Zoning Compliance
10-6-3: Variations
10-6-4: Fee Schedule
10-6-5: Penalties
10-6-1: ZONING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER; BUILDING PERMIT:
   A.   The zoning enforcement officer designated by the village council shall
administer and enforce this title. He may be provided with the assistance of
such other persons as the village council may direct.
   B.   If the zoning enforcement officer shall find that any of the provisions
of this title are being violated, he shall notify in writing the person
responsible for such violations, indicating the nature of the violation and
ordering the action necessary to correct it. He shall order discontinuance of
illegal use of land, buildings, or structures; removal of illegal buildings or
structures or of additions, alterations, or structural changes thereto;
discontinuance of any illegal work being done; or shall take any other action
authorized by this title to ensure compliance with or to prevent violation of
its provisions. The property owner shall eliminate the violation within ten
(10) days of the notification.
   C.   Construction or demolition requires a building permit in accordance
with Seneca building codes 1 . (Ord. 10-09, 8-17-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9, chapter 1 of this code.
10-6-2: CERTIFICATES OF ZONING COMPLIANCE:
   A.   Conformance: No permit pertaining to the use of land or buildings shall
be issued until the zoning officer certifies in such permit that the
application, with accompanying plans and specifications, conforms to:
      1.   All regulations of the zoning ordinance, as may be modified by
exceptions granted by the village council, and as set forth in a development
ordinance adopted for the property.
      2.   Conditions of approval which may have been required by the village
council, also set forth in an adopted development ordinance.
   B.   Application Filed: When a permit is not required by Seneca's building
code for an improvement or use, but the use or improvement requires conformance
with the regulations of the zoning ordinance, an application for a zoning
certificate shall be filed with the zoning officer.
   C.   Requirements: All applications for zoning certificates shall be
accompanied by:
      1.   Two (2) copies of the current plat of the parcel of land, lot, lots,
block or blocks, or parts or portions thereof which constitute the proposed
zoning lot, drawn to scale showing the actual dimensions and monuments, as
certified by a registered Illinois land surveyor, as a true copy of the piece,
or parcel, lot, lots, block or blocks, or portions thereof, according to the
registered or recorded plat of such land.
      2.   Two (2) copies of additional drawings, drawn to scale in such form
as may be prescribed by the zoning officer, showing the:
         a.   Proposed zoning lot.
         b.   Building footprint.
         c.   Height of the building or structure.
         d.   Building lines, in relation to lot lines.
         e.   Proposed use for building, structure or land.
         f.   Other information required to determine compliance with the
zoning ordinance including signage provisions.
   D.   Requirements Waived: The zoning officer may waive all or any portion of
the requirements in subsections C1 and C2 of this section, where it is
determined that the information is not necessary because of existing evidence
in village records.
   E.   Application Issued: An application for a zoning certificate shall be
issued only when the application shows conformance with the regulations of this
title, as may be modified by approvals or conditions granted by the village
council, and included in a development ordinance.
   F.   Revocation: Any permit or certificate issued under the provisions of
this title may be revoked whenever there has been any false statement,
misrepresentation or omission of a material fact in the application, plat,
plans, drawings or other information on which the permit or approval was based.
   G.   Permit Issued: Permits pertaining to the use of land or structures
shall not be issued by any official, officer, employee, department, board or
bureau of the village of Seneca. Any application for a building permit shall be
deemed to be an application for a zoning certificate. Any zoning certificate
issued in conflict with the provisions of this title shall be null and void.
   H.   Period Of Validity: A zoning certificate shall become null and void six
(6) months after the date on which it is issued unless, within such six (6)
month period, construction, moving, remodeling or reconstruction of a structure
is commenced or a use is commenced.
   I.   Escrow Deposits: Whenever an application for a zoning or occupancy
certificate for a new or altered structure or use in an industrial district
indicates, in the opinion of the zoning officer, that the operations or
activities to be conducted may violate the restrictions of chapter 10 of this
title, the zoning officer shall, as a condition precedent to issuing a zoning
or occupancy certificate, require the deposit in escrow of not more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) to be held by the zoning officer for a period of one
year after the date that such new or altered use is commenced. If during such
one year period the zoning officer believes there is a reasonable probability
that the regulations of chapter 10 of this title are being violated, he may
employ a qualified technician or technicians to perform investigations,
measurements, and analyses to determine whether or not the regulations of
chapter 10 of this title are in fact, being violated and may pay his or their
reasonable fees out of the aforementioned escrow deposit, regardless of the
outcome of the investigation. If the reasonable fees of such technician or
technicians exceed the amount of any available escrow deposit, and if a
violation of chapter 10 of this title is discovered, the fees may be recovered
as a penalty in the same manner as, and in addition to, the penalties specified
in chapter 10 of this title. Escrow deposits or remainders of escrow deposits
shall be returned to the depositors at the expiration of the escrow period.
(Ord. 10-09, 8-17-2010)
10-6-3: VARIATIONS:
   A.   Authority: The village council shall decide variations from the
provisions of this title that are in harmony with its general purpose and
intent, and shall vary them only in the specific instances where the zoning
board of appeals (ZBA) has made a finding of fact based on the standards
hereinafter prescribed that there are practical difficulties or particular
hardships in the way of carrying out the strict letter of any regulation of
this zoning ordinance.
   B.   Initiation: An application for a variation may be made by any
individual, office, department, board, bureau or commission requesting or
intending to request application for a building permit, zoning certificate, or
occupancy certificate.
   C.   Processing: An application for a variation shall be filed with the
zoning official, who shall forward such application to the zoning board of
appeals for processing in accordance with applicable statutes of the state of
Illinois and provisions of this zoning ordinance. The application shall be
accompanied by:
      1.   The name, address and phone number of the applicant.
      2.   The legal description, common address and permanent index number of
the property to be benefited by the variation.
      3.   Identification of the provisions of this zoning ordinance, from
which the variation is sought.
      4.   A plat of survey and a description of the proposed use and/or
variation, including a dimensioned site plan, unless specifically waived by the
zoning official. The zoning board of appeals may, however, overrule such waiver
and require the submission of a dimensioned site plan before making their
findings and recommendations.
      5.   A brief summary of the factual evidence upon which the applicant
will rely to show that the standards for variation will be met.
   D.   Hearing:
      1.   The zoning official shall transmit the application to the zoning
board of appeals, who shall hold a public hearing at such time and place as
shall be established by the ZBA, after due notice is provided.
      2.   The hearing shall be conducted, and a record of such proceedings
shall be preserved, in such a manner as the ZBA shall prescribe.
      3.   Notice requirements for public hearings on variations are set forth
in section
10-7-3 of this title.
   E.   Standards:
      1.   The ZBA shall not recommend, and the village council shall not vary,
the provisions of this zoning code, unless it shall find that the:
         a.   Property in question cannot yield a reasonable return if
permitted to be used only under the conditions allowed by the regulations in
that zoning district.
         b.   The plight of the owner is due to unique circumstances.
         c.   The variation, if granted, will not alter the essential character
of the locality.
      2.   For the purpose of supplementing the above standards, the ZBA, in
making a recommendation that there are practical difficulties or particular
hardships, shall also take into consideration the extent to which the evidence
establishes, or fails to establish, the following:
         a.   That the particular physical surroundings, shape or topographical
condition of the specific property involved would bring particular hardship
upon the owner, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience, if the strict
letter of the regulation were to be carried out.
         b.   That the conditions upon which the petition for variation is
based would not be generally applicable to other property within the same
zoning district.
         c.   That the purpose of the variation is not based exclusively upon a
desire to make more money out of the property.
         d.   That the alleged difficulty or particular hardship has not been
created by any person presently having an interest in the property, or by the
applicant.
         e.   That the granting of the variation will not be detrimental to the
public welfare, or injurious to other property or improvements in the
neighborhood in which the property is located.
         f.   That the proposed variation will not:
            (1)   Impair an adequate supply of light and air to adjacent
properties.
            (2)   Substantially increase the hazard from fire or other dangers
to said property or adjacent properties.
            (3)   Otherwise impair the public health, safety, comfort, morals
or general welfare of the inhabitants of the village.
            (4)   Diminish or impair property values within the neighborhood.
            (5)   Unduly increase traffic congestion in the public streets and
highways.
            (6)   Create a nuisance.
            (7)   Result in an increase in public expenditures.
         g.   That the variation is the minimum variation necessary to make
possible the reasonable use of the land, building or structure.
   F.   Decisions:
      1.   Within forty five (45) days after the close of the hearing on a
proposed variation, the ZBA shall prepare a written statement of findings of
fact and recommendations, and shall submit this statement to the village
council. The findings of fact shall specify the reason or reasons for
recommending approval, approval with conditions, or denial of the proposed
variation.
      2.   The ZBA is not required to recommend for approval the full variation
requested. The ZBA may recommend, and the village council may approve, a
variation of less extent than that contained in the request.
      3.   The zoning board of appeals may recommend, and the village council
may require, such conditions and restrictions upon the premises benefited by a
variation as may be necessary in their opinion to comply with the standards set
forth in this section, to reduce or minimize injurious effect of such variation
upon other property in the neighborhood and/or to implement the general purpose
and intent of this zoning ordinance.
      4.   A concurring vote of a majority of those members present at the
meeting, with a minimum of four (4) concurring votes, shall be required to
recommend granting or denying an application for variation.
      5.   The decision of the village council shall be final, and subject to
judicial review only in accordance with applicable state statutes.
      6.   No variation shall be granted, except by ordinance duly passed and
approved by the mayor and village council, after public hearing and written
findings of fact and recommendation from the zoning board of appeals. The terms
of relief granted shall be specifically set forth in the ordinance. (Ord. 10-
09, 8-17-2010)
10-6-4: FEE SCHEDULE:
   A.   Generally:
      1.   The village council shall establish a schedule of fees for
certificates of zoning compliance, appeals, and other matters pertaining to
this title. This schedule of fees shall be posted in the office of the village
clerk, and may be altered or amended only by the village council.
      2.   No permit, certificate, special use permit or variation shall be
issued unless or until such costs, charges, fees or expenses have been paid in
full, nor shall any action be taken on proceedings before the plan commission,
board of appeals or the village council unless or until preliminary charges and
fees have been paid in full.
   B.   Fee Schedule:
 Seneca Current
                                       Seneca Current
Residential:                             
Demolition, residential                 $50.00
Residential additions                   $0.30 per square foot
Residential new construction            $0.30 per square foot plus plumbing and
                                        electrical fees (if applicable)
                                        $0.30 per square foot but not less than
Residential remodels                    $100.00 minimum plus plumbing and
                                        electrical fees (if applicable)
Commercial:                              
Commercial/business new construction    $0.20 per square foot plus plumbing and
from 10,000 square feet up to 30,000    electrical fees (if applicable)
square feet1
Commercial/business new construction or $0.20 per square foot plus plumbing and
additions to first 10,000 square feet   electrical fees (if applicable)
                                        $0.40 per square foot but not less than
Commercial/business remodels            $100.00 minimum plus plumbing and
                                        electrical fees (if applicable)
Demolition, commercial/business         $75.00
Agriculture:                             
Agriculture buildings and selected open $0.06 per square foot for all areas,
frame commercial/business/ industrial   but not less than $50.00 minimum, plus
warehouse construction                  plumbing and electrical fees (if
                                        applicable)
Miscellaneous:                           
Accessory building <200 square feet     $50.00 plus plumbing and electrical
                                        fees (if applicable)
Accessory building >200 square feet     $0.25 per square foot plus plumbing and
                                        electrical fees (if applicable)
Canopy/awning (business)                $100.00
Carports                                75.00
Decks                                   $0.25 per square foot but not less than
                                        $50.00 minimum
Electrical                              $0.05 per square foot for all habitable
                                        areas, but not less than $40.00 minimum
Fences                                  $0.05 per linear foot for all areas,
                                        but not less than $50.00 minimum
Garages                                 $0.40 per square foot plus plumbing and
                                        electrical fees (if applicable)
Heating and air conditioning            $0.05 per square foot for all habitable
                                        areas, but not less than $40.00 minimum
Mobile homes                            $100.00
Moving, raising, shoring or             50.00
underpinning of structure or foundation
Plumbing                                $0.05 per square foot for all habitable
                                        areas, but not less than $40.00 minimum
Pole buildings not used for commercial  $0.20 per square foot plus plumbing and
purposes if mechanical is involved      electrical fees (if applicable)
Pole buildings not used for commercial  $0.15 per square foot plus plumbing and
purposes if no mechanical is involved   electrical fees (if applicable)
Roof tear-off and replacement           $25.00
Signs (permanent and temporary)         $1.00 per square foot (not to exceed
                                        $50.00)
Swimming pools and hot tubs             $75.00 plus plumbing and electrical
                                        fees (if applicable)
Permits and inspections:                 
General reinspection fee or extra       $30.00 each
inspections
Compliance permit                       75.00
Occupancy permit                        75.00
                                        $1,500.00 plus engineering fees and
PUD                                     legal fees; any change will be at
                                        $300.00 plus engineering fees
Rezone                                  $50.00, plus publication fees
Subdivision per section                 $25.00 per lot. Minimum of $500.00,
11-2-4 of this code                     plus publication fees
Variance per section                    $500.00, plus publication fees
10-6-3 of this chapter
Special use permit                      $500.00 plus publication fees
Conditional use permit                  $500.00 plus publication fees
Solar:                                   
Residential solar panels                $80.00
Solar farms                             $1,800.00 per MW
                                       $13,500 plus $1,260 per MW greater than
                                        7.5 MW
 
   C.   New construction commercial buildings or additions to commercial
building additional to thirty thousand (30,000) square feet will be set by the
council, and will depend on the nature and extent of the project.
   D.   Square footage is measured from the outside walls of building
structures.
   E.   Fees for all classifications shall be determined by the council.
   F.   Exceptions:
      1.   A person with a disability or the disabled person’s caregiver shall
not be charged any building permit fee for improvements to the residence of a
person with a disability if the improvements are required to accommodate a
disability. Nothing in this subsection changes the obligation of any person to
submit to the village applications, forms, or other paperwork to obtain a
building permit. A person with a disability or the disabled person’s caregiver
must provide proof of the disability status and attest to the fact that the
improvements to the residence are required to accommodate the disability. (Ord.
10-09, 8-17-2010; amd. Ord. 21-37, 12-7-2021; Ord. 22-01, 1-4-2022; Ord. 25-09,
3-3-2025)
10-6-5: PENALTIES:
Any person, persons, firm or corporation or anyone acting in their behalf, who
violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with, or who resists
the enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of an
offense punishable by a fine not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00), nor
more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each offense. The imposition of
any sentence shall not exempt the offender from compliance with the
requirements of this zoning code. A separate offense shall be deemed committed
for each day a violation is permitted to exist after notification thereof.
   A.   Construction penalty: If construction is started before a permit is
issued, double fees may be charged.
   B.   Trailer coach park (section
9-4-5 of this code): Minimum of one hundred dollars ($100.00) and maximum of
five hundred dollars ($500.00) per violation.
   C.   PUD (section
10-4-5 of this title): Minimum of one hundred dollars ($100.00) and maximum of
five hundred dollars ($500.00) per violation.
   D.   Floodplain (chapter 9 of this title): Any person who violates chapter 9
of this title shall upon conviction thereof be fined the amount provided in
section
10-9-13 of this title for each offense.
   E.   Dust control, soil erosion, and sediment control (section
10-10-5 of this title): Upon conviction of any such violation, such person,
partnership, or corporation shall be punished by a fine of not more than one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each offense.
   F.   Subdivision (section
11-1-4 of this code): Offer for sale, sell or lease for any time exceeding five
(5) years, any lot or block in any subdivision before complying with all
requirements of this title and state statutes shall be subject to a minimum of
fifty dollars ($50.00) and a maximum of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
penalty per violation. (Ord. 10-09, 8-17-2010)
CHAPTER 7
BOARD OF APPEALS
SECTION:
10-7-1: Established; Terms; Vacancies; Chairman; Jurisdiction
10-7-2: Proceedings Of The Board
10-7-3: Hearings; Appeals; Notice
10-7-4: Stay Of Proceedings
10-7-5: Decisions Of The Board
10-7-1: ESTABLISHED; TERMS; VACANCIES; CHAIRMAN; JURISDICTION:
   A.   Board Established; Terms: A board of appeals is hereby established
which shall consist of seven (7) members to serve respectively for the
following terms: one for one year, one for two (2) years, one for three (3)
years, one for four (4) years, one for five (5) years, one for six (6) years,
and one for seven (7) years, the successor to each member so appointed to serve
for a term of five (5) years.
   B.   Removal; Vacancies: Members of the board of appeals may be removed from
office by the village council for cause upon written charges and after public
hearing. Vacancies shall be filled by resolution of the village council for the
unexpired term of the member affected.
   C.   Offices: The board of appeals shall select one member as its chairman
and another to serve as its vice chairman, each for a term of one year and
subject to reelection. The chairman, or in his absence, the vice chairman, may
administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses.
   D.   Jurisdiction: The zoning board of appeals is hereby vested with the
following jurisdiction and authority and it shall be its duty:
      1.   To hear and decide appeals in which it is alleged there is an error
in any order, requirements, decisions, interpretation or determination
(hereinafter referred to collectively as "decision") made by the zoning
administrator.
      2.   To hear and recommend to the village council on applications for
variations from the regulations and restrictions imposed by this title and the
subdivision control ordinance, in the manner and subject to the standards set
forth in chapter 9 of this title.
      3.   To hear and recommend to the mayor and village council all
applications for special uses and amendments to the zoning ordinance, but only
after such an application has been reviewed by, and written recommendations
have been received from the plan commission.
      4.   To hear and report to the mayor and village council on such other
matters as may be referred to it by the president and board of trustees,
subject to the provisions of this title.
      5.   To hear and decide all other matters upon which it is authorized or
required to pass under this title or the applicable Illinois statute. (Ord. 10-
09, 8-17-2010)
10-7-2: PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD:
   A.   Meetings: The board of appeals shall adopt rules necessary to the
conduct of its affairs, and in keeping with the provisions of this title.
Meetings shall be held at the call of the chairman and at such other times as
the board may determine. The chairman, or in his absence, the acting chairman,
may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All meetings shall
be open to the public.
   B.   Quorum: The concurring vote of four (4) members of the board shall be
necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision, or determination of the
zoning enforcement officer or to decide in favor of the applicant on any matter
upon which it is required to pass under this title.
   C.   Minutes: The board of appeals shall keep minutes of its proceedings,
showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to
vote indicating such fact and shall keep records of its examinations and other
official actions, all of which shall be a public record and be immediately
filed in the office of the board. (Ord. 10-09, 8-17-2010)
10-7-3: HEARINGS; APPEALS; NOTICE:
   A.   Appeals: Appeals to the board of appeals concerning interpretation or
administration of this title may be taken by any person aggrieved or by any
officer or bureau of the governing body of the village affected by any decision
of the zoning enforcement officer. Such appeals shall be taken within a
reasonable time, not to exceed sixty (60) days or such lesser period as may be
provided by the rules of the board, by filing with the zoning enforcement
officer and with the board of appeals a notice of appeal specifying the grounds
thereof. The zoning enforcement officer shall forthwith transmit to the board
all papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was
taken.
   B.   Hearing; Notice: The board of appeals shall fix a reasonable time for
the hearing of appeal, give public notice thereof as well as due notice to the
parties in interest, and decide the same within a reasonable time and in no
event more than forty (40) days after filing of the notice of appeal. At the
hearing, any party may appear in person or by agent or attorney. Notice of the
time and place of such hearing shall be published at least once, not more than
thirty (30) nor less than fifteen (15) days before the hearing, in a newspaper
of general circulation in the village. (Ord. 10-09, 8-17-2010)
10-7-4: STAY OF PROCEEDINGS:
An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from,
unless the zoning enforcement officer from whom the appeal is taken certifies
to the board of appeals after the notice of appeal is filed with him, that by
reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in his opinion, cause
imminent peril to life and property. In such case, proceedings shall not be
stayed other than by a restraining order which may be granted by the board of
appeals or by a court of record on application, on notice to the zoning
enforcement officer from whom the appeal is taken and on due cause shown. (Ord.
10-09, 8-17-2010)
10-7-5: DECISIONS OF THE BOARD:
   A.   Decisions: The board of appeals shall hear and decide all matters
presented to it within ninety (90) days from the date a complete application or
appeal is received. The board of appeals may reverse or affirm, in whole or in
part, or may modify or amend any order, requirement, decision or determination
appealed from to the extent and in the manner the board of appeals may decide
to be fitting and proper under the circumstances, subject to the provisions
contained in this title or in the applicable Illinois statutes. Any absent
member of the board of appeals who certifies that he has read the transcript of
the proceedings before the board of appeals may vote upon any question before
the board of appeals. The concurring vote of four (4) members of the board of
appeals shall be necessary:
      1.   To reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of the
zoning administrator.
      2.   To recommend a granting or denial of a variation from the terms of
this title to the village council.
      3.   To decide in favor of the applicant on any matter upon which the
board of appeals is required to pass under this or any other ordinance.
      4.   All decisions by the board of appeals regarding variances shall be
recommended to the village council, and no variance shall take effect until
voted on by the village council.
   B.   Finality Of Decisions Of The Zoning Board Of Appeals: All decisions of
the zoning board of appeals, on appeal from a decision of the zoning
administrator or upon application for a variation, shall in all instances be
final administrative determinations, and shall be subject to review by a court
of law in the manner provided by the applicable Illinois statutes.
   C.   Office Of The Secretary Of The Zoning Board Of Appeals; Appointment:
The secretary of the zoning board of appeals shall be appointed by the board of
appeals to serve until a successor is appointed.
   D.   Duties Of The Secretary Of The Zoning Board Of Appeals: The secretary
of the board of appeals shall:
      1.   Record the minutes of the board's proceedings and actions, showing
the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote,
indicating such fact.
      2.   Act as custodian of the records of the board of appeals.
      3.   Furnish members of the public with such forms for appeals and
applications for variations as are approved by the board of appeals.
      4.   Receive on behalf of the zoning board of appeals all such forms,
when completed and executed by the appellant or applicant, or his agent or
attorney.
      5.   Perform such other duties as may be assigned from time to time by
the board of appeals. (Ord. 10-09, 8-17-2010)
CHAPTER 8
SPECIAL AND CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS
SECTION:
10-8-1: Special Use Permits
10-8-2: Conditional Use Permits
10-8-1: SPECIAL USE PERMITS:
   A.   Purpose:
      1.   The development and execution of this chapter is based upon the
division of the village of Seneca into districts, within any one of which the
use of land and buildings, and the standards for height and location of
buildings or structures, as related to the land, are essentially uniform.
      2.   It is recognized, however, that there are special uses which,
because of their unique character, cannot be properly classified in any
particular district or districts without consideration, in each case, of the
potential impact of those uses upon neighboring lands and upon the public need
for the particular use or particular location.
      3.   Such special uses fall into two (2) categories:
         a.   Uses operated by a public agency or publicly regulated utilities,
which are uses traditionally associated with a public interest, such as parks,
recreation areas, public administrative buildings, or the private use of
existing public buildings.
            (1)   It is stressed that public uses are associated with the
public interest.
            (2)   In the case of a request for a special use by a unit of local
government, for a public use within its statutory mandate, the review shall not
be based on determining the need for the publicly mandated use on the specific
site but, rather for assessing the impact of the proposed public use upon
neighboring lands, and upon the village's streets or utilities.
         b.   Uses entirely private in character, but of such a nature that the
operation may give rise to unique problems or benefits with respect to their
impact upon neighboring property, public facilities, the village as a whole, or
the natural environment or resources.
   B.   Authority: The village council may, after receiving a recommendation
from the plan commission in the manner hereinafter set forth, approve, approve
with conditions, or deny a special use, pursuant to the procedures set forth
herein.
   C.   Initiation: A special use request may be made by any person, or by an
office, department, council, bureau or commission requesting or intending to
request a building permit, or occupancy certificate.
   D.   Processing: A petition or application for an amendment shall be filed
with the zoning official, and shall include at least the following information:
      1.   Name, address and telephone number of the applicant.
      2.   Legal description of the property for which the special use is
requested.
      3.   Description of the existing use of the affected property.
      4.   The present zoning classification for the affected property.
      5.   Description of the proposed special use.
      6.   A dimensioned site plan or plat, showing the location of:
         a.   All buildings.
         b.   Parking areas.
         c.   Traffic access and circulation.
         d.   Open spaces and yards.
         e.   Landscaping.
         f.   Refuse and service areas.
         g.   Utilities.
         h.   Signs.
         i.   Other information as determined by the plan commission as
necessary for determining if the proposed special use meets the intent and
requirements of the zoning ordinance.
      7.   A written statement, that addresses the:
         a.   Economic effects on adjoining properties.
         b.   Effects of such elements as noise, glare, odor, fumes and
vibration on adjoining properties.
         c.   General compatibility with adjacent and other properties in the
district.
         d.   Effects of traffic generated by the proposed use.
         e.   Relationship to the comprehensive land use plan.
         f.   How the proposed special use fulfills requirements of chapter 10,
"Dust Control, Soil Erosion, And Sediment Control" and section
10-4-6, "Performance Standards", of this title as applicable.
   E.   Hearing:
      1.   The zoning official shall transmit the application for a special use
to the plan commission, who shall hold a public hearing at such time and place
as shall be established by the commission, after due notice is provided.
      2.   The hearing shall be conducted, and a record of such proceedings
shall be preserved, in such a manner as the commission shall prescribe.
      3.   No more than sixty (60) days after the filing of such application,
the plan commission shall hold a hearing on such application. A notice of the
time and place of the hearing shall be published at least once, not more than
thirty (30) nor less than fifteen (15) days before the hearing in one or more
newspapers published in the village or, if no newspaper with a general
circulation within the village which is published in the county where the
municipality is located.
   F.   Standards:
      1.   The plan commission shall not recommend, nor the village council
approve a special use, unless it shall find, based upon the evidence presented
to the plan commission in each specific case, that the special use:
         a.   Will be harmonious with and in accordance with the general
objectives of the comprehensive land use plan and/or this zoning ordinance.
         b.   Will be designed, constructed, operated, and maintained so as to
be harmonious and appropriate in appearance with the existing or intended
character of the general vicinity, and that such use will not alter the
essential character of the same area.
         c.   Will not be hazardous or disturbing to existing or future
neighborhood uses.
         d.   Will be adequately served by essential public facilities and
services such as highways, streets, police and fire protection, drainage
structures, refuse disposal, water, sewers and schools, or that the persons or
agencies responsible for the establishment of the proposed use shall be able to
provide adequately any such services.
         e.   Will not create excessive additional requirements at public cost
for public facilities and services, and will not be detrimental to the economic
welfare of the village of Seneca.
         f.   Will not involve uses, activities, processes, materials,
equipment and/or conditions of operation that will be detrimental to any
persons, property or the general welfare by reason of excessive production of
traffic, noise, smoke, fumes, glare or odors.
         g.   Will have vehicular approaches to the property which shall be so
designed as to not create an undue interference with traffic on surrounding
public streets or highways.
         h.   Will not increase the potential for flood damage to adjacent
property, or require additional public expense for flood protection, rescue or
relief.
         i.   Will not result in the destruction, loss or damage of natural,
scenic or historic features of major importance to the village of Seneca.
      2.   The special use shall, in all respects, conform to the applicable
regulations of the district in which it is located, except as such regulations
may be modified, in each instance, by the village council, pursuant to the
recommendations of the plan commission.
   G.   Decision:
      1.   Within forty five (45) days after the close of the hearing on a
proposed special use, the plan commission shall prepare a written statement of
findings of fact and recommendations and submit this statement to the village
council.
      2.   The village council may, by ordinance, grant, or grant with
modification, a requested special use. If an application is not acted upon by
the village council within six (6) months of the date upon which such
application is filed, it shall be deemed to have been denied.
      3.   The plan commission may recommend, and the village council may
approve, conditions and restrictions upon the premises benefited by a special
use as may be necessary in their opinion to:
         a.   Comply with the standards set forth in subsection F, "Standards",
of this section.
         b.   Reduce or minimize injurious effect of such special use on other
property in the neighborhood.
         c.   Implement the general purpose and intent of the zoning ordinance.
      4.   No special use shall be granted, except by ordinance duly passed and
adopted by the village council after public hearing and written recommendation
from the plan commission and considering the following:
         a.   Without further public hearing, the village council may grant,
deny or amend the recommendation for special use.
         b.   Every special use granted by ordinance of the village council,
shall be accompanied by findings of fact, and shall refer to any exhibits
containing plans and specifications of the proposed special use, which shall
remain a part of the permanent records of the plan commission.
         c.   The findings shall specify the reason or reasons for approving or
denying the special use.
         d.   Any terms of relief granted as part of a special use shall be
specifically set forth in the findings and ordinance.
      5.   A concurring vote of a majority of those members of the plan
commission present at the meeting, with a minimum of four (4) concurring votes,
shall be required to recommend granting or denying an application for a special
use.
      6.   If the village council does not approve of a proposed special use
after recommendation by the plan commission, it may deny the proposed special
use or refer the proposed special use back to the plan commission.
   H.   Written Protest:
      1.   A special use shall not be passed except by a favorable vote of two-
thirds (2/3) of the members of the village council in the case of a written
protest against any proposed special use when said protest is signed and
acknowledged by the owners of twenty percent (20%) of the:
         a.   Frontage proposed to be altered.
         b.   Frontage immediately adjoining or across an alley from the
property.
         c.   Frontage directly opposite the frontage proposed to be altered.
      2.   The written protest shall be served by the protester or protesters
on the applicant for the proposed special use, and a copy served on the
applicant's attorney, if any, with a copy to the village attorney by certified
mail at the address of such applicant and attorney shown in the application or
petition for the proposed special use.
   I.   Changes To Approved Special Uses: A special use shall be constructed/
established in accordance with the approved plan attached to the ordinance,
which granted the special use. The site plan referenced in the ordinance shall
control and limit the use of the parcel of land (including the general internal
use of buildings and structures) and the location of buildings and structures
approved as part of the special use request.
Changes to the special use shall be considered to be either a major change or a
minor change.
      1.   Major Changes: Major changes are modifications, which alter the
concept or intent of the special use. Any one of the following shall be
considered a major change to a special use. These changes shall include:
         a.   Greater than a ten percent (10%) cumulative increase or decrease
of the total gross floor area for the special use based on the first site plan
approved for a specific special use, or any request to exceed the maximum FAR
permitted in the underlying zoning district;
         b.   Greater than ten percent (10%) increase in the height of any
structure or any request to exceed the maximum height permitted in the
underlying zoning district;
         c.   A greater than ten percent (10%) cumulative increase or decrease
in the number of parking stalls based on the first site plan approved for a
specific special use, or any request which reduces the amount of parking
provided to less than that required by off street parking regulations for the
specific use per section
10-2-8 of this title;
         d.   Greater than ten percent (10%) reduction in the setback of
buildings or parking areas or any reduction in setbacks that result in a
setback less than the minimum required in the underlying zoning district;
         e.   Significant changes to the parking location and access plan for
the site (i.e., relocation of parking to areas previously planned for buildings
or other uses); and
         f.   Changes in the landscape plan that result in a variance from the
landscaping regulations and/or negatively impact the surrounding property
owners, provided however, the substitution of plant species which provided a
more dense buffer to adjacent properties than those originally approved shall
be considered as minor changes.
      2.   Combined Changes: Notwithstanding the foregoing, combinations of two
(2) or more changes of the nature described in the preceding subsection which
individually do not constitute a major change, shall be considered to be a
major change to the special use.
      3.   Minor Changes: Minor changes are those changes not defined as major
changes and which do not alter the concept or intent of the special use.
      4.   Procedure For Amending A Special Use:
         a.   An application for a major change to a special use shall be
processed in accordance with the procedures for a special use permit.
         b.   An application for a minor change to a special use may be
approved by the zoning enforcement officer without the review and
recommendation of the plan commission. This provision shall not prohibit the
village council from requesting the plan commission for its review and
recommendation, and/or a public hearing.
   J.   Period Of Validity:
      1.   Every special use permit shall, one hundred eighty (180) days after
the date that it is granted by the plan commission, become null and void,
unless: a) a certificate of zoning compliance is obtained pursuant to such
special use permit and the special use is actually established within such one
hundred eighty (180) day period, or b) unless construction work pursuant to
such special use is actually begun within such one hundred eighty (180) day
period, and such construction work is carried on diligently to completion.
      2.   Every special use permit shall be deemed to authorize issuance by
the zoning enforcement officer of not more than one building permit and not
more than one certificate of zoning compliance pursuant to such special use
permit, unless the plan commission shall, at the time of granting such special
use permit, provide for the issuance of a greater number; provided, however,
that no certificate of zoning compliance shall be issued pursuant to any
special use permit granted.
      3.   If any special use is abandoned, or is discontinued for a continuous
period of one hundred eighty (180) days, the special use permit for such use
shall become null and void, and such use may not thereafter be reestablished
unless a new special use permit is obtained in accordance with the provisions
of this title.
   K.   Special Use Reference In Zoned Districts: Section
10-4-4, table 10-4-4T (permitted and special uses in all listed zoning
districts) of this title lists the permitted and special uses for each zoning
district. (Ord. 10-09, 8-17-2010)
10-8-2: CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS:
   A.   Authorization To Grant Or Deny Conditional Use: A conditional use
listed in this section shall be permitted, altered or denied in accordance with
the standards and procedures of this section. In the case of a use existing
prior to the effective date hereof and classified in this section as a
conditional use, a change in the use or in lot area, or an alteration of
structure shall conform with the requirements for conditional use. In judging
whether or not a conditional use proposal shall be approved or denied, the plan
commission shall weigh its appropriateness and desirability or the public
convenience or necessity to be served against any adverse conditions that would
result from authorizing the particular development at the location proposed
and, to approve such use, shall find that the following criteria are either
met, can be met by observance of conditions, or are not applicable:
      1.   The proposal will be consistent with the comprehensive plan and the
objectives of this title and other applicable policies of the village or
county.
      2.   The location, size, design and operating characteristics under the
proposal will have minimal adverse impact on the livability, value or
appropriate development of abutting properties and the surrounding area.
      3.   The location and design of the site and structures for the proposal
will be as attractive as the nature of the use and its setting warrants.
      4.   The proposal will preserve environmental assets of a particular
interest to the community.
      5.   The applicant has a bona fide intent and capability to develop and
use the land as proposed.
   B.   Placing Conditions On A Permit: In permitting a new conditional use or
the alteration of an existing conditional use, the plan commission may impose,
in addition to those standards and requirements expressly specified by this
section, additional conditions which it finds necessary to avoid a detrimental
environmental impact and to otherwise protect the best interest of the
surrounding area or the community as a whole. These conditions may include, but
are not limited to, the following:
      1.   Limiting the manner in which the use is conducted, including
restricting the time a certain activity may take place and restraints to
minimize such environmental effects as noise, vibration, air pollution, glare
and odor.
      2.   Establishing a special yard or other open space or lot area or
dimension.
      3.   Limiting the height, size or location of a building or other
structure.
      4.   Designating the size, number, location and nature of vehicle access
points.
      5.   Increasing the amount of street dedication, roadway width or
improvements within the street right of way.
      6.   Designating the size, location, screening, drainage, surfacing or
other improvement of a parking area or truck loading area.
      7.   Limiting or otherwise designating the number, size, location, height
and lighting of signs.
      8.   Limiting the location and intensity of outdoor lighting and
requiring its shielding.
      9.   Requiring diking, screening, landscaping or another facility to
protect adjacent or nearby property and designating standards for its
installation and maintenance.
      10.   Designating the size, height, location and materials for a fence.
      11.   Protecting and preserving existing trees, vegetation, water
resource, wildlife habitat or any other significant natural resource.
      12.   Making any other condition to permit development in conformity with
the intent and purpose of the conditional classification of uses.
   C.   Procedure For Taking Action On A Conditional Use: The procedure for
taking action on a conditional use application shall be as follows:
      1.   A property owner may initiate a request for a conditional use by
filing an application with the planning department.
      2.   The plan commission shall hold a public hearing on the conditional
use application following the procedure set forth in this title.
      3.   Within five (5) days after a decision has been rendered on a
conditional use application, the planning director shall provide the applicant
with written notice of the decision.
   D.   Time Limit On Permit For A Conditional Use: Authorization of a
conditional use shall be void after one year or such lesser time as the
authorization may specify unless substantial construction has taken place.
However, the plan commission may extend authorization for an additional period
not to exceed one year on request. In the case of a special use for a planned
unit development, the one year shall commence with approval of the final
development plan instead of with approval of the planned unit development.
   E.   Public Hearing: Public hearings shall be held and the procedures set
forth in this title shall be followed.
   F.   Fees: Fees shall be paid to the village clerk by the developer of a
planned unit development as provided in section
10-6-4 of this title. (Ord. 10-09, 8-17-2010)
CHAPTER 9
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
SECTION:
10-9-1: Purpose
10-9-2: Definitions
10-9-3: Base Flood Elevation
10-9-4: Duties Of The Floodplain Administrator
10-9-5: Development Permit
10-9-6: Preventing Increased Flood Heights And Resulting Damages
10-9-7: Protecting Buildings
10-9-8: Subdivision Requirements
10-9-9: Public Health And Other Standards
10-9-10: Carrying Capacity And Notification
10-9-11: Variances
10-9-12: Disclaimer Of Liability
10-9-13: Penalty
10-9-14: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
10-9-15: Severability
10-9-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to this village
by the Illinois municipal code 1  in order to accomplish the following
purposes:
   A.   To prevent unwise developments from increasing flood or drainage
hazards to others;
   B.   Protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from flood
damage;
   C.   To promote and protect the public health, safety, and general welfare
of the citizens from the hazards of flooding;
   D.   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control, repairs to
public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and relief operations;
   E.   Maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating blight areas;
   F.   Make federally subsidized flood insurance available; and
   G.   To preserve the natural characteristics and functions of watercourses
and floodplains in order to moderate flood and storm water impacts, improve
water quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat,
provide recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance
community and economic development. (Ord. 12-12, 6-5-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1, 5/11-12-12, 5/11-30-2, 5/11-30-8, 5/11-31-2.
10-9-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions are adopted:
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) probability of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. The base flood is also known as the 100-year flood.
The base flood elevation at any location is as defined in section
10-9-3 of this chapter.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE): The elevation in relation to mean sea level of the
crest of the base flood.
BASEMENT: That portion of a building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
BUILDING: A walled and roofed structure, including gas or liquid storage tank
that is principally aboveground including manufactured homes, prefabricated
buildings and gas or liquid storage tanks. The term also includes recreational
vehicles and travel trailers installed on a site for more than one hundred
eighty (180) days per year.
CRITICAL FACILITY: Any facility which is critical to the health and welfare of
the population and, if flooded, would create an added dimension to the
disaster. Damage to these critical facilities can impact the delivery of vital
services, can cause greater damage to other sectors of the community, or can
put special populations at risk.
Examples of critical facilities where flood protection should be required
include: emergency services facilities (such as fire and police stations),
schools, hospitals, retirement homes and senior care facilities, major roads
and bridges, critical utility sites (telephone switching stations or electrical
transformers), and hazardous material storage facilities (chemicals,
petrochemicals, hazardous or toxic substances).
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to real estate including, but not necessarily
limited to:
   A.   Demolition, construction, reconstruction, repair, placement of a
building, or any structural alteration to a building;
   B.   Substantial improvement of an existing building;
   C.   Installation of a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than one
hundred eighty (180) days per year;
   D.   Installation of utilities, construction of roads, bridges, culverts or
similar projects;
   E.   Construction or erection of levees, dams, walls or fences;
   F.   Drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading, excavating, paving, or
other alterations of the ground surface;
   G.   Storage of materials including the placement of gas and liquid storage
tanks, and channel modifications or any other activity that might change the
direction, height, or velocity of flood or surface waters.
"Development" does not include routine maintenance of existing buildings and
facilities, resurfacing roads, or gardening, plowing, and similar practices
that do not involve filling, grading, or construction of levees.
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings are to be
constructed (including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the
construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of
concrete pads) is completed before the effective date of the floodplain
management regulations adopted by a community.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
FEMA: Federal emergency management agency.
FLOOD: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of
normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid accumulation,
or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
FLOOD FRINGE: That portion of the floodplain outside of the regulatory
floodway.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP: A map prepared by the federal emergency management
agency that depicts the floodplain or special flood hazard area (SFHA) within a
community. This map includes insurance rate zones and may or may not depict
floodways and show base flood elevations.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: An examination, evaluation and determination of flood
hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations.
FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE): The elevation of the base flood plus one foot
(1') of freeboard at any given location in the floodplain.
FLOODPLAIN AND SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA): These two (2) terms are
synonymous. Those lands within the jurisdiction of the village of Seneca, the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the village, or that may be annexed into the
village, that are subject to inundation by the base flood. The floodplains of
the village are generally identified as such on panel numbers 567, 578, 586,
and 600 of the countywide flood insurance rate map of LaSalle County prepared
by the federal emergency management agency and dated July 18, 2011, and on
panel 100 of the countywide flood insurance rate map of Grundy County prepared
by the federal emergency management agency dated August 2, 2012. Floodplain
also includes those areas of known flooding as identified by the community.
The floodplains of those parts of unincorporated LaSalle County and Grundy
County that are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the village of
Seneca or that may be annexed into the village of Seneca are generally
identified as such on the flood insurance rate maps prepared by the federal
emergency management agency for LaSalle County dated July 18, 2011, and Grundy
County dated August 2, 2012.
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural or nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate, property and their contents.
FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE: A form published by the federal emergency management
agency that is used to certify that a building has been designed and
constructed to be structurally dry floodproofed to the flood protection
elevation.
FLOODWAY: That portion of the floodplain required to store and convey the base
flood. The floodway for the floodplains of the Illinois River shall be as
delineated on the countywide flood insurance rate map of LaSalle County
prepared by FEMA and dated July 18, 2011, and Grundy County dated August 2,
2012. The floodways for each of the remaining floodplains of the village of
Seneca shall be according to the best data available from the federal, state,
or other sources.
FREEBOARD: An increment of elevation added to the base flood elevation to
provide a factor of safety for uncertainties in calculations, future watershed
development, unknown localized conditions, wave actions and unpredictable
effects such as those caused by ice or debris jams.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the national register of historic places or
preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the national register.
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior
as contributing to the historic district or a district preliminarily determined
by the secretary to qualify as a registered historic district.
   C.   Individually listed on the state inventory of historic places by the
Illinois historic preservation agency.
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places that has
been certified by the Illinois historic preservation agency.
IDNR/OWR: Illinois department of natural resources/office of water resources.
IDNR/OWR JURISDICTIONAL STREAM: Illinois department of natural resources/office
of water resources has jurisdiction over any stream serving a tributary area of
six hundred forty (640) acres or more in an urban area, or in the floodway of
any stream serving a tributary area of six thousand four hundred (6,400) acres
or more in a rural area. Construction on these streams requires a permit from
the department. (Ill. adm. code title 17, part 3700.30.) The department may
grant approval for specific types of activities by issuance of a statewide
permit which meets the standards defined in section
10-9-6 of this chapter.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor. Provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirements of section
10-9-7 of this chapter.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure transportable in one or more sections that is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to required utilities.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more lots for rent or sale.
NFIP: National flood insurance program.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: Structures for which the start of construction commenced on
or after the effective date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a
community and includes any subsequent improvements of such structures.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed on or after the effective date of the floodplain management
regulations adopted by a community.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE OR TRAVEL TRAILER: A vehicle which is:
   A.   Built on a single chassis;
   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less in size;
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck and designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
REPETITIVE LOSS: Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two (2)
separate occasions during a ten (10) year period for which the cost of repairs
at the time of each such flood event on the average equals or exceeds twenty
five percent (25%) of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
SFHA: See definition of Floodplain And Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA).
START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement and means the date the
building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement or other improvement, was
within one hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date. The actual start means
either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns or any work beyond the stage of excavation or placement
of a manufactured home on a foundation. For a substantial improvement, actual
start of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or
other structural part of a building whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE: See definition of Building.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cumulative percentage of damage subsequent to the adoption of this chapter
equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure
before the damage occurred regardless of actual repair work performed.
Volunteer labor and materials must be included in this determination. The term
includes "repetitive loss buildings" (see definition of Repetitive Loss).
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
improvement of a structure taking place subsequent to the adoption of this
chapter in which the cumulative percentage of improvements:
   A.   Equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the
structure before the improvement or repair is started, or
   B.   Increases the floor area by more than twenty percent (20%).
"Substantial improvement" is considered to occur when the first alteration of
any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building commences,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the
structure. This term includes structures which have incurred repetitive loss or
substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work done. The term does
not include:
   A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely
necessary to assure safe living conditions, or
   B.   Any alteration of a structure listed on the national register of
historic places or the Illinois register of historic places.
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the required federal, state, and/or local permits
and elevation certification is presumed to be in violation until such time as
the documentation is provided. (Ord. 12-12, 6-5-2012)
10-9-3: BASE FLOOD ELEVATION:
This chapter's protection standard is the base flood. The best available base
flood data are listed below. Whenever a party disagrees with the best available
data, the party shall finance the detailed engineering study needed to replace
the existing data with better data and submit it to the FEMA and IDNR/OWR for
approval prior to any development of the site.
   A.   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of the Illinois River
shall be as delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the countywide flood
insurance study of LaSalle County prepared by the federal emergency management
agency and dated July 18, 2011, and Grundy County dated August 2, 2012.
   B.   The base flood elevation for each floodplain delineated as an "AH zone"
or "AO zone" shall be that elevation (or depth) delineated on the countywide
flood insurance rate map of LaSalle and Grundy Counties.
   C.   The base flood elevation for each of the remaining floodplains
delineated as an "A zone" on the countywide flood insurance rate map of LaSalle
and Grundy Counties shall be according to the best data available from federal,
state or other sources. Should no other data exist, an engineering study must
be financed by the applicant to determine base flood elevations.
   D.   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of those parts of
unincorporated LaSalle and Grundy Counties that are within the extraterritorial
jurisdiction of the village of Seneca, or that may be annexed into the village
of Seneca, shall be as delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the flood
insurance study of LaSalle County prepared by the federal emergency management
agency and dated July 18, 2011, and Grundy County dated August 2, 2012. (Ord.
12-12, 6-5-2012)
10-9-4: DUTIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
The floodplain administrator shall be responsible for the general
administration of this chapter and ensure that all development activities
within the floodplains under the jurisdiction of the village of Seneca meet the
requirements of this chapter. Specifically, the floodplain administrator shall:
   A.   Process development permits in accordance with section
10-9-5 of this chapter;
   B.   Ensure that all development in a floodway (or a floodplain with no
delineated floodway) meets the damage prevention requirements of section
10-9-6 of this chapter;
   C.   Ensure that the building protection requirements for all buildings
subject to section
10-9-7 of this chapter are met and maintain a record of the "as built"
elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) or floodproof certificate;
   D.   Assure that all subdivisions and annexations meet the requirements of
section
10-9-8 of this chapter;
   E.   Ensure that water supply and waste disposal systems meet the public
health standards of section
10-9-9 of this chapter;
   F.   If a variance is requested, ensure that the requirements of section
10-9-11 of this chapter are met and maintain documentation of any variances
granted;
   G.   Inspect all development projects and take any and all penalty actions
outlined in section
10-9-13 of this chapter as necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter;
   H.   Assure that applicants are aware of and obtain any and all other
required local, state, and federal permits;
   I.   Notify IDNR/OWR and any neighboring communities prior to any alteration
or relocation of a watercourse;
   J.   Provide information and assistance to citizens upon request about
permit procedures and floodplain construction techniques;
   K.   Cooperate with state and federal floodplain management agencies to
coordinate base flood data and to improve the administration of this chapter;
   L.   Maintain for public inspection base flood data, floodplain maps, copies
of state and federal permits, and documentation of compliance for development
activities subject to this chapter;
   M.   Perform site inspections to ensure compliance with this chapter and
make substantial damage determinations for structures within the floodplain;
and
   N.   Maintain the accuracy of floodplain maps including notifying IDNR/OWR
and/or submitting information to FEMA within six (6) months whenever a
modification of the floodplain may change the base flood elevation or result in
a change to the floodplain map. (Ord. 12-12, 6-5-2012)
10-9-5: DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
No person, firm, corporation, or governmental body not exempted by law shall
commence any development in the floodplain without first obtaining a
development permit from the floodplain administrator. The floodplain
administrator shall not issue a development permit if the proposed development
does not meet the requirements of this chapter.
   A.   The application for development permit shall be accompanied by:
      1.   Drawings of the site, drawn to scale showing property line
dimensions;
      2.   Existing grade elevations and all changes in grade resulting from
excavation or filling;
      3.   The location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to
buildings;
      4.   The elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of all
proposed buildings subject to the requirements of section
10-9-7 of this chapter; and
      5.   Cost of project or improvements as estimated by a licensed engineer
or architect. A signed estimate by a contractor may also meet this requirement.
   B.   Upon receipt of an application for a development permit, the floodplain
administrator shall compare the elevation of the site to the base flood
elevation. Any development located on land that is shown by survey elevation to
be below the current base flood elevation is subject to the provisions of this
chapter. In addition, any development located on land shown to be below the
base flood elevation and hydraulically connected to a flood source, but not
identified as floodplain on the current flood insurance rate map, is subject to
the provisions of this chapter. Any development located on land that can be
shown by survey data to be higher than the current base flood elevation and
which has not been filled after the date of the site's first flood insurance
rate map is not in the floodplain and therefore not subject to the provisions
of this chapter.
The floodplain administrator shall maintain documentation of the existing
ground elevation at the development site and certification that this ground
elevation existed prior to the date of the site's first flood insurance rate
map identification.
The floodplain administrator shall be responsible for obtaining from the
applicant copies of all other federal, state, and local permits, approvals or
permit not required letters that may be required for this type of activity. The
floodplain administrator shall not issue a permit unless all other federal,
state, and local permits have been obtained. (Ord. 12-12, 6-5-2012)
10-9-6: PREVENTING INCREASED FLOOD HEIGHTS AND RESULTING DAMAGES:
Within any floodway identified on the countywide flood insurance rate map, and
within all other floodplains where a floodway has not been delineated, the
following standards shall apply:
   A.   Except as provided in subsection B of this section, no development
shall be allowed which, acting in combination with existing and anticipated
development will cause any increase in flood heights or velocities or threat to
public health and safety. The following specific development activities shall
be considered as meeting this requirement:
      1.   Bridge and culvert crossings of streams in rural areas meeting the
conditions of the Illinois department of natural resources, office of water
resources statewide permit number 2.
      2.   Barge fleeting facilities meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
statewide permit number 3.
      3.   Aerial utility crossings meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
statewide permit number 4.
      4.   Minor boat docks meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit
number 5.
      5.   Minor, nonobstructive activities such as underground utility lines,
light poles, signposts, driveways, athletic fields, patios, playground
equipment, minor storage buildings not exceeding seventy (70) square feet and
raising buildings on the same footprint which does not involve fill and any
other activity meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 6.
      6.   Outfall structures and drainage ditch outlets meeting the conditions
of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 7.
      7.   Underground pipeline and utility crossings meeting the conditions of
IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 8.
      8.   Bank stabilization projects meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
statewide permit number 9.
      9.   Accessory structures and additions to existing residential buildings
meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 10.
      10.   Minor maintenance dredging activities meeting the conditions of
IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 11.
      11.   Bridge and culvert replacement structures and bridge widening
meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 12.
      12.   Temporary construction activities meeting the conditions of IDNR/
OWR statewide permit number 13.
      13.   Any development determined by IDNR/OWR to be located entirely
within a flood fringe area shall be exempt from state floodway permit
requirements.
   B.   Other development activities not listed in subsection A of this section
may be permitted only if:
      1.   Permit has been issued for the work by IDNR/OWR (or written
documentation is provided that an IDNR/OWR permit is not required), or
      2.   Sufficient data has been provided to FEMA when necessary, and
approval obtained from FEMA for a revision of the regulatory map and base flood
elevation. (Ord. 12-12, 6-5-2012)
10-9-7: PROTECTING BUILDINGS:
   A.   In addition to the state permit and damage prevention requirements of
section
10-9-6 of this chapter, all buildings located in the floodplain shall be
protected from flood damage below the flood protection elevation. This building
protection requirement applies to the following situations:
      1.   Construction or placement of a new building or alteration or
addition to an existing building valued at more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) or seventy (70) square feet.
      2.   Substantial improvements or structural alterations made to an
existing building that increase the floor area by more than twenty percent
(20%) or equal or exceed the market value by fifty percent (50%). Alteration
shall be figured cumulatively subsequent to the adoption of this chapter. If
substantially improved, the existing structure and the addition must meet the
flood protection standards of this section.
      3.   Repairs made to a substantially damaged building. These repairs
shall be figured cumulatively subsequent to the adoption of this chapter. If
substantially damaged the entire structure must meet the flood protection
standards of this section within twenty four (24) months of the date the damage
occurred.
      4.   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. (The building protection requirements do not apply to
returning a manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it
was removed to avoid flood damage.)
      5.   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than one hundred eighty (180) days per year.
      6.   "Repetitive loss" to an existing building as defined in section
10-9-2 of this chapter.
   B.   Residential or nonresidential buildings can meet the building
protection requirements by one of the following methods:
      1.   The building may be constructed on permanent land fill in accordance
with the following:
         a.   The lowest floor (including basement) shall be at or above the
flood protection elevation.
         b.   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than six inches
(6") before compaction and should extend at least ten feet (10') beyond the
foundation before sloping below the flood protection elevation.
         c.   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or other structural measure.
         d.   The fill shall be composed of rock or soil and not incorporated
debris or refuse material, and
         e.   Shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage from or
onto neighboring properties and when necessary stormwater management techniques
such as swales or basins shall be incorporated.
      2.   The building may be elevated on solid walls in accordance with the
following:
         a.   The building or improvements shall be elevated on stilts, piles,
walls, crawl space, or other foundation that is permanently open to
floodwaters.
         b.   The lowest floor and all electrical, heating, ventilating,
plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and utility meters shall be located at
or above the flood protection elevation.
         c.   If walls are used, all enclosed areas below the flood protection
elevation shall address hydrostatic pressures by allowing the automatic entry
and exit of floodwaters. Designs must either be certified by a licensed
professional engineer or by having a minimum of one permanent opening on each
wall no more than one foot (1') above grade with a minimum of two (2) openings.
The openings shall provide a total net area of not less than one square inch
for every one square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding below the base
flood elevation, and
         d.   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored,
designed, and certified so as to minimize exposure to hydrodynamic forces such
as current, waves, ice, and floating debris.
            (1)   All structural components below the flood protection
elevation shall be constructed of materials resistant to flood damage.
            (2)   Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines,
submersible pumps, and other service facilities may be located below the flood
protection elevation provided they are waterproofed.
            (3)   The area below the flood protection elevation shall be used
solely for parking or building access and not later modified or occupied as
habitable space, or
            (4)   In lieu of the above criteria, the design methods to comply
with these requirements may be certified by a licensed professional engineer or
architect.
      3.   The building may be constructed with a crawl space located below the
flood protection elevation provided that the following conditions are met:
         a.   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
         b.   Any enclosed area below the flood protection elevation shall have
openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing for the automatic
entry and exit of floodwaters. A minimum of one opening on each wall having a
total net area of not less than one square inch per one square foot of enclosed
area. The openings shall be no more than one foot (1') above grade.
         c.   The interior grade of the crawl space below the flood protection
elevation must not be more than two feet (2') below the lowest adjacent
exterior grade.
         d.   The interior height of the crawl space measured from the interior
grade of the crawl to the top of the foundation wall must not exceed four feet
(4') at any point.
         e.   An adequate drainage system must be installed to remove
floodwaters from the interior area of the crawl space within a reasonable
period of time after a flood event.
         f.   Portions of the building below the flood protection elevation
must be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage, and
         g.   Utility systems within the crawl space must be elevated above the
flood protection elevation.
   C.   Nonresidential buildings may be structurally dry floodproofed (in lieu
of elevation) provided a licensed professional engineer or architect certifies
that:
      1.   Below the flood protection elevation the structure and attendant
utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the effects of the
base flood.
      2.   The building design accounts for flood velocities, duration, rate of
rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of buoyancy, and the
impact from debris and ice.
      3.   Floodproofing measures will be incorporated into the building design
and operable without human intervention and without an outside source of
electricity.
      4.   Levees, berms, floodwalls and similar works are not considered
floodproofing for the purpose of this subsection.
   D.   Manufactured homes or travel trailers to be permanently installed on
site shall be:
      1.   Elevated to or above the flood protection elevation in accordance
with subsection B of this section, and
      2.   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement by being
tied down in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Illinois mobile
home tie-down act issued pursuant to 77 Illinois administrative code section
870.
   E.   Travel trailers and recreational vehicles on site for more than one
hundred eighty (180) days per year shall meet the elevation requirements of
subsection D of this section unless the following conditions are met:
      1.   The vehicle must be either self-propelled or towable by a light duty
truck.
      2.   The hitch must remain on the vehicle at all times.
      3.   The vehicle must not be attached to external structures such as
decks and porches.
      4.   The vehicle must be designed solely for recreation, camping, travel,
or seasonal use rather than as a permanent dwelling.
      5.   The vehicle's largest horizontal projections must be no larger than
four hundred (400) square feet.
      6.   The vehicle's wheels must remain on axles and inflated.
      7.   Air conditioning units must be attached to the frame so as to be
safe for movement of the floodplain.
      8.   Propane tanks as well as electrical and sewage connections must be
quick disconnect.
      9.   The vehicle must be licensed and titled as a recreational vehicle or
park model, and
      10.   Must either:
         a.   Entirely be supported by jacks, or
         b.   Have a hitch jack permanently mounted, have the tires touching
the ground and be supported by blocks in a manner that will allow the blocks to
be easily removed by use of the hitch jack.
   F.   Garages, sheds or other minor accessory structures constructed
ancillary to an existing residential use may be permitted provided the
following conditions are met:
      1.   The garage or shed must be nonhabitable.
      2.   The garage or shed must be used only for the storage of vehicles and
tools and cannot be modified later into another use.
      3.   The garage or shed must be located outside of the floodway or have
the appropriate state and/or federal permits.
      4.   The garage or shed must be on a single-family lot and be accessory
to an existing principal structure on the same lot.
      5.   Below the base flood elevation, the garage or shed must be built of
materials not susceptible to flood damage.
      6.   All utilities, plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical
must be elevated above the flood protection elevation.
      7.   The garage or shed must have at least one permanent opening on each
wall not more than one foot (1') above grade with one square inch of opening
for every one square foot of floor area.
      8.   The garage or shed must be less than fifteen thousand dollars
($15,000.00) in market value or replacement cost whichever is greater or less
than five hundred seventy six (576) square feet (24 feet x 24 feet).
      9.   The structure shall be anchored to resist flotation and overturning.
      10.   All flammable or toxic materials (gasoline, paint, insecticides,
fertilizers, etc.) shall be stored above the flood protection elevation.
      11.   The lowest floor elevation should be documented and the owner
advised of the flood insurance implications. (Ord. 12-12, 6-5-2012)
10-9-8: SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS:
The village of Seneca shall take into account hazards, to the extent that they
are known, in all official actions related to land management use and
development.
   A.   New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, annexation agreements,
planned unit developments, and additions to manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall meet the damage prevention and building protections
standards of sections
10-9-6 and
10-9-7 of this chapter.
Any proposal for such development shall include the following data:
      1.   The base flood elevation and the boundary of the floodplain, where
the base flood elevation is not available from an existing study, the applicant
shall be responsible for calculating the base flood elevation;
      2.   The boundary of the floodway when applicable; and
      3.   A signed statement by a licensed professional engineer that the
proposed plat or plan accounts for changes in the drainage of surface waters in
accordance with the plat act 1 .
Streets, blocks, lots, parks and other public grounds shall be located and laid
out in such a manner as to preserve and utilize natural streams and channels.
Wherever possible the floodplains shall be included within parks or other
public grounds. (Ord. 12-12, 6-5-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. 765 ILCS 205/2.
10-9-9: PUBLIC HEALTH AND OTHER STANDARDS:
   A.   Public health standards must be met for all floodplain development. In
addition to the requirements of sections
10-9-6 and
10-9-7 of this chapter the following standards apply:
      1.   No development in the floodplain shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, flammable liquids, pollutants, or
other hazardous or toxic materials below the flood protection elevation unless
such materials are stored in a floodproofed and anchored storage tank and
certified by a professional engineer or floodproofed building constructed
according to the requirements of section
10-9-7 of this chapter.
      2.   Public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas and electric
shall be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
      3.   Public sanitary sewer systems and water supply systems shall be
located and constructed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters
into the systems and discharges from the systems into floodwaters.
      4.   New and replacement on site sanitary sewer lines or waste disposal
systems shall be located and constructed to avoid impairment to them or
contamination from them during flooding. Manholes or other aboveground openings
located below the flood protection elevation shall be watertight.
      5.   Construction of new or substantially improved critical facilities
shall be located outside the limits of the floodplain. Construction of new
critical facilities shall be permissible within the floodplain if no feasible
alternative site is available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA
shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated or structurally dry
floodproofed to the 500-year flood frequency elevation or three feet (3') above
the level of the 100-year flood frequency elevation whichever is greater.
Floodproofing and sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic
substances will not be displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes
elevated to or above the level of the base flood elevation shall be provided to
all critical facilities.
   B.   All other activities defined as development shall be designed so as not
to alter flood flows or increase potential flood damages. (Ord. 12-12, 6-5-
2012)
10-9-10: CARRYING CAPACITY AND NOTIFICATION:
For all projects involving channel modification, fill, or stream maintenance
(including levees), the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse shall be
maintained. In addition, the village of Seneca shall notify adjacent
communities in writing thirty (30) days prior to the issuance of a permit for
the alteration or relocation of the watercourse. (Ord. 12-12, 6-5-2012)
10-9-11: VARIANCES:
Whenever the standards of this chapter place undue hardship on a specific
development proposal, the applicant may apply to the zoning board of appeals
for a variance. The zoning board of appeals shall review the applicant's
request for a variance and shall submit its recommendation to the village
council. The village council may attach such conditions to granting of a
variance as it deems necessary to further the intent of this chapter.
   A.   Conditions: No variance shall be granted unless the applicant
demonstrates that all of the following conditions are met:
      1.   The development activity cannot be located outside the floodplain.
      2.   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted.
      3.   The relief requested is the minimum necessary.
      4.   There will be no additional threat to public health, safety or
creation of a nuisance.
      5.   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
rescue or relief operations, policing, or repairs to roads, utilities, or other
public facilities.
      6.   The applicant's circumstances are unique and do not establish a
pattern inconsistent with the intent of the NFIP, and
      7.   All other state and federal permits have been obtained.
   B.   Written Notice: The zoning board of appeals shall notify an applicant
in writing that a variance from the requirements of the building protections
standards of section
10-9-7 of this chapter that would lessen the degree of protection to a building
will:
      1.   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to twenty
five dollars ($25.00) per one hundred dollars ($100.00) of insurance coverage;
      2.   Increase the risk to life and property; and
      3.   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks and
that the applicant acknowledge in writing the assumption of the risk and
liability.
   C.   Historic Structures:
      1.   Variances to the building protection requirements of section
10-9-7 of this chapter which are requested in connection with reconstruction,
repair, or alteration of a historic site or historic structure as defined in
"historic structures", may be granted using criteria more permissive than the
requirements of sections
10-9-6 and
10-9-7 of this chapter subject to the conditions that:
         a.   The repair or rehabilitation is the minimum necessary to preserve
the historic character and design of the structure.
         b.   The repair or rehabilitation will not result in the structure
being removed as a certified historic structure.
   D.   Agriculture: Any variance granted for an agricultural structure shall
be decided individually based on a case by case analysis of the building's
unique circumstances. Variances granted shall meet the following conditions as
well as those criteria and conditions set forth in this chapter.
In order to minimize flood damages during the 100-year flood and the threat to
public health and safety, the following conditions shall be included for any
variance issued for agricultural structures that are constructed at grade and
wet floodproofed.
      1.   All agricultural structures considered for a variance from the
floodplain management regulations of this chapter shall demonstrate that the
varied structure is located in wide, expansive floodplain areas and no other
alternate location outside of the special flood hazard area exists for the
agricultural structure. Residential structures or animal confinement
facilities, such as farmhouses, cannot be considered agricultural structures.
      2.   Use of the varied structures must be limited to agricultural
purposes in zone A only as identified on the community's flood insurance rate
map (FIRM).
      3.   For any new or substantially damaged agricultural structures, the
exterior and interior building components and elements (i.e., foundation, wall
framing, exterior and interior finishes, flooring, etc.) below the base flood
elevation, must be built with flood resistant materials in accordance with
section
10-9-7 of this chapter.
      4.   The agricultural structures must be adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structures in accordance with
section
10-9-7 of this chapter. All of the building's structural components must be
capable of resisting specific flood related forces including hydrostatic,
buoyancy, and hydrodynamic and debris impact forces.
      5.   Any mechanical, electrical, or other utility equipment must be
located above the base flood elevation or floodproofed so that they are
contained within a watertight, floodproofed enclosure that is capable of
resisting damage during flood conditions in accordance with section
10-9-7 of this chapter.
      6.   The NFIP requires that enclosure or foundation walls, subject to the
100-year flood, contain openings that will permit the automatic entry and exit
of floodwaters in accordance with subsection 10-9-7B of this chapter.
      7.   The agricultural structures must comply with the floodplain
management floodway provisions of section
10-9-6 of this chapter. No variances may be issued for agricultural structures
within any designated floodway.
      8.   Wet floodproofing construction techniques must be reviewed and
approved by the floodplain administrator and a registered professional engineer
or architect prior to the issuance of any floodplain development permit for
construction. (Ord. 12-12, 6-5-2012)
10-9-12: DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable for
regulatory purposes and is based on available information derived from
engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may occur or flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that development either inside or outside of the floodplain will be free
from flooding or damage. This chapter does not create liability on the part of
the village of Seneca or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage
that results from proper reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision made lawfully thereunder. (Ord. 12-12, 6-5-2012)
10-9-13: PENALTY:
Failure to obtain a permit for development in the floodplain or failure to
comply with the conditions of a permit or a variance shall be deemed to be a
violation of this chapter. Upon due investigation, the floodplain administrator
may determine that a violation of the minimum standards of this chapter exists.
The floodplain administrator shall notify the owner in writing of such
violation.
   A.   If such owner fails after ten (10) days' notice to correct the
violation:
      1.   The village of Seneca shall make application to the circuit court
for an injunction requiring conformance with this chapter or make such other
order as the court deems necessary to secure compliance with this chapter.
      2.   Any person who violates this chapter shall upon conviction thereof
be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) or more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
      3.   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues, and
      4.   The village of Seneca shall record a notice of violation on the
title of the property.
   B.   The floodplain administrator shall inform the owner that any such
violation is considered a wilful act to increase flood damages and therefore
may cause coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
The floodplain administrator is authorized to issue an order requiring the
suspension of the subject development. The stop work order shall be in writing,
indicate the reason for the issuance, and shall order the action, if necessary,
to resolve the circumstances requiring the stop work order. The stop work order
constitutes a suspension of the permit.
No site development permit shall be permanently suspended or revoked until a
hearing is held by the zoning board of appeals. Written notice of such hearing
shall be served on the permittee and shall state:
      1.   The grounds for the complaint, reasons for suspension or revocation,
and
      2.   The time and place of the hearing.
At such hearing the permittee shall be given an opportunity to present evidence
on their behalf. At the conclusion of the hearing, the zoning board of appeals
shall determine whether the permit shall be suspended or revoked.
   C.   Nothing herein shall prevent the village of Seneca from taking such
other lawful action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected
therewith shall accrue to the person or persons responsible. (Ord. 12-12, 6-5-
2012)
10-9-14: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This chapter repeals and replaces other ordinances adopted by the village
council to fulfill the requirements of the national flood insurance program
including: 97-07 dated April 1, 1997, 1-24 dated August 21, 2001, and 11-04
dated March 15, 2011. However, this chapter does not repeal the original
resolution or ordinance adopted to achieve eligibility in the program. Nor does
this chapter repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or
deed restrictions. Where this chapter and other ordinances, easements,
covenants or deed restrictions conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more
stringent restrictions shall prevail. (Ord. 12-12, 6-5-2012)
10-9-15: SEVERABILITY:
The provisions and sections of this chapter shall be deemed separable and the
invalidity of any portion of this chapter shall not affect the validity of the
remainder. (Ord. 12-12, 6-5-2012)
CHAPTER 10
DUST CONTROL, SOIL EROSION, AND SEDIMENT CONTROL
SECTION:
10-10-1: Findings And Purpose
10-10-2: General Principles
10-10-3: Site Development Permit
10-10-4: Design And Operation Standards And Requirements
10-10-5: Enforcement
10-10-1: FINDINGS AND PURPOSE:
   A.   Findings: The village council of the village of Seneca hereby finds
that:
      1.   Excessive quantities of soil may erode from areas undergoing
development for certain nonagricultural uses including, but not limited to, the
construction of dwelling units, commercial buildings and industrial plants, the
building of roads and highways, the modification of stream channels and
drainageways, the creation of recreational facilities, and the trucking of soil
and liquids;
      2.   The washing, blowing, and falling of eroded soil across and upon
roadways endangers the health and safety of users thereof, by decreasing vision
and reducing traction of road vehicles;
      3.   Soil erosion necessitates the costly repairing of gullies, washed
out fills, and embankments;
      4.   Sediment from soil erosion tends to clog sewers and ditches and to
pollute and silt rivers, streams, lakes, wetlands, and reservoirs;
      5.   Sediment limits the use of water and waterways for most beneficial
purposes, promotes the growth of undesirable aquatic weeds, destroys fish and
other desirable aquatic life, and is costly and difficult to remove; and
      6.   Sediment reduces the channel capacity of waterways and the storage
capacity of floodplains and natural depressions, resulting in increased chances
of flooding at risk to public health and safety.
   B.   Purpose: It is the purpose of this chapter to safeguard persons,
protect property, prevent damage to the environment, and promote the public
welfare by guiding, regulating and controlling the design, construction, use
and maintenance of any development or other activity which disturbs or breaks
the topsoil, causes dust, or otherwise results in the movement of earth on land
situated in the village. It is the intention of this chapter that the delivery
of sediment from sites affected by land disturbing activities be limited, as
closely as practicable, to that which would have occurred if the land had been
left in its natural undisturbed state. (Ord. 10-09, 8-17-2010)
10-10-2: GENERAL PRINCIPLES:
It is the objective of this chapter to control soil erosion and sedimentation
caused by development activities, including clearing, grading, stripping,
excavating, and filling of land, in the village. Measures taken to control soil
erosion and off site sediment runoff should be adequate to assure that sediment
is not transported from the site by a storm event of 10-year frequency or less.
The following principles shall apply to all development activities within the
village and to the preparation of the submissions required under section
10-10-4 of this chapter:
   A.   Development should be related to the topography and soils of the site
so as to create the least potential for erosion. Areas of steep slopes where
high cuts and fills may be required should be avoided wherever possible, and
natural contours should be followed as closely as possible.
   B.   Natural vegetation should be retained and protected wherever possible.
Areas immediately adjacent to natural watercourses, lakes, ponds, and wetlands
should be left undisturbed wherever possible. Temporary crossings of
watercourses, when permitted, must include appropriate stabilization measures.
   C.   Special precaution should be taken to prevent damages resultant from
any necessary development activity within or adjacent to any stream, lake,
pond, or wetland. Preventative measures should reflect the sensitivity of these
areas to erosion and sedimentation.
   D.   The smallest practical area of land should be exposed for the shortest
practical time during development.
   E.   Sediment basins or traps, filter barriers, diversions, and any other
appropriate sediment or runoff control measures should be installed prior to
site clearing and grading and maintained to remove sediment from runoff waters
from land undergoing development.
   F.   The selection of erosion and sedimentation control measures should be
based on assessment of the probable frequency of climatic and other events
likely to contribute to erosion, and on evaluation of the risks, costs, and
benefits involved.
   G.   In the design of erosion control facilities and practices, aesthetics
and the requirements of continuing maintenance should be considered.
   H.   Provision should be made to accommodate the increased runoff caused by
changed soil and surface conditions during and after development. Drainageways
should be designed so that their final gradients and the resultant velocities
and rates of discharge will not create additional erosion on site or
downstream.
   I.   Permanent vegetation and structures should be installed and functional
as soon as practical during development.
   J.   Those areas being converted from agricultural purposes to other land
uses should be vegetated with an appropriate protective cover prior to
development.
   K.   All waste generated as a result of site development activity should be
properly disposed of and should be prevented from being carried off the site by
either wind or water.
   L.   All construction sites should provide measures to prevent sediment from
being tracked onto public or private roadways. (Ord. 10-09, 8-17-2010)
10-10-3: SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
   A.   Permit Required: Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no
person shall commence or perform any clearing, grading, stripping, excavating,
or filling of land which meets the following provisions without having first
obtained a site development permit from the village of Seneca:
      1.   Any land disturbing activity (i.e., clearing, grading, stripping,
excavation, fill, or any combination thereof) that will affect an area in
excess of one acre;
      2.   Any land disturbing activity that will affect an area in excess of
five thousand (5,000) square feet if the activity is within twenty five feet
(25') of a lake, pond, stream, or wetland; or
      3.   Excavation, fill, or any combination thereof that will exceed one
hundred (100) cubic yards.
   B.   Exceptions: A permit shall not be required for any of the following;
provided, that the person responsible for any such development shall implement
necessary soil erosion and sediment control measures to satisfy the principles
set forth in section
10-10-2 of this chapter:
      1.   Excavation below final grade for the basement and footings of a
single-family residence and appurtenant structures on a site in excess of two
(2) acres for which a building permit has been issued by the village;
      2.   Agricultural use of land, including the implementation of
conservation measures included in a farm conservation plan approved by the soil
and water conservation district, and including the construction of agricultural
structures;
      3.   Installation, renovation, or replacement of a septic system to serve
an existing dwelling or structure.
   C.   Application For Permit; Fee: Application for a site development permit
shall be made by the owner of the property or his authorized agent to the
village council on a form furnished for that purpose. Each application shall
bear the name(s) and address(es) of the owner or developer of the site and of
any consulting firm retained by the applicant together with the name of the
applicant's principal contact at such firm, and shall be accompanied by a
filing fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00). Each application shall include
certification that any land clearing, construction, or development involving
the movement of earth shall be in accordance with the plans approved upon
issuance of the permit.
   D.   Submissions: Each application for a site development permit shall be
accompanied by the following information:
      1.   A vicinity map in sufficient detail to enable easy location in the
field of the site for which the permit is sought, and including the boundary
line and approximate acreage of the site, existing zoning, and a legend and
scale.
      2.   A development plan of the site showing:
         a.   Existing topography of the site and adjacent land within
approximately one hundred feet (100') of the boundaries, drawn at no greater
than two foot (2') contour intervals and clearly portraying the conformation
and drainage pattern of the area.
         b.   The location of existing buildings, structures, utilities,
streams, lakes, floodplains, wetlands and depressions, drainage facilities,
vegetative cover, paved areas, and other significant natural or manmade
features on the site and adjacent land within one hundred feet (100') of the
boundary.
         c.   A general description of the predominant soil types on the site,
their location, and their limitations for the proposed use.
         d.   Proposed use of the site, including present development and
planned utilization; areas of clearing, stripping, grading, excavation, and
filling; proposed contours, finished grades, and street profiles; provisions
for storm drainage, including storm sewers, swales, detention basins and any
other measures to control the rate of runoff, with a drainage area map,
indications of flow directions, and computations; kinds and locations of
utilities; and areas and acreages proposed to be paved, covered, sodded or
seeded, vegetatively stabilized, or left undisturbed.
      3.   An erosion and sediment control plan showing all measures necessary
to meet the objectives of this chapter throughout all phases of construction
and permanently after completion of development of the site, including:
         a.   Location and description, including standard details, of all
sediment control measures and design specifics of sediment basins and traps,
including outlet details.
         b.   Location and description of all soil stabilization and erosion
control measures, including seeding mixtures and rates, types of sod, method of
seedbed preparation, expected seeding dates, type and rate of lime and
fertilizer application, kind and quantity of mulching for both temporary and
permanent vegetative control measures, and types of nonvegetative stabilization
measures.
         c.   Location and description of all runoff control measures,
including diversions, waterways, and outlets.
         d.   Location and description of methods to prevent tracking of
sediment off site, including construction entrance details, as appropriate.
         e.   Description of dust and traffic control measures.
         f.   Locations of stockpiles and description of stabilization methods.
         g.   Description of off site fill or borrow volumes, locations, and
methods of stabilization.
         h.   Provisions for maintenance of control measures, including type
and frequency of maintenance, easements, and estimates of the cost of
maintenance.
         i.   Identification (name, address, and telephone) of the person(s) or
entity which will have legal responsibility for maintenance of erosion control
structures and measures during development and after development is completed.
      4.   The proposed phasing of development of the site, including stripping
and clearing, rough grading and construction, and final grading and
landscaping. Phasing should identify the expected date on which clearing will
begin, the estimated duration of exposure of cleared areas, and the sequence of
installation of temporary sediment control measures (including perimeter
controls), clearing and grading, installation of temporary soil stabilization
measures, installation of storm drainage, paving streets and parking areas,
final grading and the establishment of permanent vegetative cover, and the
removal of temporary measures. It shall be the responsibility of the applicant
to notify the village council of any significant changes which occur in the
site development schedule after the initial erosion and sediment control plan
has been approved.
The village council may waive specific requirements for the content of
submissions upon finding that the information submitted is sufficient to show
that the work will comply with the objectives and principles of this chapter.
   E.   Bonds: The applicant is required to file with the village a faithful
performance bond or bonds, letter of credit, or other improvement security
satisfactory to the village attorney in an amount deemed sufficient by the
village council to cover all costs of improvements, landscaping, maintenance of
improvements and landscaping, and soil erosion and sediment control measures
for such period as specified by the village, and engineering and inspection
costs to cover the cost of failure or repair of improvements installed on the
site. In the absence of the bond, the applicant shall be responsible for all
the village's costs in maintenance of the municipal roadways.
   F.   Review And Approval: Each application for a site development permit
shall be reviewed and acted upon according to the following procedures:
      1.   The village council will review each application for a site
development permit to determine its conformance with the provisions of this
chapter. Within thirty (30) days after receiving an application, the village
council shall in writing:
         a.   Approve the permit application if it is found to be in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter and issue the permit;
         b.   Approve the permit application subject to such reasonable
conditions as may be necessary to secure substantially the objectives of this
chapter and issue the permit subject to these conditions; or
         c.   Disapprove the permit application, indicating the deficiencies
and the procedure for submitting a revised application and/or submission.
      2.   No site development permit shall be issued for an intended
development site unless:
         a.   The development, including, but not limited to, subdivisions and
planned unit development, has been approved by the village where applicable, or
         b.   Such permit is accompanied by or combined with a valid building
permit issued by the village, or
         c.   The proposed earth moving is coordinated with any overall
development program previously approved by the village for the area in which
the site is situated, and
         d.   All relevant federal and state permits (i.e., for floodplains and
wetlands) have been received for the portion of the site subject to soil
disturbance.
      3.   Failure of the village council to act on an original or revised
application within thirty (30) days of receipt shall authorize the applicant to
proceed in accordance with the plans as filed unless such time is extended by
agreement between the village council and the applicant. Pending preparation
and approval of a revised plan, development activities shall be allowed to
proceed in accordance with conditions established by the village council.
   G.   Expiration Of Permit: Every site development permit shall expire and
become null and void if the work authorized by such permit has not been
commenced within one hundred eighty (180) days, or is not completed by a date
which shall be specified in the permit; except that the village council may, if
the permittee presents satisfactory evidence that unusual difficulties have
prevented work being commenced or completed within the specified time limits,
grant a reasonable extension of time if written application is made before the
expiration date of the permit. The village council may require modification of
the erosion control plan to prevent any increase in erosion or off site
sediment runoff resulting from any extension.
   H.   Appeals: The applicant, or any person or agency which received notice
of the filing of the application, may make an appeal of the decision of the
village council. Upon receipt of an appeal, the village council shall schedule
and hold a public hearing, after giving fifteen (15) days' notice thereof. The
village council shall render a decision within thirty (30) days after the
hearing. Factors to be considered on review shall include, but need not be
limited to, the effects of the proposed development activities on the surface
water flow to tributary and downstream lands, any comprehensive watershed
management plans, or the use of any retention facilities; possible saturation
of fill and unsupported cuts by water, both natural and domestic; runoff
surface waters that produce erosion and silting of drainageways; nature and
type of soil or rock which when disturbed by the proposed development
activities may create earth movement and produce slopes that cannot be
landscaped; and excessive and unnecessary scarring of the natural landscape
through grading or removal of vegetation.
   I.   Retention Of Plans: Plans, specifications, and reports for all site
developments shall be retained in original form or on microfilm by the village
council. (Ord. 10-09, 8-17-2010)
10-10-4: DESIGN AND OPERATION STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Applicability: All clearing, grading, stripping, excavating, and
filling which is subject to the permit requirements of this chapter shall be
subject to the applicable standards and requirements set forth in this section.
   B.   Responsibility: The permittee shall not be relieved of responsibility
for damage to persons or property otherwise imposed by law, and the village or
its officers or agents will not be made liable for such damage, by: 1) the
issuance of a permit under this chapter; 2) compliance with the provisions of
that permit or with conditions attached to it by the village council; 3)
failure of village officials to observe or recognize hazardous or unsightly
conditions, 4) failure of village officials to recommend denial of or to deny a
permit, or 5) exemptions from the permit requirements of this chapter.
   C.   Site Design Requirements:
      1.   On site sediment control measures, as specified by the following
criteria, shall be constructed and functional prior to initiating clearing,
grading, stripping, excavating or fill activities on the site.
         a.   For disturbed areas draining less than one acre, filter barriers
(including filter fences, straw bales, or equivalent control measures) shall be
constructed to control all off site runoff as specified in referenced
handbooks. Vegetated filter strips, with a minimum width of twenty five feet
(25'), may be used as an alternative only where runoff in sheet flow is
expected.
         b.   For disturbed areas draining more than one but less than five (5)
acres, a sediment trap or equivalent control measure shall be constructed at
the downslope point of the disturbed area.
         c.   For disturbed areas draining more than five (5) acres, a sediment
basin or equivalent control measure shall be constructed at the downslope point
of the disturbed area.
         d.   Sediment basins and sediment traps designs shall provide for both
detention storage and sediment storage. The detention storage shall be composed
of equal volumes of "wet" detention storage and "dry" detention storage and
each shall be sized for the 2-year, 24-hour runoff from the site under maximum
runoff conditions during construction. The release rate of the basin shall be
that rate required to achieve minimum detention times of at least ten (10)
hours. The elevation of the outlet structure shall be placed such that it only
drains the dry detention storage.
         e.   The sediment storage shall be sized to store the estimated
sediment load generated from the site over the duration of the construction
period with a minimum storage equivalent to the volume of sediment generated in
one year. For construction periods exceeding one year, the one year sediment
load and a sediment removal schedule may be substituted.
      2.   Stormwater conveyance channels, including ditches, swales, and
diversions, and the outlets of all channels and pipes shall be designed and
constructed to withstand the expected flow velocity from the 10-year frequency
storm without erosion. All constructed or modified channels shall be stabilized
within forty eight (48) hours, consistent with the following standards:
         a.   For grades up to four percent (4%), seeding in combination with
mulch, erosion blanket, or an equivalent control measure shall be applied. Sod
or erosion blanket or mat shall be applied to the bottom of the channel.
         b.   For grades of four percent (4%) to eight percent (8%), sod or an
equivalent control measure shall be applied in the channel.
         c.   For grades greater than eight percent (8%), rock, riprap, or an
equivalent control measure shall be applied, or the grade shall be effectively
reduced using drop structures.
      3.   Disturbed areas shall be stabilized with temporary or permanent
measures within seven (7) calendar days following the end of active
disturbance, or redisturbance, consistent with the following criteria:
         a.   Appropriate temporary or permanent stabilization measures shall
include seeding, mulching, sodding, and/or nonvegetative measures.
         b.   Areas having slopes greater than twelve percent (12%) shall be
stabilized with sod, mat or blanket in combination with seeding, or equivalent.
      4.   Land disturbance activities in stream channels shall be avoided,
where possible. If disturbance activities are unavoidable, the following
requirements shall be met:
         a.   Construction vehicles shall be kept out of the stream channel to
the maximum extent practicable. Where construction crossings are necessary,
temporary crossings shall be constructed of nonerosive material, such as riprap
or gravel.
         b.   The time and area of disturbance of stream channels shall be kept
to a minimum. The stream channel, including bed and banks, shall be
restabilized within forty eight (48) hours after channel disturbance is
completed, interrupted, or stopped.
         c.   Whenever channel relocation is necessary, the new channel shall
be constructed in the dry and fully stabilized before flow is diverted.
      5.   Storm sewer inlets and culverts shall be protected by sediment traps
or filter barriers meeting accepted design standards and specifications.
      6.   Soil storage piles containing more than ten (10) cubic yards of
material shall not be located with a downslope drainage length of less than
twenty five feet (25') to a roadway or drainage channel. Filter barriers,
including straw bales, filter fence, or equivalent, shall be installed
immediately on the downslope side of the piles.
      7.   If dewatering devices are used, discharge locations shall be
protected from erosion. All pumped discharges shall be routed through
appropriately designed sediment traps or basins, or equivalent.
      8.   Each site shall have graveled (or equivalent) entrance roads, access
drives, and parking areas of sufficient length and width to prevent sediment
from being tracked onto public or private roadways. Any sediment reaching a
public or private road shall be removed by shoveling or street cleaning (not
flushing) before the end of each workday and transported to a controlled
sediment disposal area.
      9.   All temporary and permanent erosion and sediment control practices
must be maintained and repaired as needed to assure effective performance to
their intended function.
      10.   All temporary erosion and sediment control measures shall be
disposed of within thirty (30) days after final site stabilization is achieved
with permanent soil stabilization measures. Trapped sediment and other
disturbed soils resulting from the disposition of temporary measures should be
permanently stabilized to prevent further erosion and sedimentation.
   D.   Handbook Adopted By Reference: Contact village for information.
   E.   Maintenance Of Control Measures: All soil erosion and sediment control
measures necessary to meet the requirements of this chapter shall be maintained
periodically by the applicant or subsequent landowner during the period of land
disturbance and development of the site in a satisfactory manner to ensure
adequate performance.
   F.   Inspection: The village council or its designee shall make inspections
as hereinafter required and shall either approve that portion of the work
completed or shall notify the permittee wherein the work fails to comply with
the site development or erosion and sedimentation control plan as approved.
Plans for grading, stripping, excavating, and filling work bearing the stamp of
approval of the village council or its designee shall be maintained at the site
during progress of the work. In order to obtain inspections and to ensure
compliance with the approved erosion and sediment control plan, the grading or
building permit, and this chapter, the permittee shall notify the village
council or its designee within two (2) working days of the completion of the
construction stages specified below:
      1.   Upon completion of installation of sediment and runoff control
measures (including perimeter controls and diversions), prior to proceeding
with any other earth disturbance or grading,
      2.   After stripping and clearing,
      3.   After rough grading,
      4.   After final grading,
      5.   After seeding and landscaping deadlines, and
      6.   After final stabilization and landscaping, prior to removal of
sediment controls.
If stripping, clearing, grading and/or landscaping are to be done in phases or
areas, the permittee shall give notice and request inspection at the completion
of each of the above work stages in each phase or area. If an inspection is not
made and notification of the results given within five (5) working days after
notice is received by the village from the permittee, the permittee may
continue work at his own risk, without presuming acceptance by the village.
Notification of the results of the inspection shall be given in writing at the
site.
   G.   Special Precautions:
      1.   If at any stage of the grading of any development site the village
council determines by inspection that the nature of the site is such that
further work authorized by an existing permit is likely to imperil any
property, public way, stream, lake, wetland, or drainage structure, the village
council may require, as a condition of allowing the work to be done, that such
reasonable special precautions to be taken as is considered advisable to avoid
the likelihood of such peril. "Special precautions" may include, but shall not
be limited to, a more level exposed slope, construction of additional drainage
facilities, berms, terracing, compaction, or cribbing, installation of plant
materials for erosion control, and recommendations of a registered soils
engineer and/or engineering geologist which may be made requirements for
further work.
      2.   Where it appears that storm damage may result because the grading on
any development site is not complete, work may be stopped and the permittee
required to install temporary structures or take such other measures as may be
required to protect adjoining property or the public safety. On large
developments or where unusual site conditions prevail, the village council may
specify the time of starting grading and time of completion or may require that
the operations be conducted in specific stages so as to ensure completion of
protective measures or devices prior to the advent of seasonal rains.
   H.   Amendment Of Plans: Major amendments of the site development or erosion
and sedimentation control plans shall be submitted to the village council and
shall be processed and approved or disapproved in the same manner as the
original plans. Field modifications of a minor nature may be authorized by the
village council by written authorization to the permittee. (Ord. 10-09, 8-17-
2010)
10-10-5: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Exceptions: The village council may, in accordance with the following
procedures, authorize exceptions to any of the requirements and regulations set
forth in this chapter:
      1.   Application for any exception shall be made by a verified petition
of the applicant for a site development permit, stating fully the grounds of
the petition and the facts relied upon by the applicant. Such petition shall be
filed with the site development permit application. In order for the petition
to be granted, it shall be necessary that the village council find all of the
following facts with respect to the land referred to in the petition:
         a.   That the land is of such shape or size or is affected by such
physical conditions or is subject to such title limitations of record, that it
is impossible or impractical for the applicant to comply with all of the
requirements of this chapter;
         b.   That the exception is necessary for the preservation and
enjoyment of a substantial property right of the applicant; and
         c.   That the granting of the exception will not be detrimental to the
public welfare or injurious to other property in the vicinity of the subject
property.
      2.   Each application for an exception shall be referred to the village
council for review.
      3.   The village council shall hold a public hearing on each application
for exception, within thirty (30) days after receiving application, in the
manner provided with respect to appeals. After public hearing, the village
council may approve the site development permit application with the exceptions
and conditions it deems necessary or it may disapprove such site development
permit application and exception application or it may take such other action
as appropriate.
   B.   Stop Work Order; Revocation Of Permit: In the event any person holding
a site development permit pursuant to this chapter violates the terms of the
permit, or carries on site development in such a manner as to materially
adversely affect the health, welfare, or safety of persons residing or working
in the neighborhood of the development site or so as to be materially
detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to property or improvements in
the neighborhood, the village council may suspend or revoke the site
development permit.
      1.   Suspension of a permit shall be by a written stop work order issued
by the village council and delivered to the permittee or his agent or the
person performing the work. The stop work order shall be effective immediately,
shall state the specific violations cited, and shall state the conditions under
which work may be resumed. A stop work order shall remain in effect until the
next regularly scheduled meeting of the village council at which the conditions
of the subsections below can be met.
      2.   No site development permit shall be permanently suspended or revoked
until a hearing is held by the village council. Written notice of such hearing
shall be served on the permittee, either personally or by registered mail, and
shall state:
         a.   The grounds for complaint or reasons for suspension or
revocation, in clear and concise language; and
         b.   The time when and place where such hearing will be held. Such
notice shall be served on the permittee at least five (5) days prior to the
date set for the hearing. At such hearing, the permittee shall be given an
opportunity to be heard and may call witnesses and present evidence on his
behalf. At the conclusion of the hearing the village council shall determine
whether the permit shall be suspended or revoked.
   C.   Violations And Penalties: No person shall construct, enlarge, alter,
repair, or maintain any grading, excavation or fill, or cause the same to be
done, contrary to or in violation of any terms of this chapter. Any person
violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor, and each day during which any violation of any of the provisions
of this chapter is committed, continued, or permitted shall constitute a
separate offense. Upon conviction of any such violation, such person,
partnership, or corporation shall be punished by a fine of not more than one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each offense. In addition to any other penalty
authorized by this section, any person, partnership, or corporation convicted
of violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be required to restore
the site to the condition existing prior to commission of the violation, or to
bear the expense of such restoration. (Ord. 10-09, 8-17-2010)
TITLE 11
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL SUBDIVISION PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Purpose And Jurisdiction
11-1-2: Rules And Definitions
11-1-3: Validity
11-1-4: Violation; Penalty
11-1-1: PURPOSE AND JURISDICTION:
Because each new subdivision accepted by the village becomes a permanent unit
in the basic physical structure of the future community, and to which the
future community will, of necessity, be forced to adhere, all subdivisions
hereafter planned within the incorporated limits of the village, and within the
unincorporated area lying one and one-half (11/2) miles beyond the corporate
limits, shall, in all respects, be in full compliance with the regulations
hereinafter contained in this title. These regulations are designed to provide
for the orderly and harmonious development of the village, for the coordination
of streets within new subdivisions with other existing or planned streets, and
to secure a uniform system of utilities and services, and otherwise to promote
realization of the comprehensive plan.
It is the intent of the village for the planning commission to act proactively
with the developer to encourage cooperation and to give helpful direction.
(Ord. 11-13, 10-4-2011)
11-1-2: RULES AND DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Rules Of Construction: The language set forth in the text of this title
shall be interpreted in accordance with the following rules of construction:
      1.   The singular number includes the plural and the plural the singular;
      2.   The present tense includes the past and future tenses and the future
the present;
      3.   The word "shall" is mandatory, while the word "may" is permissive;
      4.   The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter;
      5.   Whenever a word or term defined hereinafter appears in the text of
this title, its meaning shall be construed as set forth in the definition
thereof, and any word appearing in parenthesis directly after a word herein
defined shall be construed in the same sense as the word; and
      6.   The following words and terms, wherever they occur in this title,
shall be construed as herein defined.
   B.   Definitions:
    ALLEY: A minor way which is used primarily for vehicular access to the back
or side of properties abutting upon and having access to a street.
   ARTERIAL STREET: A street so designated in the major street plan.
   BLOCK: A tract of land bounded by streets, or by a combination of streets
and public parks, railroad right of way, or other similar natural boundaries. A
block may be located in part beyond the boundary lines of the corporate limits
of the village.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE: A line within a lot or other parcel of land, which
denotes the area between such line and the adjacent street right of way line
where a building and other obstructions are prohibited, except those
obstructions that are permitted by zoning ordinance regulations.
   COLLECTOR STREET: A street which carries traffic from minor streets to
arterial streets, including the principal entrance streets of residential
developments and the principal streets for circulation within such a
development.
   COMPLETION BOND: A security (letter of credit from a banking institution or
a surety bond acceptable to the village) placed on file with the village clerk
by the developer to guarantee the completion of required subdivision
improvements, made payable to the village of Seneca (reference section
11-6-11, "Form Irrevocable Letter Of Credit", of this title).
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: Refers to the composite of the functional and geographic
elements of the comprehensive plan of the village and environs or any segment
thereof, in the form of plans, maps, charts, text of reports, implementing
ordinances, and the official map.
   CUL-DE-SAC: A short minor street ending in a turnaround designed and
extended as a permanent terminus.
   DEAD END STREET: Any street, other than a cul-de-sac which has only one
outlet.
   EASEMENT: A quantity of land set aside over or under which a liberty,
privilege, or advantage in land without profit is dedicated and is distinct
from ownership of the land or is granted either to the public, a particular
person, or a combination of both.
   EXPRESSWAY: A street or highway to which access is limited or controlled,
designed to move vehicular traffic between communities or other large areas.
Included in this definition are tollway, freeway, and turnpike.
   FINAL PLAT: A map or plan of a subdivision and any accompanying material as
described in chapter 4 of this title.
   FRONTAGE ROAD: A minor street which is parallel to and either adjacent to or
within the right of way of a thoroughfare.
   HALF STREET: When a proposed street has as its centerline, or within its
right of way, the boundaries of one or more tracts, that portion of the street
on either side of such tract boundary shall be known as a half street.
   LAND IMPROVEMENT: Any sanitary sewerage system, storm sewer system, utility
systems, water supply and distribution systems, roadway, side strip, sidewalk,
pedestrianway, no access strip, off street parking area, lot grading, or other
improvement which the village may require under this title.
   LOT: For zoning purposes, as covered by this title, a lot is a parcel of
land of at least sufficient size to meet minimum zoning requirements for use,
coverage and area, and to provide such yards and other open spaces as are
herein required. Such lot shall have frontage on an improved public street and
may consist of any of the following, provided that in no case of division or
combination shall any residual lot or parcel be created which does not meet the
requirements of this title:
      1.   A single lot of record;
      2.   A portion of a lot of record;
      3.   A combination of complete lots of record, of complete lots of record
and portions of lots of record, or of portions of lots of record;
      4.   A parcel of land described by metes and bounds;
      5.   A portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land intended for
transfer of ownership or for building development.
   LOT, BUTT: A lot at the end of a block and located between two (2) corner
lots.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE (THROUGH LOT): A lot which has a pair of opposite lot
lines along two (2) substantially parallel streets, and is not a corner lot.
   MAJOR STREET: See definition of Arterial Street.
   MAJOR STREET PLAN: A layout of major streets, as contained in the
comprehensive plan. The streets are those intended to be developed into the
main carrying arteries of the village's future traffic.
   MARGINAL ACCESS ROAD/STREET: A minor street which is approximately parallel
and adjacent to an arterial street or expressway, and which provides access to
abutting properties and protection from through traffic.
   MINOR STREET: A street of limited continuity. Its primary purpose is to
serve abutting properties.
   "NO ACCESS" STRIP: A land area at least twelve feet (12') wide along the
rear lot line of a double frontage lot and abutting a thoroughfare within which
no vehicular driveway shall be permitted.
   OFFICIAL MAP: The official map of Seneca, Illinois.
   OWNER OR SUBDIVIDER: Shall include person, firm, association, partnership,
private corporation, public or quasi-public corporation, or combination of any
of them, or other legal entity having sufficient proprietary interest in the
land sought to be subdivided or divided to commence and maintain proceedings
under the provisions of this title.
   PEDESTRIANWAY: A right of way across or within a block designated for
pedestrian use.
   PLAN COMMISSION: The plan commission of Seneca, Illinois.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT: A tentative map or plan of a proposed subdivision as
described in chapter 3 of this title.
   RESUBDIVISION: The relocation of property boundaries, or the reallocation of
property in a plat of record.
   RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a road,
sidewalk, railroad, electric transmission line, oil and gas pipeline, water
main, sanitary or storm sewer, or for other special uses.
   ROADWAY: That portion of the street designated for vehicular use.
   SIDE STRIP: The unpaved strip of land within a street right of way and is
parallel to the roadway.
   SIDEWALK: That portion of a public right of way paved or otherwise surfaced
which is intended for pedestrian use only.
   SKETCH PLAN: An informal plat of a proposed subdivision layout with rough
dimensions and/or drawn to scale, for use by the developer in initial meetings
with the village prior to officially filing a preliminary plat of subdivision
(need not be prepared by an engineer or surveyor).
   STORM SEWER: A closed conduit for conveying collected stormwater.
   STREET: A right of way which affords primary means of access by pedestrians
and vehicles to abutting properties, whether designated as a street, avenue,
highway, road, boulevard, easement or however otherwise designated.
   STREET WIDTH: The shortest distance between the right of way lines of a
given street.
   SUBDIVISION:
      1.   A described tract of land which is to be or has been divided into
two (2) or more parcels of land;
      2.   Any division of land which creates a lot for transfer of ownership
and/or building development where a new street is involved; or
      3.   The dedication of streets, ways, or other areas for the use of the
public. The division of a tract, parcel, or lot into parcels or lots all of
which resultant parcels or lots exceed five (5) acres and if a new street is
not involved, or the division of land for the purpose of transfer of ownership
to adjoining property owners and such division does not create an additional
lot or lots, provided that a contract for sale requiring conformity with this
title may be entered into, shall not be deemed to be a subdivision. A certified
plat of survey and when required by the village council conformance with
applicable provisions of this title shall be required for the division of land
when a new lot is created for the purpose of transfer of ownership and/or
building development and a new street is not involved. The term "subdivision"
includes resubdivision and, where it is appropriate to the context, relates to
the process of subdividing or to the land subdivided.
   SUBDIVISION DESIGN STANDARDS: The basic land planning principles established
as guides for the preparation of preliminary plats.
   SURVEYOR: A land surveyor registered as such in the state of Illinois.
   THOROUGHFARE: A street with a high degree of continuity and service as an
arterial trafficway between the various districts of the village and its
environs.
   VILLAGE: The village of Seneca, Illinois.
   VILLAGE CLERK: The village clerk of the village of Seneca, Illinois.
   VILLAGE COUNCIL: The village council of the village of Seneca, Illinois.
   VILLAGE ENGINEER: A professional engineer, registered in the state of
Illinois, who has been duly appointed as the village engineer of the village,
or who has been hired by the village as its consulting engineer.
   ZONING TITLE: The zoning ordinance 1  of the village of Seneca, Illinois,
and all maps pertaining thereto for subdivisions located within the corporate
limits of Seneca; and shall mean the zoning ordinance of the appropriate county
having jurisdiction for subdivisions located in unincorporated areas within one
and one-half (11/2) miles of the village of Seneca. (Ord. 11-13, 10-4-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 10 of this code.
11-1-3: VALIDITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this title is for
any reason held to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of
the remaining portions of this title. (Ord. 11-13, 10-4-2011)
11-1-4: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation which is charged with a duty under this title
and who fails, neglects or refuses to abide by the same or to perform such
duty, or who knowingly or unknowingly violates any of the provisions of this
title shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall
be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) or more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00). Each day that the violation of this title continues shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense and shall be punishable as such.
(Ord. 11-13, 10-4-2011)
CHAPTER 2
PROCEDURE FOR THE REVIEW OF PLATS
SECTION:
11-2-1: Responsibility
11-2-2: Classes Of Subdivision
11-2-3: Duties Of The Subdivider; Plan Commission
11-2-4: Stages Of Approval
11-2-5: Form Subdivision-1
11-2-6: Minor Land Division
11-2-1: RESPONSIBILITY:
Before subdividing any tract or parcel of land in the village and the
unincorporated areas within one and one-half (11/2) miles of the village
limits, an owner or subdivider shall:
   A.   Submit A Sketch Plan: Submit to the planning commission a sketch plan
of the proposed subdivision showing the street system, arrangement of lots, and
location of public use areas.
   B.   Meet With Commission: Meet with the planning commission to secure
information relative to requirements of the comprehensive plan, official map,
zoning ordinance, subdivision ordinance, and any other applicable village
ordinance.
   C.   Preliminary Plat Submittal: Prior to preliminary plat submittal, the
developer shall:
      1.   Submit a certificate of ownership for the proposed property to be
subdivided. If the property is owned by someone other than the subdivider, a
letter of permission to subdivide shall be supplied from the property owner.
      2.   Submit a financial statement along with a credit report of the
subdivider, with a letter from the subdivider's bank indicating the approval
from that facility to provide necessary funds to the subdivider for the
proposed subdivision in its entirety. (Ord. 11-13, 10-4-2011)
11-2-2: CLASSES OF SUBDIVISION:
   A.   Class 1 Subdivision: A "minor land division" (see section
11-2-6 of this chapter) containing not more than five (5) lots, each lot
fronting on an existing, improved, public, minor street, not involving any new
street or road or the extension of municipal utilities, not adversely affecting
the development of the remainder of the parcel or adjoining property, and not
in conflict with any provision or portion of the official plan, zoning title,
or this title. These "minor land divisions" will require the subdivider or
developer to proceed through the sketch plan process, and need not present a
preliminary plat prior to the final plat being submitted for approval.
   B.   Class 2 Subdivision: Any subdivision which does not meet the
specifications for a class 1 subdivision. (Ord. 11-13, 10-4-2011)
11-2-3: DUTIES OF THE SUBDIVIDER; PLAN COMMISSION:
   A.   Subdivider: The prospective subdivider is urged to consult informally
with the plan commission and, where pertinent, county officials, state
agencies, and public utility companies, on the availability of services and
public facilities in the area to be subdivided. He is also encouraged to study
the pertinent rules and regulations including the zoning title (see title 10 of
this code), and especially this title.
   B.   Plan Commission: The plan commission is responsible for discouraging
not only premature development, but also development in unsuitable areas that
are inaccessible or hazardous or lack services. The plan commission is also
charged with encouraging replatting of inadequate subdivisions and coordinating
the platting of small parcels of adjacent land.
   C.   Subdivider And Plan Commission: Form subdivision-1, as found in section
11-2-5 of this chapter will be used by the plan commission to track the
progress of subdivision applications and approvals, changes and denials. The
subdivider should familiarize himself with this form in order to understand the
preliminary plat, engineering plans, and final plat approval process.
   D.   Exemptions: Exemptions to subdivision procedures may be granted by the
plan commission for subdivision of one parcel of land into two (2) parcels of
land (considered a "minor land division"), provided that no new streets or
public improvements are required and the new lots meet all applicable zoning
criteria in section
11-2-6 of this chapter. The developer shall be required to prepare a final plat
for approval and to have that final plat recorded in accordance with subsection
11-2-4A6 of this chapter. (Ord. 11-13, 10-4-2011)
11-2-4: STAGES OF APPROVAL:
   A.   All subdivision plats shall be processed in four (4) stages leading to
approval for recording, except that in specified instances as specified by this
title certain stages may be waived or combined. The four (4) stages are: 1) the
sketch plan, 2) the preliminary plat, 3) engineering plans, and 4) the final
plat.
      1.   Sketch Plan: The subdivider shall meet with the plan commission in a
preliminary conference which shall be scheduled by appointment. Prior to the
conference he shall submit to the plan commission a rough site sketch showing
the following:
         a.   The boundaries and dimensions of the property to be subdivided;
         b.   Land characteristics such as natural drainage, swamp areas,
wooded areas, and hedges, on and adjacent to the tract;
         c.   Existing easements: location, width and purpose;
         d.   Streets on and adjacent to the tract, location and size of water
mains, fire hydrants, gas mains, storm and sanitary sewers, including invert
elevations of sewers to which connections are to be made, and location of any
streetlights adjacent to or on the tract;
         e.   Other conditions on the tract and adjacent land, including
approximate directions and gradient of ground slope, any embankments or
retaining walls; character and locations of buildings and other structures,
railroads, power lines, towers, and other nearby nonresidential land uses of
adverse influence; owners of adjacent unplanted land;
         f.   Zoning on and adjacent to the tract;
         g.   Proposed public improvements; highways or other major
improvements planned by public authorities for future construction on or near
the tract;
         h.   The proposed layout of streets, blocks, and lots;
         i.   The proposed location of business, park, and other nonresidential
areas;
         j.   Existing covenants affecting the property.
      2.   Purpose: The purposes of this conference are to:
         a.   Develop cooperation and confidence;
         b.   Familiarize the developer with requirements;
         c.   Do away with major revisions of the preliminary plats;
         d.   Save the village and developer time and money;
         e.   Provide assistance to small scale subdividers;
         f.   Classify the subdivision as class 1 or class 2.
            (1)   Sketch plans of subdivision classified by the plan commission
at this stage as "class 1 subdivision" may proceed directly to the fourth or
final plat stage with approval of the plan commission.
            (2)   Sketch plans of subdivision classified as "class 2
subdivision" shall proceed with the preliminary plat;
         g.   Establish the amount of the professional fee deposit, according
to the village's professional fee ordinance, that the developer shall provide
to the village clerk prior to proceeding to the preliminary plat.
      3.   Preliminary Plat: The preliminary plat is a drawing which shall be
prepared by an engineer subsequent to and in accordance with the agreements
reached in the sketch plan conference. It shall be prepared in accordance with
chapter 3 of this title and all other applicable provisions of this title and
other ordinances, and four (4) copies shall be filed with the village clerk,
along with an application for approval of the preliminary plat to the village
clerk and to include: a business plan and construction schedule, soil report
from a licensed soils engineer for the site.
         a.   Action By The Clerk: The village clerk shall refer copies of the
plat and application to the planning commission at least ten (10) days in
advance at the next meeting of the plan commission.
         b.   Action By Plan Commission: The plan commission shall notify the
owner or subdivider as to the time and place of the plan commission meeting at
which he will be afforded an opportunity of being heard, and shall approve or
disapprove the application for preliminary plat approval within ninety (90)
days from the date of the application or the filing by the applicant of the
last item of required supporting data, whichever date is later, unless such
time is extended by mutual consent.
            (1)   If such plat is approved, the village clerk shall attach a
certified copy of the order or resolution of approval to a copy of the plat,
and the corporate authority shall accept or reject said plat within thirty (30)
days after its next regular stated meeting following the action of the plan
commission.
            (2)   If the proposed plat is disapproved, the order or resolution
shall state the reasons for the disapproval, specifying with particularity the
aspects in which the proposed plat fails to conform to the official map. A copy
of the order or resolution shall be filed in the office of the village clerk,
and within thirty (30) days the clerk shall furnish a copy of said order or
resolution to the applicant.
            (3)   Preliminary approval shall not qualify a plat for recording.
         c.   Class 2 Subdivision: Approval of the preliminary plat as returned
to the subdivider shall be construed to be an expression of approval of the
general layout, and authorizes the subdivider to proceed with the preparation
of improvement plans and the final plat.
         d.   Notice Of Approval: Upon approval of the preliminary plat by the
village council, the following notice of approval shall be stamped upon four
(4) prints thereof, and required signatures affixed:
   NOTICE OF APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY PLAT
"Notice is hereby given that the preliminary plat of a subdivision shown hereon
has received approval by the Village Council of the Village of Seneca,
Illinois, and upon compliance by the subdivider with requirements of
qualifications governing the approval of preliminary plats and with other
revisions and stipulations that may be required, the Village Council will
receive the final plat for consideration when submitted by the subdivider in
such form and within the procedures and time as required by this ordinance."
      The Village Council of the Village of Seneca, Illinois
         Date                      , 20    
         By    
         Mayor
         Attest    
         Village Clerk
      The Planning Commission of the Village of Seneca, Illinois
         Date                      , 20    
         By    
         Chairman
         Attest    
         Secretary
         e.   Print Distribution: Four (4) prints of such approved preliminary
plat shall be distributed by the village clerk as follows:
            (1)   One print shall be sent to the plan commission;
            (2)   One print shall be sent to the village engineer;
            (3)   One print shall be retained by the village clerk for filing;
and
            (4)   One print shall be returned to the subdivider.
         f.   Plat Approval: Approval of the preliminary plat by the plan
commission and village council shall be conditioned upon stipulations as set
forth in section
11-3-4 of this title.
Within seven (7) days of receiving the approved preliminary plat from the mayor
and the recording fee from the subdivider, the village clerk shall submit said
plat to the LaSalle or Grundy County recorder for recording and said
preliminary plat shall become the property of the county of LaSalle or the
county of Grundy.
      4.   Engineering Plans:
         a.   Engineering plans are drawings, specifications, and construction
cost estimates for all new construction of facilities in the development, and
shall comply with the provisions of section
11-3-4 and chapter 6 of this title.
         b.   Such engineering plans may be submitted at the same time as the
preliminary plat or at any time up to and including the date of filing the
final plat for village approval. Plans must be completed prior to final plat
approval application.
      5.   Development In Sections: The applicant may elect to have final
approval of a geographic part or parts of the plat that received preliminary
approval, and may delay application for approval of other parts until a later
date or dates beyond one year with the approval of the village council;
provided, all facilities required to serve the part or parts for which final
approval is sought have been provided. In such case only such part or parts of
the plat as have received final approval shall be recorded.
      6.   Final Plat: The final plat is a record of the subdivision as
surveyed in the field. It shows property lines and other dimensions important
to the subdivider in selling lots, and to the public in keeping records of
street lines, easements and utility locations.
         a.   Within twelve (12) months after approval of the preliminary plat
by the planning commission, the owner or subdivider shall file an application
for approval of the final plat with the village clerk for action by the
planning commission. In cases where the application for approval of a final
plat is made for a part or parts of an approved preliminary plat, the planning
commission may extend the time for application of approval of final plats for
other parts of the approved preliminary plat until a date or dates beyond the
twelve (12) month period.
If a final plat approval application is not received within twelve (12) months,
the preliminary plat is no longer valid, and must be resubmitted for approval.
         b.   The application for final plat approval shall include the mylar
final plat or its equivalent measuring twenty four inches by thirty six inches
(24" x 36") with six (6) copies of the final plat, along with six (6) copies of
all supporting maps, improvement plans, specifications, estimates of cost,
other calculations and required documents. The final plat shall retain the
substantial design characteristics of the approved preliminary plat, except
that the plan commission may recommend and the village council may require such
changes or revisions as are deemed necessary in the interest and needs of the
community, in keeping with the provisions of this title. Accordingly, the
village council shall refer the application for approval of the final plat to
the plan commission for recommendation and report relative to design
characteristics of the final plat.
         c.   When the subdivider or owner, submitting the application for
final plat approval, has filed with the village clerk all drawings, maps, and
other documents required by this title to be furnished in support thereof, and
when all such material meets all requirements of this title and other
applicable ordinances of the village, the village council shall approve or
disapprove the proposed final plat within thirty (30) days after its regular
stated meeting following the action by the planning commission. This is only if
all submittals have been made. The developer and village council may mutually
agree on a time period greater than thirty (30) days.
         d.   Upon approval by the village council, the village clerk shall
secure four (4) contact prints of the approved final plat, and four (4) copies
of the approved supporting documents.
            (1)   One contact print of the final plat, and when applicable, one
copy of the accompanying protective covenants, and one copy of the supporting
documents shall be delivered to the plan commission for the files.
            (2)   One contact print and all specifications, drawings, and
estimates shall be delivered to the village engineer.
            (3)   One contact print and all other supporting documents shall be
retained by the village clerk.
            (4)   One copy to subdivider.
            (5)   Only the village clerk shall record the original of the final
plat of subdivision after all required signatures have been secured by the
developer. The village clerk shall sign the final plat only after all other
required signatures have been secured, and only if the required subdivision
improvement completion bond, and all recording and printing fees have been
provided to the clerk.
            (6)   The engineer/surveyor for the developer shall supply the
village clerk with a letter directing the clerk to record the final plat, and
enough copies of the final plat as may be required by the recorder.
         e.   The final plat in exact form as approved shall be filed for
record in the recorder of deeds office of LaSalle County or Grundy County
depending on the county in which the subdivision exists, by the village clerk
after receipt of the required subdivision improvement completion bond, and all
recording and printing fees from the developer. (Ord. 11-13, 10-4-2011)
11-2-5: FORM SUBDIVISION-1:
Village of Seneca  Plan Commission  Form Subdv-1 Rev. 1-19-94
          Subdivision
Location of Property    
Owner/Subdivider        Tele    
Address
Assigned by Village Council-Date        /        /       
1st Plan Commission Meeting Date        /        /       
SKETCH - Plan Commission
Sketch Plan Approved Date        /        /       
PRELIMINARY PLAT - Plan Commission
Fee - At the time of application for approval of a Preliminary Plat, the
subdivider shall pay a processing fee payable to the Village of Seneca in
accordance with the following schedule:
$25.00 per lot with a minimum fee of $200.00 + Publications and Legal Costs.
Processing Fee Paid Date        /        /        Check No.           
Written questions to subdivider        /        /        
Answers from subdivider        /        /       
Preliminary Plat Approved Date        /        /       
Plan Commission recommendation sent to Village Council date        /        /
      
PRELIMINARY PLAT - VILLAGE COUNCIL
           Approved            Not Approved on this date        /        /
      
If approved, Village Clerk shall attach a certified copy of the order or
resolution of approval to a copy of the plat. A copy of the order or resolution
shall be filed in the office of the Village Clerk.
ENGINEERING - Plan Commission
Fee - At the time of application for approval of the Engineering Plans, the
subdivider shall pay a fee sufficient to compensate the Village Engineer for an
examination of the Engineering Plans and the estimated construction cost of
improvements.
Written questions to subdivider        /        /        Fee Paid $          
Answers from subdivider        /        /       Check No.           
Engineering Plans Approved Date        /        /       
ANNEXATION - Plan Commission
Annexation needed            YES            NO Annexation agreement committee
members    
Annexation agreement approved by Plan Commission date        /        /       
FINAL PLAT - Plan Commission
Written questions to subdivider        /        /        Answer retn'd        /
       /       
Final Plat Approved Date        /        /       
Plan Commission recommendation sent to Village Council date        /        /
      
PUD - Planned Unit Development - Plan Commission
PUD requested            YES            NO
Fees - The following fees shall be paid to the Village Clerk by the developer
of a planned unit development:
1. For approval of an outline development plan
2. For approval of the preliminary plan
3. For approval of the final plan
Total fee for items 1, 2, and 3 is $1500.00 plus Engineering Fees.
4. For approval of any changes in or amendments to preliminary plan $300.00
dollars, plus Engineering Fees.
Does this property satisfy standards of Zoning Ordinance?            YES
           NO Title 10.
Size of PUD            acres Tract of land sufficient to accommodate 60 or more
dwelling units?            YES            NO
5 to 60 dwelling units?            YES            NO Article 15-7 Para. E-2a,
b, and c.
Fee paid by        Date        /        /        Check No.    
PUD Outline Development Plan Approved Date        /        /       
PUD Preliminary Development Plan Approved Date        /        /       
PUD Final Development Plan Approved Date        /        /       
Plan Commission recommendation sent to Village Council Date        /        /
      
REZONING - Plan Commission
Rezoning Needed            YES            NO From Zone             to Zone
          
$200.00 hearing fee paid by     Check no.             Date        /        /
      
Hearing Date        /        /        Time       P.M. established by     on
this
date        /        /       .
Hearing Notice given Paper       /      /       Notice rec'd from Paper       /
      /      
Publication Cost $           Paid by            Check No.            Date
       /        /       
Plan Commission             Approve            Not Approve
Plan Commission recommendation sent to Village Council date        /        /
      
VARIANCE - Zoning Board of Appeal
Variance Needed            YES            NO Describe variance needed   
$200.00 Hearing fee paid by            Check No.            Date        /
       /       
Hearing Date        /        /        Time          P.M. Established by
                 on this date        /        /        .
Hearing Notice given Paper       /      /       Notice Rec'd from paper       /
      /      
Publication Cost $            Paid by           Check No.           Date       
/        /       
Zoning Board of Appeals            Approve            Not Approve
Zoning Board of Appeals recommendation sent to Village Council on this
date        /        /        .
VARIANCE - Village Board
           Approve            Not approve on this date        /        /       
ANNEXATION - Village Council
Hearing Date        /        /        Time            P.M. Established by the
Village Council on this date        /        /        .
Hearing Notice given paper       /       /       Notice rec'd from Paper
      /      /      
Village Council            Approve            Not Approve Date        /       
/       
FINAL PLAT - Village Council
           Approve            Not Approve on this date        /        /       
RECORDING
Fee - At the time of receiving approval of a Final Plat, the subdivider shall
pay a fee sufficient to cover the cost of recording.
Within seven (7) days of receiving the approved final plat from the Mayor and
the recording fee from the subdivider, the Village Clerk shall submit said Plat
to the LaSalle or Grundy County Recorder for recording and said Final Plat
shall become the property of the County of LaSalle or the County of Grundy.
Recording of the Final Plat authorizes the issuance of building permits, but
does not constitute acceptance of proffered or required dedications.
Recorded at the LaSalle County Recorder/Grundy County Recorder
(Scratch the item that does not apply) on this date        /        /       
Village Clerk - Village of Seneca
H3 1-19-94
(Ord. 11-13, 10-4-2011)
11-2-6: MINOR LAND DIVISION:
In case of redividing or resubdividing a lot or lots in any recorded
subdivision into five (5) lots or less, which does not involve new street
dedications or easements of access, no roadway construction, and no village
utility extensions to serve the proposed resubdivided lots, the developer must
proceed through the sketch plan process, may skip the preliminary plan process,
and may proceed to the final plat process.
The final plat shall be submitted in the form provided in this title and shall
be approved or disapproved by the planning commission and sent on to the
village council for final approval in accordance with the applicable final plat
provisions in this title. The subdivider shall follow the regulations set forth
in this title for final plats, except as it may require action and
documentation with respect to subdivision improvements, which improvements, in
the case of a minor subdivision, exist and need not be made.
Any division or redivision of land which does not meet the requirements of the
minor land division shall fulfill all requirements of the subdivision
regulation in order to be approved by the village of Seneca. (Ord. 11-13, 10-4-
2011)
CHAPTER 3
PRELIMINARY PLAT PROCEDURES
SECTION:
11-3-1: Procedure For Filing
11-3-2: Design Features
11-3-3: Plans And Specifications For Improvements
11-3-4: Fee For Filing
11-3-1: PROCEDURE FOR FILING:
The preliminary plat shall be prepared by an engineer and drawn on reproducible
paper having a minimum size of thirty six inches by twenty four inches (36" x
24"), such that clear and legible prints can be made. An electronic version of
the drawing shall be provided. The preliminary plat shall show or be
accompanied by the following:
   A.   Identification And Description:
      1.   Proposed name of subdivision not duplicating name of any plat
heretofore recorded in the village or in Grundy County or LaSalle County,
Illinois.
      2.   Location by section, town, and range, and/or by other approved legal
description.
      3.   An accompanying boundary line survey map with accurate distances and
angles prepared and certified by a registered surveyor and an accompanying
topographic map with one foot (1') contour interval (unless reduced to 2 feet
by plan commission, village council, or village engineer), indicating source of
survey, shall accompany the preliminary plat.
      4.   Names and addresses of the owner or subdivider of the proposed
subdivision and designer of such subdivision, and date of preparation.
      5.   Graphic (engineering) scale shall not exceed one hundred feet to one
inch (100' = 1").
      6.   North point (designated as true north).
   B.   Existing Conditions:
      1.   Boundary Line Map: Boundary lines of proposed subdivision in
accordance with subsection A3 of this section.
      2.   Total Acreage: Total acreage therein.
      3.   Existing Districts: Existing zoning districts in proposed
subdivision and adjacent tracts.
      4.   Existing Rights Of Way: Location, widths, and names of all existing
or previously platted streets or other rights of way showing type of
improvement (if any), railroad and utility right of way, parks and other public
open spaces, permanent buildings and structures, easements and section and
corporate lines within the tract and to a distance of one hundred feet (100')
beyond the tract.
      5.   Existing Facilities: Location and size of existing sewer lines,
water mains, culverts, or other underground facilities within the tract and to
a distance of one hundred feet (100') beyond the tract; also locations of catch
basins, manholes, valves, and hydrants, and indicating such data as surface and
invert elevations.
      6.   Location Map: Location map, if required by the plan commission,
drawn at a scale of not less than one inch equals one thousand feet (1" =
1,000'), showing boundary line of adjoining unsubdivided or subdivided land
within an area bounded by nearest thoroughfare or other natural boundaries,
identifying type of use of surrounding land and showing alignments of existing
streets.
      7.   Topographic Data: Topographic data including existing contours at
vertical intervals of not more than one foot (1'), unless otherwise approved by
the village council (topographic data shall refer to United States geodetic
survey or adjusted county datum); and location of watercourse, marshes,
wetlands, and 100-year floodplains, and other significant features. Soil boring
data shall be submitted unless otherwise deleted as a requirement by the
village council.
      8.   Monuments And Survey Markers: Locations of, or reference to,
locations of existing monuments or survey markers used in preparation of survey
and grade elevation of each monument and marker.
      9.   Proposed Public Improvements: Highways or other major improvements
planned by public authorities for future construction on or near the tract,
according to the information received from the plan commission at the sketch
plan conference.
      10.   Subsurface Conditions: Depth of groundwater unless test pits are
dry at a depth of eight feet (8'); location and results of any tests made to
ascertain subsurface soil and rock conditions.
      11.   Water And Sanitary Sewer; Exception: No subdivision allowed without
village water and sanitary sewer unless a county health department certificate
stating "Private well and private sewage disposal systems will be allowed for
this subdivision" is presented. (Ord. 11-13, 10-4-2011)
11-3-2: DESIGN FEATURES:
   A.   The preliminary plan shall be in substantial accord with the
comprehensive plan as amended from time to time.
   B.   Layout of streets showing right of way widths and street names (not
duplicating the name of any street heretofore used in the village and its
environs unless such street is an extension of or in line with an already named
street, in which event that name shall be used) and showing proposed through
streets extended to boundaries of subdivision.
   C.   Location and width of alleys, pedestrianways, and utility easements.
   D.   Layout, total number of lots, and dimensions of the lot containing the
minimum width and depth and the lot containing the maximum width and depth.
Square footage of each lot and portion of lot in water, if any, shall be
indicated on the plat.
   E.   Minimum front and side street building setback lines indicating
dimensions.
   F.   Areas (other than those listed in subsections B through D of this
section), if any, intended to be dedicated or reserved for nonresidential
purposes, indicating in each the approximate acreage. Such areas shall be
designated by letter or number.
   G.   Typical cross section of streets and alleys showing construction
materials, together with an indication of the proposed stormwater runoff.
   H.   Proposed location, size, and gradients and invert elevations of
sanitary and storm sewers, and open drainageways if any, and proposed method of
sewage and waste disposal. The plat shall also show the location of any 100-
year floodplains.
   I.   Proposed street, pavement widths, approximate street elevations and
gradients.
   J.   Proposed locations and sizes of water mains, valves, and hydrants.
   K.   Location of proposed streetlights and easements therefor.
   L.   The grading plan shall show the exact location of the encroachment, if
any, of the 100-year floodplain, and the elevation of the 100-year flood, and
evidence that each lot has buildable area above the 100-year floodplain. No
portion of any lot may be covered by a floodplain. No land will be approved for
subdivision which is subject to periodic flooding or which contains inadequate
drainage facilities or other topographic conditions which may increase danger
to health, life or property or aggravate erosion or flood hazard unless the
subdivider agrees to make improvements which will, in the opinion of the
village engineer and plan commission, make such land safe for development and
occupancy. (Ord. 11-13, 10-4-2011)
11-3-3: PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS FOR IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   The subdivider shall submit proposed detailed grading plans of blocks
and lots. The plan shall show proposed top of foundation grades and proposed
lot line grading which, when completed, will provide for overland stormwater
flow from all lots to streets or storm sewers without causing flooding or
standing water.
   B.   After the approval of the preliminary plat and prior to filing an
application for approval of a final plat, the subdivider shall submit to the
village clerk two (2) complete copies of all plans and specifications, prepared
by a licensed engineer, for required land improvements, and as required by the
plan commission, and village council, detailed grading plans of lots and
blocks. The village clerk shall forward one complete set of such copies of
plans and specifications for land improvements and grading plans to the plan
commission and one such set of plans and specifications to the village
engineer. The village engineer, plan commission and other public officials
having jurisdiction shall approve such plans and specifications or set forth
the revisions necessary for approval within thirty (30) days after being
provided the plans by the village clerk. Based upon the conditions of approval
of the plans and specifications the subdivider shall have the plans and
specifications revised accordingly covering such required land improvements.
Such revised plans and specifications shall be approved or disapproved by the
village engineer and village council, within thirty (30) days, and if approved,
such approval shall be certified on the final plat.
      1.   Required Plans And Drawings: The engineer shall submit to the plan
commission triplicate copies of the following plans, specifications, and cost
estimates bearing his signature and the imprint of his seal:
         a.   Plans and specifications for street construction, including
centerline profile and grade line of each street with a typical cross section
of the roadway. The street plan shall show the locations of drainage structures
and their sizes. The profile at grade lines shall be shown to a scale of one
inch to one hundred feet (1" = 100') horizontal and one inch to ten feet (1" =
10') vertical (standard federal aid sheets are preferred).
         b.   Plans, details, and specifications of proposed storm drainage
improvements.
         c.   Plans, details, and specifications of community water
distribution systems and of proposed community water supply facilities.
         d.   Plans, details, and specifications of community sewerage systems
and of community sewage treatment plants.
         e.   Plans, details, and specifications of proposed street lighting
systems, street signs, and sidewalks.
         f.   Detailed grading plan as required in subsection A of this
section.
         g.   The developer shall present a mature tree location and inventory
plan sheet with his improvement plans. This tree inventory shall show which
trees are to be saved and which are to be removed.
      2.   Supplementary Plans And Drawings: When unusual site conditions
exist, the plan commission may require such additional plans, specifications,
and drawings as are found necessary for an adequate review of the plat. The
plan commission shall request this additional material from the subdivider by
letter, stating therein the information requested and the particular of unusual
site conditions which make this information necessary. (Ord. 11-13, 10-4-2011)
11-3-4: FEE FOR FILING:
A fee shall be paid to the village clerk at the time of submission of the
preliminary plat. No plat shall be forwarded to the plan commission for review
without a receipt from the village clerk being exhibited showing full payment
of the fee. Payment of the fee is in no way contingent on whether the plat of
subdivision submitted is approved or disapproved. The fee shall be as follows:
   A.   Twenty five dollars ($25.00) per lot for residential subdivisions
(minimum $200.00 - except in minor subdivisions).
   B.   One hundred dollars ($100.00) per lot for commercial or industrial
subdivisions (minimum $500.00). (Ord. 11-13, 10-4-2011)
CHAPTER 4
FINAL PLAT PROCEDURES
SECTION:
11-4-1: General
11-4-2: Additional Delineation
11-4-3: Certificates
11-4-4: Engineer's Services
11-4-5: Record Of Plats
11-4-1: GENERAL:
All information required on the preliminary plat as herein set forth in chapter
3 of this title, except those required therein in subsections 11-3-1B3 through
B11 of this title shall be shown accurately and drawn at a scale of not more
than one hundred feet (100') to the inch with black waterproof drawing ink on
transparent mylar on one or more sheets each having a dimension of thirty six
inches by twenty four inches (36" x 24"), in a manner that clear and legible
transparent or contact prints and photostatic copies can be made. A computer
data disk of the final plat shall be submitted to the village. (Ord. 11-13, 10-
4-2011)
11-4-2: ADDITIONAL DELINEATION:
   A.   Accurate angular and linear dimensions of all lines, angles, and
curvatures, with functions used to describe all boundaries including: boundary
line survey of tract, streets, alleys, easements, areas to be reserved for
public use, and other important features. Error of closure of boundary line
surveys shall not exceed one in fifteen thousand (15,000) (1 foot for each
15,000 feet of perimeter survey). Angular error shall not exceed plus or minus
twenty (±20) seconds. Lot lines to show dimensions in feet and hundredths, and
when an angle occurs in any lot line between lot corners, the measurement of
the angle shall be shown in degrees, minutes, and seconds.
   B.   An identification system for all blocks and lots using consecutive
numbers.
   C.   True angles and distances to the nearest established street line and
official monuments (not less than 3), which shall be accurately described in
the plat by location, size, and elevation.
   D.   Municipal, township, or section lines accurately referenced to the line
of the subdivision by distance and angles of same are on the boundary or within
one hundred feet (100') of said subdivision.
   E.   Accurate location of all monuments which shall be placed at all lot
corners, block corners, angle points, and at intermediate points as shall be
required by the village engineer, and installed in such a manner that they may
be located by a registered surveyor. A minimum of three (3) monuments (iron
pipe or rod, 24 inches in length, placed in concrete from the top of the pipe
or rod to the bottom of the pipe or rod, having concrete of a minimum 10 inch
diameter) shall be placed throughout the subdivision boundary to assist in
preserving boundary corners that can be used to reset and check survey points
in the subdivision in the future. More than three (3) monuments may be required
by the planning commission, village council, or village engineer. All USGS,
state, county, village or other official benchmarks, monuments, or
triangulations stations in or adjacent to the property shall be preserved in
precise position. Show placement of iron pipe or rods (24 inches minimum
length) at all lot corners.
   F.   Accurate outlines of any areas to be dedicated or reserved for public
use or for the exclusive use of property owners within the subdivision.
   G.   Protective covenants, or filed as an accompanying document. If
protective covenants are recorded separately, there shall be a notation on the
final plat that indicates the recording information and document number where
the covenants are recorded.
   H.   Clearly show any areas that exist within a 100-year floodplain, and
indicate the flood insurance rate map number(s) that the floodplain is
referenced on, from the federal emergency management agency.
   I.   The top of the plat shall be oriented north and the plat shall contain
the north arrow.
   J.   Survey data sufficient to reproduce any line or reestablish any
monument in the subdivision.
   K.   The length of boundary lines of all streets, alleys, blocks, lots,
parcels, public grounds, easements, and rights of way, or enough information so
that the length of these lines can be derived by simple calculation. Where a
boundary line is an arch of a circle, the length of the chord shall be shown.
   L.   Consecutive letters or numbers on all blocks and consecutive numbers on
all lots throughout the plat.
   M.   An accurate table of all lot areas in square feet, with notation of lot
area inside bodies of water, if any. (Ord. 11-13, 10-4-2011)
11-4-3: CERTIFICATES:
The application for approval of the final plat shall not be deemed completed
until the following certificates, other than the village clerk certificates,
have been duly executed:
   OWNER'S CERTIFICATE & SCHOOL DISTRICT CERTIFICATE
STATE OF ILLINOIS   ) SS
COUNTY OF                   )
   This is to certify that the undersigned, is the legal owner of record of the
land described on the plat hereon drawn and shown hereon as subdivided, and has
caused said land to be surveyed, subdivided, staked, and platted as shown
hereon, for the purpose of having this plat recorded as provided by law.
   The undersigned hereby dedicates for public use the land shown on the plat
for thoroughfares, streets and public services; and also hereby reserve for
AT&T, ComEd, and Nicor Gas Company, or their successors or assigns, the
easement provisions which are stated on their standard forms attached hereto.
   And to certify that as owners of the property herein described in the
Surveyor's Certificate, which will be known as                        
Subdivision, to the best of our knowledge, is located within the boundaries of
Seneca Grade School District #170, and Seneca Township High School District
#160, (List Junior College) in LaSalle County, Illinois.
   Dated this            day of                      , 20           .
            Owner
   NOTARY CERTIFICATE
STATE OF ILLINOIS   ) SS
COUNTY OF                    )
   I, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the County and State
aforesaid, do hereby certify that                           , personally known
to me to be the same person whose name is subscribed to the foregoing Owner's
Certificate, did appear before me this day in person, and acknowledged and
affirmed that he has signed and delivered said instrument as his free and
voluntary act and deed for the uses and purpose therein set forth.
   Given under my hand and official seal this          day of             
20    .
SEAL
            Notary Public
   ENGINEERS AND OWNERS CERTIFICATE
STATE OF ILLINOIS   ) SS
COUNTY OF                    )
   To the best of our knowledge and belief the drainage of surface waters will
not be changed by the construction of this subdivision or any part thereof, or
that if such surface water drainage will be changed, reasonable provision has
been made for the collection and diversion of such surface waters into public
areas, or drains which the Owner has the right to use and then such surface
waters will be planned for in accordance with generally accepted engineering
practices so as to reduce the likelihood of damage to the adjoining property
because of construction of the subdivision. It is also certified that all
improvements for this subdivision have been designed in compliance with the
Village of Seneca Subdivision Regulations with respect to drainage.
Professional Engineer #   
Owner
   SURVEYOR'S CERTIFICATE
STATE OF ILLINOIS   ) SS
COUNTY OF                    )
   This is to certify that I,                           , Registered Illinois
Land Surveyor #                 , have surveyed and subdivided the following
described property to be known as                           Subdivision:
   [Insert Legal Description]
   as shown by the plat which is a correct representation of said survey and
subdivision. All distances are shown in feet and decimals thereof. I further
certify that all regulations enacted by the Village of Seneca relative to plats
and subdivisions have been complied with in the preparation of this plat.
   Also, I do further certify that part of the property shown on this plat of
subdivision is/is not located within a Special Flood Hazard Area as identified
by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).
   Given under my hand and seal this            day of                   ,
20     .
         Registered Illinois Land Surveyor
         Number                     
   VILLAGE COUNCIL CERTIFICATE
STATE OF ILLINOIS   ) SS
COUNTY OF                    )
   The Mayor and Village Council of the Village of Seneca, County of
                     , State of Illinois, hereby certify that said council has
duly approved the final plat of                           Subdivision on the
         
day of                     20        .
Attest:             
    Village Clerk       Mayor
   COUNTY CLERK CERTIFICATE
STATE OF ILLINOIS   ) SS
COUNTY OF                    )
   I,                      , County Clerk of                      County,
Illinois, do hereby certify that there are no delinquent general taxes, no
unpaid forfeited taxes, and no redeemable tax sales against any of the land
included in the annexed plat, known as                           Subdivision.
   Given under my hand and seal at                 ,                 County,
Illinois this            day of                 , 20          .
            County Clerk
   CERTIFICATE AS TO SPECIAL ASSESSMENT
STATE OF ILLINOIS   ) SS
COUNTY OF                    )
   I,                           , Treasurer of the Village of Seneca, do hereby
certify that there are no delinquent or unpaid current or forfeited special
assessments or any deferred installments thereof that have been apportioned
against the tract of land included in this plat, known as
                          Subdivision.
   Dated at Seneca,                       County, Illinois, this
                day of                     , 20            .
            Village Treasurer
   VILLAGE ENGINEER CERTIFICATE
STATE OF ILLINOIS   ) SS
COUNTY OF                    )
   I,                            , Village Engineer of the Village of Seneca,
Illinois, hereby certify that the land improvements described in the attached
plat of                           Subdivision, and the plans and specifications
thereof, meet with the minimum requirements of the Village of Seneca ordinances
and have been completed or a bond has been placed on file with the Village
Clerk to insure that the said improvements will be completed in accordance with
the plans and specifications on file with the Village of Seneca.
   Dated this            day of            , 20         .
            Village Engineer
   SENECA PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVAL
STATE OF ILLINOIS   ) SS
COUNTY OF                    )
   I, the undersigned, Chairman of the Planning Commission of the Village of
Seneca, County of                                      , and State of Illinois,
hereby certify that the said Commission has duly approved the Final Plat of
                                   Subdivision, attached hereto, on the
         , day of                       , 20            .
ATTEST:             
      Secretary      Chairman
   VILLAGE CLERK'S CERTIFICATE
STATE OF ILLINOIS   ) SS
COUNTY OF                    )
   I,                             , Village Clerk of the Village of Seneca,
Illinois, hereby certify that the above plat was presented to and by resolution
duly approved by the Village Board of Seneca at its meeting held on
                      , 20           , and that the required bond or other
guarantee has been posted for the completion of the improvements required by
the regulations of said Village.
In witness whereof I have set my hand and seal of the Village of Seneca,
Illinois, this          day of                       , 20           .
            Village Clerk
(Ord. 11-13, 10-4-2011)
11-4-4: ENGINEER'S SERVICES:
The cost incurred by the village for the review of submittals, plats, reports,
plans, and specifications by the village engineer shall be paid by the owner or
subdivider. Such costs shall be covered in a professional fee account funded by
the owner/subdivider of the subdivision. The amount of such fee account and
terms of use and replenishment are outlined in the village of Seneca
professional fee ordinance, and shall be followed by the subdivider. The fees
for inspection of all required land improvements by the village engineer shall
be paid by the subdivider in accordance with the professional fee ordinance.
(Ord. 11-13, 10-4-2011)
11-4-5: RECORD OF PLATS:
All of such plats of subdivisions, after the same have been submitted and
approved as provided in this title and recorded in the office of the recorder
of deeds of Grundy County or LaSalle County, shall be filed and kept by the
village clerk among the records of the village. Recording of final plats shall
be by the village clerk only. (Ord. 11-13, 10-4-2011)
CHAPTER 5
DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
11-5-1: Street Plan
11-5-2: Streets
11-5-3: Alleys And Pedestrianways
11-5-4: Easements
11-5-5: Block Standards
11-5-6: Lot Standards
11-5-7: Public Use Areas On The Official Map
11-5-8: Certificate Of Acceptance Of Streets
11-5-1: STREET PLAN:
   A.   Layout: The layout arrangement, character, extent, width, grade, and
location of streets in a subdivision plan shall conform to existing regulations
and policies and shall be based on thorough consideration of:
      1.   The village of Seneca comprehensive plan;
      2.   Existing street pattern;
      3.   The future circulation needs of nearby lands;
      4.   Topographic considerations and drainage;
      5.   Public convenience and safety;
      6.   The proposed use of land to be served. (Ord. 11-13, 10-4-2011)
11-5-2: STREETS:
   A.   Minimum Dimensions: All right of way widths shall conform to the
following minimum dimensions:
 
Type Of Streets    Residential Subdivision Manufacturing Or Business
                                           Subdivision
Collector streets1 70 feet                 80 feet2
Minor streets      66 feet                 70 feet
Cul-de-sac streets 66 feet                 70 feet
Half streets       Not permitted           Not permitted
Frontage roads     40 feet                 50 feet
                   Right of way widths and other design standards of
                   thoroughfares, including freeways, expressways, parkways,
                   major and secondary thoroughfares, shall be in accordance
Thoroughfares      with those designated on the official plan of the village or
                   by federal, state, or county authorities having
                   jurisdiction, whichever has the greater width and design
                   standards requirements.
 
      Notes:
         1.    A collector street may be required by the village council when
recommended by the plan commission: a) in a residential subdivision containing
20 acres or more in area and where the lots are 1/2 acre or less in area; b) in
any subdivision as an extension of an existing or planned collector street in
an adjacent subdivision; and c) in any manufacturing or business subdivision.
         2.    When the village engineer recommends and the planning commission
and village council approves, a 70 foot right of way may be allowed, provided
adequate right of way is available for turn lanes and traffic lanes as traffic
flow may require.
   B.   Curve Radius: Where there is a deflection in horizontal centerlines
within a given block at any given point in excess of ten degrees (10°), a curve
shall be inserted with a radius of not less than:
 
Collector streets 300 feet
Minor streets     100 feet
 
   C.   Curve Length: Different connecting street gradients shall be connected
with vertical curves. Minimum length in feet of these curves shall provide a
stopping sight distance of not less than three hundred feet (300'), measured
from an eye level four feet (4') in height, with a clear view of an obstacle
two feet (2') in height.
   D.   Minor Streets: Minor streets shall be so aligned that their use by
through traffic will be discouraged.
   E.   Centerline Offsets: Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than
one hundred fifty feet (150') will not be allowed, except when the village
engineer recommends, the planning commission recommends, and the village
council approves a lesser dimension.
   F.   Intersections: It must be evidenced that all street intersections and
confluences encourage safe and efficient traffic flow and, in general, be at or
near right angles avoiding acute angles. An intersection of more than two (2)
streets shall be avoided unless specific conditions of design indicate
otherwise. Street intersections with main highways shall be limited to not more
than one per quarter mile unless topographic and physical conditions require a
lesser distance. Street intersections shall be at right angles. Where unusual
conditions exist, the plan commission may permit intersection of less than
ninety degrees (90°) but not less than sixty degrees (60°). In all cases street
intersections and junctions shall be laid out so as to facilitate the safe flow
of traffic. In no case shall two (2) junctions be offset less than one hundred
twenty five feet (125').
   G.   Alleys: Alleys are not permitted in residential subdivisions unless
deemed necessary by the plan commission and village council in which case they
may be allowed, and alleys may be provided in multiple-family residence,
business and manufacturing subdivisions. If provided, the minimum alley right
of way shall be twenty feet (20') in residential subdivisions, and thirty feet
(30') in all others.
   H.   Cul-De-Sacs: A cul-de-sac street in single-family residential districts
shall be not more than five hundred feet (500') in length, measured along the
centerline from the street of origin to the end of the right of way, or may be
longer than five hundred (500) linear feet provided not more than fifteen (15)
lots abut upon its right of way line. In multiple-family residential districts,
such street shall not exceed six hundred feet (600') in length. Each cul-de-sac
shall have a terminus of nearly circular shape with a minimum diameter of one
hundred twenty feet (120'), or a temporary cul-de-sac street, may have a
terminus of the "T" type or other variation of the circular shape as approved
by the plan commission, village council, and village engineer.
   I.   Half Streets: Half streets shall be prohibited except where essential
to the reasonable development of the subdivision in conformity with the other
requirements of these regulations; and where the village council finds it will
be practicable to require the dedication of the other half when the adjoining
property is subdivided. Wherever an existing or dedicated half street is
adjacent to a tract to be subdivided, the other half of the street shall be
platted within such tract. A half street, where included, shall be graded at
one level, and the regrading or new construction of any half street shall
conform to the grade and pavement of the adjacent half street.
   J.   Marginal Access Streets: Whenever a subdivision borders on or contains
the right of way of a limited access street, highway or thoroughfare or a
railroad or a utility right of way, a street may be required approximately
parallel to and on either side of such uses as front thereon.
   K.   Reserve Strips: Reserve strips controlling access to streets shall not
be permitted. Streets roughly paralleling the subdivision boundary shall be
located not less than one lot depth from said boundary. All streets intended to
provide the subdivision with future means of ingress and egress shall extend to
the subdivision boundary.
   L.   Boundary Streets: Streets shall not be laid out on the boundary of a
subdivision. Exceptions to this may be permitted where such streets are
desirable for further expansion or where streets shall conform to the existing
street system.
   M.   Thoroughfares: Provisions shall be made for vehicular and pedestrian
access to residential property abutting a thoroughfare either by: 1) providing
frontage road, or 2) by backing lots to the thoroughfare and providing access
by a collector, minor, or cul-de-sac street one lot depth removed and with a no
access strip along the rear lot line. These standards are established for the
purpose of providing protection for the residential properties and to provide
for traffic safety and the efficient use of the thoroughfare for its intended
function of accommodating through traffic.
   N.   Street Gradients: Gradients of streets shall be at least 0.4 percent
and not exceed on:
 
Collector streets 5 percent
Minor streets     7 percent
 
   O.   Stopping Sight Distance: Stopping sight distance shall be based on a
line of sight, one end of which is four feet six inches (4'6") above the
pavement and the other end four inches (4") above the pavement. In flat
topography sight distance of not less than four hundred feet (400') is
desirable. In rolling topography sight distance shall be not less than two
hundred feet (200').
   P.   Dedicated Street Improvements: Where streets are dedicated (whether
used or not), but not improved to the standards of this chapter and border on
or are wholly within the proposed subdivision land, same shall be improved to
the standards of this chapter, by the developer.
   Q.   Cost Reimbursement: All costs for engineering services, related to
subdivision development design review, and construction supervision and
inspection, incurred by the village of Seneca shall be submitted to the
developer and it shall be his responsibility to reimburse the village for those
costs. (Ord. 11-13, 10-4-2011)
11-5-3: ALLEYS AND PEDESTRIANWAYS:
   A.   Alleys, when permitted or required by the planning commission or
village council in residential subdivisions, shall be at least twenty feet
(20') wide and alleys in commercial and manufacturing subdivisions shall be not
less than thirty feet (30') wide.
   B.   Pedestrianways when recommended by the plan commission and approved by
the village council, shall be at least twelve feet (12') wide. (Ord. 11-13, 10-
4-2011)
11-5-4: EASEMENTS:
   A.   Utility distribution of transmission installations serving the
subdivision, and, when required, stormwater drainageways shall be located in
easements and designated on the subdivision plat of record. Such easements
shall be located along the rear lot lines or side lot lines at locations of
extensions of utility installation between blocks, or continuity of
drainageways. They shall occupy not less than the rear ten feet (10') of lot
depth or ten feet (10') of lot width adjoining the applicable side lot line, or
may be of a greater or lesser width if recommended by the village engineer,
planning commission, or utility company and approved by the village council.
Additional easements at other locations may be recommended for specific
conditions by the village engineer and required by the village council.
Upon approval of a preliminary plat of subdivision and prior to final plat
approval, the developer shall submit copies of the approved plat to utilities
for their planning of utility service and their request for utility easement
locations. Efforts shall be made to accommodate their requests for easements.
   B.   When a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, established
drainageway, channel or stream, there shall be provided a stormwater easement
or drainage right of way conforming substantially with the lines of such
watercourses, and such further width or construction or both, as will be
adequate, for proper drainage. It shall include additional area at least
fifteen feet (15') in width adjoining each edge of the established watercourse
as certified by the subdivider or his engineer.
Where ditch drainage is used in conjunction with storm sewers the easement
shall be of sufficient width to allow future construction of a storm sewer main
adequate to carry the ultimate runoff of the watershed.
The areas within or adjacent to a subdivision site, subject to flooding or
designated on the flood insurance rate map provided by the federal emergency
management agency to the village, shall be protected, and development will not
be allowed without proper studies and reports being filed with the appropriate
government agencies and written approval of the plan to protect the flood
hazard areas.
Land subject to flooding and land deemed by the reviewing authorities to be
uninhabitable shall not be platted for residential occupancy, nor for such
other uses as may increase danger to health, life, or aggravate the flood
hazard, but such land within the plat shall be set aside for such uses as shall
not be endangered by periodic or occasional inundation, shall not produce
unsatisfactory living conditions, and shall not reduce the ability of the
floodplain to retain floodwaters.
Flood hazard boundary maps are available at the village hall for review. (Ord.
11-13, 10-4-2011)
11-5-5: BLOCK STANDARDS:
   A.   In residential subdivisions, the maximum length of blocks containing
any lots less than one hundred feet (100') in width shall be one thousand five
hundred (1,500) linear feet, and the maximum length of blocks containing all
lots one hundred feet (100') and over in width shall be two thousand (2,000)
linear feet. No blocks shall be less than one thousand two hundred (1,200)
linear feet in length unless approved by the plan commission. Pedestrianways
when deemed necessary to provide circulation or access to schools, parks,
transportation, or other common destinations may be required by the plan
commission.
   B.   In manufacturing and business subdivisions, maximum length of blocks
shall be as approved by the plan commission.
   C.   The shape of blocks shall be determined by topographical features,
control and safety of street traffic, the basic street system and traffic
pattern, lot size and dimension, and areas designated for public and other
nonresidential land uses.
   D.   Where a subdivision borders upon or is traversed by a railroad, canal,
or thoroughfare right of way, the village council may require when recommended
by the plan commission a street on one or both sides of such right of way,
located approximately parallel to and at a distance removed suitable for the
appropriate use of the intervening land, i.e., park purposes, deep residential
lots fronting on it with a no access strip along the rear property lines, and
off street parking, business, or other uses as permitted by zoning ordinance
regulations. (Ord. 11-13, 10-4-2011)
11-5-6: LOT STANDARDS:
   A.   General:
      1.   In general, lots should be as nearly rectangular in shape as
practicable.
      2.   Width and area of lots shall conform with lot width and area
requirements set forth in the zoning ordinance of the village of Seneca or that
of LaSalle or Grundy County in the unincorporated areas beyond the village
limits. Corner lots shall be increased in width by twenty percent (20%) over
the width of typical interior lots, except that corner lots need not exceed one
hundred ten feet (110') in width, if the one hundred ten feet (110') in width
is greater than the width of the typical lot, except the village council may
require, when recommended by the plan commission, a greater lot width to
provide for the proper development of intersection design and traffic safety,
proper building setbacks from streets, or any other reason that the village
council may deem necessary.
      3.   Side lines of lots shall be at right angles or radial to the street
line, or substantially so.
      4.   Lots abutting upon a watercourse, drainageway, channel, stream,
railroad, or thoroughfare shall have an additional depth or width as required
by the plan commission in order to provide acceptable building sites.
      5.   In the subdividing of any land, due regard shall be shown for all
natural features such as tree growth, watercourses, historic sites, or similar
conditions.
      6.   A minimum side yard restriction of ten feet (10') shall be shown on
all lots adjoining a pedestrian crosswalk.
   B.   Residential Subdivision:
      1.   Depth of lots shall not be less than one hundred feet (100'), and
must meet the requirements of the appropriate sections of the zoning ordinance
for square footage. Lots of lesser dimension must be recommended by the
planning commission and approved by the village council.
      2.   All lots shall have frontage on a street, except lots which do not
contain single-family dwellings in a planned development, as allowed as a
conditional permitted use in accordance with regulations contained in the
Seneca zoning ordinance, which may have frontage on an easement of sufficient
width for vehicular or pedestrian access to the lot from a street.
      3.   Double frontage lots are not permitted, except where lots back upon
a thoroughfare or upon a body of water in separate or undivided ownership.
      4.   Lots shall have a minimum frontage of sixty feet (60').
   C.   Industrial And Business Subdivision:
      1.   Width, area, and depth of lots in a manufacturing or business
subdivision shall be as required by the zoning ordinance. Lesser dimensions
must be recommended by the plan commission and approved by the village council.
      2.   Double frontage lots are not permitted except when specifically
recommended by the plan commission and approved by the village council. (Ord.
11-13, 10-4-2011)
11-5-7: PUBLIC USE AREAS ON THE OFFICIAL MAP:
When an area of land for public use (in addition to streets, alleys,
pedestrianways, and utility easements) is recommended by the plan commission
and required by the village council, to be located in whole or in part in a
subdivision, the subdivider shall designate on the preliminary plat and final
plat that such land is reserved for public use. If such land is not acquired or
arrangements made for acquisition by the village, a school board, or other
governmental body within one year after the date of recordation of the final
plat, such land may thereafter be used by the subdivider for a use permitted at
its location by zoning regulations or, if possible, in accordance with more
restrictive protective covenant requirements. (Ord. 11-13, 10-4-2011)
11-5-8: CERTIFICATE OF ACCEPTANCE OF STREETS:
If any plat of subdivision contains public streets or thoroughfares which are
herein dedicated as such, whether located within the corporate limits of the
village or in part outside thereof, or contains streets located outside of said
corporate limits, the approval of the plat by the village council or the
subsequent annexation of the property to the village shall not constitute an
acceptance thereon or therein, for maintenance purposes, irrespective of any
act or acts by an officer, agent, or employee of the village with respect to
such streets or improvements. The acceptance of such streets or thoroughfares
for maintenance shall be made only by the adoption of a resolution by the
village council after there has been filed with the village clerk a certificate
by the village engineer certifying that all improvements required to be
constructed or installed in or upon such streets or thoroughfares, in
connection with the approval of the final plat of subdivision by the village
council, have been fully completed and the construction or installation thereof
has been approved by him. (Ord. 11-13, 10-4-2011)
CHAPTER 6
LAND IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
11-6-1: Improvement Requirements; Completion Bond
11-6-2: Standards And Specifications
11-6-3: Sanitary Sewerage System
11-6-4: Stormwater Drainage System
11-6-5: Water Supply System
11-6-6: Sewer And Water Main Testing
11-6-7: Streets And Alleys
11-6-8: Pedestrianways
11-6-9: Public Utilities
11-6-10: As Built Plans
11-6-11: Form Irrevocable Letter Of Credit
11-6-1: IMPROVEMENT REQUIREMENTS; COMPLETION BOND:
Before a final plat of subdivision is approved by the village council, the
owner or subdivider shall submit to the village engineer completed plans and
specifications, prepared by a registered engineer, covering the improvements
and utilities described in the subdivider's plat, and the village engineer
shall certify in writing to the village council that such improvements and
utilities meet the minimum requirements of the village, county, state, and
other authorities having jurisdiction, and comply with the following:
At the time the final plat is submitted for approval, the developer shall have
had an estimated cost of the subdivision improvements submitted, approved, and
agreed upon by the village and himself.
Prior to the village signing the final plat for recording, a subdivision
improvement completion bond (letter of credit, reference section
11-6-11, "Form Irrevocable Letter Of Credit", of this chapter) from a banking
institution, guaranteeing the completion of the required subdivision
improvements, must be on file with the village clerk. The bond shall be in the
amount of one hundred twenty five percent (125%) of the cost of the uncompleted
improvements, including streetlights, as determined by the developer's engineer
and approved by the engineer for the village. The developer's engineer shall
supply the engineer for the village a detailed unit price breakdown of the
estimated cost being considered for approval. The completion bond shall be made
payable upon demand, to the village of Seneca.
The improvement completion bond shall be in force until all improvements have
been completed, approved, and accepted by the village; and the village council
has taken action to allow the bond to be released. In no case shall subdivision
improvements be completed later than two (2) years after final plat approval.
The completion bond must be in the form of a letter of credit from a banking
institution and shall be "evergreen", meaning that the bond cannot expire
without written approval to the banking institution by the village of Seneca.
No other type of completion bond will be accepted (reference section
11-6-11, "Form Irrevocable Letter Of Credit", of this chapter).
The bond may be reduced every three (3) months with the reduced bond amount
being approved in the same manner as the original bond. (Ord. 11-13, 10-4-2011)
11-6-2: STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Design, dimensions, materials, and methods of construction of
improvements shall conform to the following general requirements:
      1.   All storm sewers shall be designed by the rational method on the
basis of a minimum 15-year storm frequency and shall be sized to adequately
carry all tributary areas. Copies of the design computations, together with a
drawing defining each drainage area, shall be submitted to the village.
      2.   Sanitary sewer mains shall be designed according to the latest
edition of the "Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer Main Construction
In Illinois" or according to the Illinois environmental protection agency's
"Recommended Standards For Sewage Works". The more stringent requirements of
either shall apply.
      3.   All street pavements within the village shall be constructed in
accordance with the following:
         a.   "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction", state
of Illinois, department of transportation, current edition.
         b.   The current edition of the Illinois department of
transportation's design manual.
         c.   In no case shall design thicknesses and materials be less than
those specified in section
11-6-7 of this chapter. (Ord. 11-13, 10-4-2011)
11-6-3: SANITARY SEWERAGE SYSTEM:
   A.   Approval: Except as otherwise provided herein, no residential,
commercial or industrial subdivision or development shall be approved unless it
is served by sanitary sewers connected to the village's sewer system.
   B.   Any Structures Constructed: In the case of any structures, whether
residential, commercial, or industrial, constructed prior to the adoption of
this title and served by a septic system, the following shall apply:
      1.   As soon as a public sanitary sewer main is contiguous to and
available to service a structure or a septic system, said owner or owners must
properly abandon the septic system and connect to the village's public sanitary
sewer system within six (6) months.
      2.   All sanitary sewers which are installed in the public ways or in
easements shall be deemed to be dedicated to the village upon the acceptance of
the public improvements within the subdivision by the village.
   C.   Size Of Sewer Mains: Sewer mains shall be of adequate size and shall
serve the entire development.
      1.   Sanitary sewer mains shall be designed according to the latest
edition of the "Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer Main Construction
In Illinois" and according to the Illinois environmental protection agency's
"Recommended Standards For Sewage Works". The more stringent requirements of
either shall apply.
      2.   Before commencing the sanitary sewer layout, the developer shall
confer with the village to determine the required size and grades for any trunk
sewers traversing the subdivision. The village shall have the ultimate
authority to designate trunk sewer and sewer main sizes through any
development.
      3.   All sanitary sewers shall be constructed in accordance with the
provisions of the latest edition of the "Standard Specifications For Water And
Sewer Main Construction" in Illinois, as modified and/or more specifically
defined in this title. In case of conflict, the provisions of this section
shall apply.
      4.   All materials to be used in the construction of sanitary sewers and
their appurtenances shall be supplied by a manufacturer approved by the village
water and sewer department, and all materials used shall be approved by the
village water and sewer department.
   D.   Installation:
      1.   Said mains shall, in general, be installed in the street right of
way or in an easement adjacent thereto. In no case shall mains be installed
within ten feet (10') of a building. To the extent possible, mains shall not be
constructed under curb and gutter or street pavement without specific approval
of the village engineer and village council.
      2.   Sanitary sewers shall be extended to the edge of the development
along public rights of way and at other points indicated by the village
engineer.
   E.   Size: The minimum size of mains shall be eight inches (8"), internal
diameter.
   F.   Sewer Services: Sanitary sewer service laterals having a minimum of six
inch (6") internal diameter shall be provided for each lot, parcel, or tract
prior to the construction of street pavements. Services shall extend to the
property line (street right of way), or to the limit of the easement on which
they are placed.
      1.   Service connections shall consist of a manufactured tee, placed in
the sewer line and pitched just above horizontal up to a maximum of forty five
degrees (45°) to horizontal, a sewer pipe bend as may be required to bring the
service back to a near horizontal condition, the necessary lengths of pipe, and
a watertight terminus plug.
      2.   Service sewers shall have a minimum cover of thirty inches (30") on
private property and a mandatory forty eight inches (48") in public rights of
way. In all cases where sewer services are within ten feet (10') of water mains
or water services, the sewer service must be eighteen inches (18") lower than
the water line, or special provisions shall be made to protect the water mains
or service lines from contamination in accordance with EPA and state of
Illinois standards.
      3.   Two (2) or more properties, parcels, lots are not permitted to use a
joint building service sewer.
      4.   A minimum velocity of two feet (2') per second shall be maintained.
      5.   Service connections shall be marked at the property line by a
treated lumber two inch by four inch (2" x 4") board buried to the depth of the
service and extending four feet (4') above the ground surface.
   G.   Sewer Alignment: Alignment shall be straight between manholes and
follow the layout of the streets or easements.
   H.   Manholes: Manholes shall be installed not more than four hundred feet
(400') apart.
      1.   Manhole Diameter: Manhole diameter shall be four feet (4') for sewer
diameter of eighteen inches (18") and smaller, and five feet (5') for sewer
diameter of twenty one inches (21") and larger.
      2.   Inspection Manholes: An inspection manhole having a minimum diameter
of forty eight inches (48") is required for all industrial buildings.
         a.   The manhole shall be constructed on the building service sewer
before it connects to the sewer main and, preferably, shall not be closer than
five feet (5') from the building.
         b.   There shall be no flow into the inspection manhole except the
flow from the building for which the inspection manhole is intended.
   I.   Lift Stations: If a lift station is part of the engineering design, it
shall be shown in the plan elevation, and the specifications for such lift
station shall be submitted with engineering plans.
      1.   Lift stations shall be of the wet well type with submersible pumps
and shall conform in all respect to the standards established by the state of
Illinois environmental protection agency and the village.
      2.   A trailer mounted, engine driven sewage pump or an appropriately
sized generator, of adequate capacity shall be given to the village for use
during power outages.
      3.   An alarm indicating failure of the lift station pumps or high water
shall be installed. It shall have a red light warning at the lift station, and
shall have an electronic connection to a visible and audible alarm at the
village's master panel at a location designated by the village.
      4.   Lift stations and force mains are not desirable nor recommended and
shall be used to serve a development only after all other means to serve the
development by gravity sewers have been exhausted and with approval by the
village council and village engineer.
   J.   Pipes And Fittings: Sewer pipe and fittings shall be PVC sewer pipe,
DR-35, meeting the requirements of ASTM spec. D3034 and ASTM spec. F-679.
Joints shall be flexible elastomeric seals per ASTM spec. D3212.
   K.   Manhole Frames And Lids: Manholes shall be precast concrete and in
accordance with the appropriate provisions of section 32 of the referenced
"Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer Main Construction In Illinois".
Frames and closed lids in roadways shall be Illinois department of
transportation designation "TYPE 1 FRAME AND CLOSED LID". Closed lids shall
have a concealed pick hole which does not extend through the lid, and must have
rubber O-ring gasket seals. Frames shall be installed with rubber chimney
gaskets.
   L.   Capacity Or Depth Larger Than Required: Where sanitary sewer mains or
lift stations of larger capacity or depth than required to serve only the
subdivision as delineated in the preliminary plat is required by the village
council to serve future growth in the vicinity of the subdivision, the
subdivider shall pay the total cost of installation. The village will pay the
difference in material cost between the size required for the subdivision and
the larger size required by these regulations and the village council, pursuant
to an agreement entered into between the subdivider and the village prior to
initiation of the subdivision improvement construction. (Ord. 11-13, 10-4-2011)
11-6-4: STORMWATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM:
   A.   General: An adequate system of stormwater drainage shall be constructed
and installed consisting of pipes, tiles, manholes, inlets, and other necessary
facilities that will adequately drain the development and protect roadway
pavements and will prevent the accumulation of stormwater at any place under
normal conditions.
      1.   Any existing drain tiles encountered during construction must be
left undisturbed or shall be attached to the proposed storm drainage system at
locations indicated by the village inspector.
      2.   Drain tile located under roadways shall be replaced with concrete
tile.
   B.   Design: The following shall govern the design of any improvement with
respect to the drainage and detention of stormwater runoff.
      1.   Layout: Subdivision shall be designed in such a manner as to
preserve and utilize natural streams, channels, and detention basins.
      2.   Stormwater Release Rate: The allowable release rate of stormwater
for a 100-year storm from developments shall not exceed historic/predevelopment
discharge rates for a 10-year storm or the capacity of the receiving stream or
drainage system, whichever is less.
      3.   Stormwater Storage: Excess runoff from a 100-year/24-hour storm with
an SCS type II distribution shall be stored on site within appropriately
designed detention facilities such that the allowable release rate is not
exceeded and there is no ponding in streets or on buildable lot areas, except
parking lots.
      4.   Bypass Flow: Drainage systems shall have adequate capacity to pass
through the development the runoff from all upstream areas for a 10-year storm.
      5.   Backyard Swales: Backyard swales are permitted in residential areas
subject to the following regulations:
         a.   Maximum and minimum slopes and general design criteria of the
federal housing administration's "Minimum Property Requirements" shall be
acceptable except as herein modified.
         b.   No continuous swale shall have a length exceeding three hundred
feet (300') before discharging into a storm sewer system.
         c.   Minimum grade of the flowline shall be 0.5 percent.
         d.   A site grading plat showing proposed finished yard elevations and
proposed top of foundation elevations shall be submitted with the final plat
and improvement construction drawings.
      6.   Storm Sewer Outfalls: Storm sewer outfalls shall be so designed such
that when the receiving stream or drainage system is at full capacity, the
storm sewer will continue to discharge at its design flow rate.
      7.   Crown Of Street Pavements: The crown of street pavements hereafter
built adjoining or near streams, floodwater runoff channels, or basins shall be
not lower than the established high water elevation plus two feet (2') in the
case of major streets, and plus one foot (1') in the case of other streets.
      8.   Waterway Openings Of Bridges And Culverts: Waterway openings of
bridges and culverts hereafter built over streams of floodwater runoff channels
shall be designed with a waterway opening large enough to handle the flow from
a 100-year frequency storm.
Any outfall storm sewer that drains into an existing open ditch or natural
watercourse shall have reinforced concrete headwall and a concrete apron at
least ten feet (10') in radius from the center point of the outfall.
   C.   Drainage Plan: A comprehensive drainage plan must be submitted to the
village engineer which incorporates the aforementioned rules and shall be
accompanied by maps or other descriptive material showing the following:
      1.   The extent and area of each watershed tributary to the drainage
channels in the subdivision.
      2.   The street storm sewers and other storm drains to be built, the
basis of their design, the outfall and outlet locations and elevations, the
receiving stream or channel and its high water elevation, and the functioning
of the drains during high water elevations.
      3.   Existing streams and floodwater runoff channels to be maintained and
new channels to be constructed, their location, cross sections, and profiles.
      4.   Existing culverts and bridges, drainage areas, elevation and
adequacy of waterway openings, new culverts and bridges to be built, their
materials, elevations, waterway openings, and basis of design.
      5.   Existing detention ponds and basins to be maintained, enlarged, or
otherwise altered and new ponds or basins to be built with dams and their
design.
   D.   Construction Requirements For Detention Ponds/Basins:
      1.   Detention Ponds Containing Permanent Water:
         a.   Detention reservoirs containing permanent lakes must have a water
area of at least one-half (1/2) acre and a minimum depth of ten feet (10') over
at least twenty five percent (25%) of the total area. The remaining lake area
must have an average depth of at least three feet (3') and should have no
extensive shallow areas.
         b.   In excavated lakes, the underwater side slopes in the lakes must
be stable. In the case of valley storage, natural slopes may be considered to
be stable.
         c.   A safety ledge four (4) to six feet (6') in width is required and
must be installed in all lakes approximately thirty six inches (36") below the
permanent water level.
            (1)   In addition, a ledge twelve (12) to eighteen inches (18")
above the permanent water line must be provided.
            (2)   The slope between the two (2) ledges must be stable and of a
material which will prevent erosion due to wave action such as stone or riprap.
         d.   The reservoir must be designed to provide for the easy removal of
sediment which will accumulate in the lake during periods of reservoir
operations.
         e.   Dikes shall be a minimum of four feet (4') wide with three to one
(3:1) side slopes or flatter. The top of the dike must be a minimum of one foot
(1') above the peak stage for a 100-year storm. An emergency spillway shall be
provided for storm runoff volume in excess of a 100-year/24-hour storm.
      2.   Dry Detention Basins: The dry detention basins should be designed to
serve multipurpose functions. Recreational facilities, aesthetic qualities,
etc., as well as floodwater storage must be considered in planning the
reservoir.
      3.   Other Detention Storage:
         a.   Underground Storage: All or a portion of the detention storage
may be provided in underground or surface detention facilities to include
basins, tanks, swales or oversized storm sewers.
         b.   Parking Lot Storage: Paved parking lots may be designed to
provide temporary detention storage of stormwater on all or a portion of their
surfaces.
Outlets shall be designed so as to slowly empty the stored waters. Depths of
storage must be limited to a maximum of nine inches (9").
Inlets shall be located in driving aisles whenever possible.
      4.   Safety Features: Design of detention storage facilities shall
incorporate safety features, particularly at outlets, on steep slopes, and at
any attractive nuisances to include, as necessary, fencing, handrails,
lighting, steps, grills, signs, and other protective or warning devices to
restrict access during critical periods and to afford some measure of safety to
both authorized and unauthorized persons.
         a.   Safety screens must be provided for any pipe or opening to
prevent children or large animals from crawling into the structures. A maximum
opening of six inches (6") is required.
         b.   Danger signs must be mounted at appropriate locations to warn of
deep water, possible flood conditions during storm periods, and other dangers
that exist. Fencing may be required if deemed necessary by the village
engineer.
         c.   All slopes and the bottom of dry detention ponds are to be
sodded. All other areas are to be seeded.
         d.   The bottom of all dry detention areas shall contain a four foot
(4') wide concrete paved ditch at the line of flow, from the basin inlet or
inlets to the outlet.
      5.   Responsibility Of Maintenance Of Detention Ponds: The responsibility
for maintenance during construction shall be the responsibility of the
developer/owner, unless otherwise agreed to by the village. Once the
subdivision is fully constructed and accepted by the village the responsibility
for maintenance shall shift to a homeowners' association which shall be
established by the developer/owner.
         a.   Maintenance shall consist of, but shall not be limited to, the
cleanup of accumulated debris, flotsam, or other materials and also the control
of the growth of obnoxious weeds or the creation of conditions which support
the growth of mosquitos or other insects.
         b.   Maintenance shall also consist of proper repairs to such items as
inlet structures, outlet structures, side slopes, or other elements of the
facility.
   E.   Stormwater Storage Basins: The village shall maintain a complete
listing of all storage basins for the storage and detention of stormwater in
the village, whether required under this title or otherwise, and may require
each basin to be inspected periodically.
      1.   Such inspection shall be performed at the owner's expense within
ninety (90) days and shall be performed by an engineer registered in the state
of Illinois.
      2.   A report shall be submitted to the village engineer, including
supporting calculations, stipulating the existing capacity of the storage
basins.
      3.   The village engineer may serve notice upon the record owner thereof
to restore, repair, or properly maintain any such basin which does not retain
its original storage capacity.
      4.   In the event such notice has not been complied with on or before
ninety (90) days after service thereof (unless such time period shall be
extended by the mayor and village council), the village may perform such
restoration, repair, or maintenance work as may be necessary to return such
stormwater storage basin to its original storage capacity; and the cost thereof
shall be a lien in favor of the village upon the lots, tracts, or parcels
benefited by the stormwater storage basin and the village may file with the
recorder of deeds of LaSalle and Grundy Counties, Illinois, a notice of lien
citing this paragraph describing the necessary work performed and the
reasonable cost thereof to the village. The lien may be foreclosed pursuant to
the Illinois Compiled Statutes. The owner of the stormwater storage basin may
also be fined as set forth in this title.
      5.   These regulations shall apply to all stormwater storage basins
existing on the date of the adoption of this title, as well as all future
stormwater storage basins.
   F.   Storm Sewers: Storm sewers shall be constructed throughout the entire
subdivision to carry off water from all inlets and catch basins and shall be
connected to an adequate outfall.
      1.   Design:
         a.   The storm sewer system shall be separate and independent of the
sanitary sewer system.
         b.   All storm sewers shall be designed by the rational method on the
basis of a minimum 15-year storm frequency and shall be sized to adequately
carry all tributary areas. Copies of the design computations, together with a
drawing defining each drainage area, shall be submitted to the village
engineer.
         c.   To the extent possible, storm sewer installation under street
pavement and curb and gutter shall be avoided.
      2.   Velocity: Minimum velocity shall be three feet (3') per second and
maximum velocity shall be ten feet (10') per second for all storm sewer
installation.
      3.   Spacing For Surface Collectors: Maximum spacing for surface
collectors shall be four hundred feet (400') or as directed by the village
engineer.
      4.   Inlets: Inlets shall be provided at all low areas and shall be
provided so that surface water is not carried across or around any intersection
of streets.
      5.   Allowable Materials For Storm Sewers:
         a.   Pipe materials shall be concrete pipe (10 inches and under) or
reinforced concrete pipe (12 inches and over).
         b.   Other materials for storm sewer construction may be used in
special cases only upon approval by the village engineer and the village
council.
         c.   All materials to be used in the construction of storm sewers and
their appurtenances shall be approved by the village street and alley
department, and village engineer, and shall conform to the "Standard
Specification For Road And Bridge Construction" and "Manual Of Instructions For
Field Engineers" by the state of Illinois, department of transportation.
      6.   Size: The minimum size for all storm sewers shall be twelve inches
(12").
   G.   Storm Sewer Structures:
      1.   Manholes:
         a.   Location: Manholes are utilized to provide access to continuous
underground storm sewers for the purpose of inspection and cleanout and to
permit a change in direction, grade, and size of sewer. Typical locations where
manholes should be specified are:
            (1)   Where two (2) or more storm sewers converge.
            (2)   At intermediate points along tangent sections.
            (3)   Where pipe size changes.
            (4)   Where an abrupt change in alignment occurs.
            (5)   Where an abrupt change of the grade occurs.
Manholes should not be located in traffic lanes; however, when it is impossible
to avoid locating manholes in a traffic lane, care should be taken to ensure it
is not in the normal vehicle wheel path.
         b.   Spacing: The spacing of manholes should be in accordance with the
following:
 
Sizes Of Pipe (Inches) Maximum Distance (Feet)
12 – 54              400
Over 54                600
 
         c.   Types: A manhole, type A (highway standard 602401) with
appropriate frame and lid should be provided for the following sewer sizes when
the depth exceeds four feet (4'):
            (1)   When the sewer pipe diameter is eighteen inches (18") or
less, a four foot (4') diameter manhole should be provided.
            (2)   When the sewer pipe diameter is twenty one inches (21") to
forty two inches (42") inclusive, a five foot (5') diameter manhole should be
provided.
            (3)   When the sewer pipe diameter is forty eight inches (48") or
larger, a six foot (6') diameter manhole (standard 602406) or a reinforced
concrete pipe tee or a special design manhole should be provided.
         d.   Hydraulic Losses: The following criteria should be used to
estimate hydraulic losses in storm sewer manholes:
            (1)   Allow a drop of 0.1 foot in a through manhole where there is
no change in the diameter of the sewer pipe.
            (2)   Allow a drop of 0.2 foot in the presence of one lateral or
bend.
            (3)   Allow a drop of 0.3 foot when two (2) laterals are present.
            (4)   In a through manhole where there is a change in the diameter
of the sewer pipe, no loss should be allowed if 0.8 foot depth in each sewer
pipe is attained by lowering the larger pipe.
         e.   Junction Chambers: The junction of small sewers is made in
manholes. On occasion, junction chambers of special design are required to
joint two (2) or more converging large size storm sewers. In design, a smooth
transition is essential to prevent turbulence in flow which would cause eddies
and deposition of solids. Normally, junction chambers should not be utilized
when the trunk sewer is less than forty two inches (42") in diameter.
      2.   Catch Basins:
         a.   Catch basins are drainage structures utilized to collect surface
water through grate or curb openings and convey it to storm sewers or direct
outlet to culverts and ditches. Grate inlets should be provided with
appropriate frames and grates as provided in division 600 of the highway
standards.
Catch basin type C should be utilized when the sewer pipe diameter is fifteen
inches (15") or less and the depth of pipe is not more than four feet (4'). For
larger diameter pipes or where there is both an incoming and outgoing pipe in
the inlet, a larger diameter inlet structure, such as inlet type B (standard
602306) or a three foot (3'), four foot (4'), and five foot (5') diameter catch
basin or manhole should be specified. When such a structure is used in a
shallow pipe situation, a precast reinforced concrete flat slab top, shown on
standard 602601, should be used in lieu of the standard conically tapered top.
         b.   Catch basins used for the drainage of roadway surfaces shall be
combination catch basins. These catch basins consist of both a curb opening and
a grate inlet acting as a unit.
         c.   Only catch basins, according to highway standard 602011 with
sumps shall be used. Inlets will not be allowed.
      3.   Service Connections: A four inch (4") PVC storm sewer service line
shall be provided for each lot within the subdivision. All residential
stormwater sump discharge lines shall be attached to this service line. At
locations where it is not practical to connect these storm sewer service lines
directly to the storm sewer in the parkway, minimum eight inch (8") PVC storm
sewer service laterals shall be placed in a five foot (5') easement parallel to
and behind the sidewalk. Said laterals should be connected to the storm sewer
system at catch basins or manholes. Service connections directly to the storm
sewer pipe are permitted only with precast connections in order to preserve the
structural and hydraulic integrity of the mainline sewer. (Ord. 11-13, 10-4-
2011)
11-6-5: WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM:
   A.   General:
      1.   Consideration shall be given to water reclamation and reuse in
commercial and industrial tracts for the purpose of conservation and relief of
demands on existing residential supply. Except as otherwise provided herein, no
residential, commercial, or industrial subdivision or development shall be
approved unless it is served by the village of Seneca water system.
      2.   Evidence shall be presented by the subdivider that the local
utilities can satisfactorily serve the area by the utility easements shown.
      3.   There shall be no physical connection between a potable and a
nonpotable water supply.
   B.   Design: Water distribution mains shall be of adequate size and shall
serve the entire development.
      1.   Water Main Design: Water mains shall be designed according to the
"Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer Main Construction In Illinois"
(current edition) or according to the "Recommended Standard For Water Works",
adopted by the Great Lakes Mississippi River board of state public health and
environmental managers. The more stringent requirements of either shall apply.
      2.   Installation:
         a.   Said mains shall, in general, be installed in the street right of
way, but in no case shall mains be installed within fifteen feet (15') of a
building, or under street pavement or curb and gutter without specific approval
of the village engineer and village council.
         b.   All water mains shall be installed with a minimum depth of cover
of four and one-half feet (41/2'), measured from final grade to the top of the
pipe.
         c.   Mains shall be extended to the property line of the development
along public rights of way and at any other location indicated by the village
engineer.
         d.   All excavation, backfilling, restoration of surfaces, and all
related work shall be completed in accordance with this title.
      3.   Size: The minimum size shall be ten inches (10"), internal diameter,
in residential areas and twelve inches (12"), internal diameter, in all other
areas. The size of water mains may be reduced with the recommendation of the
village engineer, the Seneca fire department, the planning commission and the
approval of the village council.
      4.   Gridiron Or Looping Of Mains:
         a.   Each six inch (6") water main, if approved, shall be looped
(except cul-de-sacs or stubbed streets, unless deemed necessary by the village
engineer) so that runs between connections to six inch (6") or larger size
mains shall not be greater than one thousand two hundred feet (1,200').
         b.   Each eight inch (8") water main, if approved, shall be looped so
that runs between connections to mains eight inches (8") or larger shall not be
greater than one thousand four hundred feet (1,400') in a commercial area or
one thousand eight hundred feet (1,800') in residential areas.
         c.   Each ten inch (10") water main shall be looped so that runs
between connections to mains ten inches (10") or larger shall not be greater
than two thousand two hundred feet (2,200').
         d.   Each twelve inch (12") and larger water main shall be looped so
that runs between connections to mains twelve inches (12") or larger shall not
be greater than three thousand feet (3,000').
      5.   Valves: Valves shall be located on water mains in such a manner to
effectively isolate the sections from the system with minimum disruption.
         a.   Valves shall be installed so that not over nine hundred feet
(900') of main will be shut off at any given time.
         b.   If a tee is installed, three (3) valves shall be used.
         c.   The design engineer shall, by diagrams and/or written reports,
set forth his/her basis for location of water main valves.
         d.   No more than thirty (30) single-family dwelling units shall be
without water with the shutting off of any three (3) valve locations.
      6.   Valve Boxes: Valve boxes shall be used on all main valves and
auxiliary valves.
         a.   Valve boxes shall have a base compatible with the size and type
of valve to be operated and shall extend to finished grade ground level.
         b.   Valve box covers shall be marked "WATER".
         c.   Valve boxes shall be installed with a "valve box stabilizer base"
approved by the village of Seneca water department.
      7.   Thrust Blocks: Thrust blocks and retainer glands are required at all
valves, hydrants, tees and bends. Retainer glands must be "Mega-Lug" brand or
approved equal. All retainer glands shall have one retainer bolt per flange
bolt.
         a.   Engineering drawings shall indicate the location of each thrust
block and retainer gland to be installed.
         b.   Where undisturbed earth is not available or not likely to be
available to back up pressure type thrust blocks, the village engineer shall
specify stainless steel (#316) tie rods and hex nuts with or without anchor
type concrete thrust blocks and retainer glands, to tie the fitting to the
main.
   C.   Fire Hydrants:
      1.   Fire hydrants shall match the hydrants generally installed in the
village's water system and shall be furnished by a manufacturer considered
standard by the village. The brand and model of fire hydrants must be approved
by the village water department.
      2.   Each hydrant shall be provided with a six inch (6") auxiliary gate
valve.
         a.   Two (2) 3/4-inch threaded stainless steel rods (#316) with
stainless steel hex nuts shall be installed to tie the auxiliary gate valve to
the water main and connecting tee. All material used to construct these ties
shall be stainless steel.
         b.   Auxiliary valves shall be provided with valve boxes having covers
marked "WATER".
         c.   Location:
            (1)   Fire hydrants shall be located no more than three hundred
foot (300') intervals in commercial and industrial areas, and no more than five
hundred feet (500') in residential areas, and at each cross street within the
subdivision or as approved by the Seneca fire department and village council.
            (2)   If the location or configuration of a commercial building
requires it, private fire hydrants shall be installed.
            (3)   Locate hydrants for easy access by the fire department.
   D.   Water Services: The plans, except for residential developments with
individual services for each unit, shall show the calculated static water
pressure at the lowest and highest ground elevations on the site. Calculations
shall be presented showing that the proposed water services are of a large
enough size to supply an adequate flow of water at the outlet of the meter.
   E.   Materials: Water system materials shall be as follows:
      1.   Water main shall be either AWWA C-900 PVC, having a minimum DR of
eighteen (18) and shall have rubber ring gasket push-on joints.
      2.   Water main fitting shall be cement lined ductile iron with
mechanical joints. Fittings shall be capable of withstanding the same system
pressures as the adjacent pipe.
      3.   Valves for the mains or for auxiliary fire hydrant valves shall be
mechanical joint cast iron bodied, resilient seat gate valves, Mueller, Clow or
equal, with nonrising stem and two (2) rubber O-ring packing. Each valve shall
be furnished with a cast iron road box with a cover marked "WATER". Valve boxes
shall be installed with a base stabilizer utilized.
      4.   Fire hydrants shall be Clow-Medallion approved hydrants with
mechanical joints. All hydrants shall have a ground level breakaway flange
feature and safety stem coupling. Hydrants shall have six inch (6") inlet
connections, five and one- fourth inch (51/4") compression type main valve
openings, two (2) 21/2-inch hose connections, and one 41/2-inch pump nozzle,
all with national standard threads.
      5.   Water service pipe shall be type K soft copper tubing, with a
minimum size of one inch (1") diameter.
      6.   Corporation cocks shall be McDonald or Mueller oriseal or equal,
with a minimum size of one inch (1"). The corporation cocks shall be mounted
onto the main utilizing a stainless steel band type connection.
      7.   Curb stops shall be McDonald or Mueller oriseal or equal, with a
minimum size of one inch (1"). Each stop shall be furnished with a cast iron
buffalo screw type box with Minneapolis pattern base and cover marked "WATER".
Each shall be located at the property line of the lot it is to serve.
      8.   All materials used in the construction of water systems and their
appurtenances shall be supplied by manufacturers approved by the village water
department and the materials shall be approved by the village water department.
(Ord. 11-13, 10-4-2011)
11-6-6: SEWER AND WATER MAIN TESTING:
   A.   Sewers: Testing and inspecting of sanitary sewers for acceptability
shall be conducted as follows:
      1.   Air pressure test; and
      2.   Deflection for flexible thermoplastic pipe; and
      3.   Television (providing videotape to village upon completion)
inspection in accordance with the "Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer
Main Construction In Illinois". Tapes shall contain audio and visual
information regarding the location and distances of the camera. A written
report by the television inspection company shall accompany the tape report.
   B.   Water:
      1.   Hydrostatic Test: After the pipe has been laid and partly backfilled
as specified below, all newly laid pipe or any valved sections of it shall,
unless otherwise expressly specified, be subjected to a hydrostatic pressure of
one hundred (100) pounds per square inch. Duration of each pressure test shall
be for a period of not less than one hour for pipes with uncovered joints and
not less than twenty four (24) hours for pipes which have been backfilled
before tests are made.
         a.   Procedure For Test: Each valved section of pipe shall be slowly
filled with water and the specified test pressure shall be applied by means of
a pump connected to the pipe in a satisfactory manner. The pump pipe connection
and all necessary apparatus including gauges and meters shall be furnished by
the contractor. Before applying the specified test pressure, all air shall be
expelled from the pipe. To accomplish this, taps shall be made, if necessary,
at points of highest elevation and afterwards tightly plugged by methods
approved by the village water department. All exposed pipes, fittings, valves,
hydrants and joints shall be carefully examined during the open trench pressure
test. All joints showing visible leaks shall be repaired until tight. Any
cracked or defective pipes, fittings, valves, or hydrants discovered in
consequence of this pressure test shall be removed and replaced by the
contractor with sound material and the test shall be repeated until
satisfactory to the village engineer.
         b.   Permissible Leakage:
            (1)   Suitable means shall be provided by the contractor for
determining the quantity of water lost by leakage under the specified test
pressure.
            (2)   Allowable leakage shall be not greater than computed by the
following table:
Diameter Of Pipe Allowable Leakage1 Diameter Allowable Leakage1
                                    Of Pipe
Diameter Of Pipe Allowable Leakage1 Diameter Allowable Leakage1
                                    Of Pipe
2"               0.30               18"      2.70
3"               0.45               20"      3.00
4"               0.60               24"      3.60
6"               0.90               30"      4.50
8"               1.20               36"      5.40
10"              1.50               42"      6.31
12"              1.80               48"      7.21
14"              2.10               54"      8.10
16"              2.40               60"      9.00
 
   Note:
      1.    Allowable leakage is shown in gal/hr. 1,000 feet.
            (3)   "Leakage" is defined as the quantity of water to be supplied
in the newly laid pipe or any valved section of it necessary to maintain the
specified leakage test pressure after the pipe has been filled with water and
the air expelled.
            (4)   Flanged pipe shall be "bottletight".
      2.   Disinfection Of Water Main:
         a.   Flushing: Sections of pipe to be disinfected shall first be
flushed to remove any solids or contaminated material that may have become
lodged in the pipe. If no hydrant is installed at the end of the main, then a
tap should be provided large enough to develop a velocity of at least two and
five-tenths feet (2.5') per second in the main. One 21/2-inch hydrant opening
will, under normal pressure, provide this velocity in pipe sizes up to and
including twelve inches (12").
All taps required by the contractor for chlorination or flushing purposes or
for temporary or permanent release of air shall be provided by him as a part of
the construction of water mains. After testing is completed, any taps not used
for service lines to users shall be removed and a stainless steel band type
repair clamp placed over the tap hole (minimum length 8 inches).
         b.   Requirement Of Chlorine: Before being placed into service, all
new mains and repaired portions of, or extensions to existing mains shall be
chlorinated so that a chlorine residual of not less than ten (10) parts per
million remains in the water after standing twenty four (24) hours in the pipe.
         c.   Form Of Applied Chlorine: Chlorine shall be applied by one of the
methods which follow subject to approval by the village engineer:
            (1)   Liquid Chlorine: A chlorine gas-water mixture shall be
applied by means of a solution feed chlorinating device, or the dry gas may be
fed directly through proper devices for regulating the rate of flow and
providing effective diffusion of the gas into the water within the pipe being
treated. Chlorinating devices for feeding solutions of the chlorine gas, or the
gas itself, must provide means for preventing the backflow of water into the
chlorine.
            (2)   Chlorine Bearing Compounds In Water: A mixture of water and
high test calcium hypochlorite (65–70% Cl) may be substituted for the chlorine
gas-water mixture. The dry powder shall first be mixed as a paste and then
thinned to a one percent (1%) chlorine solution by adding water to give a total
quantity of seven and five-tenths (7.5) gallons of water per pound of dry
powder. This solution shall be injected in one end of the section of main to be
disinfected while filling the main with water in the amounts as shown in the
table which follows.
CHLORINE REQUIREMENTS FOR 100 FOOT LENGTHS OF VARIOUS SIZES OF PIPE
 
                   Volume Of 100 Ft. Amount Required To Give 25 ppm Cl.
Pipe Size (Inches) Length (Gallons)  100% Chlorine (Pound) 1% Chlorine-Water
                                                           Solution In Gallons
4                  265.3             0.0135                1/6
6                  146.5             0.0305                3/8
8                  261.0             0.054                 2/3
10                 408.0             0.085                 1
12                 588.7             0.120                 11/2
 
            (3)   HTH Chlorine Compound: During the construction of said water
main, the contractor shall, during the installation, place at each joint,
approximately one teaspoonful of HTH six percent (6%) chlorine compound or
equal.
         d.   Point Of Application: The preferred point of application of the
chlorinating agent is at the beginning of the pipeline extension of any valved
section of it, and through a corporation stop inserted in the pipe. The water
injector for delivering the chlorine bearing water into the pipe should be
supplied from a tap made on the pressure side of the gate valve controlling the
flow into the pipeline extension. Alternate points of application may be used
when approved or directed by the village engineer.
         e.   Rate Of Application: Water from the existing distribution system,
or other source of supply as approved by the village engineer, shall be
controlled to flow very slowly into the newly laid pipeline during application
of the chlorine. The rate of chlorine mixture flow shall be in such proportion
to the rate of water entering the newly laid pipe that the dosage applied to
the water will be at least twenty five (25) parts per million unless otherwise
directed by the village engineer.
         f.   Preventing Reverse Flow: Valves shall be manipulated so that the
strong chlorine solution in the line being treated will not flow back into the
line supplying the water. Check valves may be used if desired.
         g.   Retention Period: Treated water shall be retained in the pipe at
least twenty four (24) hours. After this period, the chlorine residual at pipe
extremities and at other representative points shall be at least ten (10) parts
per million.
         h.   Chlorinating Valves And Hydrants: In the process of chlorinating
newly laid pipe, all valves or other appurtenances shall be operated while the
pipeline is filled with the chlorinating agent and under normal operating
pressure.
         i.   Final Flushing And Testing: Following chlorination, all treated
water shall be thoroughly flushed from the newly laid pipe at its extremity
until the replacement water throughout its length shows, upon test, the absence
of chlorine. In the event chlorine is normally used in the source of supply,
then the tests shall show a residual not in excess of that carried in the
system.
After flushing, water samples collected on two (2) successive days from the
treated piping system, as directed by the village engineer, shall show
satisfactory bacteriological results. Bacteriological analysis must be
performed by a laboratory designated and furnished by the owner and approved by
the director of the Illinois department of public health.
         j.   Repetition Of Flushing And Testing: Should the initial treatment
result in an unsatisfactory bacterial test, the original chlorination procedure
shall be repeated by the contractor until satisfactory results are obtained.
Upon completion of the construction of all sewer and water service connections
with the utility mains, three (3) accurate maps showing the exact location of
all such sewer and water mains, together with manholes, shutoff valves, and
similar facilities being part thereof, by distances in feet from street lines,
and of all such service connections in distances in feet from side lot lines
approved by the village engineer, shall be filed with the village clerk. (Ord.
11-13, 10-4-2011)
11-6-7: STREETS AND ALLEYS:
   A.   Street Grading:
      1.   All stumps, trees that cannot be saved, boulders, and similar items
in street right of way shall be removed.
      2.   Before any paving work is commenced, all street and alley grading
shall be properly completed as shown on the grading plan and approved by the
village engineer.
      3.   When considered necessary by the village engineer, settlement of all
trench backfill shall be accelerated by means of water introduced through holes
jetted into backfilled trenches to a point approximately two feet (2') above
the top of the sewer pipe. The holes shall be jetted not greater than six feet
(6') apart unless otherwise directed by the village engineer. The jetting
process shall conform to the standards set forth in the state of Illinois
"Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction", section 66.7. Any
depressions which develop within the street right of way due to settlement of
backfilling material shall be refilled and repaved at the subdivider's expense,
in a manner approved by the village engineer.
      4.   The binder course of the roadway pavement shall not be placed until
backfilling of all trenches across the roadway has been completely settled or
compacted to the satisfaction of the village engineer. Said trenches shall be
backfilled with trench backfill material, mechanically tamped in twelve inch
(12") lifts, and brought to the required grade. The surface course shall be
placed in accordance with the requirements set forth in subsection B3 of this
section.
      5.   Corings, at least three (3) per block, on request of the village
engineer, shall be taken under village supervision after the paving has been
completed and after the subdivider has requested acceptance of the street.
   B.   Roadway Pavement:
      1.   All streets and alleys within the subdivision shall be improved with
a durable all weather bituminous concrete or concrete surface roadway. The
pavement shall be equal to or superior to a pavement consisting of a base
course of a total thickness of not less than that shown in the table in
subsection B3 of this section when thoroughly compacted. Materials and method
of construction shall be in compliance with the "Standard Specifications For
Road And Bridge Construction", state of Illinois department of transportation,
current edition and the current edition of the Illinois department of
transportation design manual, and shall be sufficient, in the opinion of the
village engineer, to withstand the traffic that the roadways will presumably be
subjected to.
      2.   All streets shall be improved with roadway pavements to an overall
width in accordance with the following minimum dimensions:
PAVEMENT WIDTH
(Between Back Of Curbs)
Type Of Street Residential Subdivision Manufacturing Or Business Subdivision
Type Of Street     Residential Subdivision            Manufacturing Or Business
                                                      Subdivision
Collector streets  36 feet                            50 feet
Minor streets      36 feet                            40 feet
Cul-de-sac streets 36 feet                            40 feet
Frontage road      26 feet                            36 feet
Thoroughfares      In accordance with federal, state,  
                   county, and local requirements
Half street        1/2 the width of proposed street   Not permitted
                   but not less than 20 feet
Alleys             14 feet                            20 feet
 
Roadway pavements in cul-de-sac street terminus shall have a minimum diameter,
measured from backs of the outside curb of one hundred ten feet (110') for
residential subdivisions and one hundred twenty feet (120') for manufacturing
and business subdivision. Roadway pavements in "T" type or other type of
terminus may be allowed with special permission of the village council.
      3.   Roadway pavements shall be installed in accordance with the
following minimum requirements:
All flexible pavements shall utilize a roadway stabilization fabric (4 ounces
per square yard), below the base course material, of "typar" as manufactured by
DuPont Co., or approved equal.
 Residential Manufacturing Or Business
                                        Residential       Manufacturing Or
                                                          Business
Base course:                                              
   Crushed stone                     9"                10"
   Or                                                  
   Bituminous aggregate mixture      4" (over 4" CA-6) 6" (over 4" CA-6)
Surface:                                                  
   Bituminous surface:                                 
      Bituminous material prime (M0.35 gal./sq.yd.  0.35 gal./sq.yd.
      Binder course               1 1/2"            2"
      Surface course              11/2"             2"
   Or                                                  
   Portland cement concrete pavement 6" (over 6" CA-6) 8" (over 6" CA-6)
 
      4.   Bituminous concrete binder course shall be placed during the
construction season in which the aggregate base course has been placed.
Bituminous concrete surface course shall not be placed until the construction
season following the season in which the binder course was placed. The
developer shall be responsible for repairs to the binder course that may be
required prior to the placement of the surface course. The village engineer
must give written approval for the surface course to be placed. In no case
shall the surface course be placed without the binder course being cleaned to
the satisfaction of the village engineer, or without a tack coat of RC-70
bituminous material prime coat (0.1 gal./sq.yd.) being applied to the binder
course.
Prior to building permits being issued in any subdivision within the
jurisdiction of the village, all subdivision improvements must be completed,
approved and accepted by the village, except bituminous concrete surface
course.
In no case shall permits be issued prior to the recording of the final plat,
and prior to the installation of all public utilities including gas,
electrical, and telephone. Notice from the utility companies must be given to
the village that their utilities are in place and operational in the subject
subdivision.
      5.   All concrete used in roadway and curb and gutter shall be portland
cement concrete (class X, 6.4 bags per cubic yard) and shall be proportioned
according to the applicable sections of the state specifications and shall be
designed for a minimum twenty eight (28) day compressive strength of three
thousand five hundred (3,500) psi.
Air entrainment shall be four (4) through seven percent (7%) and slump between
two (2) and four inches (4").
Concrete pavement shall be constructed on a minimum six inch (6") crushed
aggregate subbase having a gradation of CA-6.
   C.   Curbs And Gutters: Concrete curbs and gutters shall be constructed
along the outside edges of all street pavements of the type designated by the
village engineer and installed in accordance with village and standard
specifications, in no case shall the total width of the combination curb and
gutter be less than twenty four inches (24") and the gutter flag thickness be
less than eight inches (8"). The curb and gutter proposed typical section is
shown below and shall be approved by the village engineer prior to final plans
being approved. The curb shall be a mountable type conforming to the typical
section contained herein.
[image]
   D.   Access Driveway Aprons: A paved access driveway apron from the street
right of way line to the concrete curb and gutter shall be provided. Pavement
shall be of concrete (6 inch thickness with WWM) construction installed over a
six inch (6") aggregate base in accordance with village standards and
specifications.
   E.   Side Strips (Parkways): Side strips shall be required on both sides of
all streets. They shall be graded by the subdivider with at least four inches
(4") of topsoil. Median strips shall be considered as side strips unless paved.
   F.   Public Sidewalks:
      1.   Sidewalks shall be installed on both sides of the street in
residential subdivisions. The sidewalks shall not be constructed at the time
the subdivision improvements are constructed, but shall be placed by the lot
owner after construction of the residence. The sidewalk shall be installed and
paid for by the lot owner at that time.
      2.   Sidewalks shall be located twelve inches (12") from the street right
of way lines and shall be constructed in accordance with the following:
         a.   Concrete Specifications: All sidewalks shall be constructed of
portland cement concrete (class X, 6.4 bags per cubic yard) with a twenty eight
(28) day compressive strength of three thousand five hundred (3,500) pounds per
square inch. Minimum slump, three inches (3"), maximum slump six inches (6").
All concrete shall be air entrained (4 to 7 percent). No other admixtures are
required, and no other admixtures will be allowed without approval of the
village street committee and village engineer. The maximum chloride admixture
allowed will be one percent (1%).
         b.   Residential Districts: Minimum width - four feet (4'). Minimum
thickness - four inches (4"), over a compacted three inch (3") granular base.
         c.   Commercial Districts: Minimum width - five feet (5'). Minimum
thickness - five inches (5"), over a compacted three inch (3") granular base.
         d.   Sidewalks Constructed Through Driveway: In residential areas and
commercial areas, at locations where sidewalks are constructed through a
driveway, the sidewalk thickness shall be increased to six inches (6") and a
welded wire mesh shall be placed in the concrete placement.
      3.   Sidewalk grades must be approved by the village building officer or
village engineer and sidewalks, which are the construction responsibility of
the lot owner, shall not be constructed with the subdivision improvements, but
shall be constructed upon completion of the building on individual lots prior
to occupancy.
In general, the grade of the residence edge of the sidewalk shall be five
inches (5") above the top of curb. The sidewalk shall have one inch (1") slope
toward the curb. The building officer may approve sidewalks to be placed at
grades above or below this recommended grade.
   G.   Street Lighting: A street lighting system shall be installed in
business and manufacturing subdivisions and at street intersections and special
problem locations in residential subdivision. Such street lighting system shall
be installed with the subdivision improvements. The total cost of lighting and
installation shall be the responsibility of the developer.
Street lighting shall be provided at all street intersections within or
abutting the subdivision and at midblock intervals not exceeding four hundred
feet (400') in length. Streetlight locations shall be approved by the village
council and village engineer.
The streetlight shall include as a minimum: thirty five foot (35') precast
concrete poles, a six foot (6') metal mast arm to hold the ballast fixture, a
two hundred fifty (250) watt high pressure sodium bulb with lens cover.
   H.   Trees: No trees shall be planted within the street right of way, and no
closer than five feet (5') to the street right of way when planted on private
property.
   I.   Hot Mix Asphalt Base Repair Patching: Sawcut and excavate area marked
to a depth of thirteen inches (13"); mechanically compact subbase; place two
(2) 41/2-inch lifts of mechanically compacted aggregate base course (CA-6);
apply bituminous materials (prime coat) MC-30 at a rate of 0.40 gallons per
square yard; place two (2) 2-inch compacted lifts of hot mix asphalt surface
course.
The contractor shall remove and dispose of all excavated materials. Patches
will be marked out by the engineer. (Ord. 11-13, 10-4-2011)
11-6-8: PEDESTRIANWAYS:
Paved walks having a width of not less than five feet (5'), shall be installed
in accordance with the village sidewalk specifications. (Ord. 11-13, 10-4-2011)
11-6-9: PUBLIC UTILITIES:
   A.   All utility lines for telephone, electric, cable TV and gas service and
distribution in the subdivision shall be placed underground, or when approved
by the village council may be overhead when located in easements along rear lot
lines or side lot lines at locations of extensions of utility installations
between blocks. Installation of such facilities shall be made in compliance
with the applicable orders, rules and regulations of the Illinois commerce
commission now or hereafter effective and the subdivider shall be responsible
for compliance with rules and regulations, now and hereafter effective and
files with said commission pursuant to the Illinois public utilities act, of
any public utility whose service will be required for the subdivision with
respect to the provision of such facilities.
   B.   Underground telephone, cable television, electric and gas service shall
be placed within easements or dedicated public ways in a manner which will not
conflict with other underground services. Further, all transformer boxes shall
be located so as not to be unsightly or hazardous to the public. In no case
shall building permits be issued within the subdivision until all utilities are
in place and functional without specific recommendation from the planning
commission and approval of the village council. (Ord. 11-13, 10-4-2011)
11-6-10: AS BUILT PLANS:
Upon completion of the installation of improvements in a subdivision, one set
of plans suitable for use in reproduction, which shows all improvements as
actually installed in the field, shall be filed with the village clerk. These
plans shall show location of water, sanitary sewer and storm sewer service
connections for each lot dimensioned to the property corners of said lot. (Ord.
11-13, 10-4-2011)
11-6-11: FORM IRREVOCABLE LETTER OF CREDIT:
This Letter of Credit is from                       (name of financial
institution) to Village of Seneca, Illinois, a municipal corporation, effective
as of            20      , issued for the purpose of constructing the
subdivision improvements including, but not limited to streets, curbs, storm
sewers, sanitary sewers, street lights, and other improvements as set forth on
the drawings, specifications and engineering as required by the Village of
Seneca Subdivision and Zoning Ordinances and as approved by the Village
Engineer of Seneca for the subdivision commonly known as                      .
This Letter of Credit covers uncompleted construction of the public
improvements mentioned above in said subdivision up to the total amount of $
which is one hundred twenty-five percent (125%) of the estimated cost of
improvement. If for any cause any or all of the public improvements required to
be installed in said subdivision should not be constructed within two (2) years
from Village Council approval of the final plat in compliance with said
drawings, specifications, and engineering submitted with said subdivision and
approved by the Village Council of Seneca and Village Engineer, the funds
included in this letter may be used by the Village of Seneca to complete the
construction and installation of the same and may be drawn in whole or in part
by the Village Engineer of Seneca and will be paid immediately upon written
demand given by the Village Engineer of Seneca, or Mayor of the Village of
Seneca.
All demands made by Village in conformity with this Irrevocable Letter of
Credit will be duly honored immediately upon presentation. If, within five (5)
days of the date any demand is presented, we fail to honor same, we agree to
pay all attorneys' fees, court costs and any other expenses incurred by the
Village of Seneca in enforcing any of the terms of this Irrevocable Letter of
Credit.
Payouts from this Irrevocable commitment shall be as follows:
If we have not been notified by the Village of a default by the owner and/or
developer, we shall disburse the funds for labor and materials furnished by
contractors in accordance with the sworn statement on order of the owner, the
submission of proper lien waivers from the contractors engaged in such work,
and the certificate by the Village Engineer of Seneca and contractors that such
work has been properly completed, provided, however, that we shall withhold
from each payment made under such sworn statement(s) or order(s) an amount
equal to ten percent (10%) thereof until all improvements have been completed
except final surfacing of the streets, at which time the ten percent (10%) sum
withheld shall be disbursed less a sum equal to one hundred and twenty-five
percent (125%) of the cost of the final surfacing of the streets, which sum
shall be finally disbursed when that work has been completed and the
requirements of certification and lien waivers has been completed as
hereinabove set out.
If we receive a resolution of the corporate authorities of the Village
indicating that the owner and/or developer has failed to satisfactorily
complete or carry on the work of the installation and construction of the
requirement improvements, and such resolution indicates that the owner and/or
developer, has been notified that the Village finds that a breach of the
owner's and/or developer's obligations has occurred, then in such case we shall
make payments for materials and labor to such contractor(s) or subcontractor(s)
who have completed the improvements in substantial accordance with the plans
and specifications of the owner and/or developer and approved by the Village of
Seneca; such payments shall be made upon the certification of the Village of
Seneca Engineer that the work has been completed and the submission of property
waiver of liens from the contractor(s) or subcontractor(s). The amount of the
payouts shall be in accordance with the retention provisions as previously set
out.
The Irrevocable Letter of Credit established by us shall continuously remain in
full force and effect until released, in writing, by the Village following
final acceptance of improvements. Funds may be partially released for
individual completed improvements prior to completion of the overall project in
the sole discretion of the Village. Under no circumstances shall this
Irrevocable Letter of Credit be reduced to a sum less than twenty-five thousand
dollars ($25,000) or ten percent (10%) of its initial value, whichever is
greater. Said Irrevocable Letter of Credit shall remain in effect without
regard to any default in payments of sums owed us by the owner and/or developer
and without regard to other claims which we may have against the owner and/or
developer. If the work covered by this commitment has not been completed within
the time set forth in this agreement, the Village may, at its option, continue
drawing funds for payment of the required improvements. It is recognized that
the Village is according the owner and/or developer the permission to proceed
with the development project upon the guarantee of the Irrevocable nature of
this commitment. It is further acknowledged that the consideration for this
Irrevocable commitment is provided by agreements between this financial
institution and the developer. The sum of this credit shall, however, be
reduced in the amount of disbursement made from time to time in accordance with
the terms under which this credit is extended as set out above.
It is hereby represented that the undersigned are officers of this financial
institution and they are duly authorized by the Board of Directors to execute
this Irrevocable Letter of Credit and that a certified copy of the resolution
authorizing the execution of this Letter of Credit is attached hereto.
                                             
Name of Financial Institution
By:                                         
      President
ATTEST:
                                              
Secretary
(Ord. 11-13, 10-4-2011)
CHAPTER 7
BUILDING CODE COMPLIANCE; VARIATIONS
SECTION:
11-7-1: Building Code And Other Applicable Ordinances
11-7-2: Building Within Proposed Major Thoroughfares
11-7-3: Permit
11-7-4: Variations
11-7-5: Enforcement
11-7-1: BUILDING CODE AND OTHER APPLICABLE ORDINANCES:
No building permit as regulated by the building code shall be issued by any
governing official for the construction of any building, structure, or
improvement of land or any lot within a "subdivision", as defined herein, which
has been approved for platting until all requirements of this Title have been
fully complied with.
Any owner or subdivider desiring to subdivide property presently lying outside
the corporate limits of said Village, with the expectation of annexing same to
said Village shall abide by the terms of this Title and the Building Code
Ordinance and all other ordinances of the Village and shall further be subject
the requirement that any owner or land so annexed must petition to be annexed.
(Ord. 99-22, 8-17-1999)
11-7-2: BUILDING WITHIN PROPOSED MAJOR THOROUGHFARES:
After the effective date hereof, no permanent building or structure shall be
erected within the right of way of major thoroughfares as shown on the Official
Map of the Village. (Ord. 99-22, 8-17-1999)
11-7-3: PERMIT:
No building permit shall be granted by any governing official for the
construction of any building, structure, or land improvement within the
subdivision approved for platting or replatting until required utility
facilities have been installed and made ready to service the building,
structure, or land improvement; and until the roadway is paved with the binder
course and until all streetlights are in place and functional, in accordance
with the appropriate sections of this Title. (Ord. 99-22, 8-17-1999)
11-7-4: VARIATIONS:
The Plan Commission may recommend variations from the requirements of this
Title in specific cases which, in its opinion, do not affect the Comprehensive
Plan or intent of this Title. Such recommendations shall be communicated to the
Village Council or governing county authorities in writing, substantiating the
recommended variation. The Village Council may approve variations from these
requirements for subdivisions within the Village limits when, in its opinion,
such variations will not adversely affect the Comprehensive Plan or the spirit
of this Title. The Plan Commission shall notify the owner or subdivider and
other interested parties as to the time and place of the Plan Commission
meeting at which the variation is being considered and where the owner or
subdivider and other interested parties will be afforded an opportunity of
being heard. Such notice shall be published, posted or delivered and in such
form as prescribed by the Village Attorney. (Ord. 99-22, 8-17-1999)
11-7-5: ENFORCEMENT:
No plat of any subdivision shall be entitled to record in the recorder's office
or have any validity until it shall have been approved in a manner prescribed
in this Title. (Ord. 99-22, 8-17-1999)
CHAPTER 8
DEDICATION OF PARK LANDS
SECTION:
11-8-1: Dedication Of Park Lands Or Payment Of Cash In Lieu Thereof
11-8-2: Criteria For Requiring Park And Recreational Land Dedication
11-8-3: Time Of Conveyance Or Payment
11-8-4: Cash Contribution
11-8-5: Reservation Of Additional Land
11-8-6: Combining With Adjoining Development
11-8-7: Improved Sites
11-8-8: Shape, Topography And Grading
11-8-9: Sale Or Exchange
11-8-10: Severability
11-8-1: DEDICATION OF PARK LANDS OR PAYMENT OF CASH IN LIEU THEREOF:
As a condition of approval of all final plats of residential subdivisions, or
of final plat of all existing residential or industrial or commercial
developments, both within the Village limits and within one and one-half (11/2)
miles of the Village limits, each subdivider or developer will be required to
dedicate land for park and recreational purposes to serve the immediate and
future needs of the residents of the development, or cash contribution in lieu
of actual land dedication, or a combination of both, at the option of the
Village, in accordance with the requirements set out in this Title. (Ord. 99-
22, 8-17-1999)
11-8-2: CRITERIA FOR REQUIRING PARK AND RECREATIONAL LAND DEDICATION:
   A.   Amount Of Land Required: The ultimate population density to be
generated by a subdivision or development shall bear directly on the amount of
land required to be dedicated for parks and recreation sites. The acreage of
land dedication requirement shall be determined by obtaining the total
population of the development times the number of required acres per one
thousand (1,000) population.
The total requirement shall be 3.75 acres of park or recreational land or cash
in lieu of land, per one thousand (1,000) of ultimate population. Table I of
this Section shall be a guideline for park and recreational land distribution.
   TABLE I
Types Of Recreational Area Size Range Minimum Acres Per  1,000 People
Types Of Recreational Area Size Range                  Minimum Acres Per  1,000
                                                       People
Play lot                   Minimum 8,000 square feet   n/a
School-park                Minimum park of 5 acres (to
(neighborhood park)        be included within School   n/a
                           Donation Ordinance)
Neighborhood park          Minimum 31/2 acres          1.00
District-wide park         Minimum 4 acres up to 30    1.25
                           acres
Community-wide park        Minimum 12 acres up to 30   1.50
                           acres
Total = 3.75 acres per 1,000 people                    3.75
Example: Development of 100 detached single-family three bedroom homes with
2.865 people per household (Source: Table II)
Total ultimate population  = Number of lots x ultimate population for detached
                           single-family three bedroom homes
                           = 100
The Required Acreage
Total population x for     = Total acres required
1,000 people
287 x 3.75 Acres           = 1.07625 acres
1,000
 
Table II shall be the estimated ultimate population per dwelling unit.
On property zoned for the construction of single-family detached units, it
shall be presumed that seventy percent (70%) of the units shall contain three
(3) bedrooms and thirty percent (30%) of all units shall contain four (4)
bedrooms. All fractions shall be rounded to the nearest unit. These
prespecifying the units which shall be constructed.
   TABLE II
   TABLE OF ESTIMATED ULTIMATE POPULATION
   PER DWELLING UNIT TOTAL PER UNIT
Type Of Unit Total Per Unit
Type Of Unit Total Per Unit
Detached Single-Family:
2-bedroom    1.979
3-bedroom    2.865
4-bedroom    3.673
5-bedroom    3.598
Attached Single-Family (Townhouse, Row House, Quadriplex, Etc.):
1-bedroom    1.068
2-bedroom    2.074
3-bedroom    2.380
4-bedroom    3.336
Apartments:
1-bedroom    1.360
2-bedroom    1.734
3-bedroom    1.752
4-bedroom    2.786
 
   Density Formula
Table II of population density is generally indicative of current and short-
range projected trends in family size for new construction and shall be used in
calculating the amount of required dedication of acres of land or the cash
contributions in lieu thereof unless a written objection is filed thereto by
the subdivider or developer.
In the event a subdivider or developer files a written objection to the table
of estimated ultimate population listed herein, he shall submit his own
demographic study showing the estimated additional population to be generated
from the subdivision or development and in that event, final determination of
the density formula to be used in such calculations shall be made by the
Village, in its sole discretion, upon consideration of the table of population
density, such demographic information submitted by the subdivider or developer
and such other sources of information which may be submitted to/or obtained by
the Planning Commission. It is recognized that population density, age
distribution and local conditions change over the years, and the specific
formula for the dedication of land, or the payment of fees in lieu thereof, as
stated herein, is subject to periodic review and amendment if necessary.
   B.   Location And Ownership: Comprehensive park ordinance plans, appropriate
standards adopted by affected park districts and adopted Municipal and county
plans shall be used as a guideline in locating sites. A central location which
will serve equally the entire development is most desirable. In a large
development, these sites can be located throughout the development according to
established standards for park area distances from residential areas. Each park
site should have at least sixty six foot (66') frontage on dedicated public
roads. Full fee simple title to the dedicated park land shall be held by the
Village or as determined and/or assigned by the Village Council. When
necessary, operation and maintenance may be done by a homeowners' association
with the execution of the appropriate legal documents. (Ord. 99-22, 8-17-1999)
11-8-3: TIME OF CONVEYANCE OR PAYMENT:
The subdivider or developer shall convey to the Village, the land required
under this Section within thirty (30) days after any subdivision plat or final
plat of a planned unit development is recorded in the Recorder's office of
LaSalle County or Grundy County. All improvements shall be completed within
such a time as required by the Village. A subdivider or developer shall make
any cash contribution required under this Chapter upon the issuance of a
building permit. The money shall be paid to the Clerk of the Village. (Ord. 99-
22, 8-17-1999)
11-8-4: CASH CONTRIBUTION:
   A.   Criteria: Where the development is small and the resulting site is too
small to be practical or when the available land is geologically and
topographically inappropriate for park and recreational purposes as determined
by the Village, or where the Village, in its discretion, determines a land
dedication to be otherwise inappropriate, the Village shall require the
subdivider or developer to pay a cash contribution in lieu of the land
dedication required. The cash contribution in lieu of park and recreation land
as herein classified, will be available to serve the immediate or future needs
of the residents of that subdivision or development or for the improvement of
other existing local park and recreation land needs and not, however, to
include operational expenses. The Village shall hold the donation plus all
accumulated interest in a separate account specifically for the acquisition or
improvement of park and recreational land and/or acquisition of equipment and
buildings for park and recreational land.
   B.   Fair-Market Value: The cash contribution in lieu of land shall be based
on the "fair-market value" of the acres of fully improved park land in the area
after development. The "fair-mark value" for land shall be recommended by the
Planning Commission shall be used unless any subdivider, developer, or public
body files a written objection thereto. In the event of any such objection, the
subdivider, developer, or public body shall submit evidence showing the "fair-
market value" of such improved land in the area of development. Final
determination of said "fair-market value" per acre of such improved land shall
be made by the Village Council based on such information submitted by the
subdivider or developer and from other sources as may be submitted to the
Planning Commission. The Planning Commission has held a public hearing on land
value within the Village, and determined fair-market value of improved land, as
of the effective date hereof, to be at forty eight thousand dollars
($48,000.00) per acre.
   C.   Criteria For Requiring Land Dedication And Cash Contribution: There may
be situations in subdivisions or developments when a combination of land
dedication and a contribution in lieu of land are both necessary. These
occasions will arise when:
      1.   Only a portion of the land to be developed is proposed as the
location for a park site. That portion shall be dedicated as a site as
aforesaid, and a cash contribution in lieu thereof shall be dedicated;
      2.   A major part of the local park or recreation site has already been
acquired and only a small portion of land is needed from the development to
complete the site. The remaining portions shall be required by dedication, and
a cash contribution in lieu thereof shall be required.
   D.   Credit For Private Open Space And Recreation Areas: When subdividers or
developers provide their own open space for recreation areas and facilities, it
has the effect of reducing the demand for local public recreational services.
Depending on the size of development, a portion of the park and recreation
areas in subdivisions or developments may at the option of the Village be
provided in the form of "private" open space in lieu of dedicated "public" open
space. The extent of same shall be determined by the Village, based on the type
of recreational needs of the projected residents and in conformance to the
total park and recreational land requirements or the general area pursuant to
Table I in subsection 11-8-2A of this Chapter.
In general, a substitution of private open space for dedication of parks will
imply a substantially higher degree of improvement and the installation of
recreational facilities, including equipment by the subdivider or developer as
part of his obligation. Detailed plans of such areas, including specifications
or facilities to be installed, must be approved by the Village, and before any
credit is given for private recreation areas, the subdivider or developer must
establish a permanent system of maintenance with the execution of the
appropriate legal documents. When an adjustment for private recreation areas is
warranted, it will be necessary to compute the total park land dedication that
would have been required from the subdivision or planned unit development and
then subtract the credit to be given. (Ord. 99-22, 8-17-1999)
11-8-5: RESERVATION OF ADDITIONAL LAND:
Where the Comprehensive Plan or the standards of the Village call for a larger
amount of park and recreational land in a particular subdivision or planned
unit development than the developer is required to dedicate, the land needed
beyond the developer's contribution shall be reserved and designated for
subsequent purchase by the Village or other public body designated by the
Village; provided, that within one year from the approval of the final plat,
the designated public body signs a contract to purchase the land or files a
condemnation suit in pursuit thereof. (Ord. 99-22, 8-17-1999)
11-8-6: COMBINING WITH ADJOINING DEVELOPMENT:
Where the subdivision or development is less than forty (40) acres, public open
space which is to be dedicated should, where possible, be combined with
dedications from adjoining developments in order to produce usable recreation
area without hardship on a particular developer. (Ord. 99-22, 8-17-1999)
11-8-7: IMPROVED SITES:
All sites shall be dedicated with access to full service of electricity, gas,
water, sewer, streets, storm drainage and curb and gutter as applicable and in
conformance with the location of the site or acceptable provision made
therefor. (Ord. 99-22, 8-17-1999)
11-8-8: SHAPE, TOPOGRAPHY AND GRADING:
The shape, topography and geology of the dedicated site, as well as, its
surroundings must be suitable for its intended purposes. The bulk of the
intensive park or recreation area should have a width/depth ratio of one or two
and one-half (21/2), unless otherwise accepted by the Village.
As a general rule, at least fifty percent (50%) of the dedicated land shall be
buildable for permanent structures as determined through the appropriate
topographical studies and soil tests.
All land required for dedication for park purposes shall be in addition to
these required by other ordinances or regulations. (Ord. 99-22, 8-17-1999)
11-8-9: SALE OR EXCHANGE:
If, following the Village's acceptance of park land dedicated to it in
accordance with conditions of approval of any tentative parcel map for a
subdivision, the Village Council determines that there is another site
available that would be more suitable to serve the park and recreational needs
of future inhabitants of such subdivision, or that there is another site
available that could be developed, operated, and maintained in a manner which
meets the needs of the future inhabitants of the subdivision for park
facilities at a cost significantly less than the cost of developing, operating
and maintaining the dedicated land for park or recreational purposes, then the
Village Council may either sell the dedicated land and use the proceeds from
such sale to acquire and develop such other site for park and recreational
purposes, or may exchange the dedicated land for such other site. (Ord. 99-22,
8-17-1999)
11-8-10: SEVERABILITY:
If any provisions of this Chapter, or the application thereof to any person or
circumstances, is declared invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, such
partial invalidity shall not affect the valid provisions or application
thereof, and to this extent the provisions of this Chapter are declared to be
severable. (Ord. 99-22, 8-17-1999)
CHAPTER 9
DEDICATION OF LAND FOR SCHOOL SITES
SECTION:
11-9-1: Dedication Of Land Or Cash Contributions
11-9-2: Criteria For Land Dedication
11-9-3: Criteria For Cash Contribution
11-9-4: Density Formula
11-9-5: Table Of Estimated Ultimate Population Per Dwelling Unit
11-9-6: Combining Sites With Adjoining Development
11-9-7: Topography And Grading Of Site
11-9-8: Construction Of Improvements On Sites
11-9-9: Maintenance Of Dedicated Land
11-9-1: DEDICATION OF LAND OR CASH CONTRIBUTIONS:
   A.   As a condition of approval of a final plat of a subdivision or of a
final plan for a planned development, each subdivider or developer is required
to dedicate land for school sites to serve the immediate and future needs of
the residents of the development, or cash contribution in lieu of actual land
dedication, or a combination of both at the option of the village in accordance
with this section.
   B.   Prior to the village granting approval for a preliminary plat of
subdivision or a preliminary plan for a planned development: the village shall
make a determination, and convey such determination to the subdivider or
developer, as to the following:
      1.   With concurrence from the affected school district(s), whether land,
cash in lieu of land or a combination of both shall be required. (Ord. 06-12,
10-3-2006)
11-9-2: CRITERIA FOR LAND DEDICATION:
   A.   Calculation Of Acreage: The number of students to be generated by a
subdivision or planned development shall bear directly upon the amount of land
required to be dedicated for school sites. The land dedication requirement
shall be determined by the following:
      1.   The estimated number of children to be generated by the subdivision
or planned development in each school classification as determined by reference
to subsection B of this section; divided by
      2.   The maximum recommended number of students to be served according to
each school classification site as determined in subsection B of this section;
multiplied by
      3.   The said minimum recommended number of acres for a school site of
each school classification as stated in subsection B of this section.
The product thereof shall be the acres of land deemed needed to have sufficient
land for school sites to serve the estimated increased children in each such
school classification.
   B.   School Classification:
      1.   School classification and size of school sites within the village
shall be determined in accordance with the following criteria:
 
                         Maximum Number Of Students Minimum Number Acres Of
Classification By Grades For Each Classification    Land For Each School Site
                                                    Classification
Elementary K-5           600                        11
Middle school            750                        28
High school              1,500                      45
 
      2.   The number of acres required for a school site is based upon state
office education standards as adopted by the state board of education as
follows:
 
Elementary school Minimum 5 acres plus 1 acre per 100 students
Middle school     Minimum 20 acres plus 1 acre per 100 students
High school       Minimum 30 acres plus 1 acre per 100 students
 
   C.   Location: The comprehensive school plan, village plan and/or the
standards adopted by the affected school district(s) shall be used as a
guideline in location sites. Additional guidelines which may be considered in
locating sites include, but are not limited to, centrality of location within
proposed development, size of subdivision, proximity of site to other schools,
parks and municipal services, topography, geology, soils and shape of site,
accessibility of site, safety and other environmental and use conditions. (Ord.
06-12, 10-3-2006)
11-9-3: CRITERIA FOR CASH CONTRIBUTION:
   A.   Applicability; Use: Where the development size results in the
dedication of a school site too small to be practical or when the available
land is inappropriate for a school site, the village shall require the
subdivider or developer to pay a cash contribution in lieu of the land
dedication required. The cash contribution in lieu of school sites shall be
made payable to the affected school district(s) and used to specifically and
uniquely benefit the residents of the development from which the contribution
was donated. Such cash contributions shall be used and collected only for:
      1.   The acquisition of land for a school site to serve the immediate or
future needs of children from that subdivision or development.
      2.   The construction of new buildings.
      3.   The construction of additions to existing school structures.
      4.   The alteration, renovation, modification or rehabilitation of
existing school structures.
      5.   The leasing of school facilities to meet needs when building is not
possible or feasible.
      6.   The administrative expenses of application for disbursement, and use
of the cash contributions.
      7.   The purchase of real estate from the developer making the
contribution under this section for vocational training as set forth in and
under the authority of 105 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/10-23.3 of the Illinois
school code. When a purchase is made from the contributing developer for such
purposes, said developer will transfer the site agreed upon to the purchasing
school district for a purchase price not to exceed the price that results from
the application of fair market value set forth in subsection C of this section
to the size of the site.
   B.   Determination Of Amount; Method Of Payment: The total cash contribution
to be required shall be determined at the time the final plat of a subdivision
or final plan of a planned development is approved. Prior to execution of said
final plat or plan, the developer or subdivider shall provide the village with
a receipt as proof of payment, or other such written documentation proving
security for the payment as determined, as signed by the chief executive
officer, or his or her duly appointed designee, of the affected school district
(s). Security for payment shall be in the form of an irrevocable letter of
credit in the amount as determined from an acceptable banking institution or a
certificate of deposit with a federally insured bank or savings and loan
association.
   C.   Determination Of Fair Market Value Of Land:
      1.   The cash contributions in lieu of land shall be based on the "fair
market value" of so much of the land as would have been dedicated and fully
improved in accordance with minimum standards for improvement as set forth in
this chapter. It has been determined that the present fair market value of a
vacant improved acre of land in and surrounding the village is fifty thousand
dollars ($50,000.00) per acre for land with public facilities, and thirty nine
thousand five hundred dollars ($39,500.00) per acre for land without public
facilities. The "fair market value" of such improved land shall be determined
by the governing board of the school district(s) affected. In the event more
than one school district is affected and said school districts do not reach
agreement as to the "fair market value" of such improved land, said school
districts shall submit evidence in favor of their position to the plan
commission. Final determination of said "fair market value" shall be made by
the village based upon the information submitted by the school districts.
      2.   Such "fair market value" figure shall be used in making any
calculation herein unless the subdivider or developer files a written objection
thereof. In the event of any such objection, the objecting party shall, at its
cost and by a member of the appraisal institute (MAI), submit an appraisal
showing the "fair market value" of the land as improved in the development or
other evidence thereof. Final determination of said "fair market value" shall
be made by the village based upon the information submitted by the subdivider
or developer, and/or by other interested persons or entities. (Ord. 06-12, 10-
3-2006)
11-9-4: DENSITY FORMULA:
   A.   The table of estimated ultimate population per dwelling unit referenced
in section
11-9-5 of this chapter is generally indicative of projected trends in family
size for new construction and shall be used in calculating the amount of
required dedication and acres of land or the cash contributions in lieu thereof
unless a written objection is filed thereto by the subdivider or developer. In
the event a subdivider or developer files a written objection to said table, he
shall submit his own demographic study showing the estimated population to be
generated from the subdivision or planned development and in the event, the
final determination of the density formula to be used in such calculations
shall be made by the village based upon such demographic information submitted
by the subdivider or developer and from other sources which may be submitted
for consideration. It is recognized that population density, age distribution
and local conditions change over the years, and the specific formula for the
dedication of land, or the payment fees in lieu thereof, as stated herein, is
subject to periodic review and amendment if necessary. (Ord. 06-12, 10-3-2006)
11-9-5: TABLE OF ESTIMATED ULTIMATE POPULATION PER DWELLING UNIT:
The table of estimated ultimate population per dwelling unit below shall be
used in connection with the provisions of this chapter.
TABLE OF ESTIMATED ULTIMATE POPULATION PER DWELLING UNIT
Type Of Unit Preschool Total K-8  High School 9-12
             0-4 Years 5-13 Years 14-17 Years
Type Of Unit                      Preschool Total K-8  High School 9-12
                                  0-4 Years 5-13 Years 14-17 Years
                       2 bedroom  0.102     0.163      0.020
Detached Single-Family 3 bedroom  0.254     0.501      0.146
                       4 bedroom  0.413     0.777      0.307
                       5 bedroom  0.231     0.548      0.212
                       1 bedroom  0         0          0
Attached Single-Family 2 bedroom  0.091     0.171      0.037
                       3 bedroom  0.229     0.275      0.067
                       4 bedroom  0.346     0.490      0.183
                       Efficiency 0         0          0
Apartments             1 bedroom  0         0          0
                       2 bedroom  0.041     0.119      0.038
                       3 bedroom  0.063     0.320      0.093
 
Note: There are only 3 significant categories provided in this chart. Because
of the similarity of yields of all types of attached single-family dwelling
units, only 1 category is provided. The same is true with apartments; thus,
only 1 category. Because of the relatively short history of some newer types of
detached and attached single-family units, individual evaluations may be
necessary.
(Ord. 06-12, 10-3-2006)
11-9-6: COMBINING SITES WITH ADJOINING DEVELOPMENT:
Where the subdivision or planned development is less than forty (40) acres, a
school site which is to be dedicated should, where possible, be combined with
dedications from adjoining developments in order to produce usable school sites
without hardship on a particular developer. (Ord. 06-12, 10-3-2006)
11-9-7: TOPOGRAPHY AND GRADING OF SITE:
The slope, topography and geology of the dedicated school site as well as its
surroundings must be suitable for its intended purpose. Grading on sites
dedicated shall not differ greatly from the surrounding land. (Ord. 06-12, 10-
3-2006)
11-9-8: CONSTRUCTION OF IMPROVEMENTS ON SITES:
All school sites shall be dedicated in a condition ready for full service of
electrical, water, sewer, and streets (including enclosed drainage and curb and
gutter) as applicable to the location of the site, or acceptable provision made
therefor. The sidewalks and trees normally included within the definition of
"improved" sites may be deleted due to the delay time between dedication of any
such school site and construction of school facilities thereon. (Ord. 06-12,
10-3-2006)
11-9-9: MAINTENANCE OF DEDICATED LAND:
Upon the proposal being accepted by the involved school districts, a said
school district shall assume the responsibility of maintaining the dedicated
land in accordance with state, county and municipal laws. (Ord. 06-12, 10-3-
2006)
