VILLAGE CODE
OF
SHANNON, ILLINOIS
Code current through:
Ord. 425, passed January 2, 2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This code of the Village of Shannon, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to
and including ordinance 425, passed January 2, 2024. Ordinances of the Village
adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the Village
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCE NO. 341
   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE SHANNON, ILLINOIS VILLAGE CODE
BE IT ORDAINED by the president and board of trustees of the village of
Shannon, Illinois, as follows:
   Section 1: From and after the date of passage of this ordinance, the village
code of the village of Shannon, Illinois prepared by Sterling Codifiers,
containing the compilation of all ordinances of a general nature together with
the changes made to said ordinances, under the direction of the governing body
of the village, shall be accepted in all courts without question as the
official code and law of the village as enacted by the president and board of
trustees.
   Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the official village code is identified by the proper catchline and is
inserted in the proper place in each of the official copies, one copy of which
shall be maintained in the office of the village clerk, certified as to
correctness and available for inspection at any and all times that said office
is regularly open.
   Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this official
village code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision
and the fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the
governing body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous
effectiveness of ordinances included in said official village code. All
ordinances of a special nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances,
franchises, vacating ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in
full force and effect unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of
the village code. Such ordinances are not intended to be included in the
official village code.
   Section 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the village to be
misrepresented thereby.
   Section 5: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 6: This ordinance and the code adopted by the same shall be recorded
and shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage, approval and
publication in pamphlet form as provided by law.
ADOPTED THIS 2nd day of August, 2011, pursuant to a roll call vote by the board
of trustees of the village of Shannon, Carroll County, Illinois.
AYES:  /s/   
NAYES:  0   
ABSENT:  0   
Village of Shannon
By:  /s/      
   Village President
ATTEST:
/s/      
   Village Clerk
PASSED, APPROVED and PUBLISHED BY PAMPHLET: August 2, 2011
STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
   )SS.
COUNTY OF CARROLL   )
   I, Denise Bormann, certify that I am the duly elected and acting municipal
clerk of the village of Shannon, Carroll County, Illinois.
   I further certify that on August 2, 2011 the corporate authorities of such
municipality passed and approved ordinance no. 341 entitled
   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE SHANNON, ILLINOIS VILLAGE CODE
   The pamphlet form of said ordinance, including the ordinance and a cover
sheet thereof, was prepared, and a copy of such ordinance was posted in the
municipal building, commencing on August 2, 2011, and continuing for at least
ten (10) days thereafter. Copies of such ordinance were also available for
public inspection upon request in the office of the municipal clerk.
   DATED at Shannon, Illinois, this 2nd day of August, 2011.
/s/       
   Village Clerk
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
SHANNON VILLAGE CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the village board of trustees, this code is hereby declared to
be and shall hereafter constitute the official village code of Shannon. This
code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the SHANNON VILLAGE CODE and is
hereby published by authority of the board of trustees and shall be
supplemented to incorporate the most recent legislation of the village as
provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title headings, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this code by title in any legal documents. (2011 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of the
state as the ordinances of the village of general and permanent effect, except
the excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2011 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this code.
(2011 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Said code, while in
actual possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be and
remain the property of the village and shall be returned to the office of the
village clerk when directed so to do by order of the village board of trustees.
(2011 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the village passed prior to the adoption of this code
are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in this chapter), and excluding the following ordinances
which are not hereby repealed:
   A.   Tax levy ordinances;
   B.   Appropriation ordinances;
   C.   Ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations;
   D.   Franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to
persons or corporations;
   E.   Contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants;
   F.   Salary ordinances;
   G.   Ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other
public places;
   H.   Improvement ordinances;
   I.   Bond ordinances;
   J.   Ordinances relating to elections;
   K.   Ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or
from the village; and
   L.   All special ordinances. (2011 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue of section
1-2-1 of this chapter, excepting as this code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances with respect to such provisions only. (2011 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts:
      1.   No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former
ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to
any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect. (2011 Code)
      2.   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, section, clause or
provision shall be itself repealed, such repeal shall not be construed to
revive such former ordinance, clause or provision unless it shall be so
expressly provided. (1916 Code § 19-3)
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Current Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the village herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the village under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this code. (2011 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this code, or any codes or portions of codes adopted herein by reference, is
for any reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any
court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or
effectiveness of the remaining portions of this code, or any codes or portions
of codes adopted herein by reference. The village board hereby declares that it
would have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence,
clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more
sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases
be declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (2011 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS; INTERPRETATION
SECTION:
1-3-1: General Rules Of Interpretation
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: GENERAL RULES OF INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the village president and board of trustees may
be fully carried out.
   B.   Minimum Requirements: In the interpretation and application of any
provision of this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
   C.   Computation Of Time: Whenever a notice is required to be given or an
act to be done in a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be held,
the day on which such notice is given or such act is done shall not be counted
in computing the time, but the day on which such proceeding is to be held shall
be counted.
   D.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other village officer to do some act or perform
some duty, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department or
other officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
   E.   Gender: A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be
applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to
males. The use of any gender based pronoun should not be construed to be gender
biased. The use is only for grammatical simplicity.
   F.   Joint Authority: All words giving a joint authority to three (3) or
more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of such persons or officers.
   G.   May; Shall: The word "may" is permissive; the word "shall" is
mandatory.
   H.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
   I.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
   J.   Officers And Employees Generally: Whenever any officer or employee is
referred to by title only, such reference shall be construed as if followed by
the words "of the village of Shannon".
   K.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
   L.   Ordinance: The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the
village has been changed in the content of this code to "title", "chapter",
"section" and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to village ordinances is not meant to
amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2011 Code)
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
the meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
BOARD OF TRUSTEES: Unless otherwise indicated, the village board of trustees of
the village of Shannon.
CODE: The village code of the village of Shannon.
COUNTY: The county of Carroll, state of Illinois.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the village, or any activity which, by its perpetuation, can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
STATE: The state of Illinois.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
VILLAGE: The village of Shannon, county of Carroll, state of Illinois.
WHOLESALER AND WHOLESALE DEALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall
be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things
to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law on any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person or, in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark. (2011 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (2011
Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Provisions
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY 1 :
   A.   General Penalty Imposed:
      1.   Unless specifically provided elsewhere in this code, any person
found to have been in violation of any of the terms and provisions of this code
shall be fined in an amount not exceeding seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00). Each day that a violation continues shall be deemed to be a separate
offense.
      2.   A penalty for each offense may include a requirement that the
offending party perform some reasonable public service work such as, but not
limited to, picking up litter in public parks or upon public highways or
performing maintenance of public facilities. A violation hereof may be
established by a preponderance of the evidence.
      3.   A default in the payment of a fine or any installment of a fine may
be collected by any means authorized for the collection of monetary judgments.
The village attorney may retain attorneys and private collection agents for the
purpose of collecting any default in payment of any fine or installment of that
fine. Any fees or costs incurred by the village with respect to attorneys or
private collection agents retained by the village attorney under this
subsection shall be charged to the offender.
   B.   Limitation; Compliance With Statute: The provisions of subsection A of
this section notwithstanding, no penalty shall be greater than that established
by state statute for the same offense. (2011 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1, 5/1-2-1.1.
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty: The penalty provided in this chapter shall be
applicable to every section of this code the same as though it were a part of
each and every separate section.
   B.   Acts Punishable Under Different Sections: In all cases where the same
offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of
this code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not
more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the same
offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be
considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code and
there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply. (2011 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY PROVISIONS:
   A.   Liability Of Officers: No provision of this code designating the duties
of any officer or employee shall be so construed as to make such officer or
employee liable for any fine or penalty provided for a failure to perform such
duty, unless the intention of the village board of trustees to impose such fine
or penalty on such officer or employee is specifically and clearly expressed in
the section creating the duty. (2011 Code)
   B.   Liability For Damages: The recovery and payment of any fine, penalty,
or forfeiture for the violation of any provision of this code shall never
discharge the person who shall be guilty of such violation from liability to
the village for such damages as the village may have sustained on account of
such violation, and no such recovery or payment shall ever be construed to be a
bar to any suit for the recovery of such damage by the village. (1916 Code §
19-11; amd. 2011 Code)
CHAPTER 5
OFFICIAL AND CORPORATE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-5-1: Ordinances
1-5-2: Municipal Year
1-5-1: ORDINANCES:
   A.   Record Of Ordinances: All ordinances passed by the village board shall,
before they take effect, be deposited in the office of the village clerk, who
shall record the same in a book to be kept for that purpose, and at the foot of
the record of each ordinance so recorded, the clerk shall make a memorandum of
the date of the passage and approval, and if published, the date of the
publication thereof. The original ordinance shall be filed in the office of the
village clerk. (1916 Code § 19-1)
   B.   Effective Date: All ordinances required by law to be published shall
take effect ten (10) days after due publication thereof, as required by law and
the ordinances of the village, and all ordinances not requiring publication
shall take effect from and after their passage, unless otherwise provided
therein. (1916 Code § 19-2)
   C.   Publication: Whenever the village board shall cause to be published in
book or pamphlet form, any ordinance of the village purporting to have been
published by authority of the village board, such publication shall be the only
publication necessary to be made of such ordinance, and such pamphlet or book
shall have attached thereto the certificate of the village clerk, under the
corporate seal, certifying that such pamphlet or book is a true and correct
copy of the original ordinance passed by the village board, showing the dates
of the passage and approval of such ordinance. Such pamphlet or book, when
published and certified, shall be received as evidence of the passage and legal
publication of such ordinance as of the dates mentioned in such book or
pamphlet in all courts and places without further proof. (1916 Code § 19-10)
1-5-2: MUNICIPAL YEAR:
   A.   The municipal year of the village shall be construed to begin May 1 of
the calendar year and end April 30 of the next succeeding calendar year, both
inclusive.
   B.   The commissions of the several village officers, whether elected or
appointed, shall be worded to expire on April 30.
   C.   All licenses or contracts made to expire with the municipal year shall
end on April 30.
   D.   The wages and salaries of employees and officers of the village shall
be reckoned by the calendar month from May 1 of one year to April 30 of the
next succeeding year. (1916 Code § 1-9)
CHAPTER 6
VILLAGE PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Duties And Compensation Of Trustees
1-6-2: Village President
1-6-3: Meetings
1-6-4: Committees
1-6-1: DUTIES AND COMPENSATION OF TRUSTEES:
   A.   The members of the village board of trustees shall perform all such
duties as are or may be prescribed by law, by this code or by the ordinances of
the village, and shall faithfully perform the duties of their office to the
best of their skill and ability.
   B.   The compensation of each village trustee shall be six hundred dollars
($600.00) per year, to be paid at the end of the municipal year. (1916 Code §
2-9; amd. Ord. 170, 3-3-1981; 2011 Code)
1-6-2: VILLAGE PRESIDENT:
   A.   Duties And Compensation:
      1.   Duties Generally; Compensation:
         a.   The village president shall perform all such duties as are or may
be prescribed by law, by this code or by the ordinances of the village, and
shall take care that the laws, the provisions of this code and the ordinances
are faithfully executed.
         b.   The village president shall receive an annual salary of three
thousand six hundred dollars ($3,600.00), payable at the end of the municipal
year. (1916 Code § 2-8; amd. Ord. 170, 3-3-1981; 2011 Code)
      2.   Duties Regarding Police Officers:
         a.   The village president shall have general supervision and control
of the police, subject to any and all orders of the village trustees, and shall
see that all police officers are prompt and faithful in the discharge of their
respective duties and from time to time shall take such measures as he may deem
expedient for the preservation of peace and good order and the enforcement of
the laws and ordinances of the village.
         b.   All regular police shall be appointed by the president, by and
with the consent of the village trustees, and special police officers may be,
in like manner, appointed, but, when at the request of persons for private
purposes, no compensation shall be allowed them by the village.
         c.   In cases of emergency, the president shall have full power to
appoint police officers for temporary purposes, without the consent of the
village trustees being required.
         d.   The president shall have the power to remove any police officer
whenever, in his opinion, the interests of the village require such removal.
(1916 Code § 2-8; amd. 2011 Code)
   B.   President Pro Tem: Whenever, by any ordinance, any power shall be
vested in the president of the village board of trustees or he shall be
authorized or required to do any act or perform any executive function in case
of his temporary absence or disability, the president pro tem shall, for the
time being, exercise such power and perform such act or executive function, as
fully as if especially named in such ordinance unless it shall be therein
otherwise provided. (1916 Code § 19-9)
1-6-3: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The regular meetings of the village board of trustees
shall be held on the first Tuesday in each calendar month at the hour of seven
o'clock (7:00) P.M., at the village hall situated in the village. (1916 Code §
2-1; amd. 2011 Code)
   B.   Special Meetings: Special meetings of the village board of trustees
shall be called by the village clerk whenever he shall be directed, in writing,
to do so by the president, or by any three (3) trustees. Upon receipt of such
request, the village clerk shall prepare a notice of such special meeting,
stating therein the time, place and purpose of such meeting, which shall be
signed by him, authenticated by the seal of the village and personally served
upon each member of the village trustees at least forty eight (48) hours before
the time of such meeting. No business shall be transacted at such meeting
except that specified in the request and notice for the same. (1916 Code § 2-2;
amd. 2011 Code)
1-6-4: COMMITTEES:
   A.   Standing Committees: The standing committees of the village trustees
shall consist of three (3) members each, and shall be appointed by the
president, annually, upon entering upon the duties of his office, and the first
person named on each committee shall be the chair thereof. The following shall
be the standing committees: (1916 Code § 2-3)
Finance
Park
Personnel
Police
Public safety
Streets and alleys
Water and sewer
   (1916 Code § 2-3; amd. 2011 Code; Ord. 367, 7-1-2014)
   B.   Committee Reports: All standing and special committees to whom matters
are referred or by whom duties shall be performed shall, in all cases, report
in writing their acts and doings and their recommendations and the state of
facts in their hands, respectively, with their opinions thereon. (1916 Code §
2-4)
CHAPTER 7
VILLAGE OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL
SECTION:
1-7-1: Oath And Bonds
1-7-2: Appointive Officers
1-7-3: Travel, Meal And Lodging Expenses
1-7-1: OATH AND BONDS:
All officers of the Village (except Trustees), whether elected or appointed,
shall, before entering upon the duties of their respective offices, take and
subscribe the oath required by law of Village officers and execute bond with
security to be approved by the Village Trustees, payable to the Village,
conditioned for the faithful performance of the duties of their several
offices, respectively, and the payment of all monies received by them,
respectively, to the Village Treasurer, or as may be required by law and
ordinance of the Village, which said bonds shall be filed with the Village
Clerk (except the bond of the Village Clerk, which shall be filed with the
Village Treasurer), and which said bonds shall be in the amounts as follows:
(1916 Code § 2-7)
 
Village Officer                 Bond Amount
President                       $3,000.00
Clerk                           6,000.00
Treasurer                       6,000.00
Police Chief (see also section  500.00
5-1-5 of this Code)
Superintendent of Public Works  2,500.00
 
(1916 Code § 2-7; amd. 2011 Code)
1-7-2: APPOINTIVE OFFICERS:
   A.   All officers of the Village, except the Clerk, Trustees and President,
shall be commissioned, according to the provisions of Illinois Compiled
Statutes. All such commissions shall be made to expire annually or biennially
thereafter, as the case may be, on April 30. (1916 Code § 1-7; amd. 2011 Code)
   B.   In addition to the officers of the Village as created and established
by law, there shall be and hereby are created and established the Offices of
Chief of Police, Superintendent of Public Works, and Zoning Commissioner. (1916
Code § 2-5; amd. 2011 Code)
   C.   At the first meeting of the Village Board of Trustees after the annual
election, or as soon thereafter as practicable, the President shall appoint
competent persons to fill the respective offices hereby created, by and with
the consent of the Village Trustees, by a vote of a majority of all its members
authorized by law to be elected, to be taken by yeas and nays and entered upon
its record, and such officers, when so appointed and duly qualified, shall hold
their respective offices for the balance of the then Municipal year, and until
their successors are appointed and qualified, unless sooner removed for a good
and sufficient cause. (1916 Code § 2-6)
1-7-3: TRAVEL, MEAL AND LODGING EXPENSES:
   A.   Definitions:
    ENTERTAINMENT: Includes, but is not limited to, shows, amusements,
theaters, circuses, sporting events, or any other place of public or private
entertainment or amusement, unless ancillary to the purpose of the program or
event.
   PUBLIC BUSINESS: Means expenses incurred in the performance of a public
purpose which is required or useful for the benefit of the Village to carry out
the responsibilities of Village business.
   TRAVEL: Means any expenditure directly incident to official travel by
employees and officers of the Village or by wards or charges of the Village
involving reimbursement to travelers or direct payment to private agencies
providing transportation or related services.
   B.   Reimbursable Expenses: The Village shall only reimburse the following
types of travel, meal, and lodging expenses incurred by its employees and
officers up to the following maximum allowable amounts:
      1.   Mileage shall be reimbursed at the rate established by the United
States Treasury, Internal Revenue Service then in force.
      2.   Lodging shall be reimbursed in an amount not exceeding two hundred
dollars ($200.00) per day.
      3.   Meals shall be reimbursed in an amount not exceeding seventy five
dollars ($75.00) per day. Alcohol is specifically excluded from reimbursement.
      4.   Entertainment and alcohol are specifically excluded from
reimbursement.
   C.   Reimbursement Request: No reimbursement of travel, meal or lodging
expenses incurred by a Village employee or officer shall be authorized unless
the "Travel, Meal, and Lodging Expense Reimbursement Request Form", on file in
the Village and made a part hereof, has been submitted and approved. All
documents and information submitted with the form shall be subject to
disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act 1 .
   D.   Approval Of Expenses: Expenses for travel, meals, and lodging of: 1)
any officer or employee that exceeds the maximum reimbursement allowed under
the regulations adopted under subsection B of this section or 2) any member of
the Corporate Authorities of the Village may only be approved by roll call vote
at an open meeting of the Corporate Authorities of the Village. However, in the
event of an emergency or other extraordinary circumstances, the Corporate
Authorities may approve more than the maximum allowable expenses set forth
above.
   E.   Entertainment: The Village shall not reimburse any elected official,
employee, or officer for any activities which would be considered
entertainment. Activities which would otherwise be considered entertainment,
but which are excluded from the prohibition on reimbursement due to being
ancillary to the purpose of the program or event, may be reimbursed in
accordance with the provisions of this section.
   F.   Conflict: Any policy, resolution, or ordinance that conflicts with the
provisions of this section shall be and is hereby repealed to the extent of
such conflict. (Ord. 384, 3-7-2017, eff. 3-7-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
ARTICLE A. VILLAGE CLERK
SECTION:
1-7A-1: Duties
1-7A-1: DUTIES:
   A.   The village clerk shall keep the corporate seal of the village and
affix the same to all papers requiring the corporate seal; he shall attend all
meetings of the village board of trustees and keep a full record of its
proceedings in the journal; he shall record, in a book to be kept for that
purpose, all ordinances passed by the village trustees, and at the foot of the
record of each ordinance so recorded, he shall make a memorandum of the date of
the passage and of the publication of such ordinance (where publication thereof
is required); and he shall cause all ordinances of the village imposing any
fine, penalties, or forfeitures, or making any appropriation, within one month
after they are passed, to be published once in some public newspaper in the
village, to be designated by the finance committee, except such ordinances as
may be printed in book or pamphlet form and published by the authority of the
village trustees.
   B.   The village clerk shall keep, file and safely preserve all ordinances
passed by the village trustees and all papers pertaining to his office. He
shall prepare and deliver all licenses granted by the village trustees and
collect the license fee therefor; he shall countersign all warrants drawn upon
the village treasury by authority of the village trustees and deliver the same,
when called for, to the persons entitled thereto; and generally do and perform
such other duties as may be required of him by law or by direction of the
village trustees or by the ordinances of the village.
   C.   The village clerk shall make and present to the village trustees a
monthly report of all monies received by him for licenses or from any other
source in behalf of the village and shall attach to said report the treasurer's
receipts for all such monies, showing payment thereof to the village treasurer.
(1916 Code § 2-10; amd. 2011 Code)
ARTICLE B. VILLAGE TREASURER
SECTION:
1-7B-1: Duties
1-7B-1: DUTIES:
   A.   The village treasurer shall receive all monies belonging to the village
and give every person paying money into the treasury a receipt therefor,
specifying the date of payment and on what account paid, and he shall make and
preserve copies of all such receipts given by him and file such copies with the
village clerk at the date of his monthly reports.
   B.   The treasurer shall keep accounts in which he shall enter and set down
a true and accurate account of all monies paid into the treasury and from whom
and on what account received. He shall keep a separate account of each fund or
appropriation and shall keep a distinct account of all special assessments, and
in making reports to the village trustees, he shall make separate and specific
report of the condition of each such account. He shall keep a register of all
warrants paid, the name of the person to whom paid, and when paid, and his
books and accounts shall at all times be subject to the inspection of any
member of the village board of trustees or other officer of the village.
   C.   The village treasurer shall pay all warrants presented to him, which
have been properly drawn and signed by the village president and countersigned
by the village clerk when he shall have the necessary funds in his hands to pay
the same, and he shall make no distinction or give any preference to any person
in paying such warrants. He shall keep all monies belonging to the village in
his hands separate and distinct from his own monies, and he is expressly
prohibited from using, either directly or indirectly, the village monies or
warrants in his custody and keeping for his own use and benefit or that of any
other person or persons whomsoever.
   D.   The village treasurer shall, at the end of each month, render an
account to the village board of trustees, showing the state of the treasury at
the date of such account and the balance of money in the treasury. He shall
accompany such account with a statement of all monies received into the
treasury and on what account, together with all warrants redeemed and paid by
him, which said warrants, with any and all vouchers held by him, shall be
delivered to the village clerk and filed with his account in the village
clerk's office. He shall also report to the village board of trustees, at such
other times as may be required, a full and detailed account of all receipts and
expenditures of the village, and he shall annually, between April 1 and April
10, make out and file with the village clerk a full and detailed account of all
receipts and expenditures and all his transactions as treasurer during the
preceding fiscal year, which said annual report shall be published by the
village clerk in some public newspaper of general circulation in the village.
   E.   The village treasurer shall perform such other duties and be subject to
such other rules and regulations as the village board of trustees may, from
time to time, direct. (1916 Code § 2-11; amd. 2011 Code)
ARTICLE C. SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
SECTION:
1-7C-1: Office Created; Duties
1-7C-2: State License Required
1-7C-1: OFFICE CREATED; DUTIES:
   A.   There is hereby created the office of superintendent of public works,
whose duty it shall be to enforce the provisions of title 8, chapter 3 of this
code and to perform the duties therein imposed upon that office. The person who
shall from time to time be appointed as the chair of the water and sewer
committee of the village board shall be the ex officio superintendent of public
works. (Ord. 290, 9-4-2001)
   B.   The superintendent of public works shall, under the direction of the
village president and board of trustees and of the committees thereof, have the
oversight and control of all improvements of the streets, alleys, sidewalks,
and crossings of the village; shall see that the same are kept in good
condition and repair and shall report to the village board of trustees all
improvements and repairs needed upon the same. He shall take care that the
provisions of all ordinances of the village in regard to streets, alleys,
public grounds, shade trees, sidewalks, crossings, drains and sewers are obeyed
and enforced, and he shall obey all such orders or directions as he shall from
time to time receive from the president or the village trustees or any
committee thereof. (1916 Code § 2-14; amd. 2011 Code)
1-7C-2: STATE LICENSE REQUIRED:
The superintendent of public works shall be and remain properly licensed as
provided by the Illinois Compiled Statutes. (Ord. 290, 9-4-2001; amd. 2011
Code)
ARTICLE D. ZONING COMMISSIONER
SECTION:
1-7D-1: Office Created; Appointment; Vacancy
1-7D-2: Powers And Duties
1-7D-1: OFFICE CREATED; APPOINTMENT; VACANCY:
The office of zoning commissioner is hereby created. The zoning commissioner
shall be appointed by the president and board of trustees, and he shall
continue to serve during good behavior and satisfactory service. During the
temporary absence or disability of the zoning commissioner, the president and
board of trustees shall designate an acting zoning commissioner. (Ord. 95, 3-2-
1965; amd. 2011 Code)
1-7D-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the zoning commissioner to enforce all laws relating to
the construction, alteration, removal, and demolition of buildings and
structures, and he shall have authority to enter any building, structure or
premises at any reasonable hour in the discharge of his official duties. (Ord.
95, 3-2-1965; amd. 2011 Code)
CHAPTER 8
ETHICS
SECTION:
1-8-1: State Regulations Adopted
1-8-2: Definitions
1-8-3: Interpretation
1-8-4: Prohibited Acts
1-8-5: Penalties
1-8-6: Amendments
1-8-7: Unconstitutionality Of Provisions
1-8-1: STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
The regulations of section 5-15 1  and article 10 2 of the state officials and
employees ethics act, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/1-1 et seq. (hereinafter
referred to as the "act" in this chapter), are hereby adopted by reference and
made applicable to the officers and employees of the village to the extent
required by 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/70-5. (Ord. 306, 6-1-2004, eff.
retroactive to 5-6-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 430/5-15.
2 2. 5 ILCS 430/10-10 – 10/40.
1-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the terms "officer" and "employee" shall be
defined as set forth in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/70-5(c). (Ord. 306, 6-
1-2004, eff. retroactive to 5-6-2004)
1-8-3: INTERPRETATION:
This chapter does not repeal or otherwise amend or modify any existing
ordinances or policies which regulate the conduct of village officers and
employees. To the extent that any such existing ordinances or policies are less
restrictive than this chapter, however, the provisions of this chapter shall
prevail, in accordance with the provisions of 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/
70-5(a). (Ord. 306, 6-1-2004, eff. retroactive to 5-6-2004)
1-8-4: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Gifts:
      1.   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited
or accepted under the act by any officer or any employee of the village is
hereby prohibited.
      2.   The offering or making of gifts prohibited to be offered or made to
an officer or employee of the village under the act is hereby prohibited.
   B.   Political Activities: The participation in political activities
prohibited under the act by any officer or employee of the village is hereby
prohibited. (Ord. 306, 6-1-2004, eff. retroactive to 5-6-2004)
1-8-5: PENALTIES:
The penalties for violations of this chapter shall be the same as those
penalties set forth in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/50-5 for similar
violations of the act. (Ord. 306, 6-1-2004, eff. retroactive to 5-6-2004)
1-8-6: AMENDMENTS:
Any amendment to the act that becomes effective after the effective date hereof
shall be incorporated into this chapter by reference and shall be applicable to
the solicitation, acceptance, offering and making of gifts and to prohibited
political activities. However, any amendment that makes its provisions optional
for adoption by the village shall not be incorporated into this chapter by
reference without formal action by the corporate authorities of the village.
(Ord. 306, 6-1-2004, eff. retroactive to 5-6-2004)
1-8-7: UNCONSTITUTIONALITY OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   If the Illinois supreme court declares the act unconstitutional in its
entirety, then this chapter shall be repealed as of the date that the Illinois
supreme court decision becomes final and not subject to any further appeals or
rehearings. This chapter shall be deemed repealed without further action by the
corporate authorities of the village if the act is found unconstitutional by
the Illinois supreme court.
   B.   If the Illinois supreme court declares part of the act unconstitutional
but upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of the act, or does not
address the remainder of the act, then the remainder of the act as adopted by
this chapter shall remain in full force and effect; however, that part of this
chapter relating to the part of the act found unconstitutional shall be deemed
repealed without further action by the corporate authorities of the village.
(Ord. 306, 6-1-2004, eff. retroactive to 5-6-2004)
CHAPTER 9
EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY; AFFIRMATIVE ACTION
SECTION:
1-9-1: Equal Employment
1-9-2: Sexual Harassment
1-9-3: Nondiscrimination
1-9-4: Compliance With Provisions
1-9-5: Administration Of Provisions
1-9-1: EQUAL EMPLOYMENT:
The village hereby declares to uphold all laws related to equal employment
opportunity including, but not limited to, the following:
   A.   Title VI of the civil rights act of 1964 which prohibits discrimination
in the participation in or benefits of programs or activities receiving federal
financial assistance on the basis of race, color, or national origin.
   B.   Title VII of the civil rights act of 1964 which prohibits
discrimination because of race, color, religion, sex or national origin in all
employment practices, including hiring, firing, promotions, compensation, and
other terms, privileges and conditions of employment.
   C.   Title IX of the education amendments of 1972 which prohibits
discrimination in federally assisted education programs.
   D.   The equal pay act of 1963 which covers all employees who are covered by
the fair labor act. The act forbids pay differentials on the basis of sex.
   E.   The age discrimination act of 1967 which prohibits discrimination
because of age against anyone between the ages of forty (40) and sixty five
(65).
   F.   Federal executive order 11246 which requires every contract with
federal financial assistance to contain a clause against discrimination because
of race, color, religion, sex, or national origin.
   G.   Section 504 of the rehabilitation act of 1973 and DOL implementing
regulations at 29 CFR 32 which prohibits any discrimination based on handicap.
   H.   Section 167 of JTPA and the U.S. DOL regulations at 29 CFR parts 31 and
32 which provides that no person in the United States shall be excluded from
participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination
on the basis of race, color, or national origin, under any program or activity
receiving federal financial assistance from the department of labor.
   I.   Article I, sections 17, 18 and 19 of the Illinois constitution which
prohibits discrimination based on race, color, creed, national ancestry,
handicap, and sex in the hiring and promotion practices of any employer.
   J.   Article 2 of the Illinois human rights act, 775 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/2, 1994 state bar edition.
   K.   Americans with disabilities act, 42 USC 12101 et seq., and the
regulations thereunder, 28 CFR 35.130 (ADA), which prohibits discrimination
against persons with disabilities in the provision of any aid benefit or
service. (2011 Code)
1-9-2: SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
   A. Prohibition On Sexual Harassment: It is unlawful to harass a person
because of that person’s sex. The courts have determined that sexual harassment
is a form of discrimination under Title VII of the U.S. Civil Rights Act of
1964, as amended in 1991. All persons have a right to work in an environment
free from sexual harassment. Sexual harassment is unacceptable misconduct which
affects individuals of all genders and sexual orientations. It is a policy of
the village to prohibit harassment of any person by any municipal official,
municipal agent, municipal employee or municipal agency or office on the basis
of sex or gender. All municipal officials, municipal agents, municipal
employees and municipal agencies or offices are prohibited from sexually
harassing any person, regardless of any employment relationship or lack
thereof.
   B. Definition: 1.   This policy adopts the definition of sexual harassment
as stated in the Illinois Human Rights Act, which currently defines sexual
harassment as:
   Any unwelcome sexual advances or requests for sexual favors or any conduct
of a sexual nature when:
   a. Submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or implicitly a term
or condition of an individual's employment;
   b. Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used as
the basis for employment decisions affecting such individual; or
   c. Such conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially interfering with
an individual's work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile or
offensive working environment.
      2.   Conduct which may constitute sexual harassment includes:
         a.   Verbal: sexual innuendos, suggestive comments, insults, humor,
and jokes about sex, anatomy or gender-specific traits, sexual propositions,
threats, repeated requests for dates, or statements about other employees, even
outside of their presence, of a sexual nature.
         b.   Non-verbal: suggestive or insulting sounds (whistling), leering,
obscene gestures, sexually suggestive bodily gestures, "catcalls", "smacking"
or "kissing" noises.
         c.   Visual: posters, signs, pin-ups or slogans of a sexual nature,
viewing pornographic material or websites.
         d.   Physical: touching, unwelcome hugging or kissing, pinching,
brushing the body, any coerced sexual act or actual assault.
         e.   Textual/Electronic: "sexting" (electronically sending messages
with sexual content, including pictures and video), the use of sexually
explicit language, harassment, cyber stalking and threats via all forms of
electronic communication (e-mail, text/picture/video messages, intranet/on-line
postings, blogs, instant messages and social network websites like Facebook and
Twitter).
         f.   The most severe and overt forms of sexual harassment are easier
to determine. On the other end of the spectrum, some sexual harassment is more
subtle and depends, to some extent, on individual perception and
interpretation. The courts will assess sexual harassment by a standard of what
would offend a "reasonable person."
   C.   Procedure For Reporting An Allegation Of Sexual Harassment:
      1.   An employee who either observes sexual harassment or believes
herself/himself to be the object of sexual harassment should deal with the
incident(s) as directly and firmly as possible by clearly communicating her/his
position to the offending employee, and her/his immediate supervisor. It is not
necessary for sexual harassment to be directed at the person making the report.
      2.   Any employee may report conduct which is believed to be sexual
harassment, including the following:
         a.   Electronic/Direct Communication: If there is sexual harassing
behavior in the workplace, the harassed employee should directly and clearly
express her/his objection that the conduct is unwelcome and request that the
offending behavior stop. The initial message may be verbal. If subsequent
messages are needed, they should be put in writing in a note or a memo.
         b.   Contact With Supervisory Personnel: At the same time direct
communication is undertaken, or in the event the employee feels threatened or
intimidated by the situation, the problem must be promptly reported to the
immediate supervisor of the person making the report, a department head, a
director of human resources, an ethics officer, the city manager or
administrator, or the chief executive officer of the municipality.
         c.   The employee experiencing what he or she believes to be sexual
harassment must not assume that the employer is aware of the conduct. If there
are no witnesses and the victim fails to notify a supervisor or other
responsible officer, the municipality will not be presumed to have knowledge of
the harassment.
      3.   Resolution Outside Municipality: The purpose of this policy is to
establish prompt, thorough and effective procedures for responding to every
report and incident so that problems can be identified and remedied by the
municipality. However, all municipal employees have the right to contact the
Illinois Department of Human Rights (IDHR) or the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission (EEOC) for information regarding filing a formal complaint with
those entities. An IDHR complaint must be filed within one hundred eighty (180)
days of the alleged incident(s) unless it is a continuing offense. A complaint
with the EEOC must be filed within three hundred (300) days. Documentation of
any incident may be submitted with any report (what was said or done, the date,
the time and the place), including, but not limited to, written records such as
letters, notes, memos and telephone messages. All allegations, including
anonymous reports, will be accepted and investigated regardless of how the
matter comes to the attention of the municipality. However, because of the
serious implications of sexual harassment charges and the difficulties
associated with their investigation and the questions of credibility involved,
the claimant's willing cooperation is a vital component of an effective inquiry
and an appropriate outcome.
   D.   Prohibition On Retaliation For Reporting Sexual Harassment Allegations:
      1.   No municipal official, municipal agency, municipal employee or
municipal agency or office shall take any retaliatory action against any
municipal employee due to a municipal employee's:
         a.   Disclosure or threatened disclosure of any violation of this
policy;
         b.   The provision of information related to or testimony before any
public body conducting an investigation, hearing or inquiry into any violation
of this policy; or
      2.   Assistance or participation in a proceeding to enforce the
provisions of this policy. For the purposes of this policy, retaliatory action
means the reprimand, discharge, suspension, demotion, denial of promotion or
transfer, or change in the terms or conditions of employment of any municipal
employee that is taken in retaliation for a municipal employee's involvement in
protected activity pursuant to this policy. No individual making a report will
be retaliated against even if a report made in good faith is not substantiated.
In addition, any witness will be protected from retaliation. Similar to the
prohibition against retaliation contained herein, the State Officials and
Employees Ethics Act (5 ILCS 430/15-10) provides whistleblower protection from
retaliatory action such as reprimand, discharge, suspension, demotion, or
denial of promotion or transfer that occurs in retaliation for an employee who
does any of the following:
         a.   Discloses or threatens to disclose to a supervisor or to a public
body an activity, policy, or practice of any officer, member, State agency, or
other State employee that the State employee reasonably believes is in
violation of a law, rule, or regulation;
         b.   Provides information to or testifies before any public body
conducting an investigation, hearing, or inquiry into any violation of a law,
rule, or regulation by any officer, member, State agency or other State
employee; or
         c.   Assists or participates in a proceeding to enforce the provisions
of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act.
      3.   Pursuant to the Whistleblower Act (740 ILCS 174/15(a)), an employer
may not retaliate against an employee who discloses information in a court, an
administrative hearing, or before a legislative commission or committee, or in
any other proceeding, where the employee has reasonable cause to believe that
the information discloses a violation of a State or federal law, rule, or
regulation. In addition, an employer may not retaliate against an employee for
disclosing information to a government or law enforcement agency, where the
employee has reasonable cause to believe that the information discloses a
violation of a State or federal law, rule, or regulation. (740 ILCS 174/15(b)).
According to the Illinois Human Rights Act (775 ILCS 5/6-101), it is a civil
rights violation for a person, or for two or more people to conspire, to
retaliate against a person because he/she has opposed that which he/she
reasonably and in good faith believes to be sexual harassment in employment,
because he/she has made a charge, filed a complaint, testified, assisted, or
participated in an investigation, proceeding, or hearing under the Illinois
Human Rights Act. An employee who is suddenly transferred to a lower paying job
or passed over for a promotion after filing a complaint with IDHR or EEOC, may
file a retaliation charge - due within one hundred eighty (180) days (IDHR) or
three hundred (300) days (EEOC) of the alleged retaliation.
   E.   Consequences Of A Violation Of The Prohibition On Sexual Harassment: In
addition to any and all other discipline that may be applicable pursuant to
municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks and/
or collective bargaining agreement, any person who violates this policy or the
Prohibition on Sexual Harassment contained in 5 ILCS 430/5-65, may be subject
to a fine of up to five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) per offense, applicable
discipline or discharge by the municipality and any applicable fines and
penalties established pursuant to local ordinance, State law or Federal law.
Each violation may constitute a separate offense. Any discipline imposed by the
municipality shall be separate and distinct from any penalty imposed by an
ethics commission and any fines or penalties imposed by a court of law or a
State or Federal agency.
   F.   Consequences For Knowingly Making A False Report: A false report is a
report of sexual harassment made by an accuser using the sexual harassment
report to accomplish some end other than stopping sexual harassment or
retaliation for reporting sexual harassment. A false report is not a report
made in good faith which cannot be proven. Given the seriousness of the
consequences for the accused, a false or frivolous report is a severe offense
that can itself result in disciplinary action. Any person who intentionally
makes a false report alleging a violation of any provision of this policy shall
be subject to discipline or discharge pursuant to applicable municipal
policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks and/or
collective bargaining agreements. In addition, any person who intentionally
makes a false report alleging a violation of any provision of the State
Officials and Employees Ethics Act to an ethics commission, an inspector
general, the State Police, a State's Attorney, the Attorney General, or any
other law enforcement official is guilty of a Class A misdemeanor. An ethics
commission may levy an administrative fine of up to five thousand dollars
($5,000.00) against any person who intentionally makes a false, frivolous or
bad faith allegation. (2011 Code; amd. Ord. 394, 2-6-2018)
1-9-3: NONDISCRIMINATION:
   A.   The village will assure nondiscriminatory employment practices in
recruitment, recruitment advertising, employment, placement, layoff or
termination, promotion, demotion or transfer, rate of pay or other forms of
compensation and use of facilities.
   B.   The village will not contract with other agencies, banks, businesses,
vendors, etc., who practice or establish a pattern of discrimination based on
sex, color, race, religion, age, developmental disability/handicap, national
origin, political affiliation or belief.
   C.   The village assures that it will actively provide nondiscriminatory
outreach, selection, and service to all individuals.
   D.   Efforts will be made to hire minority individuals for all job
categories so that minority employment in all categories of the work force will
represent a proportionate share of minority populations in the village as well
as surrounding areas.
   E.   The village will provide accommodations to the best of its ability for
developmentally disabled/handicapped employees contingent on budget and
structural limitations. (2011 Code)
1-9-4: COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
All village employees are expected to adhere to this policy and to work
actively for its implementation both internally and in carrying out village
program activities. (2011 Code)
1-9-5: ADMINISTRATION OF PROVISIONS:
The village designates the village president and village board to carry out the
EEO/AA (equal employment opportunity/affirmative action) plan. (2011 Code)
CHAPTER 10
VILLAGE TAXES
SECTION:
1-10-1: Municipal Use Tax
1-10-2: Municipal Utilities Taxes
1-10-2-1: Electric Utility Tax
1-10-3: Simplified Municipal Telecommunications Tax
1-10-1: MUNICIPAL USE TAX:
   A.   Imposition Of Tax; Rate: A tax is hereby imposed in accordance with
provisions of section
8-11-6 of the Illinois municipal code upon the privilege of using in the
village any item of tangible personal property which is purchased at retail
from a retailer, and which is titled or registered with an agency of Illinois
government. The tax shall be at a rate of one percent (1%) of the selling price
of such tangible property with "selling price" to have the meaning as defined
in the use tax act approved July 14, 1955. (Ord. 146, 11-5-1974, eff. 12-1-
1974; amd. 2011 Code)
   B.   Collection And Payment Of Tax: Such tax shall be collected by the
Illinois department of revenue for the village and shall be paid before the
title or certificate of registration for the personal property is issued. (Ord.
146, 11-5-1974, eff. 12-1-1974)
1-10-2: MUNICIPAL UTILITIES TAXES:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply:
    GROSS RECEIPTS: The consideration received for distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling gas, electricity, or water for use or consumption and not
for resale, as the case may be, and for all services rendered in connection
therewith valued in money, whether received in money or otherwise, including
cash, credit, services and property of every kind and material and for all
services rendered therewith; and shall be determined without any deduction on
account of the cost of the service, product or commodity supplied, the costs of
materials used, labor or service cost, or any other expenses whatsoever. "Gross
receipts" shall not include receipts received from the village of Shannon for
the sale to the village of any of the utility products or service mentioned
above.
   PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, municipal
corporation or political subdivision of this state, or a receiver, trustee,
conservator or other representative appointed by order of any court. (Ord. 202,
7-7-1987; amd. Ord. 295, 9-3-2002)
   B.   Imposition Of Tax; Rate 1 : A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in
the following occupations or privileges:
      1.   Persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing, or selling gas for use or consumption within the corporate limits
of the village, and not for resale, at the rate of two percent (2%) of the
gross receipts therefrom.
      2.   Persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing, or selling electricity for use or consumption within the corporate
limits of the village, and not for resale, at the rate of five percent (5%) of
the gross receipts therefrom.
      3.   Persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing, or selling water for use or consumption within the corporate limits
of the village, and not for resale, at the rate of two percent (2%) of the
gross receipts therefrom. (Ord. 202, 7-7-1987; amd. Ord. 267, 7-7-1998; Ord.
295, 9-3-2002)
   C.   Exemptions: No tax is imposed by this section with respect to any
transaction in interstate commerce or otherwise to the extent to which such
business may not, under the constitution and statutes of the United States, be
made subject to taxation by this state or any political subdivision thereof;
nor shall any persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling gas, water or electricity be subject to taxation under
the provisions of this section for such transactions as are or may become
subject to taxation under the provisions of the "municipal retailers'
occupation tax act" authorized by section
8-11-1 of the Illinois municipal code, approved May 29, 1961, as amended. (Ord.
202, 7-7-1987; amd. Ord. 295, 9-3-2002)
   D.   Tax Is Additional: The tax shall be in addition to the payment of money
or value of products or services furnished to the village by the taxpayer as
compensation for the use of its streets, alleys, and other public places, or
installation and maintenance therein, thereon or thereunder of poles, wires,
pipes or other equipment used in the operation of the taxpayer's business.
   E.   Tax Remittance And Return:
      1.   On or before January 31, 1988, each taxpayer shall make a return to
the village treasurer for the months of October, November, and December 1987,
stating:
         a.   His name;
         b.   His principal place of business;
         c.   His gross receipts during those months upon the basis of which
the tax is imposed;
         d.   Amount of tax;
         e.   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
On or before the last day of every third month thereafter, each taxpayer shall
make a like return to the village treasurer for a corresponding three (3) month
period.
      2.   The taxpayer making the return herein provided shall, at the time of
making such return, pay to the village treasurer the amount of tax herein
imposed; provided, that in connection with any return, the taxpayer may, if he
so elects, report and pay an amount based upon his total billings of business
subject to the tax during the period for which the return is made (exclusive of
any amounts previously billed), with prompt adjustments of later payments based
upon any differences between such billings and the taxable gross receipts.
   F.   Credits For Erroneous Payments: If it shall appear that an amount of
tax has been paid which was not due under the provisions of this section,
whether as the result of a mistake of fact or an error of law, then such amount
shall be credited against any tax due, or to become due, under this section
from the taxpayer who made the erroneous payment; provided, that no amounts
erroneously paid more than three (3) years prior to the filing of a claim
therefor shall be so credited.
   G.   Statute Of Limitations: No action to recover any amount of tax due
under the provisions of this section shall be commenced more than three (3)
years after the due date of such amount. (Ord. 202, 7-7-1987)
   H.   Penalties: Any taxpayer who fails to make a return, or who makes a
fraudulent return, or who wilfully violates any other provision of this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not
less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) and, in addition, shall be liable in a civil action for the
amount of tax due. (Ord. 202, 7-7-1987; amd. 2011 Code)
 
Notes
  1. The tax shall be based on the "gross receipts", as defined in subsection A
1 of this section, actually paid to the taxpayer for the services billed on or
  after October 1, 1987.
1-10-2-1: ELECTRIC UTILITY TAX:
   A.   Imposition Of Tax; Rates:
      1.   A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the privilege of using or
consuming electricity acquired in a purchase at retail and used or consumed
within the corporate limits of the village at the following rates calculated on
a monthly basis for each purchaser:
   Number Of Kilowatt
   Hours Used Or Consum   Amount Per Kilowatt Hour
   Per Month
   Number Of Kilowatt
   Hours Used Or Consumed                     Amount Per Kilowatt Hour
   Per Month
First      2,000                           $0.5550
Next      48,000                           0.3650
Next      50,000                           0.3280
Next      400,000                          0.3200
Next      500,000                          0.3100
Next      2,000,000                        0.2920
Next      2,000,000                        0.2880
Next      5,000,000                        0.2830
Next      10,000,000                       0.2775
All electricity used or consumed in excess of    0.2725
20,000,000
 
      2.   The tax rates set forth in subsection A1 of this section will be
used at least through December 31, 2008, are proportional to the rates
enumerated in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-2 (as modified by public act
90-561), and do not exceed the revenue that could have been collected during
1997 using the rates enumerated in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-2 (as
modified by public act 90-561).
      3.   Pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-2, the rates set
forth in subsection A1 of this section shall be effective: a) on August 1,
1998, for residential customers; and b) on the earlier of the last bill issued
prior to December 31, 2000, or the date of the first bill issued pursuant to
220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/16-104 for nonresidential customers. (Ord.
267, 7-7-1987)
   B.   Exceptions: None of the taxes authorized by this section may be imposed
with respect to any transaction in interstate commerce or otherwise to the
extent to which the business or privilege may not, under the constitution and
statutes of the United States, be made the subject of taxation by this state or
any political subdivision thereof, nor shall any persons engaged in the
business of distributing, supplying, furnishing, or selling or transmitting
gas, water or electricity, or using or consuming electricity acquired in a
purchase at retail, be subject to taxation under the provisions of this section
for those transactions that are or may become subject to taxation under the
provisions of the municipal retailers' occupation tax act authorized by section
8-11-1 of the Illinois municipal code; nor shall any tax authorized by this
section be imposed upon any person engaged in a business or any privilege
unless the tax is imposed in like manner and at the same rate upon all persons
engaged in businesses of the same class in the village, whether privately or
municipally owned or operated, or exercising the same privilege within the
village. (Ord. 267, 7-7-1987; amd. Ord. 295, 9-3-2002; 2011 Code)
   C.   Tax Is Additional: The tax imposed by this section shall be in addition
to other taxes levied upon the taxpayer or its business.
   D.   Collection Of Tax:
      1.   The tax authorized by this section shall be collected from the
purchaser by the person maintaining a place of business in this state who
delivers the electricity to the purchaser. (Ord. 267, 7-7-1987)
      2.   This tax shall constitute a debt of the purchaser to the person who
delivers the electricity to the purchaser and, if unpaid, is recoverable in the
same manner as the original charge for delivering the electricity. Persons
delivering electricity shall collect the tax from the purchaser by adding such
tax to the gross charge for delivering the electricity. Persons delivering
electricity shall also be authorized to add to such gross charge an amount
equal to three percent (3%) of the tax to reimburse the person delivering
electricity for the expense incurred in keeping records, billing customers,
preparing and filing returns, remitting the tax and supplying data to the
village upon request. (Ord. 267, 7-7-1987; amd. 2011 Code)
      3.   If the person delivering electricity fails to collect the tax from
the purchaser, then the purchaser shall be required to pay the tax directly to
the village in the manner prescribed by the village. Persons delivering
electricity who file returns pursuant to this subsection shall, at the time of
filing such return, pay the village the amount of the tax collected pursuant to
this section.
   E.   Tax Remittance And Return:
      1.   On or before the last day of each month, each taxpayer shall make a
return to the village for the preceding month stating:
         a.   His name.
         b.   His principal place of business. (Ord. 267, 7-7-1987)
         c.   His kilowatt hour usage during the month upon the basis of which
the tax is imposed. (Ord. 267, 7-7-1987; amd. 2011 Code)
         d.   Amount of tax.
         e.   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
      2.   The taxpayer making the return herein provided shall, at the time of
making such return, pay to the village the amount of tax herein imposed;
provided, that in connection with any return, the taxpayer may, if he so
elects, report and pay an amount based upon his total billings of business
subject to the tax during the period for which the return is made (exclusive of
any amounts previously billed), with prompt adjustments of later payments based
upon any differences between such billings and the taxable gross receipts.
   F.   Credits For Erroneous Payments: If it shall appear that an amount of
tax has been paid which was not due under the provisions of this section,
whether as the result of a mistake of fact or an error of law, then such amount
shall be credited against any tax due, or to become due, under this section
from the taxpayer who made the erroneous payment; provided, that no amounts
erroneously paid more than three (3) years prior to the filing of a claim
therefor shall be so credited.
   G.   Statute Of Limitations: No action to recover any amount of tax due
under the provisions of this section shall be commenced more than three (3)
years after the due date of such amount. (Ord. 267, 7-7-1987)
   H.   Penalties: Any taxpayer who fails to make a return, or who makes a
fraudulent return, or who wilfully violates any other provision of this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not
less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) and, in addition, shall be liable in a civil action for the
amount of tax due 1 . (Ord. 267, 7-7-1998; amd. 2011 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2.
1-10-3: SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX 1 :
The rate of the simplified municipal telecommunications tax imposed under the
provisions of sections 5-25 and 5-30 of the simplified municipal
telecommunications tax act, P.A. 92-0526, is three percent (3%). (Ord. 295, 9-
3-2002)
 
Notes
1 2. Effective for all gross charges billed by telecommunications retailers on
  and after January 1, 2003.
ARTICLE A. TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
SECTION:
1-10A-1: Title
1-10A-2: Scope; Application Of Provisions
1-10A-3: Definitions
1-10A-4: Notice Requirements
1-10A-5: Delinquent Notices, Payments, Remittances Or Other Filings
1-10A-6: Application Of Tax Payments
1-10A-7: Certain Credits And Refunds
1-10A-8: Audit Procedure
1-10A-9: Appeals
1-10A-10: Payment Required; Interest And Penalties
1-10A-11: Installment Contracts
1-10A-12: Statute Of Limitations
1-10A-13: Voluntary Disclosure
1-10A-14: Publication Of Tax Ordinances; Copies
1-10A-15: Review Of Liens
1-10A-1: TITLE:
This article shall be known as, and may be cited as, the LOCALLY IMPOSED AND
ADMINISTERED TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES ORDINANCE. (2011 Code)
1-10A-2: SCOPE; APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Scope: The provisions of this article shall apply to the village
procedures in connection with all of the village's locally imposed and
administered taxes.
   B.   Application Of Provisions; Conflicting Provisions: This article shall
be liberally construed and administered to supplement all of the village tax
ordinances. To the extent that any tax ordinance is in conflict with or
inconsistent with this article, this article shall be controlling. (2011 Code)
1-10A-3: DEFINITIONS:
Certain words or terms used in this article shall have the meanings ascribed to
them as follows:
ACT: The local government taxpayers' bill of rights act 1 .
CORPORATE AUTHORITIES: The village president and board of trustees.
LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR: The village president or his designee who is charged
with the administration and collection of the locally imposed and administered
taxes, including staff, employees or agents to the extent they are authorized
by the "local tax administrator" to act in the "local tax administrator's"
stead. The "local tax administrator" shall have the authority to implement the
terms of this article to give full effect to this article. The exercise of such
authority by the "local tax administrator" shall not be inconsistent with this
article and the act.
LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX OR TAX: Each tax imposed by the village
that is collected or administered by the village and not an agency or
department of the state. The term does not include any taxes imposed upon real
property under the property tax code or fees collected by the village.
NOTICE: Each audit notice, collection notice or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the village's locally imposed and
administered taxes.
TAX ORDINANCE: Each ordinance adopted by the village that imposes any locally
imposed and administered tax.
TAXPAYER: Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered tax
and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax is
placed and, with respect to consumer taxes, includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
village.
VILLAGE: The village of Shannon, Carroll County, Illinois. (2011 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 50 ILCS 45/1 et seq.
1-10A-4: NOTICE REQUIREMENTS:
Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given, the notice
is to be in writing, mailed not less than seven (7) calendar days prior to the
day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit or other scheduled act of the local
tax administrator. The notice shall be sent by the local tax administrator as
follows:
   A.   First class or express mail, or overnight mail, addressed to the person
concerned at the person's last known address; or
   B.   U.S. registered or certified mail. (2011 Code)
1-10A-5: DELINQUENT NOTICES, PAYMENTS, REMITTANCES OR OTHER FILINGS:
Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required to be made to the
village pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered late unless it is: a)
physically received by the village on or before the due date; or b) received in
an envelope or other container displaying a valid, readable U.S. postmark dated
on or before the due date, properly addressed to the village, with adequate
postage prepaid. (2011 Code)
1-10A-6: APPLICATION OF TAX PAYMENTS:
Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be applied in the
following order: first, to the tax due for the applicable period; second, to
the interest due for the applicable period; and third, to the penalty for the
applicable period. (2011 Code)
1-10A-7: CERTAIN CREDITS AND REFUNDS:
   A.   Written Protest Required: The village shall not refund or credit any
taxes voluntarily paid without written protest at the time of payment in the
event that a locally imposed and administered tax is declared invalidly enacted
or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer
shall not be deemed to have paid the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked
knowledge of the facts upon which to protest the taxes at the time of payment
or if the taxpayer paid the taxes under duress.
   B.   Statute Of Limitations: The statute of limitations on a claim for
credit or refund shall be one year after the end of the calendar year in which
payment in error was made. The village shall not grant a credit or refund of
locally imposed and administered taxes, interest, or penalties to a person who
has not paid the amounts directly to the village.
   C.   Procedure: The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally
imposed and administered taxes, interest or penalties paid in error shall be as
follows:
      1.   The taxpayer shall submit to the local tax administrator in writing
a claim for credit or refund, together with a statement specifying:
         a.   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
         b.   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
         c.   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the canceled
check or receipt for the payment;
         d.   The taxpayer's recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
         e.   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest and penalties overpaid and,
as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however, that
there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer owes
any monies to the village.
      2.   Within thirty (30) days of the receipt by the local tax
administrator of any claim for a refund or credit, the local tax administrator
shall either:
         a.   Grant the claim; or
         b.   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement as
to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
      3.   In the event the local tax administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear no interest. (2011 Code)
1-10A-8: AUDIT PROCEDURE:
Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any locally administered tax shall
comply with the notice requirements of this article.
   A.   Information Required: Each notice of audit shall contain the following
information:
      1.   The tax;
      2.   The time period of the audit; and
      3.   A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the auditor.
   B.   Time For Conducting Audit:
      1.   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours, and if
the date and time selected by the local tax administrator is not agreeable to
the taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer within
forty five (45) days after the originally designated audit and during normal
business hours.
      2.   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted not less than seven (7) days nor more
than forty five (45) days from the date the notice is given, unless the
taxpayer and the local tax administrator agreed to some other convenient time.
In the event taxpayer is unable to comply with the audit on the date in
question, the taxpayer may request another date (within the 45 days), approved
in writing, that is convenient to the taxpayer and the local tax administrator.
   C.   Taxpayer's Books And Records:
      1.   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the
taxpayer's business or activities, including original source documents and
books of entry denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given
rise to any tax liability, exemption or deduction. All books shall be kept in
the English language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by
the village.
      2.   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make
available its books and records for inspection by the village. If the taxpayer
fails to provide the documents necessary for audit within the time provided,
the local tax administrator may issue a tax determination and assessment based
on the tax administrator's determination of the best estimate of the taxpayer's
tax liability.
   D.   Overpayments: If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a
locally imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice
of the amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer (within 45 days) of
the village's determination of the amount given to the overpayment.
   E.   Payment To Improper Entity: In the event a tax payment was submitted to
the incorrect local governmental entity, the local tax administrator shall
notify the local governmental entity imposing such tax. (2011 Code)
1-10A-9: APPEALS:
   A.   Contents Of Notice Regarding Taxes Due: The local tax administrator
shall send written notice to a taxpayer upon the local tax administrator's
issuance of a protestable notice of tax due, a bill, a claim denial, or a
notice of claim reduction regarding any tax. The notice shall include the
following information:
      1.   The reason for the assessment;
      2.   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
      3.   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
      4.   The obligations of the village during the audit, appeal, refund and
collection process.
   B.   Request For Hearing: A taxpayer who receives written notice from the
local tax administrator of a determination of tax due or assessment may file
with the local tax administrator a written protest and petition for hearing,
setting forth the basis of the taxpayer's request for a hearing. The written
protest and petition for hearing must be filed with the local tax administrator
within forty five (45) days of receipt of the written notice of the tax
determination and assessment.
   C.   Hearing Scheduled; Notice: If a timely written notice and petition for
hearing is filed, the local tax administrator shall fix the time and place for
hearing and shall give written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be
scheduled for a date within thirty (30) days of receipt of the written protest
and petition for hearing, unless the taxpayer requests a later date convenient
to all parties.
   D.   Time Limit For Filing Hearing Request: If a written protest and
petition for hearing is not filed within the forty five (45) day period, the
tax determination, audit or assessment shall become a final bill due and owing
without further notice.
   E.   Reopening, Extension Of Hearing Request: Upon the showing of reasonable
cause by the taxpayer and the full payment of the contested tax liability along
with interest accrued as of the due date of the tax, the local tax
administrator may reopen or extend the time for filing a written protest and
petition for hearing. In no event shall the time for filing a written protest
and petition for hearing be reopened or extended for more than ninety (90) days
after the expiration of the forty five (45) day period.
   F.   Conduct Of Hearing; Decision:
      1.   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under this section, the local tax
administrator shall conduct a hearing regarding any appeal.
      2.   No continuances shall be granted except in cases where a continuance
is absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of
preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted
shall not exceed thirty (30) days.
      3.   At the hearing, the local tax administrator shall preside and shall
hear testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax determination, audit
or assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall not apply.
      4.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the local tax administrator shall
make a written determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the
hearing. The taxpayer or tax collector shall be provided with a copy of the
written decision. (2011 Code)
1-10A-10: PAYMENT REQUIRED; INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Time For Payment: In the event a determination has been made that a tax
is due and owing, through audit, assessment or other bill sent, the tax must be
paid within the time frame otherwise indicated.
   B.   Interest: Unless specifically provided in another duly enacted
ordinance, the village hereby provides for the amount of interest to be
assessed on a late payment, underpayment, or nonpayment of the tax to be five
percent (5%) per annum, based on a year of three hundred sixty five (365) days
and the number of days elapsed.
   C.   Late Filing And Payment Penalties: If a tax return is not filed within
the time and manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance, a late filing
penalty of five percent (5%) of the amount of tax required to be shown as due
on a return shall be imposed, and a late payment penalty of five percent (5%)
of the tax due shall be imposed. If no return is filed within the time or
manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance and prior to the village
issuing a notice of tax delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a failure
to file penalty shall be assessed equal to a specific rate percentage not to
exceed twenty five percent (25%) of the total tax due for the applicable
reporting period for which the return was required to be filed. A late filing
or payment penalty shall not apply if a failure to file penalty is imposed by
the controlling ordinance.
   D.   Abatement Of Penalties: The local tax administrator shall have the
authority to waive or abate any late filing penalty, late payment penalty or
failure to file penalty if the local tax administrator shall determine
reasonable cause exists for delay or failure to make a filing. (2011 Code)
1-10A-11: INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS:
The village may enter into an installment contract with the taxpayer for the
payment of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance. The local tax
administrator may not cancel any installment contract so entered unless the
taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing. Upon written notice by the
local tax administrator that the payment is ten (10) days delinquent, the
taxpayer shall have ten (10) days to cure any delinquency. If the taxpayer
fails to cure the delinquency within the ten (10) day period or fails to
demonstrate good faith in restructuring the installment contract with the local
tax administrator, the installment contract shall be canceled without further
notice to the taxpayer. (2011 Code)
1-10A-12: STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS:
   A.   The village, through the local tax administrator, shall review all tax
returns in a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due
and owing. The taxpayer shall have forty five (45) days after receiving notice
of the reviewed tax returns to make any request for refund or provide any tax
still due and owing.
   B.   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than four (4)
years maximum after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later.
   C.   If any tax return is not filed or if, during any four (4) year period
for which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the
village, the tax paid was less than seventy five percent (75%) of the tax due,
the statute of limitations shall be six (6) years maximum after the end of the
calendar year in which return for the applicable period was due or end of the
calendar year in which the return for the applicable period was filed,
whichever occurs later.
   D.   No statute of limitations shall apply if a fraudulent tax return was
filed by the taxpayer. (2011 Code)
1-10A-13: VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE:
For any locally imposed and administered tax for which a taxpayer has not
received a written notice of an audit, investigation, or assessment from the
local tax administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an application with the
local tax administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the tax due. A taxpayer
filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to pay the amount of tax
due, along with interest of one percent (1%) per month, for all periods prior
to the filing of the application but not more than four (4) years before the
date of filing the application. Except for the amount of tax and interest due
under this section, a taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure application
may not be liable for any additional tax, interest, or penalty for any period
before the date the application was filed. However, if the taxpayer incorrectly
determined and underpaid the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is liable for the
underpaid tax along with applicable interest on the underpaid tax, unless the
underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the taxpayer, in which
case, the application shall be deemed invalid and void. The payment of tax and
interest must be made by no later than ninety (90) days after the filing of the
voluntary disclosure application or the date agreed to by the local tax
administrator, whichever is longer. However, any additional amounts owed as a
result of an underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under this
section must be paid within ninety (90) days after a final determination and
the exhaustion of all appeals of the additional amount owed or the date agreed
to by the local tax administrator, whichever is longer. (2011 Code)
1-10A-14: PUBLICATION OF TAX ORDINANCES; COPIES:
Any locally administered tax ordinance shall be published via normal or
standard publishing requirements. The posting of a tax ordinance on the
internet shall satisfy the publication requirements. Copies of all tax
ordinances shall be made available to the public upon request at the village
clerk's office. (2011 Code)
1-10A-15: REVIEW OF LIENS:
The local tax administrator shall establish an internal review procedure
regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for unpaid taxes. Upon a
determination by the local tax administrator that the lien is valid, the lien
shall remain in full force and effect. If the lien is determined to be
improper, the local tax administrator shall:
   A.   Timely remove the lien at the village's expense;
   B.   Correct the taxpayer's credit record; and
   C.   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien. (2011
Code)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-1-1: Created; Purpose
2-1-2: Membership; Appointment
2-1-3: Terms Of Office
2-1-4: Organization; Records And Annual Report
2-1-5: Powers And Duties
2-1-6: Official Map; Subdivisions
2-1-7: Public Improvements
2-1-8: Expenditures
2-1-1: CREATED; PURPOSE:
In order that adequate provisions be made for the preparation of a
comprehensive village plan for the guidance, direction and control of the
growth and development or redevelopment of the village and contiguous territory
not more than one and one-half (11/2) miles beyond the corporate limits and not
included in any other municipality, a planning commission is hereby created
under authority of an act of the general assembly of the state of Illinois
entitled "Illinois municipal code", approved May 29, 1961, and effective July
1, 1961, and as amended. (Ord. 91, 10-1-1963)
2-1-2: MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT:
The planning commission shall consist of three (3) members, citizens of the
village, appointed by the village president and confirmed by the village board
of trustees. The village president and zoning commissioner shall serve as ex
officio members of the planning commission. (Ord. 91, 10-1-1963; amd. 2011
Code; Ord. 420, 5-2-2023)
2-1-3: TERMS OF OFFICE
The members of the board shall serve respectively for the following terms: one
(1) for one (1) year, one (1) for two (2) years and one (1) for three (3)
years. The successor to each member appointed shall serve for a term of three
(3) years. (Ord. 91, 10-1-1963; amd. Ord. 420, 5-2-2023)
2-1-4: ORGANIZATION; RECORDS AND ANNUAL REPORT:
Immediately following their appointment, the members of the planning commission
shall meet, organize, elect such officers as it may deem necessary, and adopt
and later change or alter rules and regulations of organization and procedure
consistent with village ordinances and state laws. The commission shall keep
written records of its proceedings, which shall be open at all times to public
inspection. The commission shall also file an annual report with the president
and board of trustees setting forth its transactions and recommendations. (Ord.
91, 10-1-1963)
2-1-5: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The planning commission shall have the following powers and duties.
   A.   To prepare and recommend to the village board of trustees a
comprehensive plan for the present and future development or redevelopment of
the village and contiguous unincorporated territory not more than one and one-
half (11/2) miles beyond the corporate limits of the village and not included
in any other municipality. Such plan may be adopted in whole or in separate
geographical or functional parts, each of which, when adopted, shall be the
official comprehensive plan, or part thereof, of the village. The plan shall be
advisory except as to such part thereof as has been implemented by ordinances
duly enacted by the board of trustees. There shall be compliance with all
requirements for public hearing, filing of notice of adoption with the county
recorder of deeds and filing of said plan and ordinances with the village clerk
as provided by law.
To provide for the health, safety, comfort and convenience of the inhabitants
of the village and contiguous territory, such plan or plans shall establish
reasonable standards of design for subdivisions and for resubdivisions of
unimproved land and of areas subject to redevelopment in respect to public
improvements as herein defined and shall establish reasonable requirements
governing the location, width, course, and surfacing of public streets and
highways, alleys, ways for public service facilities, curbs, gutters,
sidewalks, streetlights, parks, playgrounds, school grounds, size of lots to be
used for residential purposes, stormwater drainage, water supply and
distribution, sanitary sewers, and sewage collection and treatment. The
requirements specified herein shall become regulatory only when adopted by
ordinance.
   B.   To designate land suitable for annexation to the village and the
recommended zoning classification for such land upon annexation.
   C.   To recommend to the village board from time to time such changes in the
comprehensive plan, or any part thereof, as may be deemed necessary.
   D.   To prepare and recommend to the village board from time to time plans
and/or recommendations for specific improvements in pursuance of the official
comprehensive plan.
   E.   To give aid to the officials of the village charged with the direction
of projects for improvements embraced within the official plan, or parts
thereof, to further the making of such improvements and generally to promote
the realization of the official comprehensive plan.
   F.   To arrange and conduct any form of publicity relative to its activities
for the general purpose of public understanding.
   G.   To cooperate with municipal or regional planning commissions and other
agencies or groups to further the local planning program and to assure
harmonious and integrated planning for the area.
   H.   To exercise such other powers germane to the powers granted under
authority of an act of the general assembly of the state of Illinois entitled
"Illinois municipal code", approved May 29, 1961, and effective July 1, 1961,
and as amended, as may be conferred by the village board of trustees. (Ord. 91,
10-1-1963)
2-1-6: OFFICIAL MAP; SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   At any time or times before or after the formal adoption of the
official comprehensive plan by the corporate authorities, an official map may
be designated by ordinance, which map may consist of the whole area included
within the official comprehensive plan or one or more separate geographical or
functional parts, and may include all or any part of the contiguous
unincorporated area within one and one-half (11/2) miles from the corporate
limits of the village. There shall be compliance with all requirements for
public hearing, filing of notice of adoption with the county recorder of deeds,
and filing of said plan and ordinances, including the official map, with the
village clerk as provided by law.
   B.   No map or plat of any subdivision or resubdivision presented for record
affecting land within the corporate limits of the village, or within contiguous
territory which is not more than one and one-half (11/2) miles beyond the
corporate limits, shall be entitled to record or shall be valid unless the
subdivision shown thereon provides for standards of design, and standards
governing streets, alleys, public ways, ways for public service facilities,
streetlights, public grounds, size of lots to be used for residential purposes,
stormwater and floodwater runoff channels and basins, water supply and
distribution, sanitary sewers, and sewage collection and treatment in
conformity with the applicable requirements of the ordinances of the village,
including the official map. (Ord. 91, 10-1-1963)
2-1-7: PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
The village clerk shall furnish the planning commission, for its consideration,
a copy of all ordinances, plans and data relative to public improvements of any
nature. The planning commission may report in relation thereto, if it deems a
report necessary or advisable, for the consideration of the village board.
(Ord. 91, 10-1-1963)
2-1-8: EXPENDITURES:
   A.   Secretary And Staff: The commission may, at the discretion of the
village board, employ a paid secretary or staff, or both, whose salaries,
wages, and other necessary expenses shall be provided by the village board from
the public funds.
   B.   Technical Advisors: If the planning commission shall deem it advisable
to secure technical advice or services, it may be done upon authority from the
village board and appropriations by the village board therefor. (Ord. 91, 10-1-
1963)
CHAPTER 2
YOUTH COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-2-1: Created; Membership And Qualifications
2-2-2: Purpose
2-2-3: Appointments
2-2-4: Terms Of Office; Vacancies
2-2-5: Officers
2-2-6: Duties
2-2-7: Records And Annual Report
2-2-1: CREATED; MEMBERSHIP AND QUALIFICATIONS:
There shall be created the Shannon commission on youth consisting of nine (9)
members who are residents of the village and who, over the years, have shown a
special, vital and public spirited interest in youth leadership and youth
problems. The president and the chief of police shall be associate members, ex
officio. (Ord. 80b; amd. 2011 Code)
2-2-2: PURPOSE:
The overall purpose of the commission on youth shall be to encourage the
continuing betterment of opportunities for the wholesome development of the
youth in the village. (Ord. 80b)
2-2-3: APPOINTMENTS:
   A.   The members of the commission shall be appointed by the president,
subject to approval of the board of trustees. In making appointments, the
president shall first consider recommendations made by the ministerial
association, parent teacher organizations, women's clubs, civic clubs and
fraternal organizations, and any other organizations having a youth program
among its activities.
   B.   The president shall notify each organization qualified to make
recommendations for such appointments to make its first recommendations to the
president within thirty (30) days after the effective date hereof. Each such
organization shall make its recommendations for appointments to fill terms of
members expiring on or before March 10 to the president, and which appointments
shall be effective April 1. Recommendations for special appointments to the
commission shall be made within twenty (20) days after vacancies occur. (Ord.
80b)
2-2-4: TERMS OF OFFICE; VACANCIES:
Terms of the members of the commission on youth shall be for three (3) years,
except for the terms of the initial appointees, which shall be assigned so that
the terms of three (3) members shall be for three (3) years ending March 31,
1964, and three (3) members for two (2) years ending March 31, 1963, and three
(3) members for one year ending March 31, 1962. Vacancies occasioned by the
death, resignation or removal of a member, or for other cause, may be filled by
appointment by the president no sooner than thirty (30) days after the vacancy
shall occur for the unexpired term. (Ord. 80b)
2-2-5: OFFICERS:
The commission shall select its own chair and officers in accordance with
procedure which the commission may adopt. (Ord. 80b)
2-2-6: DUTIES:
The commission on youth shall:
   A.   Assist in coordinating and integrating governmental and private plans
and services affecting the welfare of children and youth in the village.
   B.   Assist in coordinating and integrating all plans and services for
protecting children from exposure to harmful influences and conditions
conducive to delinquency.
   C.   Make or cause to be made studies and surveys related to juvenile
behavior or in the interest of youth guidance.
   D.   Request and obtain such cooperation, assistance and data from village
departments and agencies as may be reasonably necessary to carry out its work.
   E.   Recommend plans and methods for the improvement of opportunities for
the wholesome development of youth in the village.
   F.   Create subcommittees, composed of members or submembers of said
committee, to aid and assist in the work of the commission.
   G.   Create a special subcommittee consisting of persons qualified by
experience and training to provide guidance and counsel to children. (Ord. 80b)
2-2-7: RECORDS AND ANNUAL REPORT:
In February of each year, the commission on youth shall prepare and submit to
the president and board of trustees a summary report of its operations,
studies, meetings held, and attendance of members during the preceding calendar
year, along with a statement of projected plans for the subsequent fiscal year.
A copy of this report shall be given to each organization authorized to
recommend persons for appointment to guide them in making nominations for
vacancies in the commission on youth. The commission shall keep a written
record of its proceedings which shall be available for public inspection. (Ord.
80b)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
LIQUOR CONTROL
SECTION:
3-1-1: Definition
3-1-2: License And Compliance Required
3-1-3: Ineligibility For License
3-1-4: Application For License; No Bond
3-1-5: Classification Of Licenses; Fees
3-1-6: Term Of Certain Licenses; Payment Of Fees; No Refunds
3-1-7: Number Of Licenses; General Conditions
3-1-8: Prohibited Hours; Time For Vacating Premises
3-1-9: Premises Requirements
3-1-10: Sales To Certain Persons Prohibited
3-1-11: Persons Under Twenty One
3-1-12: Inspections
3-1-13: Suspension Or Revocation Of License
3-1-14: Appeals
3-1-15: Violations; Penalty
3-1-1: DEFINITION:
For the purpose of this chapter, "alcoholic liquor" means any spirits, wine,
beer, ale, or other liquid containing more than one-half of one percent (0.5%)
of alcohol by volume which is fit for human consumption as a beverage. (Ord.
344, 4-3-2012)
3-1-2: LICENSE AND COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
No person, firm or corporation shall sell or offer for sale at retail in the
village any alcoholic liquor without having first obtained a retail liquor
dealer's license, or in violation of the terms of such license, or in violation
of this chapter. (Ord. 344, 4-3-2012)
3-1-3: INELIGIBILITY FOR LICENSE:
No liquor license shall be issued to:
   A.   A person who is not a resident of the village.
   B.   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the community
in which he resides.
   C.   A person who is not a citizen of the United States.
   D.   A person who has been convicted of a felony.
   E.   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper or is keeping a
house of ill fame.
   F.   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality.
   G.   A person whose license issued under this chapter or prior liquor
ordinances of the village has been revoked.
   H.   A person who, at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder, would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application.
   I.   A copartnership, unless all of the members of such copartnership shall
be qualified to obtain a license.
   J.   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof, or any
stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate more than five percent (5%)
of the stock of such corporation, would not be eligible to receive a license
hereunder for any reason other than citizenship and residence within the
village.
   K.   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent
unless said manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required of the
licensee.
   L.   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or state
law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor, or who
shall have forfeited his bond to appear in court to answer charges for any such
violation.
   M.   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is sought or
does not have a lease thereon for the full period for which the license is
issued.
   N.   Any law enforcing public official or any president or trustee of the
village board, and no such official shall be interested in any way, either
directly or indirectly, in the manufacture, sale or distribution of alcoholic
liquor.
   O.   Any person, firm or corporation not eligible for a state liquor
dealer's license.
   P.   Any person, firm or corporation who is delinquent in the payment of any
money due the village. (Ord. 344, 4-3-2012)
3-1-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; NO BOND:
   A.   Applications for such licenses shall be made to the local liquor
control commissioner, in writing, signed by the applicant if an individual, or
by a duly authorized agent thereof if a club or corporation, verified by oath
or affidavit, and shall contain the following statements and information:
      1.   The name, age and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual; in the case of a copartnership, the persons entitled to share in
the profits thereof; in the case of a corporation, the objects for which
organized, the names and addresses of the officers and directors, and if a
majority interest of the stock of such corporation is owned by one person or
his nominee, the name and address of such person.
      2.   The citizenship of the applicant, his place of birth, and if a
naturalized citizen, the time and place of his naturalization.
      3.   The character of business of the applicant, and in the case of a
corporation, the objects for which it was formed.
      4.   The length of time said applicant has been in business of that
character, or in the case of a corporation, the date when its charter was
issued.
      5.   The amount of goods, wares and merchandise on hand at the time
application is made.
      6.   The location and description of the premises or place of business
which is to be operated under such license.
      7.   A statement whether the applicant has made an application for a
similar or other license on premises other than described in the application,
and the disposition of such application.
      8.   A statement that the applicant has never been convicted of a felony
and is not disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing
contained in this chapter or any laws of the state of Illinois.
      9.   Whether a previous license by any state or subdivision thereof, or
by the federal government, has been revoked, and the reason therefor.
      10.   A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the laws of
the state of Illinois, or of the United States, or any of the ordinances of the
village.
   B.   No bond shall be required under the provisions of this chapter. (Ord.
344, 4-3-2012)
3-1-5: CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSES; FEES:
Liquor licenses issued by the village shall be and they hereby are divided into
three (3) classes, as follows. All licenses issued hereunder shall be
designated by the classification letter herein provided:
   A.   Class A: Class A licenses shall authorize the retail sale on the
premises specified in such license of alcoholic liquor for consumption on the
premises, as well as other retail sales of such liquor. The annual fee for such
license shall be six hundred dollars ($600.00).
      1.   The holder of a class A license may apply for an additional permit
for an outside retail sales and seating area for the consumption of alcoholic
liquor on the premises. The annual fee for such permit shall be one hundred
dollars ($100.00).
      2.   The outside retail sales and seating area must be contiguous to the
building and located on the premises where the indoor sale of alcoholic liquor
is otherwise permitted.
      3.   The outside retail sales and seating area shall be constructed in a
manner that permits ingress and egress to such area only from the indoor
serving area.
      4.   The outside retail sales and seating area shall be enclosed by
permanent fencing not less than six feet (6') in height. In order to enforce
the provisions of this subsection, the local liquor control commissioner shall
have the right to require the filing with him of plans and drawings detailing
the location, composition, design and construction of the fence.
      5.   All restrictions on hours of operation in subsections
3-1-8A, B and C of this chapter shall apply to the outside retail sales and
seating area.
   B.   Class B: Class B licenses shall authorize the retail sale of beer, wine
and liquor for consumption off the premises. The annual fee for such license
shall be four hundred fifty dollars ($450.00).
   C.   Class C:
      1.   Description: The village president, as local liquor control
commissioner, shall have the power to issue a temporary special events license
to any current class A liquor license or not for profit organizations for the
sale of beer and wine between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) noon and
eleven thirty o'clock (11:30) P.M. for a specific event, not to exceed three
(3) consecutive days, at a location set forth on the face of the license. The
temporary special events license will allow the sale of beer and wine for
consumption at the location set forth in the license and shall not allow any
package goods sales or removal of alcoholic liquor from the location set forth
in the license.
      2.   Application For License; Insurance Required: The application for
class C license shall be made in writing to the local liquor control
commissioner and shall specify the location, day(s), time(s) and the nature of
the event where the sale of alcoholic beverages will take place. The applicant
must attach proof of dramshop insurance.
      3.   License Fee: The fee for such temporary special events license shall
be one hundred dollars ($100.00) per event, payable in advance.
      4.   Compliance With State Law: There shall be compliance with all state
laws in connection with use of the temporary special events license.
      5.   Events In Public Areas: In the event the location set forth in the
license should be a public street or public area, any ordinances concerning
consumption of alcohol in public places shall not apply to the location set
forth in the license, and the licensee and patrons of the licensee shall not be
deemed to have violated such ordinances.
      6.   Discretionary License; Conditions: The issuance and terms of a
temporary special events license is solely within the discretion of the local
liquor control commissioner. The local liquor control commissioner may impose
any such additional conditions to the temporary special events license as he
determines in his sole discretion are necessary to protect the best interests
of the village and its citizens. (Ord. 344, 4-3-2012)
3-1-6: TERM OF CERTAIN LICENSES; PAYMENT OF FEES; NO REFUNDS:
Class A and B licenses shall commence on May 1 and shall terminate on April 30
of the following year. The license fees may be payable semiannually, in
advance. No license fees shall be refunded. (Ord. 344, 4-3-2012)
3-1-7: NUMBER OF LICENSES; GENERAL CONDITIONS:
There shall be no limitation of liquor licenses issued by the village, except
for class A licenses which shall be limited to three (3). The local liquor
control commissioner shall have the power to issue liquor licenses to any
person who fully qualifies under the requirements of this chapter. Applicants
for liquor licenses must meet the requirements of all local zoning, building
and health regulations as well as all state liquor laws. (Ord. 344, 4-3-2012)
3-1-8: PROHIBITED HOURS; TIME FOR VACATING PREMISES:
   A.   No licensee licensed hereunder shall sell any alcoholic liquor after
one forty five o'clock (1:45) A.M. or before six o'clock (6:00) A.M., Monday
through Saturday.
   B.   No licensee licensed hereunder shall sell any alcoholic liquor after
one forty five o'clock (1:45) A.M. or before twelve o'clock (12:00) noon
Sunday.
   C.   The area of the premises used for serving alcoholic liquor must be
vacated by all persons other than the licensee, his employees, agents, servants
and contractors no later than two o'clock (2:00) A.M.
   D.   Persons may remain in areas of the premises used primarily for food
service or recreation after two o'clock (2:00) A.M. provided that no alcoholic
liquor is present in such areas and that areas of the premises used to serve
alcoholic liquor are physically closed to the public by a door or other
barrier. (Ord. 344, 4-3-2012)
3-1-9: PREMISES REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Licensed Premises Only: The license prescribed by this chapter shall
limit the sale of alcoholic liquor to the premises for which said license is
issued and shall be described in said license.
   B.   Sanitary Conditions: All premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic
liquor or for the storage of such liquor for sale shall be kept in a clean and
sanitary condition.
   C.   Clear View Of Premises: In premises upon which the sale of alcoholic
liquor for consumption upon the premises is licensed (other than a restaurant,
hotel, club or any bowling alley which is situated other than on the first or
ground floor), no screen, blind, curtain, partition, article or thing shall be
permitted in the windows or upon the doors of such licensed premises nor inside
such premises which shall prevent a clear view into the interior of such
licensed premises from the street, road or sidewalk at all times, and no booth,
screen, partition or other obstruction nor any arrangement of lights or
lighting shall be permitted in or about the interior of such premises which
shall prevent a full view of the entire interior of such premises from the
street, road or sidewalk. Said premises must be so located that there shall be
a full view of the interior of such premises from the street, road or sidewalk.
All rooms where liquor is sold for consumption upon the premises shall be
continuously lighted during business hours by natural light or artificial white
light so that all parts of the interior of the premises shall be clearly
visible. In case the view into such licensed premises required by this
subsection shall be wilfully obscured by the licensee or by him wilfully
suffered to be obscured or in any manner obstructed, then his license shall be
subject to revocation in the manner herein provided. In order to enforce the
provisions of this subsection, the local liquor control commissioner shall have
the right to require the filing with him of plans, drawings and photographs
showing the clearance of the view as required herein. (Ord. 344, 4-3-2012)
3-1-10: SALES TO CERTAIN PERSONS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, association or corporation, or any
officer, associate, member, representative, agent or employee thereof, licensed
by the village, to sell, give, or deliver alcoholic liquor to any person under
the age of twenty one (21) years or to any intoxicated person except as
provided in 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-16.1. (Ord. 344, 4-3-2012)
3-1-11: PERSONS UNDER TWENTY ONE:
   A.   Sales, Delivery To Prohibited; Exceptions: It shall be unlawful for any
person, firm, association or corporation, after purchasing or otherwise
obtaining alcoholic liquor, to sell, give or deliver such alcoholic liquor to
any person under the age of twenty one (21) years, except in the performance of
a religious ceremony or service.
   B.   Purchase, Acceptance Or Possession Prohibited; Identification Required:
It shall be unlawful for any person to whom the sale, gift or delivery of
alcoholic liquor is prohibited because of age to purchase or accept a gift of
alcoholic liquor or to have alcoholic liquor in his possession. If a person,
firm, association or corporation, or its agents or employees, believe, or have
reason to believe that a sale or delivery of alcoholic liquor is prohibited
because the prospective recipient is a person under age, he shall, before
making such sale or delivery, demand presentation of some form of positive
identification, containing proof of age, issued by a public officer in the
performance of his official duties.
   C.   Consumption Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person under the
age of twenty one (21) years to consume alcoholic liquor.
   D.   Presence On Premises: It shall be unlawful for the holder of any
license to allow any person under the age of twenty one (21) years to loiter in
or about the premises where alcoholic liquor is sold by said licensee, unless
said person under the age of twenty one (21) years is accompanied by a parent
or legal guardian. (Ord. 344, 4-3-2012)
3-1-12: INSPECTIONS:
Any premises licensed for the sale of alcoholic liquor shall be open to
inspection by the health officer, president, trustees, and police officers of
the village at all reasonable times, and at all times when the premises is open
to the public for business purposes. (Ord. 344, 4-3-2012)
3-1-13: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The local liquor control commissioner may revoke or suspend any license issued
under the terms of this chapter if he determines the licensee has violated any
of the provisions of this chapter or any of the laws of the state of Illinois
in regard to the sale of alcoholic liquor; provided that there shall first be a
public hearing by the local liquor control commissioner after a three (3) day
written notice to the licensee, affording said licensee an opportunity to
appear. (Ord. 344, 4-3-2012)
3-1-14: APPEALS:
The village board of trustees shall have the right to review the conduct, acts
and decisions of the local liquor control commissioner. Any person may appeal
from any ruling or order of the local liquor control commissioner to the
village board of trustees who may hear the matter and make a final decision.
(Ord. 344, 4-3-2012)
3-1-15: VIOLATIONS; PENALTY:
   A.   Violation Of State Laws: Violation of the laws of the state of Illinois
pertaining to alcoholic liquor shall constitute and be a violation of this
chapter.
   B.   Penalty: Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of
this chapter shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 344,
4-3-2012)
CHAPTER 2
MECHANICAL AND ELECTRONIC AMUSEMENT DEVICES
SECTION:
3-2-1: License Required
3-2-2: Application For License
3-2-3: License Fee
3-2-4: Additional Requirements
3-2-5: Prohibited Activities And Conduct
3-2-6: Penalty
3-2-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall keep and maintain for gain or profit in any public place,
either as owner, licensee, manager, officer or agent, any music box, jukebox,
shuffleboard court, bowling machine, pinball machine, ski-ball machine,
baseball machine, basketball machine, billiard table, pool table or any
billiard or pool type device, electronic gaming device, video game or game of
any form or fashion, or similar type of game or machine, in which any ball,
sphere, missile, arm, crane, appliance rod or plunger is struck, released,
impelled, controlled or manipulated, directly or indirectly, or which involves
any type of electronic game or other electronic manipulation for the purpose of
amusement or test of skill, unless such person shall have first obtained a
license for such purpose. (Ord. 304, 4-6-2004)
3-2-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Application to maintain such device, machine or game shall be made to the
village clerk for a license therefor, stating the full name and address of the
applicant and giving the name of the owner of the said machine or game where
said machine or device is to be used and maintained. (Ord. 304, 4-6-2004)
3-2-3: LICENSE FEE:
For each and every music box, jukebox, shuffleboard court, bowling machine,
pinball machine, ski-ball machine, baseball machine, basketball machine,
billiard table, pool table of any form or fashion, or similar type of game or
machine, in which any ball, sphere, missile, arm, crane, appliance rod or
plunger is struck, released, impelled, controlled or manipulated, directly or
indirectly, or which involves any type of electronic game, video game or other
electronic manipulation for the purpose of amusement or test of skill, so
operated or to be operated, the applicant shall pay a license fee in the amount
of twenty five dollars ($25.00) per machine, payable on May 1 of each year. It
is the intention of the village board that all amusement machines, whether or
not listed specifically herein, operated in the village, shall be charged a
license fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) per machine, per year. (Ord. 304,
4-6-2004; amd. 2011 Code)
3-2-4: ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
There shall be no rebate or refund for any license fee, and such license shall
be nonassignable and nontransferable, and shall apply only to the machine for
which the license is issued, and said license shall be posted conspicuously
upon such machine. The license shall not authorize the operation of any
automatic payoff machine or device. (Ord. 304, 4-6-2004)
3-2-5: PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES AND CONDUCT:
The wagering of monies, goods or merchandise for gambling upon the outcome of a
test of skill or amusement, or manipulation of such game, machine or device, is
expressly prohibited and shall constitute a violation of this chapter and shall
subject the licensee to the revocation of said license. The license granted
under this chapter may, in the discretion of the village president, be revoked
should the premises be used for immoral purposes or as the congregating place
of habitual criminals, felons or persons heretofore convicted of crimes or
offenses involving moral turpitude. (Ord. 304, 4-6-2004)
3-2-6: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall be subject to a fine
of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense, and every day that such violation shall
continue shall constitute a separate and distinct offense. (Ord. 304, 4-6-2004;
amd. 2011 Code)
CHAPTER 3
ELECTRIC AGGREGATION PROGRAM
SECTION:
3-3-1: Opt Out Program
3-3-2: Aggregation Of Electrical Load
3-3-3: Plan Of Operation And Governance
3-3-1: OPT OUT PROGRAM:
The corporate authorities of the village find and determine that it is in the
best interests of the village to operate the electric aggregation program under
the Illinois power agency act, chapter 20, Illinois Compiled Statutes, act
3855, added section 1-92 entitled aggregation of electrical load by
municipalities and counties (hereinafter referred to as the "act") as an opt
out program. (Ord. 345, 5-1-2012)
3-3-2: AGGREGATION OF ELECTRICAL LOAD:
   A.   The corporate authorities of the village hereby are authorized to
aggregate in accordance with the terms of the act residential and small
commercial retail electrical loads located within the corporate limits of the
village, and for that purpose may solicit bids and enter into service
agreements to facilitate for those loads the sale and purchase of electricity
and related services and equipment.
   B.   The corporate authorities of the village are granted the authority to
exercise such authority jointly with any other municipality or county and, in
combination with two (2) or more municipalities or counties, may initiate a
process jointly to authorize aggregation by a majority vote of each particular
municipality or county as required by the act.
   C.   The aggregation program for the village shall operate as an opt out
program for residential and small commercial retail customers.
   D.   The aggregation program shall be approved by a majority of the members
of the corporate authority of the village.
   E.   The corporate authorities of the village with the assistance from the
Illinois power agency shall develop a plan of operation and governance for the
aggregation program and shall conduct such public hearings and provide such
public notice as required under the act. The load aggregation plan shall
provide for universal access to all applicable residential customers and
equitable treatment of applicable residential customers, shall describe demand
management and energy efficiency services to be provided to each class of
customers and shall meet any requirements established by law concerning
aggregated service offered pursuant to the act.
   F.   As an opt out program, the corporate authorities of the village shall
fully inform residential and small commercial retail customers in advance that
they have the right to opt out of the aggregation program. The disclosure and
information provided to the customers shall comply with the requirements of the
act.
   G.   The electric aggregation shall occur automatically for each person
owning, occupying, controlling, or using an electrical load center proposed to
be aggregated in the corporate limits of the village, subject to a right to opt
out of the program as described under this chapter and the act.
   H.   The corporate authorities hereby grant the village president in writing
the specific authority to execute a contract without further action by the
corporate authorities and with the authority to bind the village. (Ord. 345, 5-
1-2012)
3-3-3: PLAN OF OPERATION AND GOVERNANCE:
The corporate authorities hereby adopt the electrical power aggregation plan of
operation and governance as set forth in exhibit A attached to the ordinance
codified herein and made a part hereof as if fully set forth by this reference.
(Ord. 345, 5-1-2012)
CHAPTER 4
VIDEO GAMING
SECTION:
3-4-1: Title
3-4-2: Definitions
3-4-3: License Required
3-4-4: Application For License
3-4-5: Term Of License And License Fee
3-4-6: Number Of Video Gaming Terminals Permitted
3-4-7: Play By Minors Prohibited
3-4-8: Violations; Penalty
3-4-9: Inspection Of Records
3-4-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the VIDEO GAMING ORDINANCE. (Ord. 364, 3-4-2014)
3-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the definitions set forth in the Illinois
video gaming act 1  shall apply. (Ord. 364, 3-4-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. 230 ILCS 40/5.
3-4-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall operate or maintain a video gaming terminal within the village
of Shannon without first obtaining a license therefor from the village
president as hereafter provided. No license shall be issued to any person or
entity that is not licensed by the state of Illinois for the location for which
a license is sought. (Ord. 364, 3-4-2014)
3-4-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Before any video game license shall issue, an application for such license
shall be filed with the village clerk after first having been sworn on oath,
stating:
   A.   The name and address of the applicant; and
   B.   That the applicant currently holds a liquor license in good standing in
the village of Shannon; and
   C.   That the applicant complies with all requirements to operate and
maintain a video gaming terminal as set forth in the Illinois video gaming act
1 . (Ord. 364, 3-4-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. 230 ILCS 40 et seq.
3-4-5: TERM OF LICENSE AND LICENSE FEE:
The official licensing year shall begin on May 1 of each year and end on April
30 of the next succeeding calendar year. Any continuing operation of a video
gaming device shall require the payment of a new annual fee on or before May 1
of each year for the ensuing fiscal year. The license fee shall be twenty five
dollars ($25.00) for each video gaming device maintained on the premises. The
license is not transferable, refundable and will not be prorated. (Ord. 364, 3-
4-2014)
3-4-6: NUMBER OF VIDEO GAMING TERMINALS PERMITTED:
The number of video gaming terminals permitted in a licensed premises within
the village shall be the same number as authorized from time to time under the
Illinois Video Gaming Act (735 Illinois Combined Statutes 40 et seq.). (Ord.
364, 3-4-2014; amd. Ord. 409, 3-1-2022)
3-4-7: PLAY BY MINORS PROHIBITED:
No person under the age of twenty one (21) years shall be permitted to use or
play a video gaming terminal, and any licensee who shall allow any person under
the age of twenty one (21) years to use or play a video gaming terminal shall
be subject to fine and/or suspension or revocation of all licenses issued
hereunder after hearing before the village president acting pursuant to the
procedures applicable to proceedings held under the provisions of chapter 3 of
this title. (Ord. 364, 3-4-2014)
3-4-8: VIOLATIONS; PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter shall
be fined as provided in section
1-4-2 of this code for each offense and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during which a violation occurs or continues, and the
licensee subject to suspension or revocation of all licenses as provided in
section
3-4-7 of this chapter. (Ord. 364, 3-4-2014)
3-4-9: INSPECTION OF RECORDS:
Each licensee shall permit the inspection of books and records of the licensee
pertaining to and reflecting the operation of each video gaming terminal at the
request of any local official, law enforcement officer or the state of Illinois
at any reasonable time. (Ord. 364, 3-4-2014)
CHAPTER 5
PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
SECTION:
3-5-1: Definitions
3-5-2: License
3-5-3: Application
3-5-4: Investigation
3-5-5: Approval, Revocation And Appeal
3-5-6: Time Limitations
3-5-7: Exemptions
3-5-8: Penalty
3-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
ITINERANT VENDOR: Any person who transports tangible personal property for
retail sale within the village who does not maintain within the village an
established office or store from which such business is conducted.
PEDDLER: Any person who sells or offers goods for sale from any public place
within the village.
SOLICITOR: Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking or
attempting to take orders for the sale of goods, services or subscriptions to
be delivered in the future, or any person seeking donations or information of
any kind.
TRANSIENT MERCHANT: Any person who is engaged temporarily in the retail sale of
goods, who for the purpose of conducting said business occupies any building,
room, structure, vehicle or vacant lot. (Ord. 371, 6-2-2015)
3-5-2: LICENSE:
   A.   License Required: No peddler, solicitor, itinerant vendor, and/or
transient merchant shall engage in such activity within the village without
having first obtained a license from the village clerk.
   B.   License Carried And Posted: Any person licensed hereunder shall carry
on his or her person at all such times he or she is engaged in the licensed
activity a copy of the license issued under this chapter. A copy of the license
shall also be conspicuously posted on the bulletin board at village hall.
   C.   Fee: An application fee of twenty dollars ($20.00) shall accompany each
application for license.
   D.   Expiration: All licenses issued hereunder shall expire thirty (30) days
after issuance. No license issued hereunder may be transferred. (Ord. 371, 6-2-
2015)
3-5-3: APPLICATION:
All applications for license under this chapter shall contain, at minimum the
following information:
   A.   The name, address, social security number, birth date and telephone
number of the applicant.
   B.   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant's employer and
registered agent and state of incorporation if incorporated.
   C.   The nature of the business to be carried out within the village.
   D.   A physical description of the applicant.
   E.   The license number and description of any vehicle to be used in the
business.
   F.   A statement as to whether the applicant or his employer has ever been
convicted of any felony or misdemeanor, and if so, the nature of each such
offense.
   G.   Signature of the applicant under penalty of perjury. (Ord. 371, 6-2-
2015)
3-5-4: INVESTIGATION:
The village clerk, upon receipt of an application shall forward a copy of same
to the chief of police who shall investigate the background of the applicant.
(Ord. 371, 6-2-2015)
3-5-5: APPROVAL, REVOCATION AND APPEAL:
   A.   The application shall be approved unless the investigation reveals that
the applicant's business would pose a threat to the public health, safety,
morals or welfare or that the applicant has been convicted of a felony or other
crime of moral turpitude, committed fraudulent acts, or made false statements
in the application.
   B.   The license granted herein may be revoked if the licensee has made
false statements in the application; committed any fraud, misrepresentation or
made a false statement in connection with the licensed activity or is convicted
of any felony or other crime of moral turpitude.
   C.   The applicant or licensee may appeal any denial or revocation of
license hereunder to the full village board of trustees by filing a written
complaint with the village clerk stating the grounds for said appeal within
thirty (30) days of denial or revocation of any license hereunder. (Ord. 371,
6-2-2015)
3-5-6: TIME LIMITATIONS:
It is hereby declared unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any person
to engage in soliciting prior to nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. or after eight
o'clock (8:00) P.M. Monday through Saturday or any time on Sunday or on any
state or federal holiday. (Ord. 371, 6-2-2015)
3-5-7: EXEMPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to officers, agents or employees
of the village, county, state or federal governments when on official business.
This chapter shall not apply to the local chapters of civic or charitable
organizations located within the village, including, but not limited to, Lion's
Clubs; Boy and Girl Scout troops; local school groups or other such
organizations. This chapter shall not apply to any candidate for public office
or any person soliciting petition signatures or circulating campaign
information on behalf of any candidate for public office. (Ord. 371, 6-2-2015)
3-5-8: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter shall
be fined not more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). A separate
offense shall be deemed to have been committed on each day during which a
violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 371, 6-2-2015)
TITLE 4
HEALTH, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-1-1: Nuisances Enumerated
4-1-2: Enumeration Not Exclusive
4-1-3: Abatement Required
4-1-4: Penalty; Liability For Abatement Costs
4-1-1: NUISANCES ENUMERATED:
The presence of the following within the Village is declared to be detrimental
to the public health, safety, and welfare and constitutes a nuisance:
   A.   Noise: Sound, animals, or things which interfere with the peace or
comfort or disturb the quiet enjoyment of any person in the Village.
   B.   Offensive, Dangerous Premises: Anything which is made, permitted, used,
kept, maintained, or operated, or any building or any animal that is kept in a
manner which is offensive, nauseous, dangerous to life, limb, or property, or
detrimental to the health of the persons residing in that area.
   C.   Offensive Matter: Any filthy, foul, or offensive matter, liquid or
debris of any kind discharged or thrown into any street, alley, or public
place, or on any adjacent lot or ground.
   D.   Stagnant Water: Any lot, ground, or premises within the Village on
which stagnant water may be standing so as to become or likely to become foul,
putrid, offensive, or detrimental to the health and comfort of persons residing
in the vicinity thereof.
   E.   Spoiled Or Diseased Agricultural Products: Any spoiled, tainted, or
diseased perishable agricultural commodity. (Ord. 314, 4-4-2006; amd. 2011
Code)
   F.   Landscape And Yard Waste: No brush, weeds, dead or dying trees, stumps,
branches, sticks, roots, leaves, grass clippings, landscape materials,
hardscape materials or yard waste of any kind shall be kept or deposited on any
land, lot, parkway, alley, street or public place within the Village by any
person or corporation.
      1.   The Superintendent of Public Works, may authorize the deposit of
leaves only, at times, places and in manner to be determined in his or her sole
discretion.
      2.   Failure to remove any landscape or yard waste within twenty four
(24) hours of being notified to do so by Village officials or employees shall
constitute a separate nuisance subject to the penalties provided for herein.
(Ord. 388, 6-6-2017)
   G.   Abandoned, Inoperable Vehicles And Equipment: The presence of any
abandoned or inoperable vehicles, machinery, boats, trailers or other equipment
on land within the Village for a period exceeding ten (10) days. This chapter
shall not apply to the premises of a business enterprise operated in a lawful
place and manner, other than a residential district, where the presence of the
vehicles, machinery, boats, trailers or other equipment is necessary to the
operation of said business enterprise.
   H.   Common Law Nuisances: In addition to what is herein declared to be a
nuisance, those offenses known to the common law or of the State or Federal
Statutes as nuisances may, in case the same exist within the Village, be
treated as such and proceeded against as provided in this chapter. (Ord. 314,
4-4-2006; amd. 2011 Code)
4-1-2: ENUMERATION NOT EXCLUSIVE:
The various nuisances described and enumerated in this chapter shall not be
deemed to be exclusive, but shall be in addition to all other nuisances
described and prohibited by the ordinances of the Village, common law or State
or Federal Statutes. (Ord. 314, 4-4-2006)
4-1-3: ABATEMENT REQUIRED:
Any person causing a nuisance, as defined in this Code, and the owner,
occupant, or lessee of land on which any nuisance exists, are required to
correct the nuisance. The correction shall be made within the time limit
enumerated in the notice of violation from the Village. In all cases, it shall
be the ultimate responsibility of the owner of the premises on which a nuisance
exists to correct the nuisance. (Ord. 314, 4-4-2006)
4-1-4: PENALTY; LIABILITY FOR ABATEMENT COSTS:
   A.   Unless a greater or lesser penalty is prescribed elsewhere in this
Code, any person who shall violate any provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be punished by a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code for each violation. Each day during which a violation
continues beyond the specified time for correction shall constitute a separate
punishable offense. (Ord. 314, 4-4-2006; amd. 2011 Code)
   B.   If the Village corrects the violation or causes the violation to be
corrected on its behalf, the violator shall be liable to the Village for its
actual costs (materials plus labor, or if the correction is contracted out, the
contract price) of abating the nuisance.
   C.   Where the Village itself corrects the violation or causes the violation
to be corrected on its behalf, the violator shall be subject to both
subsections A and B of this section. (Ord. 314, 4-4-2006)
ARTICLE A. PLANTS AND WEEDS
SECTION:
4-1A-1: Nuisance Weeds
4-1A-2: Plant Height Restrictions; Parkway Maintenance Standards
4-1A-3: Notice To Abate
4-1A-4: Abatement By Village; Costs
4-1A-5: Lien Procedures
4-1A-1: NUISANCE WEEDS:
Any weeds such as jimson, burdock, ragweed, thistle, cocklebur, wild lettuce,
or other weeds of a like kind found growing in any lot or tract of land in the
village are hereby declared to be a nuisance, and it shall be unlawful to
permit any such weeds to grow or remain in any such place. (Ord. 314, 4-4-2006)
4-1A-2: PLANT HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS; PARKWAY MAINTENANCE STANDARDS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for anyone to permit any weeds, grass, or plants,
other than trees, bushes, flowers, or other ornamental plants, to grow to a
height exceeding eight inches (8") anywhere in the village. Any such plants or
weeds exceeding such height are hereby declared to be a nuisance.
   B.   The owners of property abutting any public streets, roads, or ways
shall maintain the area between the edge of the pavement or curb and their
property line, commonly known as parkway, in a neat, clean, and orderly
condition and free of any weeds, grass, or plants in excess of five inches (5")
in height, other than trees, bushes, flowers, or other ornamental plants. (Ord.
314, 4-4-2006)
4-1A-3: NOTICE TO ABATE:
It shall be the duty of the village clerk or village attorney to serve or cause
to be served a notice by registered mail to the last known address upon the
owner or occupant of any premises on which weeds or plants are permitted to
grow in violation of the provisions of this article and to demand the abatement
of the nuisance within five (5) days. (Ord. 314, 4-4-2006)
4-1A-4: ABATEMENT BY VILLAGE; COSTS:
If the person served by the notice required by section
4-1A-3 of this article does not abate the nuisance within five (5) days, the
village may proceed to abate such nuisance, keeping an account of the expense
of the abatement, and such expense shall be charged and paid by such owner or
occupant. (Ord. 314, 4-4-2006)
4-1A-5: LIEN PROCEDURES:
   A.   Charges for weed cutting shall be a lien upon the premises as provided
by state statutes. Whenever a bill for weed cutting remains unpaid sixty (60)
days after it has been rendered, the village clerk or village attorney may file
with the county recorder of deeds a statement of lien claim. This statement
shall contain the legal description of the premises served, the amount of the
unpaid bill, and a notice that the village claims a lien for this amount.
Notice of the bill for weed cutting shall be mailed to the owner of the
premises whenever such bill remains unpaid for a period of sixty (60) days
after it has been rendered. Said notice shall include the date when removal
costs were incurred by the village. The failure of the village clerk or village
attorney to record such lien claim or to mail such notice, or the failure of
the owner to receive such notice, shall not affect the right to foreclose the
lien for unpaid bills for weed cutting, as provided in this section. (Ord. 314,
4-4-2006; amd. 2011 Code)
   B.   Property subject to a lien for unpaid weed cutting charges shall be
sold for nonpayment of the same, and the proceeds of such sale shall be applied
to pay the charges, after deducting costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of
statutory liens. Such foreclosures shall be by bill in equity in the name of
the village.
   C.   The village attorney shall institute such proceedings authorized by
subsection B of this section, in the name of the village, in any court having
jurisdiction over such matter when so directed by resolution of the village
board. (Ord. 314, 4-4-2006)
CHAPTER 2
RESIDENTIAL SOLID WASTE COLLECTION
SECTION:
4-2-1: Definitions
4-2-2: Preparation Of Solid Waste; Container Requirements
4-2-3: Placement Of Containers
4-2-4: Collection Schedule And Charges
4-2-5: Source Of Solid Waste; Unauthorized Materials
4-2-6: Penalty
4-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
RESIDENCE: A dwelling unit such as a home, trailer, or each unit of a multi-
family dwelling.
SOLID WASTE:
Garbage: Animal, vegetable or mineral matter derived from the preparation or
packaging of foodstuffs.
Refuse: Rubbish, trash, etc., resulting from the normal activities of
residential households, including combustibles such as paper, wood, yard
trimmings, etc., and noncombustibles such as metal, glass, stone, dirt, etc.
(Ord. 198, 8-5-1986)
4-2-2: PREPARATION OF SOLID WASTE; CONTAINER REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Garbage: Garbage shall be placed in plastic bags inside enclosed solid
metal or plastic containers with a tightfitting lid provided by the owner or
occupant of each dwelling unit served. Containers shall be sufficiently durable
to withstand repeated handling, and each such container shall not exceed thirty
(30) gallons in capacity. The total weight of any container, including its
contents, shall not exceed sixty (60) pounds.
   B.   Refuse: Refuse shall be placed in plastic bags or cardboard cartons,
provided they can be lifted reasonably and fit in the compactor.
   C.   Newspapers, Magazines And Cardboard: Newspapers, magazines, and
cardboard must be securely bundled or boxed.
   D.   Tree Branches And Trimmings And Wood: Small tree branches, tree
trimmings and wood not over four inches (4") in width or thickness and three
feet (3') in length need not be placed in containers if securely bundled. (Ord.
198, 8-5-1986)
4-2-3: PLACEMENT OF CONTAINERS:
Garbage and refuse shall be set out or placed at one and the same location in
the public parkway or at the sidewalk in front of the residence served no later
than seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. on the day of collection. (Ord. 198, 8-5-1986)
4-2-4: COLLECTION SCHEDULE AND CHARGES:
   A.   Days: Collection shall be on Monday of each and every week; provided,
that when a recognized federal or state holiday falls on Monday, collection
shall be on the following Tuesday of said week.
   B.   Hours: Collection shall take place between seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.
and twelve o'clock (12:00) noon on Monday of each and every week, and garbage
and refuse shall be set out no later than seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. on the day
of collection. (Ord. 198, 8-5-1986)
   C.   Charges: Occupants of each dwelling or residential unit shall pay the
amount charged by the disposal company, as approved by the board of trustees,
and shall be entitled to set out not to exceed four (4) containers or the
equivalent. (Ord. 198, 8-5-1986; amd. 2011 Code)
4-2-5: SOURCE OF SOLID WASTE; UNAUTHORIZED MATERIALS:
   A.   No garbage or refuse shall be collected by the village collector or
placed outside for collection except garbage or refuse from residential
premises within the village limits.
   B.   No person shall move any materials from one location to another to
evade the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   The village collector shall not pick up any solid waste placed for
collection in violation of any of the terms of this chapter. (Ord. 198, 8-5-
1986)
4-2-6: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter shall
be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each
day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 198, 8-5-1986;
amd. 2011 Code)
CHAPTER 3
OPEN BURNING
SECTION:
4-3-1: Definition
4-3-2: Open Fires Restricted
4-3-3: Provisions Additional To State Regulations
4-3-1: DEFINITION:
As used in this chapter, the term "open burning" shall mean the combustion of
any matter in the open or in an open dump. (2011 Code)
4-3-2: OPEN FIRES RESTRICTED:
   A.   No person shall cause or allow open burning of any combustible material
or refuse, conduct any salvage operation by open burning, or cause or allow the
burning of any refuse or combustible material in any chamber not specifically
designed for the purpose and approved by the Illinois environmental protection
agency pursuant to regulations adopted by the Illinois air pollution control
board.
   B.   It shall also be lawful for any person to set fire to, ignite or burn
any combustible material in any outdoor fireplace, grill or barbecue pit if:
      1.   Such fire is used solely for the purpose of cooking; and
      2.   Such fire is kept under competent and continuous supervision; and
      3.   All flammable and combustible material is removed a distance of
thirty feet (30') from the fireplace, grill or barbecue pit so as not to
constitute a fire hazard; and
      4.   All such burning is a distance of thirty feet (30') from other
residences and properties so as to not be a nuisance, constitute a fire hazard
or impair the breathing of free air to adjacent persons or property owners; and
      5.   All fires or coals in said fireplace, grill or barbecue pit are
thoroughly extinguished after the use thereof has been completed. (2011 Code)
4-3-3: PROVISIONS ADDITIONAL TO STATE REGULATIONS:
This chapter shall embrace, but not be in conflict with, the provisions of an
act to protect the environment of the state, and to repeal certain acts therein
named, being 415 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1 et seq. (2011 Code)
CHAPTER 4
TREES AND SHRUBS
SECTION:
4-4-1: Definitions
4-4-2: Scope
4-4-3: Tree Board
4-4-4: Village Authority To Plant, Maintain And Remove Trees And Shrubs
4-4-5: Permit Requirements
4-4-6: Types Of Trees; Planting Requirements
4-4-7: Tree Topping
4-4-8: Dangerous, Diseased, Nuisance Trees
4-4-9: Landmark Trees
4-4-10: Enforcement
4-4-11: Penalty; Liability For Repair And Replacement Costs
4-4-12: Appeals
4-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
PRIVATE TREE: Any tree located on private property.
PUBLIC TREE: Any tree located within street rights of way, parkways, parks and
public places of the village.
TREE: Shall include trees, shrubs, bushes, hedges, vines and other woody
vegetation.
VILLAGE FORESTER: The district forester appointed by the Illinois department of
natural resources shall serve as the consulting village forester. (Ord. 279, 3-
7-2000)
4-4-2: SCOPE:
This chapter provides full power and authority over all trees located within
street rights of way, parkways, parks and public places of the village and to
trees located on private property that constitute a hazard or threat as
described herein. (Ord. 279, 3-7-2000)
4-4-3: TREE BOARD:
   A.   Created; Membership; Appointment; Compensation: There is hereby created
and established a village tree board for the village which shall consist of
five (5) members, citizens and residents of the village, who shall be appointed
by the village president, with the approval of the village board. Members of
the tree board shall serve without compensation.
   B.   Terms Of Office; Vacancies: The term of the five (5) persons to be
appointed by the village board president shall be three (3) years; except, that
the term of two (2) of the members appointed to the first board shall be for
only one year, and the term of two (2) members of the first board shall be for
two (2) years. In the event that a vacancy shall occur during the term of any
member, his or her successor shall be appointed for the unexpired portion of
the term. (Ord. 279, 3-7-2000)
4-4-4: VILLAGE AUTHORITY TO PLANT, MAINTAIN AND REMOVE TREES AND SHRUBS:
The village shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove trees,
plants and shrubs within any street or alley right of way, parkway or other
public place as may be necessary to ensure public safety or to preserve or
enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public grounds. (Ord. 279, 3-7-2000)
4-4-5: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit And Compliance Required; No Fee: No person, firm or corporation
shall plant, remove, cut above the ground, or disturb any tree on any street or
alley right of way, parkway or other public place without first filing an
application and procuring a permit from the village tree board. The person
receiving the permit shall abide by the standards set forth in this chapter.
There shall be no fee charged for the issuance of any such permit.
   B.   Insurance Requirements: No person, firm or corporation shall be granted
a permit to plant, remove, cut above the ground, or disturb any tree within any
street or alley right of way, parkway, park or public place within the village
without first producing written evidence of possession of workers' compensation
and liability insurance in the amounts of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00)
for bodily injury or death and one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00)
property damage, indemnifying the village or any person injured or damaged
resulting from the pursuit of such endeavor as herein described. (Ord. 279, 3-
7-2000)
4-4-6: TYPES OF TREES; PLANTING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Species And Classes Of Permitted And Prohibited Trees: The village tree
board shall develop an official list of trees desirable for planting along
village streets by classes, namely small, medium and large. The tree board also
shall develop a list of trees undesirable for planting along village streets.
The list shall be updated from time to time as the village tree board deems
necessary. The lists shall be made available for public review at the village
hall or upon request from the village clerk.
   B.   Spacing: The spacing of street trees will be in accordance with the
list of desirable tree classes. No trees shall be planted closer together than:
small trees, thirty feet (30'); medium trees, forty feet (40'); and large
trees, fifty feet (50'), except in special plantings designed or approved by
the village tree board.
   C.   Near Utilities: No street trees, other than those species listed as
small trees on the official tree list, may be planted under or within ten (10)
lateral feet of any overhead utility wire, or over or within five (5) lateral
feet of any underground water line, sewer line, transmission line or other
utility.
   D.   Distance From Curb And Sidewalk: The distance trees may be planted from
curbs or curb lines and sidewalks will be in accordance with the three (3)
species size classes listed in subsection A of this section, and no trees may
be planted closer to any curb or sidewalk than the following: small trees, two
feet (2'); medium trees, three feet (3'); and large trees, four feet (4').
   E.   Planting By Adjacent Property Owners: This chapter does not prohibit
the planting of street trees by adjacent property owners; provided, that the
selection and location of said trees is in accordance with the requirements of
this chapter. (Ord. 279, 3-7-2000)
4-4-7: TREE TOPPING:
It shall be unlawful, as a practice, for any person, firm, corporation or
village department to top any street tree, park tree or other tree on public
property. "Topping" is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to stubs
within the tree's crown to such a degree so as to remove the normal canopy and
disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by storms or other causes or certain
trees under utility wires or other obstructions where other pruning practices
are impractical may be exempted from this section at the determination of the
village tree board. (Ord. 279, 3-7-2000)
4-4-8: DANGEROUS, DISEASED, NUISANCE TREES:
   A.   The village tree board may remove or cause to be removed any tree or
part thereof, whether on public or private property, which is in an unsafe
condition or which, by reason of its nature, is injurious to sewer lines,
electric power lines, gas lines, water lines or public improvements or is
infested with any injurious fungus, insect or other pest. Upon the discovery of
any destructive or communicable disease or other pestilence which endangers the
growth or health of trees, or threatens to spread disease or insect
infestations, the village forester shall, at once, cause written notice to be
served upon the owner of the property upon which such diseased or infested tree
is situated, and the notice shall require such property owner to eradicate,
remove or otherwise control such condition within a reasonable time to be
specified in such notice.
   B.   The village forester or his/her official designee has the authority to
enter onto private property whereon there is located a tree, or part thereof,
that is suspected to be a public nuisance and to order its removal if
necessary. A "public nuisance" shall be defined as: any tree with an infectious
disease or insect problem; dead or dying trees; a tree or limb(s) that obstruct
streetlights, traffic signs, or the free passage of pedestrians or vehicles; or
a tree that poses a threat to safety. Property owners shall be notified by
registered first class mail, return receipt requested, of any such nuisance and
requested to abate the nuisance within ten (10) days or notify the village
clerk of the owner's request to appeal the abatement to the next meeting of the
village tree board. If the village tree board, after said hearing, deems
abatement is necessary, the owner shall abate the nuisance within ten (10)
days. If the owner does not abate the nuisance within ten (10) days, the
village shall abate the nuisance and bill the owner accordingly. The reasonable
cost of such abatement shall be filed as a lien against the property on which
the nuisance was located. In addition, the owner of the property upon which the
nuisance was located shall be subject to prosecution and fine as provided in
section
4-4-11 of this chapter. (Ord. 279, 3-7-2000)
4-4-9: LANDMARK TREES:
The village forester shall have as one of his/her duties the location,
selection and identification of any trees which qualify as "landmark trees". A
tree may qualify as a landmark tree if it meets one or more of the following
criteria: species rarity, age of forty (40) years or more, or association with
a historical event or person. (Ord. 279, 3-7-2000)
4-4-10: ENFORCEMENT:
The village tree board shall have the power to promulgate and enforce rules,
regulations and specifications concerning the trimming, spraying, removal,
planting, pruning and protection of trees upon the right of way of any street,
alley, sidewalk or other public place in the village. (Ord. 279, 3-7-2000)
4-4-11: PENALTY; LIABILITY FOR REPAIR AND REPLACEMENT COSTS:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or who fails to comply
with any notice issued pursuant to provisions of this chapter, upon being found
guilty of violation, shall be subject to a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each separate offense. Each day during which any
violation of the provisions of this chapter shall occur or continue shall be a
separate offense. If, as the result of the violation of any provision of this
chapter, the injury, mutilation or death of a tree on village owned property is
caused, the cost of repair or replacement of such tree, shrub or other plant
shall be borne by the party in violation. The value of trees shall be
determined in accordance with the latest edition of "A Guide To The
Professional Evaluation Of Landscape Trees, Specimen Shrubs And Evergreens", as
published by the International Society Of Arboriculture. (Ord. 279, 3-7-2000;
amd. 2011 Code)
4-4-12: APPEALS:
The village board of trustees shall have the right to review the conduct, acts
and decisions of the village tree board. Any person may appeal from any ruling
or order of the village tree board to the village board of trustees who may
hear the matter and make a final decision. (Ord. 279, 3-7-2000)
CHAPTER 5
RVs, TRAILERS, TRACTORS AND TENTS
SECTION:
4-5-1: Definitions
4-5-2: General Regulations
4-5-3: Parking And Storage
4-5-4: Exceptions
4-5-5: Tents
4-5-6: Penalties
4-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall be applicable to this chapter:
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE (Hereinafter ATV): Any four-wheeler, three-wheeler, dirt
bike, go-cart or similar vehicle designed for off road usage.
BOAT: Any boat, inboard, outboard or unpowered.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: Any motor home, minihome, converted bus, van or truck,
camper, travel trailer, pop up trailer, tent trailer or other vehicle with
sleeping quarters for human beings.
TENT: Any structure covered with fabric placed over poles or framework. Awnings
and sunshades are specifically excluded.
TRACTOR: Any lawn mower, garden tractor, farm implement or construction
equipment.
TRAILER: Any stock trailer, horse trailer, flatbed trailer, utility trailer,
construction trailer, moving trailer or other vehicle designed for the movement
of livestock or property. Semitrailers are specifically excluded. (Ord. 337,
11-2-2010)
4-5-2: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
The following regulations shall apply to recreational vehicles, trailers,
boats, ATVs, snowmobiles and tractors within the village:
   A.   Living Quarters; Utility Hookup: At no time shall a parked or stored
recreational vehicle, trailer or boat within the village be used for living,
sleeping, housekeeping or storage purposes. No recreational vehicle or trailer
shall be connected to electric, gas, water or sanitary sewer service. Temporary
electrical hookups may be permitted.
   B.   Accessory Structures: Recreational vehicles or trailers shall not be
used as accessory structures in any zoning district within the village.
   C.   Business Use: At no time shall a parked or stored recreational vehicle,
trailer or boat within the village be used, occupied or utilized for business
purposes within any residential zoning district or without permit in any
nonresidential zoning district.
   D.   Removal Of Wheels: Recreational vehicles or trailers shall not have
their wheels removed or be affixed to the ground so as to prevent ready removal
of such vehicle.
   E.   Major Repairs: Major repair to any recreational vehicle, trailer, boat,
ATV, snowmobile or tractor that exceeds fourteen (14) days shall be performed
only within a garage or accessory structure which is fully enclosed. (Ord. 337,
11-2-2010)
4-5-3: PARKING AND STORAGE:
The following parking and storage restrictions shall apply to recreational
vehicles, trailers, boats, ATVs, snowmobiles and tractors within the village:
   A.   No recreational vehicle, trailer, boat, ATV, snowmobile or tractor
shall be parked on any street within the village.
   B.   Recreational vehicles, trailers, boats, ATVs, snowmobiles or tractors
shall not be parked or stored in such a way as to create a dangerous or unsafe
condition or in any way impede traffic on any street, alley or sidewalk.
   C.   Only one recreational vehicle or trailer and one boat may be parked or
stored in the open on a lot within the village.
   D.   No recreational vehicles, trailers, boats, ATVs, snowmobiles or
tractors shall be parked in any front yard within the village. Recreational
vehicles, trailers and boats shall only be parked or stored on a driveway or on
a surfaced pad on an interior side yard or rear yard of a lot; provided, that
it meets the setback requirements for the zoning district in which the property
is located.
   E.   No more than two (2) snowmobiles, ATVs or tractors or a trailer with
snowmobiles, ATVs or tractors may be stored throughout the year in the open on
a lot in a single-family residential district. (Ord. 337, 11-2-2010)
4-5-4: EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   The regulations of this chapter do not apply to recreational vehicles
or trailers in a permitted travel trailer park.
   B.   The regulations of this chapter do not apply to recreational vehicles,
trailers, boats, ATVs, snowmobiles or tractors parked on a permitted and
licensed recreational vehicle, trailer, boat, ATV, snowmobile or implement
sales or storage lot.
   C.   The regulations of this chapter do not apply to construction trailers
or tractors actually engaged in construction, repair or maintenance on the
structures on a lot or any road or utility construction, maintenance or
repairs.
   D.   Recreational vehicles, trailers or boats may be parked on a public
street for the purpose of loading and unloading, but in no event in excess of
twenty four (24) hours.
   E.   A property owner may obtain a temporary use permit within seventy two
(72) hours from the village, having no fee charged to the applicant, for a
period not to exceed thirty (30) days per vehicle in a calendar year allowing
use of a recreational vehicle by a visitor. (Ord. 337, 11-2-2010)
4-5-5: TENTS:
   A.   Tents or other temporary structures shall not be erected, used or
maintained on a lot within the village for living, housekeeping or storage
purposes.
   B.   Tents as are customarily used for temporary camping or recreational
purposes, not exceeding thirty (30) days, are permitted; provided, they are
located on the same lot as a dwelling. (Ord. 337, 11-2-2010)
4-5-6: PENALTIES:
   A.   Penalty Imposed: Any person who shall violate any provision of this
chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each violation. Each day during which a violation
continues beyond the specified time for correction shall constitute a separate
punishable offense. (Ord. 337, 11-2-2010; amd. 2011 Code)
   B.   Abatement By Village: If the village corrects the violation or causes
the violation to be corrected on its behalf, the violator shall be liable to
the village for its actual costs (material plus labor, or if the correction is
contracted out, the contract price) of abating the nuisance.
   C.   Liability For Cost Of Abatement: Where the village itself corrects the
violation or causes the violation to be corrected on its behalf, the violator
shall be subject to both subsections A and B of this section. (Ord. 337, 11-2-
2010)
TITLE 5
POLICE AND PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
5-1-1: Department Created
5-1-2: Residency Of Department Members
5-1-3: Chief Of Police
5-1-4: Oath Of Office
5-1-5: Bond
5-1-6: Duties Of Department Members; Supervision
5-1-7: Serve As Witnesses
5-1-8: Auxiliary Police Force
5-1-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED:
There is hereby created and established a department of the village government
which shall be known as the police department. The police department shall
consist of the chief of police and such other police officers as may be
appointed, hired or otherwise retained from time to time by the president, with
the advice and consent of the village board of trustees. (2011 Code)
5-1-2: RESIDENCY OF DEPARTMENT MEMBERS:
The police officers employed by the village shall be allowed to reside outside
the corporate limits of the village at the time of their appointment and during
the term of their employment. (Ord. 154, 9-7-1976)
5-1-3: CHIEF OF POLICE:
   A.   Office Created: There is hereby created and established the office of
chief of police.
   B.   Appointment And Term: The chief of police shall be appointed by the
president, with the advice and consent of the board of trustees, and shall hold
office for and during the municipal year in which he is appointed and
qualified, unless a longer term is authorized by ordinance or he is sooner
removed, as provided by law.
   C.   Powers And Duties:
      1.   Rules And Regulations: The chief of police shall make or prescribe
such rules and regulations for the conduct and guidance of the members of the
police department as he shall deem advisable, and such rules, when approved by
the village board of trustees, shall be binding on such members.
      2.   Attend Meetings; Execute Orders And Processes: The chief of police
shall attend, when requested by the president, either in person or by deputy,
all meetings of the village board of trustees and shall execute all its orders.
The chief of police shall also execute all warrants or other legal processes
required to be executed by him under any ordinance of the village or laws of
the state.
      3.   Custodian Of Lost, Abandoned And Stolen Property: The chief of
police shall be the custodian of all lost and abandoned or stolen property in
the village. (2011 Code)
5-1-4: OATH OF OFFICE:
As required by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3.1-10-25, the chief of police
and all other police officers appointed, hired or retained by the village
shall, before entering upon the duties of their respective offices, take and
subscribe the oath or affirmation required of them by the Illinois constitution
and file same with the village clerk. (2011 Code)
5-1-5: BOND:
As required by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3.1-10-30, the chief of police
and all other police officers appointed, hired or retained by the village
shall, before entering upon the duties of their respective offices, execute a
bond with surety to be approved by the village board of trustees, which bond
shall thereafter be filed with the village clerk. The bond shall be payable to
the village in the penal sum as provided in section
1-7-1 of this code conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties of
the office and the payment of all monies received by the officer, according to
the laws and the ordinances of the village. (2011 Code)
5-1-6: DUTIES OF DEPARTMENT MEMBERS; SUPERVISION:
   A.   The chief of police and all other members of the police department
shall perform all duties prescribed by the village board of trustees for the
preservation of the public peace and shall enforce all the laws of the village,
the state and the United States Of America.
   B.   The chief of police shall be responsible for the performance of the
police department, and all persons who are members of the department shall
serve subject to the orders of the chief of police. (2011 Code)
5-1-7: SERVE AS WITNESSES:
It shall be the duty of each and every member of the police department to
appear, as may be necessary, as a witness in the prosecution of a violation of
a village ordinance or of any state or federal law. No member shall retain any
witness fees for service as a witness in any action or suit to which the
village is a party, and fees paid for such services shall be turned over to the
chief of police, who shall deposit same with the village clerk. (2011 Code)
5-1-8: AUXILIARY POLICE FORCE:
   A.   Appointment: The corporate authority may appoint auxiliary police
officers in such number as they from time to time deem necessary.
   B.   Status: Auxiliary police officers shall not be "conservators of the
peace" and shall only carry firearms while on duty, with the express written
permission of the chief of police, and only after completing the state
certified forty (40) hour mandatory firearms training course as provided under
50 Illinois Compiled Statutes 710/2. Auxiliary police officers shall receive
training for all equipment used in the performance of their duties prior to
use. Documentation of training must be maintained. Auxiliary police officers
shall not be considered to be members of the regular police department, and
shall not supplement members of the regular police department of the village in
the performance of their assigned and normal duties except as otherwise
provided herein.
   C.   Identification Symbol: Identification symbols worn by the auxiliary
police officers shall be different and distinct from those used by the regular
police department.
   D.   Equipment: Uniforms, badges, patches and all other equipment will be
approved by the chief of police and acquired at the expense of the individual
auxiliary police officer.
   E.   Supervision: Auxiliary police officers shall, at all times during the
performance of their duties, be subject to the direction and control of the
chief of police of the village of Shannon. Auxiliary police officers will not
be paid, or otherwise compensated, by the village of Shannon.
   F.   Powers And Duties: Auxiliary police officers shall only be assigned to
perform the following duties in the village:
      1.   To aid or direct traffic within the municipality,
      2.   To aid in control of natural or manmade disasters,
      3.   To aid in case of civil disorder as directed by the chief of police,
and
      4.   To administratively enforce violations of the village of Shannon
ordinances at the direction of the chief of police or his/her designee.
   G.   Standards: Any person appointed as an auxiliary police officer must
meet the following standards:
      1.   Be of good moral character, of temperate habits, of sound health,
and physically and mentally able to perform assigned duties.
      2.   Be at least twenty one (21) years of age.
      3.   Pass a medical examination.
      4.   Possess a high school diploma or GED certificate.
      5.   Possess a valid state of Illinois driver's license.
      6.   Possess no prior felony convictions or convictions involving moral
turpitude.
      7.   Any individual who has served in the U.S. military must have been
honorably discharged.
   H.   Discipline: Auxiliary police officers shall be under the disciplinary
jurisdiction of the chief of police. Auxiliary police officers serve at the
discretion of the village authorities, shall not have any property rights in
the position of auxiliary police officer, and may be removed by the village
authorities at any time. Auxiliary police officers shall comply with all
applicable rules and general orders issued by the police department. (Ord. 375,
11-3-2015)
CHAPTER 2
EMERGENCY SERVICES AND DISASTER AGENCY
SECTION:
5-2-1: Created; Purpose; Composition
5-2-2: Coordinator
5-2-3: Oath Of Office
5-2-4: Functions
5-2-5: Service As Mobile Support Team
5-2-6: Agreements With Other Political Subdivisions
5-2-7: Emergency Action
5-2-8: Compensation
5-2-9: Reimbursement By State
5-2-10: Purchases And Expenditures
5-2-11: Office
5-2-12: Appropriation; Tax Levy
5-2-1: CREATED; PURPOSE; COMPOSITION:
There is hereby created the local emergency services and disaster agency to
prevent, minimize, repair, and alleviate injury or damage resulting from
explosion of atomic or other means from without or by means of sabotage or
other disloyal actions within, or from fire, flood, earthquake,
telecommunications failure or other natural or technological causes, in
accordance with the Illinois emergency management agency act, as amended 1 .
The emergency services and disaster agency shall consist of the coordinator and
additional members to be selected by the coordinator. (Ord. 89, 11-6-1962; amd.
2011 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 20 ILCS 3305/1 et seq.
5-2-2: COORDINATOR:
   A.   Appointment And Term: The coordinator of the municipal emergency
services and disaster agency shall be appointed by the president and board of
trustees and shall serve until removed by the same.
   B.   Powers And Duties: The coordinator shall have direct responsibility for
the organization, administration, training, and operation of the emergency
services and disaster agency, subject to the direction and control of the
village president, as provided by statute.
   C.   Vacancy: In the event of the absence, resignation, death, or inability
to serve of the coordinator, the village president or any person designated by
him, shall be and act as coordinator until a new appointment is made as
provided in this chapter. (Ord. 89, 11-6-1962; amd. 2011 Code)
5-2-3: OATH OF OFFICE:
Every person appointed to serve in any capacity in the municipal emergency
services and disaster agency shall, before entering upon his duties, subscribe
to the following oath, which shall be filed with the coordinator:
I,                      , do solemnly swear that I will support and defend and
bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of the State of Illinois and
the Constitution of the United States, and the territory, institutions and
facilities thereof, both public and private, against all enemies, foreign and
domestic; that I take this obligation freely, without any mental reservation or
purpose of evasion; and that I will well and faithfully discharge the duties
upon which I am about to enter, and I do further swear that I do not advocate,
nor am I nor have I been a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this State
by force or violence; and that during such time as I am affiliated with the
Village of Shannon, Illinois, I will not advocate nor become a member of any
political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the government
of the United States or of this State by force or violence.
(Ord. 89, 11-6-1962; amd. 2011 Code)
5-2-4: FUNCTIONS:
The municipal emergency services and disaster agency shall perform such
emergency management functions within the village as shall be prescribed in and
by the state emergency operations plan, and programs, orders, rules and
regulations as may be promulgated by the state emergency management agency, and
in addition, shall conduct such functions outside the corporate limits as may
be required pursuant to any mutual aid agreement with any other political
subdivision, municipality or quasi-municipality entered into as provided by the
Illinois emergency management agency act, as amended. (Ord. 89, 11-6-1962; amd.
2011 Code)
5-2-5: SERVICE AS MOBILE SUPPORT TEAM:
   A.   Members Designated: All or any members of the municipal emergency
services and disaster agency may be designated as members of a mobile support
team created by the state director of emergency management as provided by law.
   B.   Team Leader: The leader of such mobile support team shall be designated
by the coordinator of the municipal emergency services and disaster agency.
   C.   Compensation: Any member of a mobile support team who is a village
employee or officer while serving on call to duty by the governor or the state
director of emergency management shall receive the compensation and have the
powers, duties, rights and immunities incident to such employment or office.
Any such member who is not a paid officer or employee of the village while so
serving shall receive from the state reasonable compensation as provided by
law. (Ord. 89, 11-6-1962; amd. 2011 Code)
5-2-6: AGREEMENTS WITH OTHER POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS:
The coordinator of the emergency services and disaster agency may negotiate
mutual aid agreements with other municipal corporations or political
subdivisions of the state, but no such agreement shall be effective until it
has been approved by the board of trustees and by the state director of
emergency management. (Ord. 89, 11-6-1962; amd. 2011 Code)
5-2-7: EMERGENCY ACTION:
If the governor declares that an emergency exists in the event of actual enemy
attack upon the United States or the occurrence within the state of Illinois of
explosion of atomic or other means from without or by means of sabotage or
other disloyal actions within, or from fire, flood, earthquake,
telecommunications failure or other natural or technological causes, it shall
be the duty of the municipal emergency services and disaster agency to
cooperate fully with the state emergency management agency and with the
governor in the exercise of emergency powers as provided by law. (Ord. 89, 11-
6-1962; amd. 2011 Code)
5-2-8: COMPENSATION:
   A.   The coordinator of the emergency services and disaster agency shall
receive an annual salary of fifty dollars ($50.00), to be paid at the end of
the municipal year.
   B.   Members of the emergency services and disaster agency who are paid
employees or officers of the village, if called for training by the state
director of emergency management, shall receive for time spent in such training
the same rate of pay as is attached to the position held. Members who are not
such municipal employees or officers shall receive for such training time such
compensation as may be established by the board of trustees. (Ord. 89, 11-6-
1962; amd. 2011 Code)
5-2-9: REIMBURSEMENT BY STATE:
The village treasurer may receive and allocate to the appropriate fund any
reimbursement by the state to the village for expenses incident to training
members of the emergency services and disaster agency, compensation for
services and expenses of members of a mobile support team while serving outside
the village in response to a call by the governor or state director of
emergency management, as provided by law, and any other reimbursement made by
the state incident to emergency management activities as provided by law. (Ord.
89, 11-6-1962; amd. 2011 Code)
5-2-10: PURCHASES AND EXPENDITURES:
   A.   The board of trustees may, on recommendation of the municipal
coordinator of emergency services and disaster agency, authorize any purchase
or contracts necessary to place the village in a position to combat effectively
any disaster resulting from the explosion of any nuclear or other bomb or
missile, and to protect the public health and safety, protect property, and
provide emergency assistance to victims in case of such disaster.
   B.   In the event of enemy caused or natural disaster, the municipal
coordinator of emergency services and disaster agency is authorized, on behalf
of the village, to procure such services, supplies, equipment, or materials as
may be necessary for such purposes, in view of the exigency, without regard to
the statutory procedures or formalities normally prescribed by the law
pertaining to municipal contracts or obligations, as authorized by the Illinois
emergency management agency act; provided, that if the board of trustees meets
at such time, he shall act subject to the directions and restrictions imposed
by that body. (Ord. 89, 11-6-1962; amd. 2011 Code)
5-2-11: OFFICE:
The village president is authorized to designate space in the village hall or
elsewhere, as may be provided by the village board, for the municipal emergency
services and disaster agency as its office. (Ord. 89, 11-6-1962; amd. 2011
Code)
5-2-12: APPROPRIATION; TAX LEVY:
The village board may have an appropriation for emergency services and disaster
purposes in the manner provided by law, and may levy, in addition, for
emergency services and disaster purposes only, a tax not to exceed five cents
($0.05) per one hundred dollars ($100.00) of the assessed value of all taxable
property, in addition to all other taxes, as provided by the Illinois emergency
management agency act, as amended. (Ord. 89, 11-6-1962; amd. 2011 Code)
CHAPTER 3
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
5-3-1: Livestock
5-3-2: Harboring Stray Animals
5-3-3: Penalty
5-3-1: LIVESTOCK:
   A. Definitions: As used in this section:
      CHICKEN: Any domesticated egg laying chicken and shall exclude all
roosters and hens that have ceased laying eggs.
      COOP: A coop, building, pen or other enclosure with or without an
enclosed pen or chicken yard that is designed, constructed and maintained to
confine chickens within the coop and to prevent access by predators.
      KEEP: To maintain or feed such livestock or wild animal on premises,
confined or otherwise, within the Village limits for a period exceeding twenty
four (24) hours.
      LIVESTOCK: Any one or more cows, horses, sheep, swine, goats, roosters,
non-laying hens,, ducks, turkeys, geese, rabbits, or any other animal or fowl
normally kept for agricultural, fur production or food production purposes.
      WILD ANIMAL: Any nondomestic animal which normally lives unconfined in a
state of nature.
   B. Prohibited: No person shall keep any livestock or wild animal within the
Village limits. No person shall allow any livestock to roam at large within the
Village limits.
   C. Chickens:
      1.   License To Keep Chickens:
         a.   No person shall keep or maintain chickens anywhere within the
village except pursuant to a license issued by the village under the terms and
conditions of this section.
         b.   Each license application shall be accompanied by a one- time
application fee of ten dollars ($10.00).
         c.   As part of the license application, the applicant shall obtain a
building permit from the village and pay the fee therefore. The applicant shall
provide an accurate scale drawing of all proposed facilities.
         d.   If a license issued under the terms of this agreement is
terminated, the owner property where the coop is located shall remove all
chickens, the coop and related facilities from the village within thirty (30)
days.
         e.   No more than one (1) license shall be issued per property.
         f.   The owner of the premises consents to the entry of village
officials onto the property for the purpose of inspecting the facilities and
determining compliance with this section.
      2.   Restrictions:
         a.   A maximum of six (6) chickens shall be permitted on any property
containing one single family detached dwelling unit.
         b.   Chickens shall at all times be confined to a coop complying with
the requirements of this section and constructed only upon receipt of a permit
from the village.
         c.   Every person maintaining a coop, including any associated chicken
yard or pen used for keeping chickens shall keep and maintain the coop and such
area and facilities in a clean and sanitary condition at all times.
         d.   All feed for chickens must be kept in containers that are rodent
proof.
         e.   All chickens must be kept, housed and maintained so as not to
cause a public or private nuisance from odor, litter, droppings, feather or
other waste, excessive noise, or pests or rodents attracted by the chickens.
         f.   All chickens shall be kept in a safe and humane manner and
provided with adequate food and water. Slaughtering is not permitted, except
within an enclosed building in a manner not reasonably visible or audible to
persons on adjacent property.
      3.   Housing:
         a.   All chickens shall be housed in a coop of sufficient size and
strength to confine the fowl to the licensee’s property.
         b.   Any chicken yard or coop shall be at least ten (10) feet from any
property line.
         c.   No chicken yard or coop shall be located in the front or side
yard of any property and shall be located in a manner so it is not visible from
a public street to the greatest extent possible.
      4.   Enforcement:
         a.   Violation of this section may result in revocation of the license
issued hereunder and the imposition of fines as provided in
5-3-3 hereunder.
         b.   Any license revoked for violations of this section shall not be
renewed.
   D. Existing Horses And Cows:
   E. Special Events: Livestock may be temporarily kept within the Village for
special events such as rodeos, 4-H projects, Labor Day celebrations, fairs,
etc., but only for the duration of such special event. (2011 Code; amd. Ord.
349, 9-4-2012; Ord. 416, 1-3-2023; Ord. 418, 3-7-2023)
5-3-2: HARBORING STRAY ANIMALS:
A person who habitually feeds any cat, dog, or other domestic or wild animal,
not owned by him, on a regular or irregular basis, or cares for or actively
seeks the attention of said cat, dog or other domestic or wild animal at or
upon his or her property or within the Village shall be guilty of "harboring a
stray animal". It shall be unlawful for any person to harbor a stray or unowned
or unclaimed domestic or wild animal in the Village. (2011 Code)
5-3-3: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of a violation of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be
punished by imposition of a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) and
not more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) per offense. Every day a
violation of this chapter exists shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord.
349, 9-4-2012)
ARTICLE A. DOGS AND CATS
SECTION:
5-3A-1: Running At Large
5-3A-2: Nuisance Dogs And Cats
5-3A-3: Damage To Property
5-3A-4: Dangerous, Vicious Dogs Or Cats; Rabies Inoculation Required
5-3A-5: Impoundment And Redemption Provisions
5-3A-6: Penalties
5-3A-1: RUNNING AT LARGE:
It shall be unlawful for any owner or keeper of any dog or cat to permit said
dog or cat to run at large within the village limits. The owner and keeper of
any cat or dog shall not permit the cat or dog to leave the boundaries of the
premises of the owner or keeper, and said dog or cat shall at all times be
under the control of said owner or keeper. (Ord. 270, 4-7-1998)
5-3A-2: NUISANCE DOGS AND CATS:
It shall be unlawful for any owner or keeper of any dog or cat to permit said
dog or cat to commit on any premises or property, public or private, any of the
following acts: destroy private property, scatter refuse or garbage, chase
vehicles, or commit any other nuisance. (Ord. 270, 4-7-1998)
5-3A-3: DAMAGE TO PROPERTY:
It shall be unlawful for any owner or keeper of any dog or cat to permit said
dog or cat to defecate, vomit, scratch or dig on any public property or any
private property without the permission of the property owner. (Ord. 270, 4-7-
1998)
5-3A-4: DANGEROUS, VICIOUS DOGS OR CATS; RABIES INOCULATION REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any owner or keeper of any dog or cat to
permit said dog or cat to bite, attack or charge any person, and no person
shall keep any vicious animal within the village limits.
   B.   The owner and keeper of any cat or dog kept within the village limits
shall have said dog or cat inoculated for rabies. (Ord. 270, 4-7-1998)
5-3A-5: IMPOUNDMENT AND REDEMPTION PROVISIONS:
   A.   Impoundment Authority; Location Of Confinement: It shall be the duty of
the police chief or any other police officer or other official designated by
the village president to take up and impound in the county dog pound any dog
found to be in violation of any provision of this article and to take up and
impound any cat found to be in violation of any provision of this article with
a licensed veterinarian.
   B.   Notice Of Impoundment: The person impounding said dog or cat shall
notify the owner and keeper of the dog or cat, if known, of said impoundment as
soon as possible.
   C.   Redemption Of Impounded Animals; Costs: Any dog or cat impounded under
this section may be redeemed upon payment of an impoundment fee of thirty
dollars ($30.00), any boarding fee and provision of proof of vaccination for
rabies. If proof of inoculation cannot be provided, then the dog or cat shall
be inoculated at the owner's or keeper's expense prior to release. The fee for
redemption shall be increased in additional increments of ten dollars ($10.00)
for each subsequent impoundment of any dog or cat under this article.
   D.   Destruction Of Unredeemed, Injured Animals: Any dog or cat unclaimed
after seven (7) days shall be humanely destroyed or otherwise disposed of by
the county animal control officer or licensed veterinarian having control over
said dog or cat. Any dog or cat suffering from severe physical injury may be
immediately humanely destroyed if necessary, in the discretion of the animal
control officer or licensed veterinarian, to prevent undue suffering to said
dog or cat. (Ord. 270, 4-7-1998)
5-3A-6: PENALTIES:
In addition to the penalties imposed in this article, any owner or keeper found
to have violated the provisions of this article shall be fined not less than
twenty five dollars ($25.00) for each occurrence if said fine is paid within
ten (10) days of the date of issuance of the citation. If the fine is not paid
within the ten (10) day period, the village board may, in its discretion,
direct the village attorney to file a complaint and prosecute the violation in
the circuit court. Upon conviction of a violation of this article, the circuit
court shall impose a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). Each day the violation continues shall
be a separate offense. (Ord. 270, 4-7-1998; amd. 2011 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-4-1: Unlawful Assemblies
5-4-2: Disturbing The Peace
5-4-3: Breach Of The Peace
5-4-4: Damage To Property
5-4-5: Gambling Offenses
5-4-6: Weapons Offenses
5-4-7: Aiding In An Offense
5-4-8: Penalty
5-4-1: UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLIES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful, within the corporate limits of the village, for
two (2) or more persons to actually do an unlawful act with force or violence
against the person or property of another with or without common cause of
quarrel, or do a lawful act in a violent and tumultuous manner. (1916 Code § 3-
1; amd. 2011 Code)
   B.   It shall be unlawful for two (2) or more persons to assemble for the
purpose of disturbing the public peace or committing an unlawful act and to not
disperse on being asked or commanded by the president, any village trustee, the
chief of police or any police officer of the village. (1916 Code § 3-3; amd.
2011 Code)
5-4-2: DISTURBING THE PEACE:
It shall be unlawful for any person, in the daytime or nighttime, by noise or
obscene or profane language or otherwise, to disturb any lawful assemblage or
to disturb the quiet of any family or neighborhood, or the occupant of any
dwelling, shop, office, or place of business whatever, or the quiet of the
public streets, or any person or persons lawfully in the places named. (1916
Code § 3-2; amd. 2011 Code)
5-4-3: BREACH OF THE PEACE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to create any disturbance in the village,
such as loud quarreling, fighting, assault and battery, or the use of
threatening language calculated to annoy any person or provoke a breach of the
peace. (1916 Code § 3-4; amd. 2011 Code)
5-4-4: DAMAGE TO PROPERTY:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully or maliciously cut,
break or injure any tree standing on the premises of another, or in the streets
of the village, or to pull, break or tear off any pickets, or otherwise injure,
besmear, or deface any property or building of another, or to in any manner,
cut, break, tear, or otherwise injure any personal property of another. (1916
Code § 3-5; amd. 2011 Code)
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person, within the corporate limits of the
village, to wilfully, wantonly or maliciously injure, damage, break or destroy
the wires, poles, lamps, cross arms, insulators, meters, or any thereof, or any
other property of any utility company by felling trees, or throwing stones,
clubs or missiles, or in any other manner; or without permission from the owner
thereof, do any act or thing to the injury, harm or destruction of any such
property, or interfere in any manner with the operation, use, service or
enjoyment thereof, by any person entitled thereto. (1916 Code § 3-10; amd. 2011
Code)
5-4-5: GAMBLING OFFENSES:
   A.   Prohibited: It is unlawful to gamble or attend any gambling resort or
to make any bet, lottery, or gambling hazard, or to buy or sell any chances or
tickets in any gambling game arrangement or device, unless otherwise provided
by statute.
   B.   Devices: It is unlawful to possess any gambling device or paraphernalia
with the intent to use the same for any unlawful purpose, and such device or
paraphernalia kept with such intent may be confiscated.
   C.   Houses: It is unlawful to maintain or patronize any establishment
maintained for a gambling house or resort.
   D.   Advertising: It is unlawful to advertise any gambling house or resort
in any street, alley or other public place within the village. (1916 Code § 4-
3; amd. 2011 Code)
   E.   Video Gaming: Nothing in this section shall prohibit the placement and
use of a video gaming terminal or other activity permitted under the Illinois
video gaming act 1  and title 3, chapter 4 of this code. (Ord. 364, 3-4-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. 230 ILCS 40 et seq.
5-4-6: WEAPONS OFFENSES:
   A.   Discharge Of Firearms: It shall be unlawful for any person, within the
village, to discharge any cannon, gun, pistol, or other firearm; provided, that
the discharge of firearms by any officer or other person in the discharge and
performance of any legal duty or lawful act shall not be deemed a violation of
this subsection. (1916 Code § 3-7; amd. 2011 Code)
   B.   Concealed Weapons; Display In Threatening Manner: It shall be unlawful
for any person, within the limits of the village, to wear under his clothes or
conceal about his person any pistol, revolver, billy, slingshot, or knuckles or
any kind of bowie, dirk, razor, dagger, or other dangerous, offensive weapon
without written permit from the village president, or to, in a threatening
manner, display any such weapon. (1916 Code § 3-11; amd. 2011 Code)
5-4-7: AIDING IN AN OFFENSE:
Any person who shall stand by and aid, abet, or assist, or who, not being
present, shall advise, encourage, aid, abet or assist the commission of any
offense shall be punishable in the same manner as the principal offender. (1916
Code § 3-6; amd. 2011 Code)
5-4-8: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter, upon conviction, shall be
fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2011 Code)
ARTICLE A. LOITERING
SECTION:
5-4A-1: Definitions
5-4A-2: Determination Of Probable Cause
5-4A-3: Loitering After Order To Disperse
5-4A-4: Penalty
5-4A-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply:
LOITERING: Remaining in one location in a place or at a time or in a manner not
usual for law abiding individuals under circumstances that warrant a
justifiable and reasonable alarm or immediate concern for the safety of persons
or property in the vicinity.
PUBLIC PLACE: Shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following: all
places maintained by public funds such as streets, public restrooms, sidewalks,
parks, alleys, and public buildings, and all places privately owned but open to
the general public. (Ord. 230, 12-1-1992)
5-4A-2: DETERMINATION OF PROBABLE CAUSE:
Without limitation, the following activities may be considered in determining
probable cause for alarm or concern:
   A.   The flight of a person upon the appearance of a police officer.
   B.   Refusal of a person to identify himself or herself at the request of a
police officer.
   C.   Attempted concealment of a person or any object upon the appearance of
a police officer.
   D.   The systematic checking by a person of doors, windows, or other means
of access to buildings, houses, or vehicles.
   E.   Continuous presence by a person in close proximity to any building,
house, vehicle, or any other property when the activity of such person
reasonably manifests possible unlawful activity or reasonably presents a threat
of hazard to another person or to the security of any property in the vicinity.
(Ord. 230, 12-1-1992)
5-4A-3: LOITERING AFTER ORDER TO DISPERSE:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter, either alone or with
others, in a public place under circumstances which may reasonably alarm or
disturb others after receiving an order to move or disperse by a police
officer.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter, either alone or with
others, in a public place in such a manner so as to obstruct the free and
uninterrupted use of any public place or to obstruct the free passage of
pedestrians or vehicles after receiving an order to move or disperse by a
police officer. (Ord. 230, 12-1-1992)
5-4A-4: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this article shall be subject
to a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 230, 12-1-1992)
CHAPTER 5
DRUG FREE ZONES
SECTION:
5-5-1: Statute Authority; Purpose; Zones Established
5-5-2: Scope
5-5-3: Changes In Location And Boundaries
5-5-1: STATUTE AUTHORITY; PURPOSE; ZONES ESTABLISHED:
In accordance with and pursuant to the authority of 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 570/407, it is the purpose of this chapter to establish a drug free
zone to encompass all areas included in the following:
   A.   All areas used for school purposes which are owned by or leased to any
elementary or secondary school or school board and for any areas on or within
one thousand feet (1,000') of such school property.
   B.   Residential property owned, operated, or managed by a public housing
agency and any area on or within one thousand feet (1,000') of such residential
public housing property.
   C.   Public park purposes and the areas on or within one thousand feet
(1,000') of such public park property. (Ord. 242, 1-3-1995)
5-5-2: SCOPE:
This chapter shall affect all property fitting under section
5-5-1 of this chapter. In addition, this chapter shall be amended to reflect
any additions or deletions with respect to the location of boundaries of such
school, public housing, and public park property now or at any time in the
future. (Ord. 242, 1-3-1995)
5-5-3: CHANGES IN LOCATION AND BOUNDARIES:
   A.   Schools: The school board, or the chief administrative office in the
case of a private or parochial school, is hereby directed and shall have the
continuing obligation to promptly notify the village president and the village
attorney of any changes in the location or boundaries of any property owned by
or leased to any elementary or secondary school or school board and which is
used for school purposes.
   B.   Residential Public Housing: Any public housing authorities operating
within the limits of the village are hereby directed and shall have the
continuing obligation to promptly notify the village president and the village
attorney of any changes in the location and boundaries of any residential
property owned, operated, or managed within the village. (Ord. 242, 1-3-1995)
CHAPTER 6
MINORS
SECTION:
5-6-1: Curfew
5-6-2: Responsibility Of Parent Or Guardian
5-6-1: CURFEW:
   A.   Definitions: Whenever used in this section, the following terms shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
    CURFEW HOURS: The "curfew hours" shall be as follows:
      1.   Ten thirty o'clock (10:30) P.M. on any Sunday, Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday, and Thursday until six o'clock (6:00) A.M. of the following day; and
      2.   Eleven thirty o'clock (11:30) P.M. on any Friday and Saturday and
until six o'clock (6:00) A.M. of the following day.
   EMERGENCY: An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to, a
fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident, or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
   ESTABLISHMENT: Any privately owned place of business operated for a profit
to which the public is invited, including, but not limited to, any place of
amusement or entertainment.
   GUARDIAN: 1. A person who, under court order, is the legal guardian of the
person of a minor; or
      2.   A public or private agency with which a minor has been placed by a
court.
   MINOR: Any person under seventeen (17) years of age.
   OPERATOR: Any individual, firm, association, partnership, or corporation
operating, managing, or conducting any establishment. The term includes the
members or partners of an association or partnership and the officers of a
corporation.
   PARENT: A person who is:
      1.   A natural parent, adoptive parent, or stepparent of another person;
or
      2.   At least eighteen (18) years of age and authorized by a parent or
guardian to have the care and custody of a minor.
   PUBLIC PLACE: Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways, and
the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities, and shops.
   REMAIN: To:
      1.   Linger or stay; or
      2.   Fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a police officer
or the owner, operator, or other person in control of the premises.
   SERIOUS BODILY INJURY: Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement, or protracted loss
or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
   B.   Offenses:
      1.   A minor commits an offense if he remains in any public place or on
the premises of any establishment within the village during curfew hours.
      2.   A parent or guardian of a minor or other person in custody or
control of a minor commits an offense if he knowingly permits or, by
insufficient control, allows the minor to remain in any public place or on the
premises of any establishment within the village during curfew hours.
      3.   The owner, operator, or any employee of an establishment commits an
offense if he knowingly allows a minor to remain upon the premises of the
establishment during curfew hours.
   C.   Defenses:
      1.   It is a defense to prosecution under subsection B of this section
that the minor was:
         a.   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian or other person in
custody or control of the minor;
         b.   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
         c.   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
         d.   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
         e.   Involved in an emergency;
         f.   On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence or abutting the
residence of a next door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
village police department about the minor's presence;
         g.   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the village, a civic
organization, or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the
minor, or going to or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an
official school, religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults
and sponsored by the village, a civic organization, or another similar entity
that takes responsibility for the minor;
         h.   Exercising first amendment rights protected by the United States
constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
         i.   Married or had been married or is an emancipated minor under the
emancipation of minors act, as amended 1 .
      2.   It is a defense to prosecution under subsection B3 of this section
that the owner, operator, or employee of an establishment promptly notified the
police department that a minor was present on the premises of the establishment
during curfew hours and refused to leave.
   D.   Enforcement: Before taking any enforcement action under this section,
the police officer shall ask the apparent offender's age and reason for being
in the public place. The officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest
under this section unless the officer reasonably believes that an offense has
occurred and that, based on any response and other circumstances, no defense in
subsection C of this section is present.
   E.   Penalties: A person convicted of a violation of any provision of this
section shall be guilty of a petty offense and shall be fined not less than ten
dollars ($10.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00); except, that
neither a person who has been made a ward of the court under the juvenile court
act of 1987 2 , nor that person's guardian, shall be subject to any fine. In
addition to or instead of the fine imposed by this subsection, the court may
order a parent, guardian, or other person convicted of a violation of
subsection B of this section to perform community service as determined by the
court; except, that the guardian of a person who has been made a ward of the
court under the juvenile court act of 1987 may not be ordered to perform
community service. The dates and times established for the performance of
community service by the parent, guardian, or other person convicted of a
violation of subsection B of this section shall not conflict with the dates and
times that the person is employed in his or her regular occupation. (2011 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 750 ILCS 30/1 et seq.
2 2. 705 ILCS 405/1-1 et seq.
5-6-2: RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENT OR GUARDIAN:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following definitions
shall apply:
    LEGAL GUARDIAN: A person appointed guardian or given custody of a minor by
court order, but shall not include a person appointed guardian only of the
estate of a minor, or appointed guardian or given custody of a minor under the
Illinois juvenile court act 1 .
   MINOR: A person who shall not have reached eighteen (18) years of age and
has not been emancipated; otherwise referred to as a "ward".
   PARENT: The lawful father or mother of a minor child, whether by birth or
adoption.
   PERSON: Any individual, partnership, corporation or organization of any
kind.
   UNEMANCIPATED MINOR: A minor still under the care and custody of his or her
parents.
   WILFUL: Proceeding from a conscious and voluntary intentional motion of the
will.
   B.   Permitting Juveniles To Violate Laws: It shall be unlawful for any
parent or legal guardian of an unemancipated minor residing with said parent or
legal guardian to knowingly allow or to knowingly permit said minor to violate
or attempt to violate any state law or village ordinance or to knowingly or
negligently act, or fail to act, in such a manner as to facilitate or
contribute to any violation or attempted violation of any state law or village
ordinance by said minor.
   C.   Liability For Penalties: Subject to the conditions contained in
subsection B of this section, the parent or legal guardian of an unemancipated
minor who has custody of such minor shall be jointly and severally liable with
said minor for any fine, condition or reparation imposed by a court and for
full restitution to any injured or damaged party or parties for the wilful or
malicious acts of said minor child; provided, however, that said parent or
legal guardian has been served, at least ten (10) days prior to the scheduled
hearing date, with a summons or notice to appear and written notice setting
forth the charges against said minor child in the original cause as provided by
law. (2011 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 705 ILCS 405/1-1 et seq.
CHAPTER 7
GRAFFITI
SECTION:
5-7-1: Prohibited
5-7-2: Defense To Violation
5-7-3: Penalties
5-7-4: Removal By Owner Required
5-7-1: PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to inscribe, draw or otherwise place upon the
surface of any structure or wall that is privately or publicly owned any word,
phrase, diagram, symbol, sketch, or letters, where the contents thereof are
visible to any member of the general public and contain references to sexual
activity, to any portion of the human anatomy, to gang or criminal activities,
to personal relationships or to defamatory material about public or private
persons. (2011 Code)
5-7-2: DEFENSE TO VIOLATION:
It shall be a defense to an alleged violation of section
5-7-1 of this chapter if such activity was undertaken with the prior written
consent of the owner of the property demonstrating that the owner was aware of
the content and the method by which the inscription was to be placed upon the
structure or wall. (2011 Code)
5-7-3: PENALTIES:
Upon a conviction for the violation of the prohibited conduct in section
5-7-1 of this chapter, there shall be imposed a fine of not less than two
hundred dollars ($200.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
Additionally, a mandatory requirement shall be imposed by any court finding a
person guilty of violating the provisions of section
5-7-1 of this chapter, as a condition to any probation or supervision, that
full and complete restitution be made to the owner of the property for expenses
incurred in the removal of the material and repair of the structure or wall.
(2011 Code)
5-7-4: REMOVAL BY OWNER REQUIRED:
It shall be the duty of the owner of the structure or wall upon which any
inscription or representation prohibited in section
5-7-1 of this chapter is made to remove such inscription or representation and
to otherwise repair or restore the structure or wall to its prior condition
within five (5) days from the occurrence of the offense. The owner of the
property shall be entitled to restitution and compensation for the direct costs
incurred in the repair and restoration of his property from any person
convicted of the prohibited activity upon the submission of receipts evidencing
payment of such costs and provided the court entering the finding or conviction
for the offense shall so order. (2011 Code)
CHAPTER 8
FIREWORKS
SECTION:
5-8-1: Definitions
5-8-2: Sale Or Distribution
5-8-3: Fireworks Displays
5-8-4: Penalty
5-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
FIREWORKS: Fireworks or any explosive device, composition, or any substance or
combination of substances, or article prepared for the purpose of producing a
visible or audible effect of a temporary exhibitional nature by combustion,
explosion, deflagration, or detonation. "Fireworks" shall include "prohibited
fireworks" and "permitted fireworks" as defined in this section.
PERMITTED FIREWORKS: Means and includes snake or glowworm pellets, smoke
devices, trick noisemakers, also referred to as party poppers, booby traps,
snappers, trick matches, cigarette loads, and auto burglar alarms; sparklers,
toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns, or other similar devices and toy pistol paper
or plastic caps as hereinafter specifically defined:
Smoke Devices: Small devices made of cork or cardboard containing not more than
five grams (5 g) of pyrotechnic composition that produce a small cloud of smoke
after activation.
Snakes, Glowworms: Pressed pellet of pyrotechnic composition that produces a
large snakelike ash upon burning. The ash expands in length as the pellet
burns. These devices may not contain arsenic.
Snappers: Small, paper wrapped items containing not more than one milligram
(1.0 mg) of silver fulminate coated on small bits of sand or gravel.
Sparklers: Devices that consist of wire or wood dowel coated with pyrotechnic
composition that produce a shower of sparks upon ignition.
Toy Pistols, Toy Canes, Toy Guns, And Other Similar Devices: Devices in which
paper or plastic caps containing twenty five hundredths (0.25) grain or less of
explosive compound are used. A small report is produced upon detonation.
Trick Noisemakers: Items that produce a small report intended to surprise the
user; these devices include, but are not limited to:
Auto Burglar Alarm: A tube which contains a pyrotechnic composition that
produces a loud whistle when ignited. A small quantity of explosive of which
not more than fifty milligrams (50 mg) of explosive compound may be used to
produce a small report.
Booby Trap: A small tube with string protruding from both ends, similar in
design to party poppers. Upon pulling the strings, a friction sensitive
compound ignites causing a small report.
Cigarette Load: A small wooden peg that has been coated with a small quantity
of explosive compound. Upon ignition of a cigarette containing such device, a
small report is produced.
Party Popper: A small device with paper or plastic exteriors that is actuated
by means of friction (pulling a string or trigger). Upon activation, the device
expels nonflammable paper streamers and/or other nonflammable novelties and
produces a small report.
Trick Match: A match that has been coated with a small quantity of explosive or
pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition of the match, a small report or shower
of sparks emits from the match.
PROHIBITED FIREWORKS: All fireworks except "permitted fireworks" as defined in
this section and shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
   A.   Blank cartridges;
   B.   Toy cannons in which explosives are used;
   C.   Balloons which require fire underneath to propel the same;
   D.   Firecrackers, torpedoes, skyrockets, bottle rockets, roman candles,
bombs or other devices of similar nature;
   E.   Any fireworks containing any explosive compound;
   F.   Any tablets or other devices containing any explosive substance, or
containing combustible substances providing visual effects;
   G.   Sparkling devices, which may produce a shower of sparks upon ignition
(except those defined as "permitted fireworks" by the U.S. department of
transportation and commonly known as "sparklers"), which include, but are not
limited to, items commonly known as "fountains", "spinners", "wheels", or
similar devices. Such prohibited sparkling devices may be ground based,
handheld, or secured to an object above ground level.
SAFE AND SANE FIREWORKS: Neither the state of Illinois nor the village of
Shannon recognize the term "safe and sane fireworks", and any item labeled as
such is subject to the definitions contained herein. The labeling of such
devices shall not determine whether the device is a permitted firework or is a
prohibited firework. (2011 Code)
5-8-2: SALE OR DISTRIBUTION:
No person, corporation or other entity may sell, hold for sale, offer for sale,
or otherwise distribute in any fashion any prohibited fireworks within the
corporate limits of the village. (2011 Code)
5-8-3: FIREWORKS DISPLAYS:
No person, corporation or other entity may discharge, detonate, or ignite any
prohibited fireworks within the corporate limits of the village except as
provided in this section.
   A.   Permit Requirements:
      1.   A permit may be issued to the designated individual in an
organization, corporation or other entity to detonate, discharge or ignite
otherwise prohibited fireworks as part of a display for the public generally
pursuant to subsection A2 of this section.
      2.   Application for a permit to detonate, discharge or ignite prohibited
fireworks as part of a display for the public shall be made in writing to the
village clerk no less than twenty one (21) days in advance of the proposed
display. The permit shall be issued to the individual in such organization,
corporation or other entity who shall be in charge of the detonating,
discharging or igniting such fireworks, provided no permit shall be issued
until or unless approved by the chief of the fire protection district, or his
designee.
   B.   Compliance With State Law: The individual permitted to detonate,
discharge or ignite such fireworks display shall do so in compliance with the
provisions of the Illinois fireworks use act, 425 Illinois Compiled Statutes
35/0.01 et seq., and the ordinances of the village. (2011 Code)
5-8-4: PENALTY:
Any person, corporation or other entity that violates any provision of this
chapter shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, and each day a violation by the same person, corporation or
other entity occurs shall be a separate violation. (2011 Code)
CHAPTER 9
DISCRIMINATION IN HOUSING
SECTION:
5-9-1: Short Title
5-9-2: Purpose And Declaration Of Policy
5-9-3: Interpretation
5-9-4: Definitions
5-9-5: Property Owner Prohibitions And Restrictions
5-9-6: Real Estate Agent And Lending Institution Prohibitions And Restrictions
5-9-7: Additional Prohibitions
5-9-8: Complaints And Hearings
5-9-9: Enforcement
5-9-10: Additional Remedies
5-9-11: Fine
5-9-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the FAIR HOUSING ORDINANCE OF
THE VILLAGE OF SHANNON, ILLINOIS. (Ord. 281, 5-2-2000)
5-9-2: PURPOSE AND DECLARATION OF POLICY:
It is hereby declared to be the policy of the village and the purpose of this
chapter, in the exercise by the village of its policy and regulatory powers for
the protection of the public safety for the health, morals, safety, and welfare
of the persons in and residing in the village, and for the maintenance and
promotion of commerce, industry and good government in the village, to secure
to all persons living or desiring to live in the village a fair opportunity to
purchase, lease, rent or occupy housing without discrimination based on race,
color, religion, national origin, gender, ancestry, marital status, age,
military status, sexual orientation, unfavorable discharge from the military
service, familial status, or order of protection status. (Ord. 281, 5-2-2000;
amd. 2011 Code)
5-9-3: INTERPRETATION:
This chapter shall be construed according to the fair import of its terms and
shall be liberally construed to further the purposes and policy stated in
section
5-9-2 of this chapter and the special purpose of the particular provision
involved. (Ord. 281, 5-2-2000)
5-9-4: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
DWELLING: Any building or structure, or portion thereof, within the village of
Shannon, which is arranged, designed or used as a home, residence or living
quarters of one or more individuals.
HOUSING: Includes any building or structure, or portion thereof, within the
village of Shannon, which is used or occupied, or is intended, arranged or
designed to be used or occupied, as the home, residence or living quarters of
one or more individuals, groups or families, and includes any vacant land
within the village of Shannon which is zoned and intended to be used for
construction of any such building or structure.
LEASE: Includes sublease, assignment, and rent (or rental), and includes any
contract to any of the foregoing.
LENDING INSTITUTION: Any bank, insurance company, savings and loan association,
other persons in the business of lending money or guaranteeing loans, any
person in the business of obtaining, arranging or negotiating loans or
guarantees as agent or broker, and any person in the business of buying or
selling loans or instruments for the payment of money which are secured by
title to a security interest in real estate, but shall not include any
religious institution or organization nor any charitable or educational
organization operated, supervised or controlled by a religious institution or
organization.
NATIONAL ORIGIN: Includes the national origin of an ancestor.
OWNER: Any person who holds legal or equitable title to, or owns any beneficial
interest in, any dwelling or housing, or who holds legal or equitable title or
share of, or holds any beneficial interest in any real estate cooperative which
owns any dwelling or housing.
PERSON: Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, legal representatives, mutual companies, unincorporated
organizations, trusts, trustees, trustees in bankruptcy, receivers and
fiduciaries.
PURCHASE: Includes any contract to purchase.
REAL ESTATE AGENT: Any real estate broker, any real estate salesman, and any
other person who, as employee or agent or otherwise, engages in the management
or operation of any dwelling or housing.
REAL ESTATE BROKER: Any person licensed as a real estate broker in accordance
with the provisions of the relevant Illinois Compiled Statutes, or required
thereby to be so licensed.
REAL ESTATE SALES: Any person licensed as a real estate salesman in accordance
with the provisions of the relevant Illinois Compiled Statutes, or required
thereby to be so licensed.
REAL ESTATE TRANSACTION: The purchase, sale, exchange or lease of any dwelling
or housing, and an option to do any of the foregoing.
SALE: Includes any contract to sell, exchange or convey, transfer or assign
legal or equitable title to or a beneficial interest in real estate. (Ord. 281,
5-2-2000; amd. 2011 Code)
5-9-5: PROPERTY OWNER PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Prohibited Acts:
      1.   Discriminatory Conditions: It shall be an unlawful housing practice
and a violation of this chapter for any owner or other person to sell or lease
a dwelling or housing on terms, conditions or privileges that discriminate
between persons because of race, color, religion, national origin, gender,
ancestry, marital status, age, military status, sexual orientation, unfavorable
discharge from the military service, familial status, or order of protection
status.
      2.   Refusals To Deal: It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a
violation of this chapter for any owner or other person to refuse to negotiate
for, enter into, or perform any sale or lease of any dwelling or housing
because of the race, color, religion, national origin, gender, ancestry,
marital status, age, military status, sexual orientation, unfavorable discharge
from the military service, familial status, or order of protection status of
any party to such sale or lease, or any member of the family of any such party,
or of any person using or occupying or intending to use or occupy such dwelling
or housing, or of any person using or occupying any dwelling or housing in the
area in which such dwelling or housing is located.
      3.   Withholding Housing: It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a
violation of this chapter for any owner or other person to represent to any
person that any dwelling or housing is not available for inspection, purchase,
sale, lease or occupancy when in fact it is so available, or otherwise to
withhold housing from any person because of race, color, religion, national
origin, gender, ancestry, marital status, age, military status, sexual
orientation, unfavorable discharge from the military service, familial status,
or order of protection status. (Ord. 281, 5-2-2000; amd. 2011 Code)
      4.   Advertisements: It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a
violation of this chapter for any owner or other person to publish or circulate
a statement, advertisement or notice of an intention to sell or lease any
dwelling or housing in a manner that is unlawful under this section.
      5.   Signs And Notices: It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a
violation of this chapter for any owner or other person to post or erect, or
cause any person to post or erect, any sign or notice upon any dwelling or
housing indicating an intent to sell or lease any dwelling or housing in a
manner that is unlawful under this section.
   B.   Exemptions: This section shall not apply to the rental of any room or
dwelling unit in any owner occupied dwelling which consists of more than one
but less than five (5) dwelling units. As used herein, the term "dwelling unit"
means one or more rooms which are arranged, designed or used as living quarters
for one family or one individual. The term owner includes the spouse or any
lineal descendant or ancestor of the owner. (Ord. 281, 5-2-2000)
   C.   Limitations: Nothing in this chapter shall require any owner to offer
property to the public at large before selling or renting it, provided he
complies with all other provisions of this chapter. Nor shall this chapter be
deemed to prohibit owners from giving preference to prospective tenants or
buyers, nor shall any ordinance require an owner to offer property for sale or
lease or to show his property to any person if such person is not negotiating
for the purchase or lease of such property in good faith. (Ord. 281, 5-2-2000;
amd. 2011 Code)
5-9-6: REAL ESTATE AGENT AND LENDING INSTITUTION PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Prohibited Acts:
      1.   Withholding Housing: It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a
violation of this chapter for any real estate agent or other person to
represent to any person that any dwelling or housing is not available for
inspection, sale, lease or occupancy when in fact it is so available, or
otherwise to withhold housing from any person because of race, color, religion,
national origin, gender, ancestry, marital status, age, military status, sexual
orientation, unfavorable discharge from the military service, familial status,
or order of protection status.
      2.   Refusal Of Offers: It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a
violation of this chapter for any real estate agent or other person to refuse
to receive or to fail to transmit a bona fide offer for the purchase, sale,
exchange or lease of any dwelling or housing because of race, color, religion,
national origin, gender, ancestry, marital status, age, military status, sexual
orientation, unfavorable discharge from the military service, familial status,
or order of protection status.
      3.   Advertisements: It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a
violation of this chapter for any real estate agent or other person to publish
or circulate a statement, advertisement or notice of an intention to sell or
lease any dwelling or housing in a manner that is unlawful under section
5-9-5 of this chapter.
      4.   Signs And Notices: It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a
violation of this chapter for any real estate agent or other person to post or
erect, or cause or permit any person to post or erect, any sign or notice upon
any dwelling or housing, managed by or in the custody, care or control of such
real estate agent or other person, indicating an intent to sell or lease any
dwelling or housing in a manner that is unlawful under this section or section
5-9-5 of this chapter.
      5.   Discrimination In Lending: It shall be an unlawful housing practice
and a violation of this chapter for any lending institution, in making,
agreeing to make, arranging or negotiating any loan or guarantee of funds for
the purpose of financing the purchase or sale, construction, lease,
rehabilitation, improvement, renovation or repair of any dwelling or housing,
to offer, seek or agree to terms, conditions or privileges that discriminate
because of race, color, religion, national origin, gender, ancestry, marital
status, age, military status, sexual orientation, unfavorable discharge from
the military service, familial status, or order of protection status.
      6.   Refusals To Deal In Lending: It shall be an unlawful housing
practice and a violation of this chapter for any lending institution to refuse
to negotiate for, enter into or perform any agreement to lend or guarantee the
loan of funds for the purchase, sale, construction, lease, rehabilitation,
improvement, renovation or repair of any dwelling or housing because of race,
color, religion, national origin, gender, ancestry, marital status, age,
military status, sexual orientation, unfavorable discharge from the military
service, familial status, or order of protection status of any party to such
agreement, or of any member of the family of any such party, or of the
residents of the area in which such dwelling or housing is located.
   B.   Application Of Provisions: This section shall apply, respectively, to
every real estate agent who, within the village, performs any function as such
real estate agent, but does not maintain an office or place of doing business
within the village, and this section applies to every real estate agent and
lending institution who maintains an office or place of doing business within
the village; provided, however, that the provisions of this chapter shall not
be so construed as to prohibit a real estate broker or real estate agent, on
behalf of the owner, from inquiring into and reporting upon qualifications of
any prospective buyer or tenant with respect to limitations or exclusions other
than those of race, color, religion, national origin, gender, ancestry, marital
status, age, military status, sexual orientation, unfavorable discharge from
the military service, familial status, or order of protection status. (Ord.
281, 5-2-2000; amd. 2011 Code)
5-9-7: ADDITIONAL PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Misrepresentation: It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a
violation of this chapter for any person, for the purpose of inducing any other
person to enter into a real estate transaction with such person, his principal
or his agent: (Ord. 281, 5-2-2000)
      1.   To represent that a change has occurred, will occur or may occur
with respect to the race, color, religion, national origin, gender, ancestry,
marital status, age, military status, sexual orientation, unfavorable discharge
from the military service, familial status, or order of protection status in
the composition of the owners or occupants in any block, neighborhood or area
in which the dwelling or housing (which is the subject of the real estate
transaction) is so located; or
      2.   To represent that a change with respect to the race, color,
religion, national origin, gender, ancestry, marital status, age, military
status, sexual orientation, unfavorable discharge from the military service,
familial status, or order of protection status in the composition of the owners
or occupants in any block, neighborhood or area will result in lowering of
property values, or in an increase in criminal or antisocial behavior, or a
decline in the quality of schools in such block, neighborhood or area. (Ord.
281, 5-2-2000; amd. 2011 Code)
   B.   Other Violations: It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a
violation of this chapter for any person:
      1.   To aid, abet, incite, or coerce a person to engage in an unlawful
housing practice;
      2.   Wilfully to interfere in the performance of a duty or the exercise
of a power by the village board or one of its members or representatives; or
      3.   Wilfully to obstruct or prevent a person from complying with the
provisions of this chapter or an order issued hereunder. (Ord. 281, 5-2-2000)
5-9-8: COMPLAINTS AND HEARINGS:
   A.   Complaints:
      1.   Any person aggrieved in any manner by a violation of any provision
of this chapter may file with the village board a written verified complaint
setting forth his grievance. The complaint shall state: a) the name and address
of the complainant; b) the name and address of the person against whom the
complaint is brought, if known to the complainant; and c) the alleged facts
surrounding the alleged violation; and such complaint shall state the name and
address of all persons believed to have knowledge concerning the alleged facts.
      2.   After the filing of any complaint, the village board shall serve a
copy of the complaint on the party or parties charged.
      3.   Any complaint filed hereunder with the village board must be filed
within thirty (30) days after the alleged discriminatory practice occurred or
it shall be barred.
   B.   Hearings By Village Board:
      1.   The hearing shall be conducted by the village board upon due and
reasonable notice to all parties. The village board shall have the power to
administer oaths and to take sworn testimony. Any party alleged to have
violated this chapter shall be entitled to be represented by counsel and shall
have the right to call witnesses in his own behalf and to cross examine
witnesses.
      2.   At the conclusion of such hearing, the village board shall render
the complainant a decision. (Ord. 281, 5-2-2000)
5-9-9: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   The village board shall be empowered to order any person found to be
engaging in an unfair housing practice to cease and desist from such practice,
upon such terms as shall be necessary and proper for the enforcement of this
chapter.
   B.   The village board shall be empowered, at the conclusion of the
proceedings held under subsection
5-9-8B of this chapter, to direct the village attorney to do any one or more of
the following:
      1.   To institute and prosecute proceedings against any person found in
violation of this chapter, and impose the fine provided in section
5-9-11 of this chapter.
      2.   To apply to any court of competent jurisdiction:
         a.   For an order restraining any person from violating any provision
of this chapter.
         b.   For such other or further relief as may seem to the court
appropriate for the enforcement of this chapter and the elimination of
violations hereof. (Ord. 281, 5-2-2000)
      3.   To petition or institute proceedings with the department of
financial and professional regulation for the purpose of causing the department
to revoke, suspend or refuse to renew the license granted by such department to
any real estate broker or real estate salesman found to have violated any
provision of this chapter. (Ord. 281, 5-2-2000; amd. 2011 Code)
      4.   In the case of any unlawful housing practice or violation of this
chapter by any person in the course of performing under a contract or
subcontract with the state or any political subdivision or agency thereof, or
with the United States Of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof, to
petition or institute proceedings with such contracting agency for the purpose
of causing it to terminate such contract or any portion thereof, either
absolutely or on condition of compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   The village board may issue such cease and desist orders and may direct
such action by the village attorney as shall be necessary for enforcement of
this chapter. (Ord. 281, 5-2-2000)
5-9-10: ADDITIONAL REMEDIES:
Any person aggrieved in any manner by the violation of any provision of this
chapter who has exhausted the remedies provided in subsection
5-9-8B of this chapter may apply to any court of competent jurisdiction for
appropriate relief from such violation, including:
   A.   An order compelling compliance with this chapter;
   B.   An order to prohibit any person found by the court to have violated any
provision of this chapter from the sale, lease, exchange, transfer, conveyance
or assignment of any dwelling or housing which is the subject of such
violation;
   C.   An order requiring specific performance of any contract for the sale,
lease, exchange, transfer, conveyance or assignment of any dwelling or housing,
or any person who, in violation of this chapter, refuses or fails to perform
such contract;
   D.   Compensatory damages; and
   E.   Such other and further relief as may seem to the court appropriate for
the enforcement of this chapter and the elimination of violations hereof. (Ord.
281, 5-2-2000)
5-9-11: FINE:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be subject to a
fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 281, 5-2-2000; amd. 2011 Code)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Illinois Vehicle Code Adopted
6-1-2: Exemptions From Provisions
6-1-3: Unattended Vehicles
6-1-4: Accidents
6-1-1: ILLINOIS VEHICLE CODE ADOPTED:
Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, all of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions,
provisions and sections of the Illinois vehicle code, 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/1-100 et seq., as amended, are hereby adopted by the village. Any
and all violations thereof shall be considered violations of this title, and
each such violation shall subject the violator thereof to penalty provisions
under this title. (2011 Code)
6-1-2: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
   A.   Authorized Emergency Vehicles:
      1.   The provisions of this title regulating the movement or parking of
vehicles shall not apply to the driver of any authorized emergency vehicle when
responding to an emergency call, but such driver, when approaching, shall slow
down as necessary for safety but may proceed cautiously past a stop sign. At
other times, drivers of authorized emergency vehicles shall stop in obedience
to a stop sign.
      2.   No driver of any authorized emergency vehicle shall assume any
special privileges under this title except when such vehicle is operated in
response to an emergency call or in the immediate pursuit of an actual or
suspected violator of the law.
   B.   Public Works Vehicles: The provisions of this title regulating the
movement and parking of vehicles shall not apply to equipment or vehicles while
actively engaged in installing, repairing, or otherwise improving streets or
street pavements. (Ord. 88, 11-6-1962)
6-1-3: UNATTENDED VEHICLES:
No vehicle shall be left unattended while the motor of such vehicle is running;
and no vehicle shall be left without a driver on any hill or incline unless the
vehicle is secured against moving. (Ord. 88, 11-6-1962)
6-1-4: ACCIDENTS:
The driver of a vehicle which has collided with or been in an accident with any
vehicle, person or property in such a manner as to cause injury or damage shall
stop immediately, and render such assistance as may be possible, and give his
true name and residence to the injured person or any other persons requesting
the same on behalf of the injured person, or the owner of the property damaged,
and to a police officer, if one is present. A report of each accident shall be
given by the driver of each vehicle concerned to the chief of police within
twenty four (24) hours after the accident. (Ord. 88, 11-6-1962)
CHAPTER 2
ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTY
SECTION:
6-2-1: Directing Traffic; Obedience Required
6-2-2: Traffic Violation Tickets
6-2-3: Parking Violations
6-2-4: Prima Facie Proof
6-2-5: Penalty
6-2-1: DIRECTING TRAFFIC; OBEDIENCE REQUIRED:
   A.   Obedience To Police; Directing Traffic: Members of the police
department, and special police assigned to traffic duty, are hereby authorized
to direct all traffic in accordance with the provisions of this title, or in
emergencies as public safety or convenience may require, and it shall be
unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of a police officer. Except in case of emergency, it shall be
unlawful for any person not authorized by law to direct or attempt to direct
traffic.
   B.   Scene Of Fire: The fire department officer in command or any
firefighter designated by him may exercise the powers and authority of a police
officer in directing traffic at the scene of any fire or where the fire
department has responded to an emergency call for so long as fire department
equipment is on the scene in the absence of or in assisting the police. (Ord.
88, 11-6-1962)
6-2-2: TRAFFIC VIOLATION TICKETS:
For offenses other than driving while intoxicated or reckless driving, police
officers, after making note of the license number of the vehicle (and name of
the offender where possible), may issue a traffic violation ticket notifying
the offender to appear in court at the time designated for hearing such cases.
Such officer may sign a complaint for the issuance of a warrant if the offender
does not appear at the time and place so specified. (Ord. 88, 11-6-1962)
6-2-3: PARKING VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Towing Of Illegally Parked Vehicle:
      1.   The police department and all members thereof assigned to traffic
duty are hereby authorized to remove and tow away or have removed and towed
away by commercial towing service any car or other vehicle illegally parked in
any place where such parked vehicle creates or constitutes a traffic hazard,
blocks the use of a fire hydrant or obstructs or may obstruct the movement of
any emergency vehicles, or any vehicle which has been parked in any public
street or other public place for a period of twenty four (24) consecutive
hours. (Ord. 88, 11-6-1962)
      2.   Vehicles so towed away shall be stored on any village property or in
a public garage or parking lot and shall be restored to the owner or operator
thereof after payment of the expense incurred by the village in removing and
storing such vehicles.
   B.   Prima Facie Proof: The fact that a vehicle which is illegally parked is
registered in the name of a person shall be considered prima facie proof that
such person was in control of the vehicle at the time of such parking. (Ord.
88, 11-6-1962; amd. 2011 Code)
   C.   Penalties:
      1.   Any person, firm or corporation violating any village ordinance
regulating parking shall be fined not less than twenty dollars ($20.00) nor
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense, and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues to occur. (Ord. 278, 3-7-2000; amd. 2011 Code)
      2.   Any person accused of a violation of any ordinance regulating
parking may settle and compromise the claim against him or her by paying to the
village the sum of twenty dollars ($20.00) for the first violation and forty
dollars ($40.00) for any subsequent violation within twenty four (24) hours of
the time the alleged violation was committed. Such payments may be made at the
police department, and a receipt shall be issued for all monies so received,
and such funds shall be turned over to the village treasurer and credited to
the general fund. Upon receipt of the proper amount in settlement and
compromise as provided herein, the police department is hereby authorized to
terminate any prosecution for the offense charged. (Ord. 278, 3-7-2000)
      3.   This subsection shall not apply to persons parking a vehicle so as
to obstruct the entrance or exit of any place where emergency vehicles are
kept; this subsection shall not apply to any person parking in a designated
space for persons with disabilities; nor shall this subsection apply to any
person charged with parking a vehicle so as to substantially obstruct traffic
in a street or alley; nor shall this subsection apply to any person who refuses
to remove an illegally parked vehicle when requested to do so by a police
officer. (Ord. 278, 3-7-2000; amd. 2011 Code)
6-2-4: PRIMA FACIE PROOF:
The fact that a vehicle which is illegally operated or parked is registered in
the name of a person shall be considered prima facie proof that such person was
in control of the vehicle at the time of violation. (Ord. 88, 11-6-1962; amd.
2011 Code)
6-2-5: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provisions of this title shall be
fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (Ord. 172, 7-7-1981; amd. 2011 Code)
CHAPTER 3
TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNS, SIGNALS AND MARKINGS
SECTION:
6-3-1: Obedience Required; Specifications
6-3-2: Damage To, Interference With Signs Or Signals
6-3-3: Unauthorized Signs, Signals And Markings
6-3-1: OBEDIENCE REQUIRED; SPECIFICATIONS:
It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the instructions
of any traffic sign or signal placed in view by authority of the village
president, by and with the advice and consent of the board of trustees, or in
accordance with the laws of the state of Illinois, excepting on direction of a
police officer. All signs and signals established by direction of the board of
trustees shall conform to the "Illinois State Manual Of Uniform Traffic Control
Devices For Streets And Highways". (Ord. 88, 11-6-1962)
6-3-2: DAMAGE TO, INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNS OR SIGNALS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to deface, injure, move or interfere with
any official traffic sign or signal. (Ord. 88, 11-6-1962)
6-3-3: UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS AND MARKINGS:
   A.   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of any
highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which purports to be
or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic control device or
railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic,
nor shall any person place, maintain or display upon or in view of any highway
any other sign which hides from view or interferes with the movement of traffic
or the effectiveness of any traffic control device or any railroad sign or
signal, and no person shall place or maintain nor shall any public authority
permit upon any highway any traffic sign or signal bearing thereon any
commercial advertising. Any such unauthorized device is hereby declared to be a
nuisance and may be removed by any police officer.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to maintain or operate in view of any street or
highway any flashing or rotating beacon of light. (Ord. 88, 11-6-1962)
CHAPTER 4
DRIVING RULES
SECTION:
6-4-1: Obstructing Traffic
6-4-2: Authorized Emergency Vehicles
6-4-3: Through, One-Way And Stop Streets
6-4-4: Right Of Way
6-4-5: Speed Restrictions
6-4-6: Drive On Right; Overtaking And Passing
6-4-7: Turning Movements
6-4-8: Miscellaneous Driving Restrictions
6-4-9: Riding On Bicycles And Motorcycles
6-4-10: Processions
6-4-11: Miscellaneous Prohibitions
6-4-12: Reckless Or Careless Driving
6-4-13: Driving Under Influence
6-4-1: OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC:
No vehicle shall be operated or allowed to remain upon the street in such a
manner as to form an unreasonable obstruction to the traffic thereon. (Ord. 88,
11-6-1962)
6-4-2: AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
   A.   Operation Of Vehicles Upon Approach Of Authorized Emergency Vehicles:
Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle, when the driver
is giving audible sign by siren or bell, the driver of every other vehicle
shall yield the right of way and shall immediately drive to a position parallel
to, and as close as possible to the right hand edge or curb of the highway,
clear of any intersection, and shall stop and remain in such position until the
authorized emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a
police officer. This subsection shall not operate to relieve the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the
safety of all persons using the highway.
   B.   Fire Department Vehicles; Fires:
      1.   Upon the approach of a fire department vehicle, drivers of vehicles
shall comply with subsection A of this section relating to the approach of
authorized emergency vehicles.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle, other than one
on official business, to follow any fire apparatus in response to a fire alarm
closer than one block or to park any vehicle within the block where fire
apparatus has stopped to answer a fire alarm.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to drive over any
unprotected hose of the fire department without the consent of the fire chief
or the assistant in command. (Ord. 88, 11-6-1962)
6-4-3: THROUGH, ONE-WAY AND STOP STREETS:
   A.   Through Streets: The streets and parts of streets of the village
designated by ordinance as through streets are hereby declared to be through
streets. The driver of a vehicle shall stop at the entrance to a through street
and shall yield the right of way to other vehicles which have entered the
intersection or which are approaching so close on a through street as to
constitute an immediate hazard, unless directed otherwise by a police officer
or a traffic control signal. (Ord. 88, 11-6-1962; amd. 2011 Code)
   B.   One-Way Streets And Alleys: It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle
on any street or alley designated as a one-way street or alley by ordinance in
any direction other than so designated.
   C.   Stop Streets: The driver of a vehicle shall stop in obedience to a stop
sign at an intersection where a stop sign is erected pursuant to ordinance, at
one or more entrances thereto, and shall proceed cautiously, yielding to the
vehicles not so obliged to stop which are within the intersection or
approaching so close as to constitute an immediate hazard, unless traffic at
such intersection is controlled by a police officer on duty, in which event,
there shall be compliance with the directions of the police officer.
   D.   Signs Posted: The chief of police shall post or cause to be posted
suitable signs for all through streets, one-way streets or alleys and stop
intersections. (Ord. 88, 11-6-1962)
6-4-4: RIGHT OF WAY:
   A.   Yield Right Of Way: Excepting as otherwise provided, the driver of a
vehicle approaching an intersection shall yield the right of way to a vehicle
which has entered the intersection from a different highway, and when two (2)
vehicles enter an intersection from different highways at approximately the
same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left shall yield the right of way
to the vehicle on the right.
   B.   Vehicle Turning Left: The driver of a vehicle within an intersection
intending to turn to the left shall yield the right of way to any vehicle
approaching from the opposite direction which is within the intersection or so
close thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard, but said driver, having so
yielded and having given a signal when and as required, may make such left
turn, and the drivers of all other vehicles approaching the intersection from
said opposite direction shall yield the right of way to the vehicle making the
left turn. (Ord. 88, 11-6-1962)
6-4-5: SPEED RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Generally:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to drive any motor vehicle on any street, not
under the jurisdiction of the Illinois state department of transportation or
the county, in an urban district within the village at a speed in excess of
twenty five (25) miles per hour, or in an alley at a speed in excess of fifteen
(15) miles per hour. The chief of police shall post appropriate signs showing
such speed limits.
      2.   The fact that the speed of a vehicle does not exceed the applicable
maximum speed limit does not relieve the driver from the duty to decrease speed
when approaching and crossing an intersection, when approaching and going
around a curve, when approaching a hillcrest, when traveling upon any narrow or
winding roadway or when special hazards exist with respect to pedestrians or
other traffic by reason of weather or highway conditions; any speed shall be
decreased as may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person or vehicle on
or entering the highway in compliance with legal requirements and the duty of
all persons to use due care.
   B.   Special Speed Limits While Passing Schools: No person shall drive a
motor vehicle at a speed in excess of twenty (20) miles per hour while passing
a school zone or while traveling upon any public thoroughfare on or across
which children pass going to and from school during school days when
schoolchildren are present. Appropriate signs shall be posted to indicate this
restriction. (Ord. 88, 11-6-1962)
6-4-6: DRIVE ON RIGHT; OVERTAKING AND PASSING:
   A.   Drive On Right; Exceptions: Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a
vehicle shall be driven upon the right half of the roadway except as follows:
      1.   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction, under the rules governing such movement.
      2.   When the right half of a roadway is closed to traffic while under
construction or repair.
      3.   Upon a roadway designated and signposted for one-way traffic.
      4.   Whenever there is a single track paved road on one side of the
public highway and two (2) vehicles meet thereon, the driver on whose right is
the wider shoulder shall give the right of way on such pavement to the other
vehicle.
   B.   Vehicles Passing In Opposite Directions: Drivers of vehicles proceeding
in opposite directions shall pass each other to the right, and upon roadways
having width for not more than one line of traffic in each direction, each
driver shall give to the other at least one-half (1/2) of the main traveled
portion of the roadway as nearly as possible.
   C.   Overtaking And Passing Generally: The following rules shall govern the
overtaking and passing of vehicles proceeding in the same direction, subject to
the following limitations, exceptions and special rules:
      1.   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe distance and shall not
again drive to the right side of the roadway until safely clear of the
overtaken vehicle.
      2.   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaken vehicle on audible signal and shall not increase the speed of his
vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
   D.   Overtaking And Passing On Right:
      1.   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the right of
another vehicle which is making or about to make a left turn.
      2.   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and, allowing sufficient
clearance, pass another vehicle proceeding in the same direction either upon
the left or upon the right on a roadway with unobstructed pavement of
sufficient width for four (4) or more lines of moving traffic when such
movement can be made in safety. No person shall drive off the pavement or upon
the shoulder of the roadway in overtaking or passing on the right.
      3.   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle upon
the right on a one-way street or on any street on which traffic is restricted
to one direction of movement where the roadway is free from obstruction and of
sufficient width for two (2) or more lines of moving vehicles.
   E.   Limitations On Overtaking On Left:
      1.   No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of the
roadway in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction unless such left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming
traffic for a sufficient distance ahead to permit such overtaking and passing
to be completely made without interfering with the safe operation of any
vehicle approaching from the opposite direction or any vehicle overtaken. In
every event, the overtaking vehicle must return to the right hand side of the
roadway before coming within one hundred feet (100') of any vehicle approaching
from the opposite direction.
      2.   No vehicle shall, in overtaking and passing another vehicle or at
any other time, be driven to the left side of the roadway under the following
conditions:
         a.   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the
highway where the driver's view is obstructed within sufficient distance as to
create a hazard in the event another vehicle might approach from the opposite
direction.
         b.   When approaching within one hundred feet (100') of or traversing
any intersection or railroad grade crossing. (Ord. 88, 11-6-1962)
         c.   Where official signs are in place directing that traffic keep to
the right, or a distinctive line also so directs traffic as declared in the
sign manual adopted by the Illinois state department of transportation. (Ord.
88, 11-6-1962; amd. 2011 Code)
The limitations in subsections E2a and E2b of this section shall not apply upon
a one-way street or upon a street with unobstructed pavement of sufficient
width for two (2) or more lanes of moving traffic in each direction when such
movement can be made with safety. (Ord. 88, 11-6-1962)
6-4-7: TURNING MOVEMENTS:
   A.   Limitations On Turning Around: It shall be unlawful for the operator of
any vehicle to turn such vehicle so as to proceed in the opposite direction
unless such movement can be made in safety and without backing into traffic or
otherwise interfering with traffic.
   B.   U-Turns: It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to make a
U-turn at any place where such turns are prohibited by ordinance. Such
prohibition shall be indicated by appropriate signs.
   C.   No Left Turn: It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to
turn left at any place where such turns are prohibited by ordinance. Such
prohibition shall be indicated by appropriate signs. (Ord. 88, 11-6-1962)
6-4-8: MISCELLANEOUS DRIVING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Emerging From Alleys, Driveways Or Garages: The driver of a vehicle
emerging from an alley, driveway or garage shall stop such vehicle immediately
prior to driving onto a sidewalk, or across a sidewalk line projected across
such alley, and shall exercise extreme care in driving upon said sidewalk or
across such lines.
   B.   Driving On Sidewalks Or In Safety Zones: No driver of a vehicle shall
drive within any sidewalk area, except at a permanent or temporary driveway,
nor at any time into or upon any portion of a roadway marked as a safety zone.
   C.   Backing: The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless much
movement can be made with reasonable safety and without interference with other
traffic. (Ord. 88, 11-6-1962)
6-4-9: RIDING ON BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES:
It shall be unlawful for more than one person to ride upon any bicycle
propelled by human power upon any street, or for any person to ride upon any
motorcycle other than upon a seat permanently attached to said vehicle to the
right or rear of the operator. (Ord. 88, 11-6-1962)
6-4-10: PROCESSIONS:
   A.   Driving Through Processions: No driver of a vehicle shall drive between
the vehicles comprising a funeral or other authorized procession while they are
in motion and when such vehicles are conspicuously designated as required in
this section.
   B.   Drivers In A Procession: Each driver in a funeral or other procession
shall drive as near to the right hand side of the roadway as practical and
shall follow the vehicle ahead as close as practical and safe.
   C.   Funeral Procession To Be Identified: A funeral composed of a procession
of vehicles shall be identified as such by the display upon the outside of each
vehicle of a pennant or other identifying insignia and by having the lights of
each vehicle lighted. (Ord. 88, 11-6-1962)
6-4-11: MISCELLANEOUS PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Clinging To Vehicles: It shall be unlawful for any person on any street
riding a bicycle, motorcycle, or any vehicle to cling to or to attach himself
or his vehicle to any moving motor vehicle or wagon.
   B.   Riding On Running Boards: It shall be unlawful for any person to ride
upon the fenders, running board or outside step of any vehicle. (Ord. 88, 11-6-
1962)
6-4-12: RECKLESS OR CARELESS DRIVING:
It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle in the village in a careless,
reckless or wanton manner, or carelessly so as to endanger life or property.
(Ord. 88, 11-6-1962)
6-4-13: DRIVING UNDER INFLUENCE:
It shall be unlawful for the habitual user of narcotic drugs to operate any
motor vehicle on any street, and it shall be unlawful for any intoxicated
person or any person under the influence of alcohol or of a narcotic drug to
operate or attempt to operate any motor vehicle on any street. (Ord. 88, 11-6-
1962)
CHAPTER 5
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-5-1: Method Of Parking
6-5-2: General Parking Restrictions
6-5-3: Prohibited Parking Places
6-5-4: Parking Trucks, Truck-Tractors, Semitractors And Semitrailers
6-5-5: Parking In Loading Zones
6-5-6: Signs Posted
6-5-1: METHOD OF PARKING:
   A.   Two-Way Roadway: Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a two-way roadway
shall be stopped or parked with the right hand wheels parallel to and within
twelve inches (12") of the right hand curb or as close as practicable to the
right edge of the right hand shoulder of said roadway. (Ord. 278, 3-7-2000)
   B.   One-Way Roadway: Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a one-way roadway
shall be so stopped or parked parallel to the curb or edge of the roadway, in
the direction of authorized traffic movement, with its right hand wheels within
twelve inches (12") of the right hand curb or as close as practicable to the
right edge of the right hand shoulder, or with its left hand wheels within
twelve inches (12") of the left hand curb or as close as practicable to the
left edge of the left hand shoulder. (2011 Code)
6-5-2: GENERAL PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Parking More Than Twenty Four Hours: No person shall park any vehicle
on any street for more than twenty four (24) consecutive hours. (Ord. 172, 7-7-
1981)
   B.   Parking In Alleys: No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in
such a manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet
(10') of the width of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic,
and no person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle within an alley in such a
position as to block the driveway entrance to any abutting property.
   C.   Parking During Snowfall: It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle on
any public street in the village at any time within twelve (12) hours after a
snowfall of three inches (3") or more has occurred.
   D.   Parking During Street Cleaning: It shall be unlawful to park any
vehicle on any public street or portion thereof in the village at any time when
such street is being cleaned. Signs indicating that a street or portion thereof
is being cleaned shall be posted immediately before the cleaning of the street
and shall be removed after the cleaning of the street is finished. (Ord. 88,
11-6-1962)
6-5-3: PROHIBITED PARKING PLACES:
   A.   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in
compliance with law or the directions of a police officer or official traffic
control device, no person shall:
      1.   Stop, stand or park a vehicle:
         a.   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street.
         b.   On a sidewalk.
         c.   Within an intersection.
         d.   On a crosswalk.
         e.   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty feet
(30') of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone,
unless a different length is indicated by signs or markings.
         f.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic.
         g.   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel.
         h.   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
         i.   On any controlled access highway.
         j.   In the area between roadways of a divided highway, including
crossovers.
         k.   In a public parking area if the vehicle does not display a
current annual registration sticker or current temporary permit pending
registration.
      2.   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except momentarily
to pick up or discharge passengers:
         a.   In front of a public or private driveway.
         b.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant.
         c.   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at an intersection.
         d.   Within thirty feet (30') upon the approach to any flashing
signal, stop sign, yield sign, or traffic control signal located at the side of
a roadway.
         e.   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire
station and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station
within seventy five feet (75') of such entrance (when properly signposted).
         f.   At any place where official signs prohibit standing.
      3.   Park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading property or
passengers:
         a.   Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad
crossing.
         b.   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
   B.   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his control into any
such prohibited area or away from a curb such distance as is unlawful. (Ord.
88, 11-6-1962; amd. 2011 Code)
6-5-4: PARKING TRUCKS, TRUCK-TRACTORS, SEMITRACTORS AND SEMITRAILERS:
   A.   Definitions:
    PARK: Standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, otherwise than when
temporarily and actually engaged in the loading or unloading of persons or
property.
   SEMITRACTOR: See definition of Truck-Tractor.
   SEMITRAILER: Every vehicle without motive power designed for the carrying of
property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed that some
part of its weight or that of its load rests upon or is carried by another
vehicle.
   TRUCK: Every motor vehicle designed, used or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property or other commercial use in excess of three-quarter
(3/4) ton capacity and passenger vans in excess of one ton in size.
   TRUCK-TRACTOR: Every motor vehicle designed, used or maintained primarily
for drawing other vehicles and not so constructed as to carry a load other than
part of the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn.
   B.   Prohibitions And Restrictions:
      1.   No truck, truck-tractor, semitractor and/or semitrailer shall be
permitted to park or stand on any residential street or alley within the
village or on private property within an R-1 or R-2 residential district.
Provided, that such vehicle may be parked in a residential district while being
loaded or unloaded or while the custodian of the vehicle is performing services
for hire in or about a residence or site abutting the street on which the
vehicle is parked for such time as necessary to complete its particular
business or mission.
      2.   The parking of any vehicle used for the transport and delivery of
any flammable liquids or hazardous materials or the transportation of junk,
garbage, refuse, waste or trash in an R-1 or R-2 residential district is
prohibited.
      3.   Truck, truck-tractor, semitractor or semitrailer parking shall be
permitted on Badger Street between Hickory and Linn Streets and Locust Street
between Badger and Arch Streets.
   C.   Removal: Whenever any police officer finds a truck, truck- tractor,
semitractor or semitrailer in violation of any provision of this section, or
any other village provision, the officer is authorized to require the person in
control of said truck, truck-tractor, semitractor or semitrailer to move same,
or in the event the person in control of the said truck, truck-tractor,
semitractor or semitrailer is unavailable or unwilling to move same, any such
officer is authorized to remove same or cause it to be removed to the nearest
place of storage. (Ord. 334, 5-4-2010)
   D.   Penalties: Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of
this section shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense, in addition to any
costs or charges connected with removal and storage. A separate offense shall
be deemed to have been committed on each day during which a violation occurs or
continues. (Ord. 334, 5-4-2010; amd. 2011 Code)
6-5-5: PARKING IN LOADING ZONES:
It shall be unlawful for the driver of any passenger or commercial vehicle to
park said vehicle for longer than is necessary to load or unload passengers or
load, unload and deliver materials, in no event to exceed ten (10) minutes, in
any place designated by the board of trustees as a loading zone and marked as
such by the placement of an official sign restricting parking. Any person, firm
or corporation violating any provision of this section shall be fined not less
than twenty dollars ($20.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed to have been
committed on each day during which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 268,
7-7-1998; amd. 2011 Code)
6-5-6: SIGNS POSTED:
The chief of police or any other person authorized by the village president and
board of trustees shall cause signs to be posted in all areas where parking is
limited or prohibited, indicating such limitations or prohibitions. (Ord. 88,
11-6-1962)
CHAPTER 6
TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
SECTION:
6-6-1: One-Way Streets
6-6-2: Parking Restrictions And Prohibitions
6-6-3: Signs Posted
6-6-1: ONE-WAY STREETS:
The following streets in the village are hereby designated one-way streets, and
it shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle thereon other than in the designated
direction:
North Locust Street between Market Street and Hickory Street.
(Ord. 332, 1-5-2010)
6-6-2: PARKING RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Parking Restrictions: Automobiles, trucks and other vehicles shall be
prohibited from parking along either side of Market Street (marked Illinois
Route 72) within the corporate limits of the village except along both sides of
Market Street between the railroad tracks and Stanton Street where parking
shall be permitted. Parking in this area shall be parallel parking only,
diagonal parking being hereby expressly prohibited. (Ord. 118, 6-8-1970; amd.
2011 Code)
   B.   Parking Prohibited At All Times: Parking is prohibited at all times on
the following streets in the village:
 
Street               Side  Location                                   Ordinance
Division Road        North Between Linn Street and County High 78     186
                           From the intersection with the east line
Market Street        Both  of Linn Street to 140 feet east of said    135
                           intersection
South Ridge Street   East  Between East Roe Street and East Elizabeth 231
                           Street
South Stanton Street East  Between Market Street and Bradshaw Street  284
 
   C.   Parking Prohibited During Certain Times: It shall be unlawful for the
owner or operator of any vehicle to park said vehicle at any time on Market
Street between Walnut Street and Stanton Street between the hours of one
o'clock (1:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. daily. (Ord. 225, 2-4-1992;
amd. 2011 Code)
   D.   Parking For Persons With Disabilities:
      1.   The following parking zones for persons with disabilities are hereby
established by the village:
South side of West Bradshaw Street commencing 104 feet west of the crosswalk on
the west side of Hickory Street and ending 156 feet west of said crosswalk.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person without a mobility disability or
not using a wheelchair to park in the spaces reserved for such persons with
disabilities; provided, however, that drivers of vehicles being used to
transport such persons with disabilities may park in such places.
      3.   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this
subsection shall be fined not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each
offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 226, 3-3-1992; amd. 2011 Code)
   E.   Penalty: Except as provided in subsection D3 of this section, any
person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this section shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
6-2-3 of this title. (2011 Code)
6-6-3: SIGNS POSTED:
Appropriate signs shall be posted at the appropriate locations indicating the
traffic restrictions set out in this chapter. (2011 Code)
CHAPTER 7
VEHICLE EQUIPMENT AND CONDITION
SECTION:
6-7-1: Clear Vision; Mirror
6-7-2: Lights And Signal Lamps
6-7-3: Horn And Warning Devices
6-7-4: Brakes
6-7-5: Noise Control
6-7-6: Spilling Loads
6-7-7: Bicycle Equipment
6-7-1: CLEAR VISION; MIRROR:
It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle which is so loaded or in such a
condition that the operator does not have a clear vision of all parts of the
roadway essential to the safe operation of the vehicle. Any vehicle with the
view of the roadway to the rear so obstructed shall be equipped with a mirror
so attached as to give him a view of the roadway behind him. (Ord. 88, 11-6-
1962)
6-7-2: LIGHTS AND SIGNAL LAMPS:
   A.   Lights: It shall be unlawful to operate or park on any street any
vehicle not equipped with adequate lights conforming to the requirements of
state law; provided, that vehicles may be parked at nighttime without lights on
any street or portion thereof designated by ordinance as a place where vehicles
may so park at nighttime.
   B.   Signal Lamps: Any motor vehicle in use on a highway shall be equipped
with, and required signals shall be given by, a signal lamp or lamps or
mechanical signal device when the distance from the center of the top of the
steering post to the left outside limit of the body, cab or load of such motor
vehicle exceeds twenty four inches (24"), or when the distance from the center
of the top of the steering post to the rear limit of the body or load thereof
exceeds fourteen feet (14'). The latter measurement shall apply to any single
vehicle, also to any combination of vehicles. (Ord. 88, 11-6-1962)
6-7-3: HORN AND WARNING DEVICES:
   A.   Every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a good and sufficient
audible signaling device in efficient working condition. Such signaling device
shall be sounded when necessary to give timely warning of the approach of a
vehicle, but such horn or other signaling device shall not be sounded for any
purpose other than as a warning of impending danger.
   B.   No motor vehicle other than an emergency vehicle shall be equipped with
a siren or gong signaling device. (Ord. 88, 11-6-1962)
6-7-4: BRAKES:
It shall be unlawful to drive any motor vehicle upon a street unless such
vehicle is equipped with good and sufficient brakes in good working condition,
as required by the state traffic law, or to operate any vehicle which is so
loaded that the operator does not have ready access to the mechanics operating
the brakes of such vehicle. (Ord. 88, 11-6-1962)
6-7-5: NOISE CONTROL:
   A.   Muffler Required; Cutout Prohibited: No motor vehicle shall be operated
on any street unless such vehicle is provided with a muffler in efficient
actual working condition. The use of a cutout is prohibited.
   B.   Unnecessary Noise Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle
which makes unusually loud or unnecessary noise. (Ord. 88, 11-6-1962)
6-7-6: SPILLING LOADS:
No vehicle shall be so loaded that any part of its load spills or drops on any
street or alley in the village. (Ord. 88, 11-6-1962)
6-7-7: BICYCLE EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Lights: Every bicycle, when in use at nighttime, shall be equipped with
a lamp on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of
fifty feet (50') to the front and with a red reflector on the rear of the type
approved by the department of transportation which shall be visible from all
distances from one hundred feet (100') to three hundred feet (300') to the rear
when directly in front of lawful upper beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle. A
lamp emitting a red light visible from a distance of five hundred feet (500')
to the rear may be used in addition to the red reflector. (Ord. 88, 11-6-1962;
amd. 2011 Code)
   B.   Signaling Device: No person shall operate a bicycle that is not
equipped with a bell or other device capable of giving a signal audible for a
distance of at least one hundred feet (100'); except, that a bicycle shall not
be equipped with, nor shall any person use upon a bicycle, any siren or
whistle.
   C.   Brake: Every bicycle shall be equipped with a good and adequate brake.
(Ord. 88, 11-6-1962)
CHAPTER 8
GOLF CARTS AND UTILITY TASK VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-8-1: Non-highway Vehicles Allowed
6-8-2: Definitions
6-8-3: Rules And Regulations
6-8-4: Prohibited Streets
6-8-5: Permits
6-8-6: Violations
6-8-7: Miscellaneous
6-8-1: NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLES ALLOWED:
Subject to the terms and conditions stated herein, the only non-highway
vehicles authorized under the provisions of this chapter are "golf carts" and
"utility task vehicles". To avoid confusion, "all-terrain vehicles" as defined
at 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-101.8 are not permitted hereunder. (Ord.
376, 11-3-2015; amd. Ord. 413, 8-2-2022)
6-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
GOLF CART: A vehicle specifically designed and intended for the purposes of
transporting one or more persons and their golf clubs or maintenance equipment
while engaged in the playing of golf, supervising the play of golf, or
maintaining the condition of the grounds on a public or private golf course.
UTILITY TASK VEHICLE (UTV): A motorized off highway vehicle traveling on three
(3) or more non-highway tires and designed with side-by-side seating and having
a cargo box at the rear of the vehicle. (Ord. 376, 11-3-2015; amd. Ord. 413, 8-
2-2022)
6-8-3: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
Golf carts and UTVs may only be operated on streets not otherwise prohibited
within the village of Shannon in accordance with the following rules and
regulations:
   A.   Any person who operates a golf cart or UTV in the village of Shannon
assumes full responsibility for all liability associated with the operation
thereof.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person under eighteen (18) years of age to
operate a golf cart or UTV in the village of Shannon.
   C.   The operator must possess a valid driver's license issued by the state
of Illinois or any other state and shall have the license on his or her person
when operating a golf cart or UTV.
   D.   The operator must possess proof of liability insurance covering the
operation of the golf cart or UTV being operated with limits of liability not
less than the minimum required by the state of Illinois for the operation of a
passenger vehicle and must maintain said insurance when operating the golf cart
or UTV.
   E.   In addition to the requirements stated above, golf carts and UTVs must
also be equipped as follows:
      1. A horn that is operable and can be heard at least one hundred feet
(100') from the golf cart or UTV;
      2. Brakes and brake lights;
      3. Headlights that emit a white light visible from a distance of five
hundred feet (500') to the front which must be illuminated when the vehicle is
in operation;
      4. Tail lamps that emit a red light visible from at least one hundred
feet (100') from the rear and must be in operation when the vehicle is in
operation;
      5. Turn signals;
      6. Steering wheel;
      7. Tires;
      8. Rearview mirror;
      9. A tall orange flag six to eight feet (6 - 8') off of the road or a
flashing yellow light mounted on top;
      10. There must be a windshield or the operator and passenger(s) must wear
eye protection as required when riding a motorcycle;
      11. A "slow moving vehicle" emblem compliant with 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/12-709 must be secured to the rear of the golf cart or UTV;
      12. Operable speedometer;
      13. The maximum occupancy for a qualified golf cart or UTV shall not
exceed the number of seats provided by the manufacturer of said vehicle;
      14. Golf carts and UTVs are only allowed to park in spaces designated for
handicapped parking if the operator or at least one passenger has a valid
handicapped parking emblem which is clearly visible in the golf cart or UTV;
      15. If the equipment requirements are amended via 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-1426.1, those requirements shall also apply; and
      16. To the extent applicable, the operator must comply with all
requirements set forth in the Illinois vehicle code (625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/1-100 et seq.).
      17. No performance modifications may by made to the golf cart or UTV.
      F. Golf carts and UTVs which comply with the provisions of subsections E1
through E17 of this section shall be deemed "qualified".
   G. An operator of a golf cart or UTV must obey all traffic laws of the state
of Illinois and the village of Shannon and must yield the right of way to all
other vehicles approaching or overtaking them at all times.
   H. Golf carts and UTVs shall only be operated on village streets except
where specifically prohibited.
   I. Golf carts and UTVs shall not be operated in excess of the posted speed
limit or twenty five (25) miles per hour, whichever is less. This provision
does not prohibit golf carts or UTVs with valid permits from crossing a
prohibited roadway provided the operator takes the shortest feasible route to a
roadway where operation is allowed.
   J. A person operating or in actual physical control of a golf cart or UTV
within the village of Shannon while under the influence is subject to the
provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-500 through 5/11-502.
   K. Golf carts and UTVs shall not be operated on sidewalks.
(Ord. 376, 11-3-2015; amd. Ord. 413, 8-2-2022)
6-8-4: PROHIBITED STREETS:
   A. It shall be unlawful to operate a golf cart or UTV on the following
streets within the corporate limits of the village of Shannon:
      1.   Market Street.
      2.   Shannon Route. (Ord. 376, 11-3-2015; amd. Ord. 413, 8-2-2022)
6-8-5: PERMITS:
   A.   No person shall operate a golf cart or UTV without having a valid
permit issued by the village of Shannon and said permit must be in the golf
cart or UTV when in operation or parked on a city roadway. In addition, the
village will issue a sticker indicating for which year the permit is valid and
such sticker must be applied to the rear of the vehicle and must be visible
when viewed from the back.
   B. An application for golf cart or UTV permit shall be available from the
office of the village clerk and completed by the owner of the golf cart or UTV.
The applicant shall provide a head and shoulders photograph along with the
completed application form.
   C. The cost of a permit will be fifty dollars ($50.00) per year and run from
January 1 to December 31, but will be subject to increase when the village
establishes its annual rates. The fee will not be prorated based on the date of
issuance thereof.
   D. Prior to issuance of a permit, the golf cart or UTV must be inspected by
the Shannon chief of police or designee to verify compliance with the
requirements of this chapter including proof of ownership and liability
insurance.
   E. The village of Shannon may suspend or revoke a permit granted hereunder
upon a finding that the holder thereof has violated any provision of this
chapter.
(Ord. 376, 11-3-2015; amd. Ord. 413, 8-2-2022)
6-8-6: VIOLATIONS:
   A. To the extent that a violation of this chapter also constitutes a
violation of the Illinois vehicle code or other criminal statute(s) of
Illinois, then the violator shall be subject to criminal prosecution.
   B. A person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be issued a
"courtesy citation" and subject to the village of Shannon's sanctions
concerning same.
   C. For a first offense, the permit may be suspended for up to ninety (90)
days.
   D. Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter for a second time
within a two (2) year period shall have the permit revoked. (Ord. 376, 11-3-
2015; amd. Ord. 413, 8-2-2022)
6-8-7: MISCELLANEOUS:
In the event that a court of competent jurisdiction declares any particular
provision or portion thereof to be invalid or unenforceable, the remaining
provisions of this chapter shall be construed to be valid and enforceable.
(Ord. 376, 11-3-2015; amd. Ord. 413, 8-2-2022)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Permit To Construct Or Repair
7-1-2: Construction Specifications
7-1-3: Excavations And Encroachments
7-1-4: Repairs And Defects
7-1-5: Safety Precautions
7-1-6: Openings In Public Ways
7-1-7: Deposits On Streets And Sidewalks
7-1-8: Utility Poles And Wires
7-1-9: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
7-1-10: Penalty
7-1-1: PERMIT TO CONSTRUCT OR REPAIR:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful to construct or lay any pavement
on any public street, sidewalk, alley or other public way, or to repair the
same, without having first secured a permit therefor.
   B.   Application For Permit: Applications for such permits shall be made to
the zoning commissioner and shall state the location of the intended pavement
or repair, the extent thereof, and the person or firm who is to do the actual
construction work. No such permit shall be issued except where the work will
conform with the ordinances of the village.
   C.   Bond: Each applicant shall file a bond in an amount set by the village
board of trustees with surety to be approved by the board of trustees
conditioned to indemnify the village for any loss or damage resulting from the
work undertaken or the manner of doing the same. (2011 Code)
7-1-2: CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS:
All street and sidewalk pavements shall be made in conformity with
specifications established or approved from time to time by the village board
of trustees. (2011 Code)
7-1-3: EXCAVATIONS AND ENCROACHMENTS:
   A.   Permits Required:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to excavate or encroach upon the property of
the village without first obtaining a permit so to do.
      2.   It shall be unlawful to make any connection or attachment to the
water or sewer system of the village without first obtaining a permit so to do.
(Ord. 124, 2-2-1971)
   B.   Certificate Of Inspection Required: It shall be unlawful to backfill
any excavation on village property or any excavation on private property where
there has been a connection or attachment to the village water or sewer system
without first obtaining a certificate of inspection from the superintendent of
public works or the zoning commissioner.
   C.   Enforcement: The superintendent of public works and the zoning
commissioner are hereby designated the enforcing officers of the provisions of
this section, and either shall issue the permit and certificate of inspection
on a form to be provided by the village upon payment to the village of a five
dollar ($5.00) fee for issuing said permit and making said inspection and a
deposit of one hundred dollars ($100.00), to be refunded upon said excavation
being properly backfilled or said connection being properly made, or to be
retained by the village in the event of failure by an applicant to properly
backfill or make such connection.
   D.   Penalty: Upon violation of this section by any person, firm, or
corporation, reexcavation shall be made at the expense of such violators and
the deposit of one hundred dollars ($100.00) shall be applied to such expense,
and said violator shall be subject to a penalty of not less than twenty five
dollars ($25.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each
day such violation continues. (Ord. 124, 2-2-1971; amd. 2011 Code)
7-1-4: REPAIRS AND DEFECTS:
   A.   Repairs Required: All public street, alley, and sidewalk pavement shall
be in good repair. Such repair work, whether done by the village or by the
abutting owner, shall be under the supervision of the superintendent of public
works.
   B.   Defects Reported: It shall be the duty of every village officer and
employee becoming cognizant of any defect in any street, alley or sidewalk, or
any obstruction thereof, to report the same to the superintendent of public
works as soon as possible. (2011 Code)
7-1-5: SAFETY PRECAUTIONS:
   A.   Safety Precautions Required:
      1.   Construction And Repair Work: Any person, firm or corporation laying
or repairing any pavement on a street, sidewalk or other public place or making
an excavation in the same, shall maintain suitable barriers and warning devices
to prevent injury of any person or vehicle by reason of the work.
      2.   Pavement Defects Guarded: Any defect in any such pavement shall be
protected with barriers and warning devices to prevent injury; and any person,
firm or corporation properly maintaining any opening or excavation, while the
same remains open, shall guard the same with proper barriers and warning
devices.
   B.   Disturbing Safety Devices Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to disturb
or interfere with any barriers or warning devices lawfully placed to protect or
mark any new pavement or excavation or opening in any public street, alley or
sidewalk. (2011 Code)
7-1-6: OPENINGS IN PUBLIC WAYS:
It shall be unlawful to construct any opening or stairway in any public street
or sidewalk or alley without a permit from the village board of trustees. All
such lawfully maintained openings shall be guarded by a suitable strong cover
or railing to the approval of the village board of trustees. (2011 Code)
7-1-7: DEPOSITS ON STREETS AND SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Deposits On Streets: It shall be unlawful to deposit on any street any
material which may be harmful to the pavement thereof, or any waste material,
or any glass, or any other articles which may do injury to any person, animal
or property.
   B.   Deposits On Sidewalks:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to deposit on any public sidewalk any material
which may be harmful to the pavement thereof, or any waste material, or any
glass, or any other articles which might cause injury to persons, animals or
property.
      2.   Merchandise or other articles may be deposited on sidewalks
preparatory to delivery; provided, that the usable width of the sidewalk is not
thereby reduced to less than four feet (4'); and provided, that no such article
shall remain on such sidewalk for more than one-half (1/2) hour. (2011 Code)
7-1-8: UTILITY POLES AND WIRES:
It shall be unlawful to erect any poles or wires or maintain any poles or wires
over any public place, street, alley or other public way without having first
secured permission from the village president and board of trustees. (2011
Code)
7-1-9: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Injuring New Pavements: It shall be unlawful to walk upon or drive any
vehicle or animal upon, or injure any newly laid street or sidewalk pavement
while the same is guarded by barriers and warning devices or to knowingly
injure any soft or newly laid pavement.
   B.   Private Use; Graffiti: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to use any street, sidewalk or other public place as space for the
display of goods or merchandise for sale, or to write or make any sign or
advertisement on any such pavement.
   C.   Playing Games: It shall be unlawful to play any games upon any street,
alley, or sidewalk or other public place, where such games cause unnecessary
noise or interfere with traffic or pedestrians. (2011 Code)
7-1-10: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provisions of this chapter shall
be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (2011
Code)
ARTICLE A. SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION BY SPECIAL TAXATION
SECTION:
7-1A-1: Village Authority
7-1A-2: Special Ordinance Requirements
7-1A-3: Notice Of Ordinance Passage
7-1A-4: Responsibility For Costs
7-1A-5: Construction By Owners; Statement Filed
7-1A-6: Construction By Village; Costs Assessed
7-1A-7: Failure To Pay Tax
7-1A-1: VILLAGE AUTHORITY:
Whenever it shall become necessary to provide by ordinance for the construction
of any sidewalk or sidewalks in the village, said sidewalk or sidewalks shall,
unless otherwise provided in such ordinance, be constructed, and a special tax
for the payment of one-half (1/2) of the cost therefor shall be levied,
assessed and collected under the provisions of this article and the other half
of the cost thereof shall be paid by general taxation. (1916 Code § 21-1)
7-1A-2: SPECIAL ORDINANCE REQUIREMENTS:
The president and board of trustees shall pass a special ordinance requiring
the construction of such sidewalk or sidewalks, which ordinance shall define
the location of each sidewalk, shall prescribe its width, the materials of
which it shall be constructed and the manner of its construction; and the
materials for and the construction of each sidewalk shall be under the
supervision and subject to the approval of the superintendent of public works,
who shall have the power at any time to stop any work not done according to the
specifications of said special ordinance requiring the construction of such
sidewalk or sidewalks; and no contractor or other person shall lay any walk
without first notifying the superintendent of public works. (1916 Code § 21-2;
amd. 2011 Code)
7-1A-3: NOTICE OF ORDINANCE PASSAGE:
Notice of the passage of such ordinance shall be sent by mail within ten (10)
days after such passage to the person who paid the last general taxes on the
premises for the preceding year, if he can be found in the county, and also to
the occupant of the property, if the same be at such time actually occupied,
and an affidavit of such service shall be filed with the village clerk. The
affidavit shall be prima facie evidence of compliance with said requirements.
(1916 Code § 21-3)
7-1A-4: RESPONSIBILITY FOR COSTS:
One-half (1/2) of the cost of building all sidewalks constructed hereunder
(except the cost of the construction of the intersection corners and
crosswalks, which shall be paid for by the village by general taxation) shall
be paid for by special taxation of the lots or parcels of land touching upon
said sidewalks, in proportion to their frontage thereon, and the other half of
the cost thereof shall be paid out of any funds of the village raised by
general taxation upon the property thereof, and appropriated for streets,
alleys and sidewalks. (1916 Code § 21-4)
7-1A-5: CONSTRUCTION BY OWNERS; STATEMENT FILED:
   A.   The owner or owners of each lot or parcel of land specified in any such
special ordinance shall, within thirty (30) days after the mailing of the
notice of the passage of such ordinance, construct such sidewalks fronting on
the line of his or their respective lot or parcel of land in accordance with
the provisions and specifications of such ordinance. (1916 Code § 21-5)
   B.   The owner or owners of each lot or parcel of land fronting on the line
of sidewalks who shall build the walk in front of his or their lot or parcel of
land in accordance with the provisions and specifications of the special
ordinance shall file with the village clerk an itemized statement of the cost
of the sidewalk so constructed by him or them, verified by affidavit, together
with the certificate of the superintendent of public works, that the sidewalk
has been constructed and fully completed by the owner or owners in accordance
with the provisions and specifications of the special ordinance; and thereupon,
at the first regular meeting of the village board of trustees thereafter, the
board shall authorize the issuing of an order on the village treasurer for one-
half (1/2) of the cost of construction of such portion of the sidewalks. (1916
Code § 21-6; amd. 2011 Code)
7-1A-6: CONSTRUCTION BY VILLAGE; COSTS ASSESSED:
In case of default of the owner or owners of any lot or parcel of land to
construct the sidewalks as required by the provisions of any special ordinance,
the village shall construct or cause to be constructed the same and shall make
a bill of the cost thereof showing in separate items the cost of materials,
construction and supervision (unless the work shall be let by contract at
public or private letting, when a bill showing separate items of cost shall not
be required), shall be filed in the office of the village clerk, certified to
by the superintendent of public works, together with a list of the lots or
parcels of land touching upon the line of the sidewalk, and the fronting of
each thereon, and the names of the owners thereof, whereupon the village clerk
shall make a special tax list against the lots or parcels of land and the
owners thereof, ascertaining by computation the amount of special tax to be
charged against each of the lots and parcels of land and the owners thereof, on
account of the construction thereof, according to the frontage of each lot or
parcel of land on the sidewalk, and the village clerk shall thereupon issue his
warrant to the village treasurer directing him to collect from any of the
owners of the lots and parcels of land the amount of the special tax so
ascertained and appearing from the special tax list to be due from the
respective owners of the lots or parcels of land touching on the line of the
sidewalk, and the treasurer shall, upon the receipt of the warrant, proceed to
collect the same and make return thereof with the monies collected within sixty
(60) days from the date of the issue of the warrants, and in case any warrant
shall be returned as to the whole or any part thereof "no property found",
other warrants may issue. (1916 Code § 21-7; amd. 2011 Code)
7-1A-7: FAILURE TO PAY TAX:
Upon the failure of the treasurer to collect the special tax or any part
thereof, it shall be the duty of the village clerk, within thirty (30) days
after the return of the warrants to him, to make report of all special taxes in
writing to the county collector of all lots or parcels of land upon which such
special taxes shall be unpaid, with the names of the respective owners thereof
and the amount due and unpaid upon each lot or parcel of land, together with a
copy of this article and of the ordinances providing for the building of the
sidewalk or sidewalks upon which such tax shall be so in default, which report
shall be accompanied by the oath of the clerk that the list is a correct return
of the lots or parcels of land on which the special tax levied by authority of
the village for the partial cost of sidewalks in such ordinances specified,
remains due and unpaid, and that the amounts therein stated as due and unpaid
have not been collected or any part thereof. The county collector shall
thereupon at once proceed to obtain judgment against such lots or parcels of
land so reported to him by the village clerk for the special taxes remaining
due and unpaid in the same manner as is or may be provided by law for obtaining
judgment against delinquent lands for taxes due and unpaid to the county and
state and shall in the same manner proceed to sell the same for the special
taxes due and unpaid to the village, and he shall in all respects proceed as is
or may be required by law. (1916 Code § 21-8)
CHAPTER 2
VILLAGE PARKS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Rules And Regulations
7-2-1: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
Rules and regulations regarding use of parks and recreation areas owned or
administered by the village are as follows:
   A.   Fires: Fires shall be allowed only in designated places, in designated
containers, such as picnic grills or camp stoves, or in designated fire rings.
Any fire, whether in an open area or in a container of some type, must be
properly attended and supervised at all times.
   B.   Reservations For Use: Picnic shelters may be reserved by calling the
village officers and shall be reserved on a "first come" basis.
   C.   Vehicle Control: No horse, bicycle, ATV, or other vehicle shall be
allowed on any trail in any village park.
   D.   Trash, Refuse And Waste:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, leave or deposit tin
cans, bottles, or any other trash or refuse in any park or recreation area,
other than placing all such trash and other debris in properly designated trash
containers or garbage cans.
      2.   No person shall dump or otherwise deposit any building or landscape
waste in any village park or recreation area.
   E.   Animal Control:
      1.   Any dog or cat in any village park or recreation area must be on a
leash at all times.
      2.   Owners must clean up animal waste and feces from their animals.
   F.   Weapons: No firearms, BB guns, other air guns, paint guns, slingshots,
bows and arrows, weapons or missiles of any nature or kind are permitted in or
may be used in any park.
   G.   Liquor And Drugs: No alcoholic beverages nor illegal drug or drug
paraphernalia of any kind shall be consumed, transported, or be in the
possession of any person in or on any park ground or any recreation area.
   H.   Tampering With, Damage To Property: Molestation, damage, cutting,
trimming, digging up, or any other misuse of trees, shrubs or flowers in any
park or recreation area owned, maintained or administered by the village is
prohibited.
   I.   Nonliability Of Village: The village shall not be responsible or liable
for any accident, damages or injuries of any nature in any park or recreation
area owned or administered by the village. (2011 Code)
TITLE 8
WATER AND SEWER
CHAPTER 1
WATER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
8-1-1: Permit To Use Water And Connect To System
8-1-2: Excavations
8-1-3: Hydrants
8-1-4: Damage To, Tampering With System
8-1-5: Rules And Regulations
8-1-6: Penalties
8-1-1: PERMIT TO USE WATER AND CONNECT TO SYSTEM:
No person, except a regularly authorized agent of the village trustees, shall
take water from any public or private hydrant, plug, hose, pipe or fountain
(except for fire purposes or for the use of the fire protection district in
case of fire), or shall in any way use or take any water for private use,
drinking fountains excepted, unless such person has first paid for same and
received a permit from the superintendent of public works. (1916 Code § 10-1;
amd. 2011 Code)
8-1-2: EXCAVATIONS:
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall make any excavation in the street for
the purpose of laying water pipes or tap any water or service pipe laid down
without written permission from the superintendent of public works, and then
only such persons as are authorized to perform such work shall do the same, and
the particular person to be employed shall, in each case, be named in the
permit. (1916 Code § 10-3)
   B.   Excavation Of Frozen Ground: No person shall make any excavation in any
street or highway within four and one-half feet (41/2') of any laid water pipe
while the ground is frozen except by special order of the superintendent of
public works or the village trustees. (1916 Code § 10-4)
8-1-3: HYDRANTS:
All the hydrants erected in the village for the purpose of extinguishing fires
in the village are hereby declared to be public hydrants, and no person or
persons other than the members of the fire protection district and those
especially authorized by the village trustees, and then only for the uses and
purpose of the fire protection district or in exercise of the authority so
delegated by the village trustees, shall open any of the hydrants or attempt to
draw water from or in any manner interfere with any of the hydrants. (1916 Code
§ 10-5; amd. 2011 Code)
8-1-4: DAMAGE TO, TAMPERING WITH SYSTEM:
No person shall wilfully or carelessly break, injure, mar, deface, interfere
with or disturb the waterworks plant or fixtures, or any building, machinery,
apparatus, reservoirs, water tower or appurtenances of the waterworks of the
village, or any public or private hydrant, meter or stopcock box, shutoff
valve, or shutoff valve box, water supply or service pipe, or any part thereof;
nor shall any person deposit anything in any stopcock box or shutoff valve box
or commit any act tending to obstruct or impair the intended use of any of the
above mentioned things without the permission of the superintendent of public
works, or except in the cases provided in this chapter. (1916 Code § 10-2)
8-1-5: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The following rules and regulations for the government of water takers and
licensed plumbers are hereby adopted and established:
   A.   The village president, subject to the ratification of the village
trustees, shall appoint all the necessary officers and agents for furnishing
water and collecting water rates, and the village trustees shall determine the
term of office, duties and salaries or compensation of such officers and
agents.
   B.   All work done on the streets and contemplated by this chapter must be
done under the supervision of the superintendent of public works and subject to
his direction and approval.
   C.   The ferrule inserted in the distributing pipes and the service pipe
laid shall be of the size specified in the permit and order. The superintendent
of public works shall keep a complete record and a profile of the exact
location and number and sizes of all taps inserted and the length of service
pipe laid, the tapper being hereby required to make immediate returns to the
superintendent of such details.
   D.   Application for permits to connect service pipes with any supply pipe
must be made to the Superintendent of Public Works.
   E.   Notice must be given to the Superintendent of Public Works by the
plumber about to lay down service pipe, fixing the day on which he wishes the
ferrule inserted.
   F.   No person except the Village tapper will be permitted to tap the street
mains or insert stopcocks or shutoff valves or ferrules therein. All service
cocks, valves or ferrules must be inserted at or near the top of the street
main, and not in any case nearer than six inches (6") from the bell of the
pipe. The size of the cock or valve to be inserted shall be that specified in
the permit.
   G.   It shall be the duty of the Superintendent of Public Works to
superintend and direct all work connected with the water system and report to
the Village Trustees as to the manner in which the plumbers perform their work
and the condition in which they find the streets repaired at their first
regular meeting after the completion of their work.
   H.   No private hydrant shall be located on the sidewalk or elsewhere beyond
the limits of the lot of the party to whom the permit is issued. All persons
taking water shall provide their own water meter to be placed or installed
under the supervision of the Superintendent of Public Works, and such meters
shall be United States standard gallon straight reading, and when such meter is
installed, it shall determine the quantity of water taken by the user, who
shall pay at the rate set out in chapter 3 of this title. No water will be
furnished unless a meter is installed as provided herein.
   I.   The Superintendent of Public Works and his authorized agents shall have
free access between seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. to
the building in which water pipes are laid and where water meters are placed or
contained to examine pipes and fixtures.
   J.   If proprietors of lumberyards, manufactories, halls, stores, hotels or
public buildings, regular customers of water from the works, wish to lay large
pipes with hydrant and hose couplings, to be used only in case of fire, they
will be permitted to connect with the street mains at their own expense, upon
application for a permit to the Village Clerk, and under the direction of the
Superintendent of Public Works, and will be allowed the use of water for fire
purposes only, free of charge.
   K.   The water will not be turned into any house or private service pipe
except upon order of the Superintendent, and the plumbers are strictly
prohibited from turning the water into any service pipe except upon order and
permission of the Superintendent. This rule shall not be construed to prevent
any plumber admitting water to test pipes and for that purpose only.
   L.   No private hydrants shall be placed within the limits of any street,
and no drinking fountain shall be erected for public use which has openings by
which it can be used as a source of domestic supply.
   M.   Pipes shall not be laid at less than four and one-half feet (41/2')
below the surface and shall remain uncovered until inspected by the
Superintendent of Public Works.
   N.   For a violation of any of these rules and regulations or such others as
the Village Trustees may hereafter adopt, the Village Trustees reserve the
right to stop the supply of water, without any preliminary notice, nor will it
be restored until all back water rent, cost and damage shall be paid, together
with the fee set out in subsection
8-3-4C of this title for the expense of turning off the water and turning it on
again, and upon satisfactory understanding with the party that no further cause
for complaint shall arise. The Village Trustees hereby reserve to themselves
the full right, power and authority to cut off the supply of water at any time
without incurring any liability or cause any action for damages of any kind,
any permit granted or regulations to the contrary notwithstanding. In case of a
second violation of the regulations by any person, the Superintendent of Public
Works may cause the ferrule to be withdrawn. Should this be done, a charge will
be made for reinserting it. (1916 Code § 10-8; amd. 2011 Code)
   O.   It shall be unlawful to use or attempt to use as a water supply any
ground water from within the Village of Shannon and the construction,
installation or drilling of any wells for the purpose of supplying water within
the Village limits is prohibited. This prohibition shall not apply to the
Village of Shannon or any well existing prior to the effective date of this
subsection.
   P.   It shall be unlawful to extend any pipes or water service to property
located within the corporate limits of the Village of Shannon from any property
outside the corporate limits of the Village of Shannon.
   Q.   It shall be unlawful for any water customer to supply water to another
water customer, or to suffer another water customer to take water off their
premises without permission of the Village Board. (Ord. 393, 1-2-2018)
8-1-6: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person who violates section
8-1-1,
8-1-2,
8-1-3 or
8-1-4 of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined for each offense in a
sum not less than five dollars ($5.00) nor more than two hundred dollars
($200.00). If such offense is committed by any licensed plumber, his license
may also be revoked in the discretion of the Village Trustees. (1916 Code § 10-
7)
   B.   Any person who shall violate any of the rules and regulations for the
government of water takers or plumbers specified in section
8-1-5 of this chapter shall, upon conviction, in addition to the enforcement of
forfeitures, liabilities and reservations therein contained, pay a fine of not
less than five dollars ($5.00) nor more than two hundred dollars ($200.00).
(1916 Code § 10-9)
CHAPTER 2
SEWER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
8-2-1: Definitions
8-2-2: Use Of Public Sewers Required
8-2-3: Private Sewage Disposal Systems
8-2-4: Building Sewers And Connections
8-2-5: Use Of The Public Sewers
8-2-5-1: Discharges Into System
8-2-5-2: Interceptors
8-2-5-3: Preliminary Treatment Or Flow Equalization
8-2-5-4: Control Manhole
8-2-5-5: Measurements, Tests And Analyses
8-2-5-6: Special Agreements
8-2-6: Damage To, Tampering With System
8-2-7: Powers And Authority Of Inspectors
8-2-8: Violations; Penalties
8-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of terms used
in this chapter shall be as follows:
CLARIFICATION OF WORD USAGE: "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissible.
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT:
Administrator: The administrator of the U.S. environmental protection agency.
Federal Act: The federal clean water act (33 USC 466 et seq.), as amended
(Pub.L. 95-217).
Federal Grant: The U.S. government participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided by title II, "Grants For
Construction Of Treatment Works", of the act and implementing regulations.
LOCAL GOVERNMENT:
Approving Authority: The superintendent of public works.
Village: The village of Shannon.
PERSON: Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any individual,
firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association, society,
institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
SEWER TYPES AND APPURTENANCES:
Building Drain: That part of the lowest piping of a drainage system which
receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes inside the
walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer or other approved
point of discharge, beginning five feet (5') (1.5 meters) outside the inner
face of the building wall.
Building Sewer: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
Combined Sewer: A sewer which is designed and intended to receive wastewater,
stormwater, surface water and groundwater drainage.
Easement: An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by others.
Public Sewer: A sewer provided by or subject to the jurisdiction of the village
of Shannon. The term shall also includes sewers within or outside the village
boundaries that serve one or more persons and ultimately discharge into the
village sanitary sewer system even though those sewers may not have been
constructed with village funds.
Sanitary Sewer: A sewer that conveys sewage or industrial wastes, or a
combination of both, and into which stormwater, surface water, and groundwater
or polluted industrial wastes are not intentionally admitted.
Sewer: A pipe or conduit for conveying sewage or any other waste liquids,
including stormwater, surface water and groundwater drainage.
Sewerage: The system of sewers and appurtenances for the collection,
transportation and pumping of sewage.
Storm Sewer: A sewer that carries stormwater, surface water and groundwater
drainage but excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted
cooling water.
Stormwater Runoff: That portion of the precipitation that is drained into the
sewers.
STATE GOVERNMENT:
Director: The director of the Illinois environmental protection agency.
State Act: The Illinois anti-pollution bond act of 1970.
State Grant: The state of Illinois participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided by the Illinois anti-pollution bond
act and for making such grants as filed with the secretary of state of the
state of Illinois.
TREATMENT:
Pretreatment: The treatment of wastewaters from sources before introduction
into the wastewater treatment works.
Wastewater Treatment Works: An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes, and sludge; sometimes used as
synonymous with "waste treatment plant" or "wastewater treatment plant" or
"pollution control plant".
USER TYPES:
Commercial User: Shall include transit lodging, retail and wholesale
establishments or places engaged in selling merchandise or rendering services.
Control Manhole: A structure located on a site from which industrial wastes are
discharged. Where feasible, the manhole shall have an interior drop. The
purpose of a "control manhole" is to provide access for the village
representative to sample and/or measure discharges.
Industrial Users: Shall include establishments engaged in manufacturing
activities involving the mechanical or chemical transformation of materials or
substance into products.
Institutional/Governmental User: Shall include schools, churches, penal
institutions, and users associated with federal, state, and local governments.
Residential User: All dwelling units such as houses, mobile homes, apartments,
and permanent multi-family dwellings.
User Class: The type of user, "residential", "institutional/governmental",
"commercial", or "industrial" as defined herein.
WASTEWATER AND ITS CHARACTERISTICS:
BOD (Denoting Biochemical Oxygen Demand): The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five (5) days at twenty degrees Celsius (20°C), expressed in milligrams per
liter.
Floatable Oil: Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable oil if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
Garbage: Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking,
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of food.
Industrial Waste: Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance discharged, permitted
to flow or escaping from any industrial, manufacturing, commercial or business
establishment or process or from the development, recovery or processing of any
natural resource as distinct from sanitary sewage.
pH: The logarithm (base-10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration
expressed by one of the procedures outlined in the IEPA division of
laboratories "Manual Of Laboratory Methods".
Properly Shredded Garbage: The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") (1.27 centimeters)
in any dimension.
Sewage: Is used interchangeably with "wastewater".
Slug: Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which, in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds, for any
period of duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes, more than five (5) times
the average twenty four (24) hour concentration of flows during normal
operation.
Suspended Solids (SS): Solids that either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or industrial waste, and which are removable by a
laboratory filtration device. Quantitative determination of suspended solids
shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in the IEPA division of
laboratories "Manual Of Laboratory Methods".
Unpolluted Water: Water quality equal to or better than the effluent criteria
in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water quality
standards and would not be benefited by discharge to the sanitary sewers and
wastewater treatment facilities provided.
Wastewater: The spent water of a community. From this standpoint of course, it
may be a combination of the liquid and water carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions, together with any
groundwater, surface water, and stormwater that may be present.
Water Quality Standards: As defined in the water pollution regulations of
Illinois.
WASTEWATER FACILITIES: The structures, equipment, and processes required to
collect, carry away, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and transport
effluent to a watercourse.
WATERCOURSE AND CONNECTIONS:
Natural Outlet: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other body
of surface water or groundwater.
Watercourse: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or
intermittently. (Ord. 189, 4-4-1985; amd. 2011 Code)
8-2-2: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED:
   A.   Discharge Of Human And Animal Wastes: It shall be unlawful for any
person to place, deposit, or permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner on
public or private property within the village or in any area under the
jurisdiction of the village any human or animal excrement, garbage or other
objectionable waste.
   B.   Treatment Required: It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural
outlet within the village or in any area under the jurisdiction of the village
any sewage or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been
provided in accordance with this chapter.
   C.   Private Systems: Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful
to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or
other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   D.   Connection To Sewer System Required: The owner of all the houses,
buildings, or properties used for human occupancy, employment, recreation, or
other purposes situated within the village and abutting on any street, alley,
or right of way in which there is now located or may in the future be located
any public sanitary (or combined) sewer of the village is hereby required, at
his expense, to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such
facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, within ninety (90) days after the date of official
notice to do so; provided, that said public sewer is within one hundred feet
(100') of the property line. (Ord. 189, 4-4-1985)
8-2-3: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS:
   A.   Private Systems Permitted: Where a public sanitary (or combined) sewer
is not available under the provisions of subsection
8-2-2D of this chapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this section. (Ord.
189, 4-4-1985)
   B.   Permit Requirements:
      1.   Permit Required: Before commencement of construction of a private
sewage disposal system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by
the village zoning commissioner.
      2.   Application For Permit: The application for such permit shall be
made on a form furnished by the village which the applicant shall supplement by
any plans, specifications and other information as deemed necessary by the
village zoning commissioner. (Ord. 189, 4-4-1985; amd. 2011 Code)
      3.   Inspections: A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not
become effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
village superintendent of public works. He shall be allowed to inspect the work
at any stage of construction, and in any event, the applicant for the permit
shall notify the superintendent of public works when the work is ready for
final inspection and before any underground portions are covered. The
inspection shall be made within twenty four (24) hours of the receipt of
written notice by the superintendent of public works.
      4.   Fee: A permit and inspection fee of ten dollars ($10.00) shall be
paid to the village at the time the application is filed.
   C.   Specifications: The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private
sewage disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the state of
Illinois private sewage disposal licensing act and code and with the state of
Illinois environmental protection agency. No permit shall be issued for any
private sewage disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities
where the area of the lot is less than one thousand two hundred (1,200) square
feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any natural
outlet.
   D.   Maintenance: The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage
disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times and at no expense to the
village. (Ord. 189, 4-4-1985)
   E.   Availability Of Public Sewer; Connection Required: At such time as a
public sewer becomes available to a property served by a private sewage
disposal system, as provided in subsection
8-2-2C of this chapter, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer
in compliance with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar
private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable
material. (Ord. 189, 4-4-1985; amd. 2011 Code)
   F.   Additional Regulations: No statement contained in this section shall be
construed to interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by
the health officer of the village. (Ord. 189, 4-4-1985)
8-2-4: BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Permit To Connect:
      1.   Permit Required: No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any
connections with, or opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or
appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the village
zoning commissioner.
      2.   Classes Of Permits; Applications: There shall be two (2) classes of
building sewer permits: a) for residential wastewater service; and b) for
commercial, institutional/governmental or industrial wastewater service. In
either case, the owner or his agent shall make application on a special form
furnished by the village zoning commissioner. The permit application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other information considered
pertinent in the judgment of the village zoning commissioner.
      3.   Permit And Inspection Fee: A permit and inspection fee of twenty
dollars ($20.00) for a residential or commercial building sewer permit shall be
paid to the village at the time the application is filed. The industry, as a
condition of permit authorization, must provide information describing its
wastewater constituents, characteristics, and type of activity. (Ord. 189, 4-4-
1985; amd. 2011 Code)
      4.   Conditions Of Permit: A building sewer permit will only be issued
and a sewer connection shall only be allowed if it can be demonstrated that the
downstream sewerage facilities, including sewers, pump stations and wastewater
treatment facilities, have sufficient reserve capacity to adequately and
efficiently handle the additional anticipated waste load.
   B.   Separate Building Sewers: A separate and independent building sewer
shall be provided for every building; except, that where one building stands at
the rear of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can
be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or
driveway, the building sewer from the front building may be extended to the
rear building and the whole considered as one building sewer.
   C.   Use Of Old Building Sewers: Old building sewers may be used in
connection with new buildings only when they are found, on examination and test
by the village superintendent of public works, to meet all requirements of this
chapter.
   D.   Installation And Connection Requirements:
      1.   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavation, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the building and plumbing codes or other applicable rules and regulations of
the village. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
American Society Of Testing Materials, "Water Pollution Control Federation
Manual Of Practice No. 9", and "Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer
Main Construction In Illinois" shall apply.
      2.   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which
any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer,
sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by a means which
is approved in accordance with subsection E2 of this section, and discharged to
the building sewer.
      3.   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing codes, or other
applicable rules and regulations of the village, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the American Society Of Testing Materials, "Water
Pollution Control For Water And Sewer Main Construction In Illinois". All such
connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any deviation from the
prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the village
superintendent of public works before installation.
      4.   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the village.
   E.   Prohibited Discharges:
      1.   No person(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
      2.   All disposal by any person into the sewer system is unlawful except
those discharges in compliance with federal standards promulgated pursuant to
the federal act and more stringent state and local standards.
   F.   Inspections: The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify
the village superintendent of public works when the building is ready for
inspection and connection to the public sewer. The connection shall be made
under the supervision of the village superintendent of public works or his
representative.
   G.   Liability For Costs And Expenses; Indemnification: All costs and
expenses incident to the installation and connection of the building sewer
shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the village from any
loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation of the building sewer. (Ord. 189, 4-4-1985)
8-2-5: USE OF THE PUBLIC SEWERS:
8-2-5-1: DISCHARGES INTO SYSTEM:
   A.   Stormwater And Surface Waters; Storm Sewers:
      1.   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any
stormwater, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage,
uncontaminated cooling water, or unpolluted industrial process waters to any
sanitary sewer.
      2.   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the village. Industrial cooling water or
unpolluted process waters may be discharged, on approval of the village, to a
storm sewer or natural outlet. (Ord. 189, 4-4-1985)
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to connect
or cause to be connected any drain, toilet, sink, basement, septic tank,
cesspool, or other fixture or device carrying, or to carry, polluting
substances to any storm sewer in the village. Any person, firm, or corporation
violating this subsection shall be fined not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense, and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed for each and every day during which
a violation continues. (Ord. 93, 12-11-1963; amd. 2011 Code)
   B.   Prohibited Discharges: No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any of the following described waters or wastes to any public
sewers:
      1.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas.
      2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids,
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant.
      3.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the sewage works.
      4.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole
or ground by garbage grinders.
   C.   Restricted Discharges:
      1.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely, in the
opinion of the village superintendent of public works, that such wastes can
harm either the sewers, sewage treatment process or equipment; have an adverse
effect on the receiving stream; or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public
property, or constitute a nuisance. In forming his opinion as to the
acceptability of these wastes, the village superintendent of public works will
give consideration to such factors as the quantities of subject wastes in
relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of
the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of the sewage
treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage treatment
plant, and maximum limits established by regulatory agencies. The substances
prohibited are:
         a.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (65°C).
         b.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous materials; or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred milligrams per liter
(100 mg/l) or containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at
temperatures between thirty two (32) and one hundred fifty degrees Fahrenheit
(150°F) (0 and 65°C).
         c.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths (3/
4) horsepower (0.76 hp metric), or greater, shall be subject to the review and
approval of the village superintendent of public works.
         d.   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling
wastes, or concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not.
         e.   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, or
similar objectionable or toxic substances, or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the village for such materials.
         f.   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the village as necessary after treatment of the composite
sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal, or other public
agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
         g.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Illinois environmental
protection agency in compliance with applicable state or federal regulations.
         h.   Any wastes or waters having a pH in excess of 9.5.
         i.   Any mercury or any of its compounds in excess of 0.0005
milligrams per liter as Hg at any time except as permitted by the Illinois
environmental protection agency in compliance with applicable state and federal
regulations.
         j.   Any cyanide in excess of 0.025 milligrams per liter at any time
except as permitted by the Illinois environmental protection agency in
compliance with applicable state and federal regulations.
         k.   Materials which exert or cause:
            (1)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as,
but not limited to, fuller's earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate).
            (2)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye
wastes and vegetable tanning solutions).
            (3)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements
in such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works.
            (4)   Unusual volume of flow or concentrations of wastes
constituting "slugs" as defined in section
8-2-1 of this chapter.
         l.   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters.
      2.   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in subsection C1 of this section, and/or which
are in violation of the standards for pretreatment provided in 40 CFR 403, June
26, 1978, and any amendments thereto, and which, in the judgment of the village
superintendent of public works, may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage
works, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a
hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the village may:
         a.   Reject the wastes;
         b.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
         c.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         d.   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges, under the provisions
of section
8-2-5-6 of this chapter.
      3.   If the village permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste
flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject
to the review and approval of the Illinois environmental protection agency and
subject to the requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances, and laws.
(Ord. 189, 4-4-1985)
8-2-5-2: INTERCEPTORS:
Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the village superintendent of public works, they are necessary for the proper
handling of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any
flammable wastes, sand, or other harmful ingredients; except, that such
interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling
units. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the village
and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection. (Ord. 189, 4-4-1985)
8-2-5-3: PRELIMINARY TREATMENT OR FLOW EQUALIZATION:
Where preliminary treatment or flow equalizing facilities are provided, they
shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the
owner at his expense. (Ord. 189, 4-4-1985)
8-2-5-4: CONTROL MANHOLE:
Each industry shall be required to install a control manhole, and when required
by the village, the owner of the property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall install a suitable control manhole, together with such
necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate
observation, sampling, and measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when
required, shall be accessibly and safely located, and shall be constructed in
accordance with plans approved by the village. The manhole shall be installed
by the owner at his expense and shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and
accessible at all times. (Ord. 189, 4-4-1985)
8-2-5-5: MEASUREMENTS, TESTS AND ANALYSES:
   A.   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall provide laboratory measurements, tests, and analyses of
waters and wastes to illustrate compliance with this chapter and any special
conditions for discharge established by the village or regulatory agencies
having jurisdiction over the discharge.
   B.   The number, type, and frequency of laboratory analyses to be performed
by the owner shall be as stipulated by the village, but no less than once per
year, the industry must supply a complete analysis of the constituents of the
wastewater discharge to assure that compliance with federal, state, and local
standards are being met. The owner shall report the results of measurements and
laboratory analyses to the village at such times and in such a manner as
prescribed by the village superintendent of public works.
   C.   The owner shall bear the expense of all measurements, analyses, and
reporting required by the village. At such times as deemed necessary, the
village reserves the right to take measurements and samples for analysis by an
outside laboratory service.
   D.   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of IEPA division of laboratories "Manual Of
Laboratory Methods", and shall be determined at the control manhole provided,
or upon suitable samples taken at said control manhole. In the event that no
special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be considered to
be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the
building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily
accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works
and to determine the existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. The
particular analyses involved will determine whether a twenty four (24) hour
composite of all outfalls of a premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample
or samples should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids
analyses are obtained from twenty four (24) hour composites of all outfalls,
whereas pHs are determined from periodic grab samples. (Ord. 189, 4-4-1985)
8-2-5-6: SPECIAL AGREEMENTS:
No statement contained in this section
8-2-5 shall be construed as preventing any special agreement or arrangement
between the village and any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of
unusual strength or character may be accepted by the village for treatment,
subject to payment therefor in accordance with chapter 3 of this title by the
industrial concern, provided such payments are in accordance with federal and
state guidelines for user charge system. (Ord. 189, 4-4-1985)
8-2-6: DAMAGE TO, TAMPERING WITH SYSTEM:
No unauthorized person shall maliciously, wilfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or equipment which
is a part of the sewage works. Any person violating this section shall be
subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct. (Ord. 189, 4-4-
1985)
8-2-7: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS:
   A.   Entry Powers; Limitation On Requested Information:
      1.   The village superintendent of public works and other duly authorized
employees of the village, the Illinois environmental protection agency, and the
U.S. environmental protection agency, bearing proper credentials and
identification, shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of
inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, and testing in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter. The village superintendent of public works or
his representative shall have no authority to inquire into any processes,
including metallurgical, chemical, oil refining, ceramic, paper, or other
industries, beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and source of
discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste treatment.
      2.   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred
to in subsection A1 of this section, the village superintendent of public works
or duly authorized employees of the village, the Illinois environmental
protection agency, and the U.S. environmental protection agency shall observe
all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company, and the
company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the village employees,
and the village shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to its
property by village employees and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out
of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by
negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in
section
8-2-5-5 of this chapter.
   B.   Safety Precautions: The village superintendent of public works and
other duly authorized employees of the village, bearing proper credentials and
identification, shall be permitted to enter all private properties through
which the village holds a duly negotiated easement for the purposes of, but not
limited to, inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, repair, and
maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying within said easement. All
entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement shall be done in full
accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement pertaining to the
private property involved. (Ord. 189, 4-4-1985)
8-2-8: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Notice Of Violation: Any person found to be violating any provision of
this chapter, except section
8-2-6 of this chapter, shall be served by the village with a written notice
stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for
the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of
time stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   B.   Revocation Of Permit: The village may revoke any permit for sewage
disposal as a result of any violation of any provision of this chapter. (Ord.
189, 4-4-1985)
   C.   Fine: Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided in subsection A of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction thereof, shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each violation. Each day on which any such violation
shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 189, 4-4-1985; amd.
2011 Code)
   D.   Liability For Violations: Any person violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall become liable to the village by reason of such violation.
(Ord. 189, 4-4-1985)
CHAPTER 3
WATER AND SEWER USER CHARGE SYSTEM
SECTION:
8-3-1: Combined Waterworks And Sewerage System
8-3-2: Definitions
8-3-3: Basis For Charges
8-3-4: Rates And Charges Established
8-3-5: Notice Of Rates And Charges
8-3-6: Bills; Liability For Service; Late Payments
8-3-7: Delinquent Payments
8-3-8: Appeals
8-3-9: Disposition Of Revenues
8-3-10: Accounts; Records And Reports; Audit
8-3-11: Access To Records
8-3-12: Penalty
8-3-1: COMBINED WATERWORKS AND SEWERAGE SYSTEM:
The Village waterworks system in its entirety, together with all additions,
improvements and extensions thereto that may be made, and the Village sewerage
system in its entirety, together with all additions, improvements and
extensions thereto that may be made, are hereby declared to be a combined
system, and said combined waterworks and sewerage system shall be maintained
and operated as a single utility. Charges or rates shall be established for the
use of said waterworks system and sewerage system of the combined waterworks
and sewerage system which shall be reasonable and commensurate with the service
performed by the waterworks system and sewerage system of the combined system,
and sufficient to maintain, operate and provide an adequate Depreciation Fund
and pay the principal of and interest on any revenue bonds which may be issued
which, by their terms, are made payable from the revenues of such waterworks
and sewerage systems. Income and expenses of the waterworks and sewerage
systems shall be kept separate, and each system shall be operated to be self-
sufficient. (Ord. 290, 9-4-2001)
8-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of terms used
in this chapter shall be as follows:
ADMINISTRATIVE CHARGE: The amount to be paid each billing period for the
administrative costs including billing supplies, postage, billing labor and
insurance.
APPROVING AUTHORITY: The President and the Board of Trustees of the Village,
acting by and through the Superintendent of Public Works.
BOD (Denoting BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND): The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five (5) days at twenty degrees Celsius (20°C), expressed in milligrams per
liter.
BASIC USER CHARGE: The basic assessment levied on all users of the public water
and/or sewer system.
BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system
which receives the discharge from soil, water and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer or other
approved point of discharge, beginning five feet (5') (1.5 meters) outside the
inner face of the building.
BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT CHARGE: A charge levied on users to improve, extend or
reconstruct water and/or wastewater treatment works.
COMBINED SEWER: A sewer which is designated and intended to receive wastewater,
stormwater, surface water and groundwater drainage.
CONTROL MANHOLE: A structure located on a site from which industrial wastes are
discharged. Where feasible, the manhole shall have an interior drop. The
purpose of a control manhole is to provide access for a Village representative
to sample and/or measure discharges.
DEBT SERVICE CHARGE: The amount to be paid each billing period for repayment of
interest, principal and coverage on all outstanding bonds and loans.
EASEMENT: An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by others.
EFFLUENT CRITERIA: As defined in any applicable NPDES permit.
FLOATABLE OIL: Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free from floatable oil if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
GARBAGE: Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
HEAVY COMMERCIAL: Shall include non-industrial users such as car washes, truck
washes, slaughterhouses or other businesses where high water use is inherent in
the commercial activity.
INDUSTRIAL USER: Shall include establishments engaged in manufacturing
activities involving the mechanical or chemical transformation of materials or
substances into products.
INDUSTRIAL WASTE: Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance discharged, permitted
to flow or escaping from any industrial, manufacturing, commercial or business
establishment or process or from the development, recovery or processing of any
natural resource as distinct from sanitary sewage.
INFILTRATION: The water entering a sewage system, including building drains and
sewers, from the ground, through such means as, but not limited to, defective
pipes, pipe joints, connections or manhole walls. "Infiltration" does not
include, and is distinguished from, "inflow".
INFILTRATION/INFLOW: The total quantity of water from both infiltration and
inflow without distinguishing the source.
INFLOW: The water discharged into a sewer system, including building drains and
sewers, from such sources as, but not limited to, roof leaders; cellar, yard
and area drains; foundation drains; unpolluted cooling water discharges; drains
from springs and swampy areas; manhole covers; cross connections from storm
sewers and combined sewers, catch basins, stormwaters, surface runoff, street
wash waters or drainage. "Inflow" does not include, and is distinguished from,
"infiltration".
INSTITUTIONAL/GOVERNMENTAL USER: Shall include schools, churches, penal
institutions, and users associated with Federal, State and local governments.
LARGE BUSINESS: Shall include professional offices, barber shops, beauty shops,
bars, restaurants, service providers, repair shops or places engaged in the
sale of merchandise with more than five (5) workers regularly on site.
LIGHT COMMERCIAL: Shall include laundromats, businesses engaged in light
packaging, manufacturing or assembly or similar activities.
MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY: An industrial user of the publicly owned treatment
works that:
   A.   Has a flow of fifty thousand (50,000) gallons or more per average
workday; or
   B.   Has a flow greater than ten percent (10%) of the flow carried by the
Municipal system receiving the waste; or
   C.   Has in its waste, a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in the
Illinois EPA regulations; or
   D.   Is found by the permit issuant authority, in connection with the
issuance of the NPDES permit to the publicly owned treatment works receiving
the waste, to have significant impact, either singly or in combination with
other contributing industries, on that treatment works or upon the quality of
effluent from that treatment works.
MILLIGRAMS PER LITER: A unit of concentration of water or wastewater
constituent. Milligrams per liter is 0.0001 gram of the constituent in one
thousand milliliters (1,000 mL) of water. It has replaced the unit formerly
used commonly, parts per million, to which it is approximately equivalent, in
reporting the results of water and wastewater analysis.
NPDES PERMIT: A permit issued under the national pollutant discharge
elimination system for discharge of wastewaters to the navigable waters of the
United States pursuant to section 402 of the Federal Clean Water Act, as
amended.
NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body
of surface water or groundwater.
PERSON: Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any individual,
firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association, society,
institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
pH: The logarithm (base-10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration
expressed in grams per liter of solution. It shall be determined by one of the
procedures outlined in standard methods.
POPULATION EQUIVALENT: A term used to evaluate the impact of industrial or
other waste on a treatment works or stream. One population equivalent is one
hundred (100) gallons of sewage per day, containing 0.17 pound of BOD and 0.20
pound of suspended solids. The impact on a treatment works is evaluated as the
equivalent of the highest of three (3) parameters. Impact on a stream is the
higher of the BOD and suspended solids parameters.
PRETREATMENT: The treatment of wastewater from sources before introduction into
the wastewater treatment works.
PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") (1.27 cm) in any
dimension.
PUBLIC BUILDING: Any building which is owned, operated or controlled by any
governmental unit or by any subsidiary thereof.
PUBLIC SEWER: A sewer dedicated to or provided by or subject to the
jurisdiction of the Village, consisting of collector sewer, interceptor sewer,
force main and pumping station. Public sewer shall also include sewers within
or outside the Village boundaries that serve one or more persons and ultimately
discharge into the Village sewer system, even though those sewers may not have
been constructed with Village funds.
REPLACEMENT: Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment, accessories
or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the waterworks
and wastewater treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for
each such works designed and constructed. The term "operation and maintenance"
includes replacement.
RESIDENTIAL UNIT: All dwelling units such as houses, mobile homes, apartments
and permanent multi-family dwellings.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer that conveys sewage or industrial wastes, or a
combination of both, and into which stormwaters, surface waters and
groundwaters or unpolluted industrial wastes are not intentionally admitted.
SEWAGE: The term is used interchangeably with "wastewater".
SEWER: A pipe or conduit for conveying sewage or any other waste liquids,
including stormwater, surface water and groundwater drainage.
SEWERAGE: The system of sewers and appurtenances for the collection,
transportation, pumping and treatment of sewage.
SEWERAGE ACCOUNT: An account in the Water and Sewer Fund through which all
sewerage system income and expenses are processed.
SEWERAGE SERVICE CHARGE: The charge per month levied on all users of the
wastewater facilities. The charge shall be computed as outlined in sections
8-3-3 and
8-3-4 of this chapter.
SHALL; MAY: "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissible.
SLUG: Any discharge of water, sewerage or industrial waste which, in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds, for any
period of duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes, more than five (5) times
the average twenty four (24) hour concentration for flows during normal
operation.
SMALL BUSINESS: Shall include professional offices, barber shops, beauty shops,
bars, restaurants, service providers, repair shops or places engaged in the
sale of merchandise with fewer than five (5) workers regularly on site.
STANDARD METHODS: The examination and analytical procedures set forth in the
most recent edition of "Standard Methods for the Examination of Water, Sewage
and Industrial Wastes", published jointly by the American Public Health
Association, the American Water Works Association and the Federation of Sewage
and Wastes Association.
STORM SEWER: A sewer that carries stormwater, surface water and groundwater
drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted
cooling water.
STORMWATER RUNOFF: The portion of the rainfall that is drained into the sewers.
SUPERINTENDENT: The person appointed annually by the Village Board to oversee
and/or perform the operation and maintenance of the waterworks and sewerage
systems.
SURCHARGE: The assessment, in addition to the basic user charge, debt service
charge and administrative service charge, which is levied on those persons
whose wastes are greater in strength than the concentration values established
for average strength sewerage as defined herein.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS: Solids that either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewerage, or industrial waste, and which are removable by
a laboratory infiltration device. Quantitative determination of suspended
solids shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in "standard
methods".
UNPOLLUTED WATER: Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefited by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
USEFUL LIFE: The estimated period during which the facilities will be operated.
USER: An individual unit being served.
USER CHARGE: A charge levied on users of the water and/or sewerage systems for
the costs of operation, maintenance and replacement.
USER CLASS: The type of user as may from time to time be listed in subsection
8-3-3E of this chapter.
VILLAGE: The Village of Shannon, and any reference "within the Village" means
all territory within the perimeter of the Village boundaries.
WASTEWATER: The spent water of the community. Wastewater may be a combination
of the liquid and water carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings,
industrial plants and institutions, together with any groundwater, surface
water and stormwater that may be present.
WASTEWATER FACILITIES: The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, carry and treat domestic and industrial wastes and transport the
effluent to a watercourse.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS: An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes, and sludge, which is sometimes used
synonymously with "wastewater treatment plant" or "sewage treatment plant" or
"pollution control plant".
WATER ACCOUNT: An account in the Water and Sewer Fund through which all water
system income and expenses are processed.
WATER AND SEWERAGE FUND: The principal accounting designation for all revenues
received and expenses paid in the operation of the water and sewer systems.
WATER QUALITY STANDARDS: Are defined in the "Water Pollution Regulations of
Illinois".
WATER SERVICE CHARGE: The charge per month levied on all users of the water
facilities. The charge shall be computed as outlined in sections
8-3-3 and
8-3-4 of this chapter.
WATERCOURSE: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or
intermittently. (Ord. 290, 9-4-2001; amd. 2011 Code; Ord. 392, 1-2-2018)
8-3-3: BASIS FOR CHARGES:
The charges for the use of and services supplied by the combined water and
sewerage system of the Village shall consist of a flat water charge and/or a
wastewater service charge.
   A.   Water Service Charge: The water service charge shall consist of basic
user charge based on type of user. The basic water user charge is for the debt
service, administrative expenses, and operation, maintenance and replacement
expenses of the waterworks system.
   B.   Wastewater Service Charge: The wastewater service charge shall consist
of a basic user charge based on type of user. The basic wastewater user charge
is for the debt service, administrative expenses, and operation, maintenance
and replacement expenses of the sewerage system.
      1.   A surcharge will be levied to all users whose waters exceed the
normal domestic concentrations for BOD5 (200 milligrams per liter) and/or SS
(240 milligrams per liter). The surcharge will be based on waste usage as
recorded by water meters and/or wastewater meters for all wastes which exceed
two hundred milligrams per liter (200 mg/L) and two hundred forty milligrams
per liter (240 mg/L) concentration for BOD5 and SS, respectively.
      2.   The concentration of wastes used for computing surcharges shall be
established by waste sampling. Waste sampling shall be performed as often as
may be deemed necessary by the Superintendent and shall be binding as a basis
for surcharges.
   C.   Adequacy Of Charges: The adequacy of water and/or wastewater service
charges shall be reviewed annually and shall be revised periodically to reflect
a change in the operation and maintenance costs, including equipment
replacement or charges in the debt service and/or administrative costs.
   D.   Annual Notification: Users of the water/wastewater systems will be
notified annually, in conjunction with a regular bill, of the rates and that
portion of the user charges which are attributable to the water/wastewater
treatment operation, maintenance and replacement.
   E.   Classification Of Users: User types, for the purpose of establishing
basic user charges for water and/or sewerage service, are as follows:
Athletic field.
Car wash.
Laundromat.
Nursing home.
Residence not within Village limits (per unit).
Residential (per unit).
Retail/commercial.
Schools.
Service station.
Slaughterhouse. (Ord. 290, 9-4-2001)
8-3-4: RATES AND CHARGES ESTABLISHED 1 :
There shall be and there are hereby established rates and charges for the use
of and for services supplied by the combined water and sewerage system of the
Village, such rates and charges being established as follows:
   A.   Water Service Charges:
      1.   Effective January 1, 2018 there shall be and there is hereby
established a basic user charge for the use and for service supplied by the
water system of the Village as follows:
Type Of User Minimum Charge
             Per Monthly Period
Type Of User                              Minimum Charge
                                          Per Monthly Period
Class 1 residential (per unit)            $ 64.00
Class 2 small business                    86.00
Class 3 large business                    100.00
Class 4 light commercial                  150.00
Class 5 heavy commercial                  300.00
Class 6 industrial                        1,037.00
Class 7 governmental/churches             84.00
Class 8 residences outside Village limits 100.00
Class 9 schools                           375.00
Class 10 slaughterhouses                  350.00
 
      2.   Effective January 1, 2018 there shall be and there is hereby
established the following special annual user charges for the use and for
service supplied by the water system of the Village as follows:
 
In ground sprinkler systems $300.00
Swimming pools              100.00
 
(Ord. 392, 1-2-2018)
   B.   Sewerage Service Charge: There shall be and there is hereby established
a basic user charge for the use and for service supplied by the sewerage system
of the village as follows:
Type Of User Minimum Charge
             Per Monthly Period
Type Of User                                   Minimum Charge
                                               Per Monthly Period
Car wash                                       $ 48.00
Laundromat                                     52.00
Residence not within Village limits (per unit) 29.00
Residential (per residential unit)             21.00
Retail/commercial (per unit)                   25.00
Schools                                        153.00
Service station                                39.00
Slaughterhouse                                 157.00
 
(Ord. 362, 2-4-2014; amd. Ord. 415, 1-3-2023)
      2.   Surcharges:
         a.   Established: There shall be and there are hereby established
rates of surcharges for BOD5 and SS as follows:
 
For BOD5 $0.09 per pound
For SS   0.07 per pound
 
         b.   Computation: The concentration of wastes used for computing
surcharges shall be established by waste sampling. Waste sampling shall be
performed as often as may be deemed necessary by the Superintendent and shall
be binding as a basis for surcharges. Surcharges shall be computed by the
following formula:
S = V(0.00834)[A(BOD-200)+B(SS-240)]
Where:
S       = Amount of surcharge in dollars
V       = Wastewater volume in 1,000 gallons per billing period
A       = Unit charge for BOD5 per pound (as established above)
B       = Unit charge of SS per pound (as established above)
BOD     = 5-day biochemical oxygen demand of the wastewater in mg/l
200     = Average BOD strength in mg/l
SS      = Suspended solids concentration of the wastewater in mg/l
240     = Average SS concentration in mg/l
0.00834 = Unit weight of water x 106 per 1,000 gallons
 
(Ord. 290, 9-4-2001; amd. 2011 Code)
   C.   Discontinuation And Restoration Of Service Charge: There is hereby
established a charge of twenty five dollars ($25.00) for any discontinuation or
restoration of service.
   D.   Deposit: There is hereby established a deposit of fifty dollars
($50.00) for all new water and/or sewer services. The deposit shall be refunded
upon discontinuation of service on the condition that the account is in good
standing. (Ord. 290, 9-4-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. Rates and charges effective September 1, 2001, except as otherwise noted.
8-3-5: NOTICE OF RATES AND CHARGES:
Each user will be notified by the village treasurer in conjunction with a
regular bill of the rate and that portion of the user charges or ad valorem
taxes which are attributable to water/wastewater treatment services, including
the financial information of section
8-3-10 of this chapter. (Ord. 290, 9-4-2001; amd. 2011 Code)
8-3-6: BILLS; LIABILITY FOR SERVICE; LATE PAYMENTS:
   A.   Monthly Bills: The rates and charges for service shall be payable
monthly. Bills for water and/or sewer service shall be sent out by the village
clerk on the first business day after the fifteenth of the month.
   B.   Bills for water and/or sewer service shall be sent out by the village
clerk on the first business day after the fifteenth (15) of the month. All
water and/or sewer bills are due and payable on or before the fifteenth (15)
day of the next month after being sent out. A penalty of fifteen dollars
($15.00) shall be added to all bills not paid by the thirtieth (30) day after
they have been rendered.
   C.    Liability For Service: The owner of the premises, the occupant thereof
and the user of the service shall be jointly and severally liable to pay for
the service to such premises, and the service is furnished to the premises by
the village only upon the condition that the owner of the premises and the
occupant and user of the services are jointly and severally liable therefor to
the village. (Ord. 325, 9-2-2008; amd. Ord. 412, 7-6-2022)
8-3-7: DELINQUENT PAYMENTS:
   A.   Discontinuance Of Service:
      1.   If the charges for such services are not paid within ninety (90)
days after the rendition of the bill for such services, the village shall send
notice of discontinuance of service to the owner of the premises, the occupant
thereof or the user of the service that services will be discontinued if
payment in full is not received prior to the issuance of the next bill for
services. Such services shall be discontinued without further notice. There
shall be an additional charge of fifty dollars ($50.00) to the owner of the
premises, the occupant thereof or the user of the service for any subsequent
notice of discontinuance in the same calendar year.
      2.   In the event the property where service is to be discontinued is not
equipped with a water shutoff valve (curb stop), the village may, without
notice, install a shutoff valve at the expense of the owner of the premises,
the occupant thereof and the user of the service, or take any other action
necessary to discontinue service.
   B.   Reinstatement Of Service: Services shall not be restored until payment
in full has been received. "Payment in full" shall be defined, for the purposes
of this chapter, as payment of all sums due or past due for services, late
charges, applicable charges for discontinuance and restoration of service, any
charges for installation of a water shutoff valve and any other charges for
labor, services or materials, court costs, recording fees or attorney fees
related to the discontinuance or restoration of services. (Ord. 325, 9-2-2008)
   C.   Lien Provisions:
      1.   Whenever a bill for water or sewer service remains unpaid for ninety
(90) days after it has been rendered, the village clerk may file with the
county recorder of deeds a statement of lien claim. This statement shall
contain the legal description of the premises served, the amount of the unpaid
bill, and a notice that the village claims a lien for the amount due, plus
costs, as well as for all charges for services subsequent to the period covered
by the bill. If the user whose bill is unpaid is not the owner of the premises
and the village treasurer has notice of this, notice shall be mailed to the
owner of the premises if his address be known to the treasurer, whenever such
bill remains unpaid for the period of ninety (90) days after it has been
rendered. The failure of the village treasurer to record such lien or to mail
such notice or the failure of the owner to receive such notice shall not affect
the right to foreclose the lien for unpaid bills as mentioned herein. (Ord.
325, 9-2-2008; amd. 2011 Code)
      2.   Property subject to a lien for unpaid charges shall be sold for
nonpayment of the same, and the proceeds of the sale shall be applied to pay
the charges, after deducting costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of
statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be by bill in equity in the name of the
village. The village attorney is hereby authorized and directed to institute
such proceedings in the name of village in any court having jurisdiction over
such matters against any property for which the bill has remained unpaid ninety
(90) days after it has been rendered. (Ord. 325, 9-2-2008)
8-3-8: APPEALS:
The method for computation of rates and service charges established for user
charges in sections
8-3-3 and
8-3-4 of this chapter shall be made available to a user within thirty (30) days
of receipt of a written request for such. Any disagreement over the method used
or in the computations thereof shall be remedied by the village treasurer
within thirty (30) days after notification of a formal written appeal outlining
the discrepancies. (Ord. 290, 9-4-2001)
8-3-9: DISPOSITION OF REVENUES:
   A.   All revenues and monies derived from the operation of the waterworks
and sewerage system shall be deposited in the waterworks and sewerage accounts,
respectively. All such revenues and monies shall be held by the village
treasurer separate and apart from his private funds and separate and apart from
all other funds of the village, and all of said sum, without any deductions
whatsoever, shall be delivered to the village treasurer not more than ten (10)
days after receipt of the same, or at such more frequent intervals as may from
time to time be directed by the village president and board of trustees. (Ord.
290, 9-4-2001; amd. 2011 Code)
   B.   The village treasurer shall receive all such revenues from the
waterworks and sewerage system and all other funds and monies incident to the
operation of such system as the same may be delivered to him and deposit the
same in the water and sewerage accounts of the water and sewerage fund of the
village. The treasurer shall administer such fund in every respect in the
manner provided by Illinois Compiled Statutes, the "revised cities and village
act", effective January 1942. (Ord. 290, 9-4-2001)
8-3-10: ACCOUNTS; RECORDS AND REPORTS; AUDIT:
   A.   The village treasurer shall establish a proper system of accounts and
keep such proper books, records and accounts in which complete and correct
entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the water and sewerage
system, and at regular annual intervals, he shall cause to be made an audit by
an independent auditing concern of the books to show the receipt and
disbursements of the water and sewerage system.
   B.   In addition to the customary operating statements, the annual audit
report shall also reflect the revenues and operating expenses of the water and
sewerage facilities, including replacement costs. In this regard, the financial
information to be shown in the audit report shall include the following:
      1.   Billing data to show total number of gallons billed per fiscal year.
      2.   Debt services for the next succeeding fiscal year.
      3.   Number of users connected to the system.
      4.   A list of users discharging nondomestic and industrial wastes.
      5.   Flow data showing total gallons received at the wastewater plant for
the current year. (Ord. 290, 9-4-2001)
8-3-11: ACCESS TO RECORDS:
The Illinois environmental protection agency and the U.S. environmental
protection agency or its authorized representative shall have access to any
books, documents, papers, and records of the village which are applicable to
the village system of user charges for the purpose of making audit,
examination, excerpts and transcriptions thereof to ensure compliance with the
terms of the special and general conditions to any state grant, and federal
regulations and conditions of the federal grant. (Ord. 290, 9-4-2001)
8-3-12: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter shall
be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (Ord. 290, 9-4-2001; amd. 2011 Code)
CHAPTER 4
CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL
SECTION:
8-4-1: Cross Connections Restricted
8-4-2: Surveys And Investigations
8-4-3: Backflow Prevention Devices
8-4-4: Inspections
8-4-5: Violations; Disconnection Of Water Service; Reconnect Fee
8-4-6: Responsibility For Cleanup Costs
8-4-1: CROSS CONNECTIONS RESTRICTED:
No person, firm or corporation shall establish or permit to be established or
maintain or permit to be maintained any connection whereby a private, auxiliary
or emergency water supply other than the regular public water supply of the
village may enter the supply or distribution system of the village, unless such
private, auxiliary or emergency water supply and the method of connection and
use of such supply shall have been approved by the superintendent of public
works and/or a licensed plumber and the Illinois environmental protection
agency. (Ord. 218, 7-3-1990)
8-4-2: SURVEYS AND INVESTIGATIONS:
It shall be the duty of the superintendent of public works to cause surveys and
investigations to be made of industrial and other properties served by the
public water supply to determine whether actual or potential hazards to the
public water supply may exist. Such surveys and investigations shall be made a
matter of public record and shall be repeated at least every two (2) years, or
as often as the superintendent of public works shall deem necessary. Records of
such surveys shall be maintained and available for review for a period of at
least five (5) years. (Ord. 218, 7-3-1990)
8-4-3: BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES:
All plumbing installed within the village shall be installed in accordance with
the Illinois plumbing code, 77 Illinois administrative code 890. If, in
accordance with the Illinois plumbing code or in the judgment of the
superintendent of public works and/or a licensed plumber, an approved backflow
prevention device is necessary for the safety of the public water supply
system, the superintendent of public works will give notice to the water
customer to install such an approved device immediately. The water customer
shall, at his own expense, install such an approved device at the location and
in the manner in accordance with the Illinois plumbing code, Illinois
environmental protection agency and all applicable local regulations, and shall
have inspections and tests made of such approved devices upon installation and
as required by the Illinois plumbing code, Illinois environmental protection
agency and local regulations. (Ord. 218, 7-3-1990)
8-4-4: INSPECTIONS:
The approved cross connection control device inspector shall have the right to
enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public
water supply or distribution system of the village for the purpose of verifying
the presence or absence of cross connections, and the superintendent of public
works or his authorized agent and/or a licensed plumber shall have the right to
enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public
water supply or distribution system of the village for the purpose of verifying
information submitted by the customer regarding the required cross connection
control inspection. On demand, the owner, lessees or occupants of any property
so served shall furnish to the superintendent of public works any information
which he may request regarding the piping system or systems or water use on
such property. The refusal of such information, when demanded, shall, within
the discretion of the superintendent of public works, be deemed evidence of the
presence of improper connections as provided in this chapter. (Ord. 218, 7-3-
1990)
8-4-5: VIOLATIONS; DISCONNECTION OF WATER SERVICE; RECONNECT FEE:
The village superintendent of public works is hereby authorized and directed to
discontinue, after reasonable notice to the occupant thereof, the water service
to any property wherein any connection in violation of the provisions of this
chapter is known to exist, and to take such other precautionary measures as he
may deem necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water
supply distribution mains. Water service to such property shall not be restored
until such conditions have been eliminated or corrected in compliance with the
provisions of this chapter, and until a reconnection fee as provided in
subsection
8-3-4C of this title is paid to the village. Immediate disconnection with
verbal notice can be effected when the superintendent of public works is
assured that imminent danger of harmful contamination of the public water
supply exists. Such action shall be followed by written notification of the
cause of disconnection. Immediate disconnection without notice to any party can
be effected to prevent actual or anticipated contamination or pollution of the
public water supply; provided, that in the reasonable opinion of the
superintendent of public works and/or a licensed plumber or the Illinois
environmental protection agency, such action is required to prevent actual or
potential contamination or pollution of the public water supply. Neither the
public water supply, the superintendent of public works, or agents or assigns
shall be liable to any customer for any injury, damages or lost revenues which
may result from termination of said customer's water supply in accordance with
the terms of this chapter, whether or not said termination was with or without
notice. (Ord. 218, 7-3-1990; amd. 2011 Code)
8-4-6: RESPONSIBILITY FOR CLEANUP COSTS:
The consumer responsible for back siphoned or back pressured material or
contamination through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply
system occurs through an illegal cross connection or an improperly installed,
maintained or repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear
the cost of cleanup of the potable water supply system. (Ord. 218, 7-3-1990)
TITLE 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Building Codes
9-1-2: Fee Schedule
9-1-3: Penalty
9-1-1: BUILDING CODES:
   A.   Adoption Of Codes: The following listed codes are hereby adopted as the
building and construction codes for the village for the control of buildings
and structures as herein provided, and each and all regulations, provisions,
conditions and terms of said codes are hereby referred to, adopted and made a
part hereof as if fully set out in this section. Three (3) copies of each of
said codes are on file in the office of the village clerk for public use and
inspection.
   International building code, 2009 edition
   International fire code, 2009 edition
   International mechanical code, 2009 edition
   International fuel gas code, 2009 edition
   International property maintenance code, 2009 edition
   International energy conservation code, 2009 edition
   International residential code, 2009 edition
   National electrical code (NFPA 70), 2008 edition
   Illinois plumbing code, 2004 edition
   Illinois accessibility code
   B.   Scope: This section shall control all matters concerning the
construction, alteration, addition, repair, removal, demolition, use, location,
occupancy and maintenance of all buildings and structures and shall apply to
existing or proposed structures in the village, except as such matters are
otherwise provided for in other ordinances or statutes or in the rules and
regulations authorized for promulgation under the provisions of this code.
(2011 Code)
9-1-2: FEE SCHEDULE:
A nonrefundable fee for each plan examination, building permit and inspection
shall be paid in advance in accordance with the following schedule:
 
Building permit:
    New construction                                                         $25.00
    Structural alteration, extension and/or enlargement of existing building 25.00
structure
                                                                                 40.00 plus
                                                                                 costs of
                                                                                 publication
                                                                                 and
Variance application                                                             required
                                                                                 notices to
                                                                                 effected
                                                                                 property
                                                                                 owners
 
(Ord. 243, 4-4-1995; amd. Ord. 417, 2-7-2023)
9-1-3: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter or any provision of any of
the codes adopted herein shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2011 Code)
CHAPTER 2
FENCES
SECTION:
9-2-1: Definition
9-2-2: Permit Requirements
9-2-3: Height Restrictions
9-2-4: Location Requirements
9-2-5: Penalty
9-2-1: DEFINITION:
A "fence" is hereby defined, for purposes of this code, as a hedge, structure
or partition erected for the purpose of enclosing a piece of land, or to divide
a piece of land into distinct portions, or to separate two (2) contiguous
estates. All such devices within the village shall be considered a "fence"
whether their purpose is to restrain animals, to restrain small children, to
prevent people entering upon property, for beautification or otherwise for
aesthetic purposes or for any other purposes. (Ord. 274, 7-1-1999)
9-2-2: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
No person shall erect, alter or remodel any fence within the village without
first obtaining a building permit therefor. The application for such building
permit shall be accompanied by the following exhibits:
   A.   In the event the proposed fence is to be adjacent to the property of
another, an affidavit from all such adjacent property owners indicating that
said adjacent owners do not object to the proposed location of the proposed
fence, and a plot plan indicating location, size and placement of the proposed
fence.
   B.   In the event the proposed fence is to be adjacent to the properties of
others and the applicant is unable to obtain an affidavit from all such
adjacent property owners indicating that said adjacent owners do not object to
the proposed location of the proposed fence, a boundary survey of the area
including the property in question and one hundred feet (100') beyond its outer
boundaries showing lot boundaries and dimensions, buildings, easements and the
location, size and placement of the proposed fence.
   C.   In the event the proposed fence is not adjacent to the property of
another, a plot plan indicating location, size and placement of the proposed
fence. (Ord. 274, 7-1-1999)
9-2-3: HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS:
It shall be unlawful to construct any fence within the village to a height
greater than six feet (6') on the sides or rear of a property or to a height
greater than four feet (4') on the front of a property. (Ord. 274, 7-1-1999;
amd. 2011 Code)
9-2-4: LOCATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   It shall be further provided, that the six foot (6') side fence shall
not extend further forward on a property than the minimum setback requirements
for constructing buildings on said property. It is further provided, that the
side fence may extend forward from said setback line to the line at which a
front fence may be placed, but said additional side fence in front of said
setback line shall not be greater than three feet (3') in height. Further,
there shall be a setback requirement on the rear of the property of five feet
(5') if the property borders an alley. If there is no alley bordering all or a
portion of the property, there shall be no setback requirement along the
portion of said property that does not have an alley bordering it. It shall,
therefore, be possible to place a fence on the boundary line on the sides and
on the rear where no alley is involved. If an alley is involved on either the
rear or the side, then a five foot (5') setback shall be required along said
alley. In the event the lot is on a corner, all portions of the lot abutting a
street shall be considered front yards for the purposes of the setback
requirements and for purposes of determining the height of fences.
   B.   The setback requirement on any fence on the front of the property shall
be such that the fence may be placed immediately inside the sidewalk on said
property if said sidewalk runs parallel to the street on which said property
fronts. In the event the property contains no sidewalk on its front, the
setback requirement for a fence on the front shall be back far enough to allow
the establishment of a sidewalk so that if said sidewalk were placed on said
property, the fence would be immediately inside of the said sidewalk. (Ord.
274, 7-1-1999)
9-2-5: PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with any provisions of this
chapter shall be subject, upon conviction thereof, to a fine of not less than
ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for
each offense. Each day that a violation continues to exist shall constitute a
separate offense. (Ord. 274, 7-1-1999; amd. 2011 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
SECTION:
9-3-1: Definition
9-3-2: Nuisance Declared; Dangerous Buildings Prohibited
9-3-3: Notice To Remedy; Remediation By Village
9-3-4: Additional Remedies
9-3-5: Penalty
9-3-1: DEFINITION:
For the purpose of this chapter, unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning, the term "dangerous building" is hereby defined
to mean and include:
   A.   Any building, shed, fence, or other manmade structure which is
dangerous to the public health because of its construction or condition, or
which may cause or aid in the spread of disease or cause injury to the health
of the occupants thereof or of neighboring structures.
   B.   Any building, shed, fence, or other manmade structure which, because of
faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair, fire or wind damage or any
other cause, is especially liable to fire and constitutes or creates a fire
hazard.
   C.   Any building, shed, fence, or other manmade structure which, by reason
of faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair, fire or wind damage or any
other cause, is liable to cause injury or damage by collapsing or by a collapse
or fall of any part of such structure.
   D.   Any building, shed, fence, or other manmade structure which, because of
its condition or because of lack of doors or windows, is available to and
frequented by malefactors or disorderly persons who are not lawful occupants of
such structure. (Ord. 315, 4-4-2006)
9-3-2: NUISANCE DECLARED; DANGEROUS BUILDINGS PROHIBITED:
Any "dangerous building", as defined in section
9-3-1 of this chapter, in the village is hereby declared to be a nuisance. It
shall be unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any dangerous building
in the village, and it shall be unlawful for the record owner, occupant, or
person in custody of any dangerous building to permit the same to remain in a
dangerous condition. The president and board of trustees may, in addition to
any other action authorized by this chapter, enforce this section. (Ord. 315,
4-4-2006)
9-3-3: NOTICE TO REMEDY; REMEDIATION BY VILLAGE:
   A.   Whenever the village president and board of trustees are of the
opinion, based upon the review of the premises by the president, a trustee, or
an official of the village charged with enforcement of building or zoning
regulations and an oral or written report to the president and board of
trustees, that any building or structure in the village is a dangerous
building, the board of trustees may, by resolution, direct the village clerk to
cause written notice to be served upon the owner thereof, and upon the occupant
thereof, if any, by registered mail or personal service.
   B.   Notice shall state that the building has been declared to be in a
dangerous condition, that the dangerous condition must be removed or remedied
by repairing or altering the building or by demolishing it, and that the
condition must be remedied at once. Notice may be in the following form: (Ord.
315, 4-4-2006)
To                      (owner-occupant of the premises) of the premises known
and described as                    . You are hereby notified that (described
building) on the premises above described has been condemned as a nuisance and
as a dangerous building after inspection by                     .
The cause for this decision is (here insert the facts as to the dangerous
condition).
You must remedy this condition or demolish the building immediately, or the
village will proceed to do so.
You may also be subject to a fine of not less than $50 per day nor more than
$750 per day for each day the building has been or shall remain in a dangerous
condition.
   C.   If the person receiving such notice has not complied therewith within
fifteen (15) days from the time when the notice is served upon such person by
personal service or by registered mail, the president and board of trustees may
proceed to remedy the condition or demolish the dangerous building. (Ord. 315,
4-4-2006; amd. 2011 Code)
   D.   If the owner of the premises is unknown or if his address is unknown,
service of any notice provided in this section may be made by posting a copy
thereof on the premises and by publishing a copy thereof one time in a legal
newspaper of general circulation within the village. (Ord. 315, 4-4-2006)
9-3-4: ADDITIONAL REMEDIES:
   A.   In addition to the actions authorized by other sections of this
chapter, the village may proceed under the provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-31-1, which authorizes the demolition, repair, or enclosure of
unsafe and dangerous buildings or uncompleted and abandoned buildings, and/or
the removal of garbage, debris, and other hazardous, noxious, or unhealthy
substances or materials from such buildings, by applying to the circuit court
for an order for the owners to do so and which authorized a lien when the
village is compelled to take action.
   B.   The village may also proceed under the provisions of 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-31-2, which authorizes an injunction to require
compliance with building, fire, health, and safety standards. (Ord. 315, 4-4-
2006)
9-3-5: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of a violation of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be
punished by imposition of a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) and
not more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) per offense. Every day a
building shall be maintained or permitted to exist in a dangerous condition
shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 315, 4-4-2006; amd. 2011 Code)
TITLE 10
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
PURPOSE, DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION
SECTION:
10-1-1: Title
10-1-2: Purpose
10-1-3: Definitions
10-1-4: Interpretation And Application
10-1-5: Validity
10-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known and may be cited as the SHANNON ZONING ORDINANCE.
(Ord. 78b, 7-1-1958)
10-1-2: PURPOSE:
This title is for the purpose of securing adequate light, pure air, and safety
from fire and other dangers; conserving the taxable values of land and
buildings throughout the village, lessening or avoiding congestion in the
public streets; and promoting the public health, safety, comfort, morals, and
welfare. (Ord. 78b, 7-1-1958)
10-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this title, certain terms and words are hereby defined.
Words used in the present tense shall include the future; words used in the
singular number shall include the plural number, and the plural the singular;
the word "building" shall include the word "structure"; the word "lot" shall
include the word "plot"; and the word "shall" is mandatory and not directory.
ACCESSORY BUILDING OR USE: A subordinate building or use which is located on
the same lot on which the main building or use is situated and which is
reasonably necessary and/or incidental to the conduct of the primary use of
such building or main use.
ALLEY: A public thoroughfare, not more than twenty feet (20') wide, which
affords only a secondary means of access to abutting property.
APARTMENT: A building in which there are two (2) or more rooms or suites of
rooms which are arranged, designed, used or intended to be used as a
housekeeping unit for a single family.
AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION: A place where gasoline is stored only in
underground tanks; kerosene, or motor oil and lubricants or grease, for
operation of automobiles, are retailed directly to the public on the premises;
and including minor accessories and services for automobiles. When the
dispensing, sale or offering for sale of motor fuels or oil is incidental to
the conduct of a public garage, the premises shall be classified as a public
garage.
BASEMENT: A story partly or wholly underground. Where more than one-half (1/2)
of its height is above the average level of the adjoining ground, a basement
shall be counted as a story for purposes of height measurement.
BOARDING HOUSE: A building, other than a hotel or restaurant, where meals or
lodging and meals are provided for compensation for three (3) or more persons,
but not exceeding twelve (12) persons.
BUILDING: Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls, and
designed or intended for the shelter, support, enclosure or protection of
persons, animals, or chattels.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distances measured from the sidewalk level or its
equivalent established grade opposite the middle of the front of the building
to the highest point of the roof in the case of a flat roof; to the deck line
of a mansard roof; and to mean height level between the eaves and ridge of a
gable, hip, or gambrel roof; provided, that where buildings are set back from
the street line, the height of the building may be measured from the average
elevation of the finished lot grade at the front of the building.
BUILDING LINE: Is the same as a front yard setback line.
DISTRICT: A section or sections of the incorporated area of the village of
Shannon for which the regulations and provisions governing the use of buildings
and land are uniform for each class of use permitted therein.
DWELLING: A building or portion thereof, designed exclusively for residential
occupancy, including one-family and multiple dwellings, but not including
hotels, boarding and lodging houses and automobile house trailers.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE: A building or portion thereof designed for occupancy by two
(2) or more families living independently of each other.
DWELLING, ONE-FAMILY: A detached building designed or erected for one family
and occupied exclusively by one family.
DWELLING UNIT: One or more rooms in a dwelling or apartment designed primarily
for occupancy by one family for living or sleeping purposes.
FAMILY: An individual, or two (2) or more persons related by blood or marriage
or adoption, or a group of not more than five (5) persons (excluding servants)
who need not be related by blood or marriage, living together as a single
housekeeping unit in a dwelling unit.
GARAGE, PUBLIC: A building, other than a private garage, used for the care,
repair, or equipment of motor vehicles, or where such vehicles are parked,
stored, repaired, or rebuilt for remuneration, hire or sale within the
structure.
HOME OCCUPATION: Any use customarily conducted entirely within a single- or
multi-family residential dwelling and carried on by the inhabitants thereof,
which is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling for
dwelling purposes and does not change the character thereof.
HOSPITAL OR SANATORIUM: An institution open to the public in which sick
patients or injured persons are given medical or surgical care, or for the care
of contagious diseases or incurable patients.
HOTEL: A building designed for occupancy as the more or less temporary abiding
place of individuals who are lodged with or without meals, in which there are
six (6) or more guestrooms.
INSTITUTION: A building occupied by a nonprofit corporation or nonprofit
establishment for public or semipublic use.
KENNEL: Any lot or premises on which four (4) or more dogs, at least four (4)
months of age, are kept.
LABORATORY: A place devoted to experimental study such as testing and
analyzing. Manufacturing of product or products is not to be permitted within
this definition.
LOADING SPACE: An off street space or berth on the same lot with a building, or
contiguous to a group of buildings, for the temporary parking of a commercial
vehicle while loading or unloading merchandise or materials, and which abuts
upon a street, alley or other appropriate means of access.
LODGING HOUSE: A building with not more than five (5) guestrooms where lodging
is provided for compensation.
LOT: A parcel of land occupied or suitable for occupancy by one main building
or use, with accessory buildings, including the open spaces required by this
title, and having frontage upon a public or private street.
LOT, CORNER: A lot situated at the intersection of two (2) or more streets.
LOT DEPTH: The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines.
LOT FRONTAGE: The front of a lot shall be that boundary of a lot along a public
street; and for a corner lot, the front shall be the shorter lot boundary along
a street.
LOT, THROUGH: A lot having its front and rear lines on different streets.
LOT WIDTH: The horizontal distance between the side lot lines measured at right
angles to the lot depth at a point midway between the front and rear lot lines.
MOBILE HOME: A movable or portable dwelling unit built on a chassis and
designed for transportation on its own wheels after fabrication, and placed on
wheels, jacks or permanent foundation and connected to utilities and designed
for year round living.
MOTEL: See definition of Tourist Court.
NONCONFORMING USE: Any building, structure or land occupied for a use which
does not conform with the provisions of this title after the effective date
hereof or amendments hereto.
NURSING HOME OR REST HOME: A private hospital for the care of the aged or
infirm, or a place of rest for those suffering bodily disorder, but not
including facilities for the treatment of sickness or injuries, or for surgical
care.
PARKING SPACE: A durably surfaced area enclosed in the main building, in an
accessory building, or unenclosed, sufficient in size to store one standard
automobile and, if the space is unenclosed, comprising an area of not less than
one hundred forty (140) square feet, exclusive of a durably surfaced driveway
connecting the parking space with a street or alley and permitting satisfactory
ingress and egress of an automobile.
PORCH: A roofed entrance to a building, projecting out from the wall or walls
of the main structure and commonly open to the weather in part.
STORY: That portion of a building other than a basement, included between the
surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next above it, or if there be
no floor above it, then the space between the floor and the ceiling next above
it. Any portion of a story exceeding fourteen feet (14') in height shall be
considered as an additional story for each fourteen feet (14') or fraction
thereof.
STREET: A public thoroughfare which affords the principal means of access to
abutting property.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATION: Any change in the supporting members of a building or
structure, such as bearing walls, columns, beams, or girders.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected which requires location on the
ground or attached to something having a location on the ground.
TOURIST COURT: A group of attached or detached buildings containing individual
sleeping or living units, designed for or used temporarily by automobile
tourists or transients, with garage attached or parking space conveniently
located to each unit, including auto courts, motels, or motor lodges.
TRAILER, AUTOMOBILE: A vehicle without motive power, so constructed and
designed that, with or without modifications, it can be drawn by a motor
vehicle and used for human habitation or for the carrying of persons and
property, including a trailer coach or house trailer.
TRAILER CAMP, AUTOMOBILE: Any premises occupied or designed to accommodate more
than one family living in an automobile house trailer.
USE: The purpose for which land or a building thereon is designed, arranged or
intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained, let or leased.
YARD: An open space on the same lot with a main building, unoccupied and
unobstructed from the ground upward, except as otherwise provided in this
title.
YARD, FRONT: A yard extending across the full width of the lot and lying
between the front line of the lot and the nearest line of a building.
YARD, REAR: A yard extending across the full width of the lot and lying between
the rear line of the lot and the nearest line of the principal building. (Ord.
78b, 7-1-1958; amd. Ord. 347, 6-5-2012; Ord. 363, 2-4-2014)
10-1-4: INTERPRETATION AND APPLICATION:
In interpreting and applying the provisions of this title, they shall be held
to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public safety, health,
convenience, comfort, morals, prosperity and general welfare. It is not
intended by this title to interfere with or abrogate or annul any ordinances,
rules, regulations or permits previously adopted or issued and not in conflict
with any of the provisions of this title, or which shall be adopted or issued
pursuant to law relating to the use of buildings or premises, likewise not in
conflict with this title; nor is it intended by this title to interfere with or
abrogate or annul easements, covenants and other agreements between parties;
except, that if this title imposes a greater restriction, this title shall
control. (Ord. 78b, 7-1-1958; amd. 2011 Code)
10-1-5: VALIDITY:
Should any such clause or provision of this title be declared by the courts to
be invalid, the same shall not affect the validity of this title as a whole or
any part thereof other than the part declared to be invalid. (Ord. 78b, 7-1-
1958)
CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
10-2-1: Zoning Commissioner
10-2-2: Building Permits And Certificates Of Occupancy
10-2-3: Variations
10-2-3-1: Special Use Permit
10-2-4: Appeals
10-2-5: Hearings And Notices
10-2-6: Judicial Review
10-2-7: Amendments
10-2-8: Penalties And Remedies
10-2-1: ZONING COMMISSIONER:
   A.   Office Created: The office of zoning commissioner is hereby created,
and the zoning commissioner is designated as the officer of the village to be
responsible for enforcing this title.
   B.   Powers And Duties: The zoning commissioner shall have the power and
shall exercise the functions prescribed by state law and by the terms of all
ordinances of the village now in force or hereafter passed relating to state
law. (Ord. 78b, 7-1-1958)
10-2-2: BUILDING PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY:
   A.   Building Permit:
      1.   Permit Required: No building or structure shall hereafter be erected
or structurally altered until a building permit shall be issued by the zoning
commissioner, stating that the building or structure and use of land comply
with the regulations of this title and all building and health laws and
ordinances of the state of Illinois and the village of Shannon.
      2.   Application For Permit: All applications for building permits shall
be accompanied by a plat in duplicate drawn to scale, showing the actual
dimensions of the lot or lots to be built upon, the size of the building or
structure to be erected or structurally altered, its location on the lot or
lots and such other information as may be necessary to provide for enforcement
of these regulations. A careful record of such applications and plats shall be
kept in the office of the zoning commissioner.
   B.   Certificate Of Occupancy:
      1.   Certificate Required: No land shall be occupied or used nor shall
any building hereafter erected or structurally altered be occupied or used in
whole or in part for any purpose whatsoever nor shall a use be established or
changed until a certificate of occupancy shall have been issued by the zoning
commissioner, stating that the building and use of land comply with all the
provisions of this title.
      2.   Application For Certificate: A certificate of occupancy shall be
applied for coincident with the application for a building permit, and shall be
issued within ten (10) days after the erection or alteration of a building
shall have been completed. A record of all certificates shall be kept on file
in the office of the zoning commissioner, and copies shall be furnished on
request to any person having a proprietary or tenancy interest in the building
or land affected. (Ord. 78b, 7-1-1958; amd. 2011 Code)
   C.   Additional Requirements: No building permit shall be issued before the
application has been made for a certificate of occupancy, and no building or
premises may be occupied until such certificate shall have been issued. (Ord.
78b, 7-1-1958)
10-2-3: VARIATIONS:
   A.   The board of trustees, by ordinance, may authorize variations from the
provisions of this title where there are practical difficulties or particular
hardships in the way of carrying out the strict letter of any of the provisions
of this title relating to the use, construction or alteration of buildings or
structures or the use of land. However, no such variation shall be made by the
board of trustees except in a specified case and after a public hearing before
the board of appeals pursuant to a notice, and until a recommendation with
findings of fact from the board of appeals has been received by the board of
trustees.
   B.   The board of trustees, by ordinance, without further public hearing,
may adopt any proposed variation or may refer it back to the board of appeals
for further consideration; provided, however, that any proposed variation which
fails to receive the approval of the board of appeals shall not be passed
except by the favorable vote of two-thirds (2/3) of all the trustees of the
village.
   C.   Every variation made by the board of trustees shall be accompanied by
findings of fact specifying the reason or reasons for making the variation.
   D.    Each applicant for a hearing before the zoning board of appeals shall
pay a nonrefundable filing fee of two hundred dollars ($200.00) plus the cost
of publication of public hearing notice required herein. In the event costs
associated with the request exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00), the applicant
shall pay the difference prior to the hearing date. (Ord. 78b, 7-1-1958; amd.
Ord. 363, 2-4-2014; Ord. 419, 5-2-2023)
10-2-3-1: SPECIAL USE PERMIT:
   A.   Required: No use classified under "use by special permit" in this title
shall be undertaken without first obtaining a special use permit from the
village after compliance with this section.
   B.   Procedure:
      1.   The property owner shall meet with the zoning officer to explain the
situation and obtain an application form.
      2.   The applicant shall file the completed application with the zoning
officer which includes at least the following exhibits:
         a.   Boundary survey or plot plan showing in detail any modifications
proposed to be made to the property; the location on the property where the
special use will be conducted; the location of any signage.
         b.   A statement of the proposed activity detailing the nature of the
proposed special use; the number of persons to be employed in such activity on
the premises; the proposed hours of operation.
         c.   Each applicant for a special use permit shall pay a nonrefundable
filling fee of two hundred dollars ($200.00) plus the cost of publication of
public hearing notice required herein. In the event costs associated with the
request exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00), the applicant shall pay the
difference prior to the hearing date.
         d.   Any other information the zoning officer deems necessary.
      3.   The zoning officer shall transmit the completed application together
with all required exhibits to the planning commission.
      4.   The zoning officer shall cause a public hearing before the planning
commission to be scheduled and notice to be published as provided in section
10-2-5 of this chapter.
   C.   Hearing:
      1.   The planning commission shall hold a public hearing and shall study
the application and consider the testimony of any witnesses to determine if
there are any possible adverse effects of the proposed special use and to
determine if any additional requirements should be imposed to avoid such
adverse effects and that the standards in subsection D of this section have
been demonstrated.
      2.   The planning commission shall recommend one of three (3) actions:
approval, denial, or approval with conditions.
      3.   The planning commission shall transmit its recommendation to the
village board of trustees for its official action.
   D.   Standards For Granting Permits:
      1.   The granting of the special use permit will not be detrimental to or
endanger the public health, safety, morals, comfort or general welfare.
      2.   The special use will not be injurious to the use and enjoyment of
other property in the immediate vicinity for a purpose already permitted, and
will not substantially diminish and impair property values within the
neighborhood.
      3.   The special use permit will not impede the normal and orderly
development and improvement of surrounding property for uses permitted in the
district.
      4.   Adequate utilities, drainage, access, off street parking and other
adequate facilities have been or will be provided to minimize congestion in the
public streets.
      5.   The special use shall in all other respects comply with the
applicable regulations of the district in which it is located.
      6.   The planning commission may recommend and the village board may
require any such conditions and restrictions upon the establishment, location,
construction, signage, maintenance and operation of the special use as deemed
necessary for the protection of the public interest.
   E.   Limitation, Expiration Or Revocation Of Permits:
      1.   A special use permit shall be deemed to authorize only the specific
use for which it was granted.
      2.   A special use permit shall be null and void without further action
of the planning commission or village board if the use does not commence within
one year of the issuance of the special use permit.
      3.   A special use permit shall expire without further action of the
planning commission or village board if that use ceases for more than six (6)
consecutive months.
      4.   A special use permit is not transferable, assignable and does not
run with the land.
      5.    A special use permit may be revoked or have additional conditions
imposed by the village board for violations of the terms of the special use
permit or any other provision of this code after notice of violation to the
special use permit holder and public hearing before the village board. (Ord.
363, 2-4-2014; amd. Ord. 419, 5-2-2023)
10-2-4: APPEALS:
   A.   Authority To Initiate Appeals: An appeal may be taken from the zoning
commissioner by any person aggrieved or by an officer, department, board or
bureau of the village.
   B.   Notice Of Appeal: The appeal shall be taken within forty five (45) days
of the action complained of by filing with the zoning commissioner and with the
board of appeals, a notice of appeal, specifying the grounds thereof. The
zoning commissioner shall forthwith transmit to the board all of the papers
constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
   C.   Stay Of Proceedings: An appeal stays all proceedings and furtherance of
the action appealed from, unless the zoning commissioner certifies to the board
of appeals, after the notice of appeal has been filed with him, that, by reason
of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in his opinion cause imminent
peril to life or property, in which case, the proceedings shall not be stayed
otherwise than by a restraining order, which may be granted by the board of
appeals or by a circuit court on application, on notice to the zoning
commissioner and on due cause shown.
   D.    Hearing:
   1. The board of appeals shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of an
appeal and give due notice thereof to the parties who will be affected by a
decision on the same, within a reasonable time.
   2. Upon the hearing, any party may appear in person or by agent or by
attorney.
   3. Each applicant for a hearing before the zoning board of appeals shall pay
a nonrefundable filing fee of two hundred dollars ($200.00) plus the cost of
publication of public hearing notice required herein. In the event costs
associated with the request exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00), the applicant
shall pay the difference prior to the hearing date.
   E.    Decisions: The board of appeals may reverse or confirm, wholly or
partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision or determination as, in
its opinion, ought to be made in the premises and, to that end, shall have all
the powers of the zoning commissioner. (Ord. 78b, 7-1-1958; amd. 2011 Code;
Ord. 363, 2-4-2014; Ord. 419, 5-2-2023)
10-2-5: HEARINGS AND NOTICES:
Decisions and recommendations of the board of appeals shall be reached only
after a public hearing and after notice has been given by registered mail to
the applicant. In addition, notice of the time and place of such public hearing
shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the village not
less than fifteen (15) days nor more than thirty (30) days prior to the
hearing. Such notice shall also contain the address or location of the property
for which a hearing by the board is sought, as well as a brief description of
the nature of the application. (Ord. 78b, 7-1-1958; amd. 2011 Code)
10-2-6: JUDICIAL REVIEW:
All final administrative decisions from the board of appeals under this title
shall be subject to judicial review pursuant to the provisions of the
administrative review law of the state of Illinois, and all amendments and
modifications thereto and the rules adopted pursuant thereto. (Ord. 78b, 7-1-
1958)
10-2-7: AMENDMENTS:
The regulations imposed in the districts created under this title may be
amended by ordinance. No such amendments shall be made without public notice
and without a public hearing before the planning commission. Not less than
fifteen (15) days' and not more than thirty (30) days' notice of the time and
place of such hearing shall be published at least once in a newspaper of
general circulation in the village, said notice to contain the particular
location for which the amendment is requested as well as a brief statement
describing the proposed amendment. In case of a written protest against any
proposed amendment of the regulations or districts, signed and acknowledged by
owners of twenty percent (20%) of the frontage property to be altered, or by
the owners of twenty percent (20%) of the frontage immediately adjoining or
across an alley therefrom, or by the owners of twenty percent (20%) of the
frontage directly opposite the frontage proposed to be altered, is filed with
the village clerk, the amendment shall not be passed except by a favorable vote
of two-thirds (2/3) of all the trustees of the village. In such cases, a copy
of the written protest shall be served by the protester or protesters on the
applicant for the proposed amendment and a copy upon the applicant's attorney,
if any, by certified mail at the address of the applicant and attorney shown in
the application for the proposed amendment.
   A.   Each applicant for a hearing before the planning commission shall pay a
nonrefundable filing fee of two hundred dollars ($200.00) plus the cost of
publication of public hearing notice required herein. In the event costs
associated with the request exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00), the applicant
shall pay the difference prior to the hearing date. (Ord. 78b, 7-1-1958; amd.
2011 Code; Ord. 363, 2-4-2014; Ord. 419, 5-2-2023)
10-2-8: PENALTIES AND REMEDIES:
   A.   Any person, firm or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits and
neglects, or refuses to comply with, or resists the enforcement of any of the
provisions of this title shall, upon conviction, be fined not to exceed five
hundred dollars ($500.00). Each day that a violation is permitted to exist
shall constitute a separate offense.
   B.   In case any building or structure is erected, constructed,
reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted, or maintained, or any building,
structure or land is used in violation of this title, the proper authorities of
the village, in addition to other remedies, may institute any appropriate
action or proceedings to prevent such unlawful erection, maintenance or use, to
restrain, correct or abate such violation, to prevent the occupancy of said
building, structure or land, or to prevent any illegal act, conduct, business
or use in or about such premises. (Ord. 167, 8-5-1980)
ARTICLE A. BOARD OF APPEALS
SECTION:
10-2A-1: Established; Membership; Appointment
10-2A-2: Terms Of Office
10-2A-3: Removals And Vacancies
10-2A-4: Organization
10-2A-5: Compensation
10-2A-6: Jurisdiction
10-2A-1: ESTABLISHED; MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT:
A board of appeals is hereby authorized to be established. The word "board",
when used in this article shall be construed to mean the board of appeals. The
board shall consist of three (3) members appointed by the village president and
confirmed by the village board of trustees. (Ord. 78b, 7-1-1958; amd. Ord. 419,
5-2-2023)
10-2A-2: TERMS OF OFFICE:
The members of the board shall serve respectively for the following terms: one
(1) for one (1) year, one (1) for two (2) years and one (1) for three (3)
years. The successor to each member appointed shall serve for a term of three
(3) years. (Ord. 78b, 7-1-1958; amd. Ord. 419, 5-2-2023)
10-2A-3: REMOVALS AND VACANCIES:
The village president shall have power to remove any member of the board for
cause and after public hearing. Vacancies upon the board shall be filled for
the unexpired term of the member whose place has become vacant in the manner
herein provided for the appointment of such member. (Ord. 78b, 7-1-1958)
10-2A-4: ORGANIZATION:
   A.   Officers:
      1.   Chair: One of the members of the board shall be, by the president of
the village board, designated as chair of said board and shall hold his office
as chair until his successor is appointed. Such chair, or in his absence, the
acting chair, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses.
      2.   Secretary: The board shall also select one of its members as
secretary to keep minutes and maintain the records of the board. (Ord. 78b, 7-
1-1958)
   B.   Meetings: All meetings of the board of appeals shall be held at the
call of the chair and at such other times as the board may determine. The
chair, or in his absence the acting chair, may administer oaths and compel the
attendance of witnesses. All meetings of the board shall be open to the public.
The board shall keep the minutes of the proceedings, showing the vote of each
member upon every question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating such
fact, and shall also keep records of its examinations and other official
actions. No hearing shall be conducted without a quorum of the board being
present. A quorum shall consist of a majority of all members. Any absent member
who certifies that he or she has read the transcript of the proceedings before
the board may vote upon any question before the board. Every rule, regulation,
every amendment or repeal thereof, and every order, requirement, decision or
determination of the board shall immediately be filed in the office of the
board and shall be a public record. (Ord. 78b, 7-1-1958; amd. 2011 Code)
   C.   Rules Of Procedure: The board shall adopt its own rules of procedure
not in conflict with the statutes in such case made and provided. (Ord. 78b, 7-
1-1958)
10-2A-5: COMPENSATION:
All members of the board shall serve without compensation. (Ord. 78b, 7-1-1958)
10-2A-6: JURISDICTION:
   A.   The board of appeals shall hear and decide appeals from and review any
order, requirement, decision, or determination made by the zoning commissioner.
The board of appeals shall also hear all applications for variations to the
provisions of this title and shall submit to the board of trustees its
recommendations.
   B.   The concurring vote of two (2) of the members of the board shall be
necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of the
zoning commissioner, or to decide in favor of the applicant, any matter upon
which it is required to pass under this title, or to recommend any variation,
special use or modification under this title. Every such recommendation by the
board after a hearing shall be accompanied by findings of fact, specifying the
reason for such decision.
   C.    In making recommendations to the board of trustees, the board of
appeals shall find that a proposed variation will not contaminate the air, nor
impair the light supply to adjacent property, increase the congestion in the
public streets, increase the danger of fire, impair or diminish property values
or be contrary to the general health, safety and welfare of the people of the
village. (Ord. 78b, 7-1-1958; amd. 2011 Code; Ord. 419, 5-2-2023)
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL ZONING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-3-1: Zoning Districts And Map
10-3-2: Compliance With Provisions
10-3-3: Accessory Buildings
10-3-4: Additional Use And Height Regulations
10-3-5: Nonconforming Uses And Structures
10-3-1: ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP:
   A.   Districts Established: In order to classify, regulate, and restrict the
location of trades and industries, and the location of buildings designed for
specific uses; to regulate and limit the height and bulk of buildings; to
regulate and limit the intensity and use of lots; and to regulate and determine
the area of yards, courts and other open spaces within and surrounding
buildings, the village is hereby divided into districts of which there shall be
four (4) in number as follows:
 
R-1 One-family residential district
R-2 Multiple-family residential district
C   Business and light industry district
I   Heavy industry district
 
   B.   Zoning Map: The boundaries of designated districts are shown upon the
map made a part of this title, which map is designated as the "Zoning Map Of
The Village Of Shannon". The zoning map is made a part of this title and on
file in the office of the village clerk, and all notations, references and
other information shown thereon are a part of this title and have the same
force and effect as if the zoning map and all such notations, references, and
other information shown thereon were fully set forth or described herein. (Ord.
78b, 7-1-1958)
10-3-2: COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
   A.   No building shall be erected or structurally altered for any purpose
other than that provided herein for the district in which it is located.
   B.   No building shall be erected or altered or moved to exceed in height
the limit established herein for the district in which such building is
located.
   C.   No lot area shall be so reduced or diminished that the yards or other
open spaces shall be smaller than prescribed by this title, nor shall the
density of population be increased in any manner, except in conformity with the
area regulations herein established for the district in which such building is
located. (Ord. 78b, 7-1-1958)
10-3-3: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:
Accessory buildings, except as otherwise permitted in this title, shall be
subject to the following regulations:
   A.   An accessory building shall not be erected prior to the establishment
of the principal use or the construction of the principal building.
   B.   No accessory building shall be used for dwelling purposes. (Ord. 78b,
7-1-1958)
10-3-4: ADDITIONAL USE AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
The regulations set forth in this section qualify or supplement, as the case
may be, the district use and height regulations appearing elsewhere in this
title:
   A.   Public, semipublic, or public service buildings, hospitals,
institutions or schools, when permitted in a district, may be erected to a
height not exceeding sixty feet (60'), and churches and temples may be erected
to a height not exceeding fifty feet (50').
   B.   Single-family dwellings and multiple dwellings may be increased in
height by not more than ten feet (10') when the front, side and rear yards are
increased over the yard requirements of the district in which they are located
by one foot (1') for each additional foot of building height above the height
limit otherwise provided in the district in which the building is built.
   C.   Chimneys, cooling towers, elevator bulkheads, grain elevators, fire
towers, monuments, stacks, stage towers, scenery lots, tanks, water towers,
ornamental towers and spires, church steeples, radio and television towers or
necessary mechanical appurtenances may be erected to a height in accordance
with the existing or hereafter adopted ordinances of the village. (Ord. 78b, 7-
1-1958)
10-3-5: NONCONFORMING USES AND STRUCTURES:
   A.   The lawful use of land or buildings existing at the effective date
hereof may continue, although such use does not conform to the regulations
specified by this title within the district in which such land or building is
located, subject to the following conditions and specifications:
      1.   Any nonconforming use of land or buildings which has ceased by
discontinuance or abandonment for a period of six (6) months shall thereafter
conform to the provisions of this title.
      2.   No nonconforming use of a building may be moved to any other part of
a parcel of land upon which same was conducted at the effective date hereof.
      3.   No nonconforming building shall be enlarged or structurally altered
except to make it a conforming building. A nonconforming use of a building
existing at the effective date hereof may be extended throughout the building,
provided no structural alterations except those required by ordinance or law
are made therein.
      4.   The use of a nonconforming building may be changed to a more
restricted classification or a use of equal character, but not to a less
restricted classification.
   B.   The provisions of subsection A of this section shall also apply to
nonconforming uses in districts hereafter changed by amendment to this title.
(Ord. 78b, 7-1-1958)
CHAPTER 4
OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING
SECTION:
10-4-1: Off Street Parking Regulations
10-4-2: Off Street Loading Regulations
10-4-1: OFF STREET PARKING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Parking Plan Required For Building Permit Or Certificate Of Occupancy
Issuance: A plan of parking facilities shall accompany each application for a
building permit or a certificate of occupancy. The completion of the
improvements for parking, according to such plan, shall be a requisite for the
validity of the permit or certificate.
   B.   General Parking Space Requirements: For the purpose of this section,
two hundred (200) square feet of lot or floor area, which has a means of
ingress or egress from an alley or street, shall be deemed parking space for
one vehicle. Such space, where open, may be included as part of a required open
space for front, side or rear yards. Such parking spaces and access driveways
shall be paved or otherwise surfaced with an all weather material. Such parking
spaces shall be reserved for the sole use of the occupants of the building or
lot and the visitors thereto.
   C.   Joint Use:
      1.   Churches, theaters, stadiums, auditoriums and other places of
assembly may make arrangements for the joint use of parking spaces as
hereinafter specified.
      2.   Joint use of parking facilities may be permitted in cases where
major parking demands occur on different days of the week or during different
hours; provided, that parking spaces will be available for each use in
accordance with the standards of this section and that the owner or owners
agree, in writing, that any subsequent sale or division of the property, or
change in use thereof, will not interfere with the joint use of the parking
facilities.
   D.   Reduction In Number Of Spaces: Parking spaces required under this
section may be reduced at a time when the capacity or use of the building is
changed in such a manner that a new use or capacity would require less spaces
than before the change. Such reduction shall not be below the standards set
forth in this section.
   E.   Prohibited Use Of Loading Areas For Parking Requirements: Loading or
unloading areas shall not be considered as parking areas.
   F.   Required Number Of Spaces: In any district, except as noted below,
every building built, or structurally altered, enlarged or increased in
capacity, and every land use initiated subsequent to the effective date hereof
shall be provided with minimum off street parking facilities as follows:
Type Of Use  Required Number Of Parking Spaces
Type Of Use                            Required Number Of Parking Spaces
                                       1 for each 5 seats or bench seating
                                       spaces based upon maximum seating
                                       capacity. For the purpose of this type
                                       of use, parking spaces already provided
                                       for off street parking requirements for
Churches, auditoriums, gymnasiums,     stores, office buildings and industrial
stadiums, theaters, and other places   establishments or off street parking
of public or private assembly with     facilities provided by the village
fixed seats                            lying within 300 feet of the place of
                                       public assembly as measured along the
                                       line of public access and not normally
                                       in use between the hours of 6:00 P.M.
                                       and 12:00 midnight and are made
                                       available for other parking may be used
                                       to satisfy the requirements hereof
                                       1 for each 300 square feet of floor
Dance halls, skating rinks, bowling    area to be provided on the premises or
alleys and private clubs               within 300 feet of the entrance to the
                                       same
Funeral homes                          15 on the premises, plus 5 for each
                                       area which can be used as a parlor
Hospitals                              1 for each 3 hospital beds
Hotels, rooming houses, clubs and      1 for each 2 guest sleeping rooms
fraternal homes
                                       1 for each 5 employees, based on the
                                       greatest number of employees at work at
Industrial or manufacturing            one time, to be provided on the
establishments                         premises or at other off street
                                       locations within 1,000 feet of the main
                                       entrance
                                       1 for each transient sleeping room
Lodging houses                         offered for tourist accommodation in
                                       addition to spaces required for
                                       permanent residents of the building
One- and two-family dwellings and      1 for each dwelling unit
multiple-family dwellings
Tourist courts and motels              1 for each lodging unit
For all uses in the C business and
light industry district, except those  1 on the premises for each 5 employees
which are covered by the foregoing
portion of this subsection
 
(Ord. 78b, 7-1-1958)
10-4-2: OFF STREET LOADING REGULATIONS:
On the same lot with every building or part thereof erected hereafter to be
used for other than exclusive dwelling purposes or as an accessory use for
dwelling purposes, there shall be provided on the lot adequate space for motor
vehicles in order to avoid undue interference with the public use of streets or
alleys. Such space, unless otherwise adequately provided, shall include a ten
foot by twenty five foot (10' x 25') loading space with a fifteen foot (15')
height clearance, and one such space shall be provided for each twenty thousand
(20,000) square feet or fraction thereof of floor or lot area used for other
than residential purposes. (Ord. 78b, 7-1-1958)
CHAPTER 5
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. R-1 ONE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5A-1: Uses
10-5A-2: Building Height
10-5A-3: Yard And Lot Requirements
10-5A-4: Mobile Homes Prohibited
10-5A-1: USES:
   A.   Permitted Uses: It shall be unlawful to use or permit the use of any
building or premises in an R-1 one-family residential district for any purpose
other than the following:
Gardening and other horticultural uses where no building is involved.
One-family detached dwellings.
Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to the above uses not
involving the conduct of a business.
Temporary buildings for construction purposes for a period not to exceed one
year.
   B.   Uses By Special Permit:
Churches.
Home occupations as defined in section
10-1-3 of this title.
Nursery schools or daycare centers provided there is a minimum of one hundred
(100) square feet of outdoor play area for each child to be on the premises and
the play area is fenced and screened with plantings from any adjoining lot.
Nursing home.
Public libraries or parks.
Roadside stands for sale of produce.
Schools (public or private). (Ord. 363, 2-4-2014)
10-5A-2: BUILDING HEIGHT:
No building erected or enlarged shall exceed two and one-half (21/2) stories or
thirty five feet (35') in height. (Ord. 78b, 7-1-1958)
10-5A-3: YARD AND LOT REQUIREMENTS:
No building shall be erected or enlarged unless the following yards and lot
areas are provided and maintained in connection with such building, structure
or enlargement:
   A.   Yards:
      1.   Front Yard: Each lot upon which a dwelling is constructed shall have
a front yard of not less than thirty feet (30') in depth except as follows: The
front yard depth for a principal building located on a lot within seventy feet
(70') measured along the street line from the front corners of the lot under
consideration, to any portion of two (2) or more lots in the same block and
which lots are occupied by dwellings that front on the same street as the
proposed principal dwelling shall be the average front yard depth of such
existing dwellings. In computing such front yard depths, existing buildings
with front yard depths greater than fifty feet (50') shall be assumed to have a
front yard depth of fifty feet (50'), and a building with a front yard depth
less than twenty feet (20') shall be assumed to have a depth of twenty feet
(20').
      2.   Side Yards:
         a.   Interior Lots: On interior lots, there shall be a side yard on
each side of a main building of not less than seven feet (7') or ten percent
(10%) of the average lot width, whichever is less, but in no case less than
five feet (5').
         b.   Corner Lots: On corner lots, the side yard requirement shall be
the same as for interior lots; except, that there shall be maintained a side
yard of not less than ten feet (10') on the side adjacent to the street which
intersects the street upon which the building or structure maintains frontage.
      3.   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard having a depth of not less
than ten feet (10').
      4.   Yard Encroachments: Accessory buildings shall not encroach upon the
front, side and rear yards as required by this subsection.
   B.   Lot Coverage: Not more than forty percent (40%) of the area of a lot
may be covered by main buildings, structures, or accessory buildings. (Ord.
78b, 7-1-1958)
   C.   Lot Area: Every dwelling hereafter erected or structurally altered as a
one-family dwelling shall be on a lot having an area of not less than seven
thousand five hundred (7,500) square feet and a width of seventy five feet
(75'); provided, however, that where a lot has less area and width, but is a
single tract and the title thereof has been platted and recorded before the
effective date hereof, said lot may be improved with a one-family dwelling or
structure and accessory buildings, provided the lot coverage is within seventy
five percent (75%) of that required by the terms of subsection B of this
section; and provided further, that the total lot area is not less than four
thousand (4,000) square feet. (Ord. 126, 4-27-1971)
10-5A-4: MOBILE HOMES PROHIBITED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to place a mobile home on any premises in an R-
1 one-family residential district.
   B.   Any mobile home currently in an R-1 one-family residential district
shall be considered a nonconforming structure subject to the provisions of
section
10-3-5 of this title. (Ord. 347, 6-5-2012)
ARTICLE A. R-1 ONE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5A-1: Uses
10-5A-2: Building Height
10-5A-3: Yard And Lot Requirements
10-5A-4: Mobile Homes Prohibited
10-5A-1: USES:
   A.   Permitted Uses: It shall be unlawful to use or permit the use of any
building or premises in an R-1 one-family residential district for any purpose
other than the following:
Gardening and other horticultural uses where no building is involved.
One-family detached dwellings.
Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to the above uses not
involving the conduct of a business.
Temporary buildings for construction purposes for a period not to exceed one
year.
   B.   Uses By Special Permit:
Churches.
Home occupations as defined in section
10-1-3 of this title.
Nursery schools or daycare centers provided there is a minimum of one hundred
(100) square feet of outdoor play area for each child to be on the premises and
the play area is fenced and screened with plantings from any adjoining lot.
Nursing home.
Public libraries or parks.
Roadside stands for sale of produce.
Schools (public or private). (Ord. 363, 2-4-2014)
10-5A-2: BUILDING HEIGHT:
No building erected or enlarged shall exceed two and one-half (21/2) stories or
thirty five feet (35') in height. (Ord. 78b, 7-1-1958)
10-5A-3: YARD AND LOT REQUIREMENTS:
No building shall be erected or enlarged unless the following yards and lot
areas are provided and maintained in connection with such building, structure
or enlargement:
   A.   Yards:
      1.   Front Yard: Each lot upon which a dwelling is constructed shall have
a front yard of not less than thirty feet (30') in depth except as follows: The
front yard depth for a principal building located on a lot within seventy feet
(70') measured along the street line from the front corners of the lot under
consideration, to any portion of two (2) or more lots in the same block and
which lots are occupied by dwellings that front on the same street as the
proposed principal dwelling shall be the average front yard depth of such
existing dwellings. In computing such front yard depths, existing buildings
with front yard depths greater than fifty feet (50') shall be assumed to have a
front yard depth of fifty feet (50'), and a building with a front yard depth
less than twenty feet (20') shall be assumed to have a depth of twenty feet
(20').
      2.   Side Yards:
         a.   Interior Lots: On interior lots, there shall be a side yard on
each side of a main building of not less than seven feet (7') or ten percent
(10%) of the average lot width, whichever is less, but in no case less than
five feet (5').
         b.   Corner Lots: On corner lots, the side yard requirement shall be
the same as for interior lots; except, that there shall be maintained a side
yard of not less than ten feet (10') on the side adjacent to the street which
intersects the street upon which the building or structure maintains frontage.
      3.   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard having a depth of not less
than ten feet (10').
      4.   Yard Encroachments: Accessory buildings shall not encroach upon the
front, side and rear yards as required by this subsection.
   B.   Lot Coverage: Not more than forty percent (40%) of the area of a lot
may be covered by main buildings, structures, or accessory buildings. (Ord.
78b, 7-1-1958)
   C.   Lot Area: Every dwelling hereafter erected or structurally altered as a
one-family dwelling shall be on a lot having an area of not less than seven
thousand five hundred (7,500) square feet and a width of seventy five feet
(75'); provided, however, that where a lot has less area and width, but is a
single tract and the title thereof has been platted and recorded before the
effective date hereof, said lot may be improved with a one-family dwelling or
structure and accessory buildings, provided the lot coverage is within seventy
five percent (75%) of that required by the terms of subsection B of this
section; and provided further, that the total lot area is not less than four
thousand (4,000) square feet. (Ord. 126, 4-27-1971)
10-5A-4: MOBILE HOMES PROHIBITED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to place a mobile home on any premises in an R-
1 one-family residential district.
   B.   Any mobile home currently in an R-1 one-family residential district
shall be considered a nonconforming structure subject to the provisions of
section
10-3-5 of this title. (Ord. 347, 6-5-2012)
ARTICLE B. R-2 MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5B-1: Uses
10-5B-2: Building Height
10-5B-3: Yard And Lot Requirements
10-5B-4: Mobile Homes Prohibited
10-5B-1: USES:
   A.   Permitted Uses: It shall be unlawful to use or permit the use of any
building or premises in an R-2 multiple-family residential district for any
purpose other than the following:
Any use permitted in the R-1 one-family residential district.
Multiple-family dwellings and apartments.
   B.   Uses By Special Permit:
Antique shops.
Boarding or lodging house.
Churches.
Home occupations as defined in section
10-1-3 of this title.
Nursery schools or daycare centers provided there is a minimum of one hundred
(100) square feet of outdoor play area for each child to be on the premises and
the play area is fenced and screened with plantings from any adjoining lot.
Nursing home.
Public libraries or parks.
Roadside stands for sale of produce.
Schools (public or private). (Ord. 363, 2-4-2014)
10-5B-2: BUILDING HEIGHT:
No buildings shall hereafter be erected or structurally altered to exceed two
and one-half (21/2) stories or thirty five feet (35'). (Ord. 78b, 7-1-1958)
10-5B-3: YARD AND LOT REQUIREMENTS:
No building shall be erected nor shall any existing structure be enlarged or
altered for multiple-family use unless the following yards and lot areas are
provided and maintained in connection with such structure, alteration or
enlargement:
   A.   Yards:
      1.   Front yard: The same regulations shall apply as required in the R-
1 one-family residential district.
      2.   Side yards: The same regulations shall apply as required in the R-
1 one-family residential district.
      3.   Rear yard: The same regulations shall apply as required in the R-
1 one-family residential district.
      4.   Yard encroachments: The same regulations shall apply as required in
the R-1 one-family residential district.
   B.   Lot Coverage: Not more than fifty percent (50%) of the area of a lot
may be covered by main buildings, structures, or accessory buildings.
   C.   Lot Area:
      1.   Every building hereafter erected or structurally altered as a
multiple dwelling, apartment or row dwelling of more than two (2) dwelling
units shall provide a lot area per dwelling unit of not less than one thousand
five hundred (1,500) square feet.
      2.   No building hereafter erected or structurally altered in the R-
2 multiple-family district shall have a total lot area of less than five
thousand five hundred (5,500) square feet, nor a lot width at the established
building line of less than fifty feet (50'); except, that one-family dwellings
may be erected or structurally altered on lots having an area of not less than
five thousand (5,000) square feet and a width at the established building line
of forty feet (40'); provided, however, that where a lot having less area and
width, but is a single tract and the title thereof has been platted and
recorded prior to the effective date hereof, said lot may be improved with a
dwelling or structure, provided the lot coverage is within seventy five percent
(75%) of that required by the terms of subsection B of this section; and
provided further, the total lot area is not less than four thousand (4,000)
square feet. (Ord. 78b, 7-1-1958)
10-5B-4: MOBILE HOMES PROHIBITED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to place a mobile home on any premises in an R-
2 multiple-family residential district.
   B.   Any mobile home currently in an R-2 multiple-family residential
district shall be considered a nonconforming structure subject to the
provisions of section
10-3-5 of this title. (Ord. 347, 6-5-2012)
CHAPTER 6
C BUSINESS AND LIGHT INDUSTRY DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-6-1: Permitted Uses
10-6-2: Building Height
10-6-3: Yard Requirements
10-6-4: Enclosed Businesses; Exceptions
10-6-1: PERMITTED USES:
It shall be unlawful to use or permit the use of any building or premises in
the C business and light industry district for any purpose other than the
following:
Any use permitted in the R-2 multiple-family residential district.
Agricultural implement sales and service.
Air conditioning and heating sales and service.
Auction rooms.
Auditoriums.
Automobile sales and service shops and used car lots.
Automobile service stations.
Automobile trailer camp.
Bakeries.
Banks.
Barbershops and beauty parlors.
Book or stationery stores.
Building equipment, building materials, lumberyards, coal, sand and gravel
yards, and yards for contracting equipment and maintenance, or operating
equipment of public agencies or public utilities, or materials or equipment of
similar nature.
Bus and passenger depots.
Business, music, dance or commercial schools.
Carpet and rug cleaners.
Catering establishments.
Chick hatcheries.
Cleaning and dyeing establishments.
Clothing and dress manufacturers.
Dance halls.
Department, furniture and home appliance stores.
Drive-in restaurants where soft drinks and/or food are served.
Drugstores.
Electrical appliance and repair shops.
Employment agencies.
Expressing, baggage and transfer delivery service.
Florist shops and greenhouses.
Frozen food lockers.
Grocery, fruit or vegetable stores.
Hardware stores.
Hotels.
Laboratories.
Laundries, launderettes, laundromats.
Machine shops, when not equipped with heavy punch presses or any machinery
creating vibration and noise disturbing to occupants of adjacent property.
Manufacturing or processing which is clearly incidental to retail use is
permitted. Such manufacturing or processing is limited to that which employs
not more than ten (10) persons in the manufacturing or processing, and which
does not constitute a nuisance.
Meat markets and poultry stores.
Offices.
Painting and decorating shops.
Parking lots.
Pet shops or animal hospitals.
Photographer or artist studios.
Plumbing, heating or roofing supply and workshops.
Professional or service offices.
Radio and television sales and service stores.
Recreation places and theaters.
Restaurants.
Retail stores and services.
Shoe repair shops.
Tailor and dressmaking shops.
Taverns or stores for the retail sale of alcoholic liquors, except as otherwise
provided in ordinances regulating the sale of alcoholic liquors.
Taxi service stations.
Telegraph service stations.
Tourist courts and motels.
Trailer sales.
Undertaking establishments.
Upholstering shops and antique furniture sales and service shops.
Wholesale establishments, excluding a building, the principal use of which is
for a storage warehouse.
Uses customarily incidental to any of the above uses and accessory buildings
when located on the same lot. (Ord. 78b, 7-1-1958)
10-6-2: BUILDING HEIGHT:
No building or structure shall be erected or structurally altered to exceed
three (3) stories or forty feet (40') in height. (Ord. 78b, 7-1-1958)
10-6-3: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
No front or side yards shall be required; except, that when a building or group
of buildings abuts upon a residential district, a side yard shall be provided
on the side of the lot abutting the residential district, such yards having a
width of not less than five feet (5'). There shall be a rear yard with a depth
of not less than ten feet (10') when abutting upon a publicly dedicated alley
or public way and not less than twenty feet (20') when no dedicated alley or
public way exists at the rear of the lot. The rear yard may be used for off
street parking and loading. (Ord. 78b, 7-1-1958)
10-6-4: ENCLOSED BUSINESSES; EXCEPTIONS:
All business or service of the stores, shops or businesses enumerated in
section
10-6-1 of this chapter should be conducted wholly within a completely enclosed
building, except for automobile parking and used car lots, lumberyards and coal
yards, agricultural implement sales, off street loading areas, and sales of
automobile fuel. (Ord. 78b, 7-1-1958)
CHAPTER 7
I HEAVY INDUSTRY DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-7-1: Permitted Uses
10-7-1: PERMITTED USES:
It shall be unlawful to use or permit the use of any building or premises in an
I heavy industry district for any purpose other than the following:
Any use permitted in the C business and light industry district.
Any manufacturing use and any other use not in conflict with any village
ordinance regulating nuisances; provided, however, that no building or
occupancy permit shall be issued for any of the following uses until the
location and plan of development of such use have been authorized by the
village board, and after report by the village planning commission finding that
there will be no fire hazard, noxious odors, or contamination of the air, and
that the general health, safety and welfare of the people of the village will
not be endangered.
Acid manufacture.
Cement, lime, gypsum or plaster of paris manufacture.
Distillation of bones.
Explosives manufacture or storage.
Fat rendering.
Fertilizer manufacture.
Garbage, offal or dead animal reduction or dumping.
Glue manufacture.
Petroleum refining.
Smelting of tin, copper, zinc, or iron ores.
Stockyards for slaughter of animals.
Varnish manufacture. (Ord. 78b, 7-1-1958)
TITLE 11
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL SUBDIVISION PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Application Of Provisions
11-1-2: Compliance Required
11-1-3: Definitions
11-1-4: Variances
11-1-5: Enforcement
11-1-6: Penalty
11-1-1: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
This title shall apply to all lands within the corporate limits of the village
and within the area extending one and one-half (11/2) miles beyond its
corporate limits not included in any municipality. (Ord. 134, 5-1-1973; amd.
2011 Code)
11-1-2: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
No building permit shall be issued by any governing official for the
construction of any building, structure or improvement on any land henceforth
subdivided until there has been compliance with all the requirements of this
title. (Ord. 134, 5-1-1973)
11-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this title, certain words used herein are defined as
follows:
ALLEY: A public right of way, usually less than twenty feet (20') in width,
which normally affords a secondary means of vehicular access to abutting
property.
ARTERIAL/FEEDER STREET: A street which provides for the movement of relatively
heavy traffic to, from or within the village of Shannon. It has a secondary
function of providing access to abutting land.
COLLECTOR STREET: A street which collects and distributes internal traffic
within an urban area such as a residential neighborhood, between arterial and
local streets. It provides access to abutting property.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: That policy document which serves as a guide for the future
physical development of Shannon and entitled "Proposed Comprehensive Plan,
Shannon, Illinois".
CUL-DE-SAC: A short street having but one end open to traffic and the other end
being permanently terminated to a vehicular turnaround.
HALF STREET: A street having only one-half (1/2) of its intended roadway width
developed to accommodate traffic.
LOCAL STREET: A street of little or no continuity designed to provide access to
abutting property and leading into collector streets.
LOT: A piece, parcel or plot of land intended for building development or as a
unit for transfer of ownership.
PLAT: The map, drawing or chart on which the subdivider's plan of subdivision
is presented to the board of trustees for approval.
SUBDIVISION: The division of a parcel of land into two (2) or more lots or
parcels for the purpose of transfer of ownership or building development, or if
a new street is involved, any division of a parcel of land; provided, that a
division of land for agricultural purposes into lots or parcels of five (5)
acres or more and not involving a new street shall not be deemed a subdivision.
The term includes resubdivision and, when appropriate to the context, shall
relate to the process of subdividing or to the land subdivided. (Ord. 134, 5-1-
1973)
11-1-4: VARIANCES:
Where there are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships in the way of
carrying out the strict letter of the provisions of this title, the board of
trustees shall have the power to vary from the requirements of this title in
harmony with the general purpose and intent hereof. (Ord. 134, 5-1-1973)
11-1-5: ENFORCEMENT:
It shall be the duty of the board of trustees to see that the provisions of
this title are properly enforced. (Ord. 134, 5-1-1973)
11-1-6: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this title shall be punishable by a fine
of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00). (Ord. 134, 5-1-1973; amd. 2011 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SUBDIVISION PLATS AND PROCEDURES
SECTION:
11-2-1: Compliance Required; Procedure Summary
11-2-2: Preapplication Meeting
11-2-3: Preliminary Plat
11-2-4: Final Plat
11-2-5: Contents Of Plats
11-2-1: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED; PROCEDURE SUMMARY:
The procedures of this title shall be followed in the administration of this
title, and no real property within the jurisdiction of this title shall be
subdivided and offered for sale and/or a plat recorded until a preapplication
meeting has been held and a preliminary plat and a final plat of the proposed
subdivision have been reviewed by the planning commission and until the final
plat has been approved by the board of trustees as set forth in the procedures
provided herein. (Ord. 134, 5-1-1973)
11-2-2: PREAPPLICATION MEETING:
Prior to the submission to the planning commission of any plat for
consideration under the provisions of this title, the subdivider shall meet
with the planning commission, or any individual to whom the commission may
delegate this responsibility, to introduce himself as a potential subdivider
and learn what shall be expected of him in such capacity. (Ord. 134, 5-1-1973)
11-2-3: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
   A.   Submission: The subdivider shall submit six (6) copies of the
preliminary plat to the village clerk two (2) weeks prior to the next planning
commission meeting. (Ord. 134, 5-1-1973)
   B.   Planning Commission Review And Decision: The planning commission shall
review the preliminary plat and either reject, approve, subject to revision, or
approve the proposal within ninety (90) days of the date on which it was filed
with the village clerk. If disapproved, the commission shall set forth the
grounds for such refusal in its proceedings and transmit them to the
subdivider. If approved, the design is thereby accepted as a basis for the
preparation of the final plat. (Ord. 134, 5-1-1973; amd. 2011 Code)
11-2-4: FINAL PLAT:
   A.   Submission: The subdivider shall submit six (6) copies of the final
plat to the village clerk at least two (2) weeks before the next planning
commission meeting and within one year of preliminary plat approval. If the
preliminary plat has been approved with revision, it shall be deemed the final
plat.
   B.   Planning Commission Review; Submission To Board Of Trustees: The
planning commission shall study the final plat and transmit its action to the
board of trustees within thirty (30) days from the date on which it was filed
with the village clerk.
   C.   Filing Final Plat: The subdivider shall file the final plat with the
village clerk within thirty (30) days of final plat approval.
   D.   Recording Final Plat: The subdivider shall record the final plat with
the county recorder of deeds within thirty (30) days of final plat approval;
otherwise, the approval of the final plat shall be considered void. (Ord. 134,
5-1-1973)
11-2-5: CONTENTS OF PLATS:
Each plat shall contain the following:
   A.   Proposed name of the subdivision.
   B.   Location by section, township, range or by other legal description.
   C.   Names and addresses of the owner, subdivider, surveyor and designer of
the plan.
   D.   Graphic scale.
   E.   North point.
   F.   Date of preparation.
   G.   Existing conditions in the tract and in the surrounding area to a
distance of three hundred feet (300').
   H.   Boundary lines of the proposed subdivision clearly indicated.
   I.   Total approximate acreage.
   J.   Platted streets, railroad right of way and utility easements.
   K.   Boundary lines and ownership of adjoining unsubdivided land.
   L.   Sewers, water mains, culverts or other underground facilities.
   M.   Layout and width of proposed streets and utility easements showing
street names, lot dimensions, parks and other public areas. The street layout
shall include all contiguous land owned or controlled by the subdivider.
   N.   Proposed use of all parcels, and if a zoning change is contemplated,
the proposed rezoning.
   O.   Preliminary street grades and drainage plan shall be shown on a copy of
the contour map.
   P.   Data required under regulations by the county surveyor, i.e., accurate
angular and linear dimensions for all lines, angles and curvatures used to
describe boundaries, streets, easements and other important features.
   Q.   An identification system for all lots and blocks.
   R.   The size (in square feet) and dimensions of all lots.
   S.   Certification by a registered land surveyor to the effect that the plat
represents a survey made by him and that monuments and markers thereon exist as
located and that all dimensional and geodetic details are correct.
   T.   Notarized certification by the owner and by any mortgage holder of
record of the adoption of the plat and the dedication of streets and other
public areas.
   U.   Form for approval by the planning commission, as follows:
This             day of                    , 20   
Signed    
         Chair
Signed    
         Secretary
   V.   Form for approval by the board of trustees, as follows:
This             day of                    , 20   
Signed    
         President
Signed    
         Village Clerk
(Ord. 134, 5-1-1973)
CHAPTER 3
DESIGN STANDARDS AND REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
11-3-1: Design Purpose; Compliance With Comprehensive Plan
11-3-2: Required Design Standards And Improvements
11-3-3: Engineering Standards And Specifications
11-3-4: Guarantee Of Performance
11-3-1: DESIGN PURPOSE; COMPLIANCE WITH COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:
Generally, design standards shall assure that the layout of the subdivision
harmonizes with existing plans affecting the development and its surroundings
and shall be in conformity with the comprehensive plan for the development of
the entire area. (Ord. 134, 5-1-1973)
11-3-2: REQUIRED DESIGN STANDARDS AND IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Streets:
      1.   The design of all streets shall be considered in their relation to
existing and planned streets, to reasonable circulation of traffic, to
topographical conditions, to runoff of stormwater and to the proposed uses of
the area to be served.
      2.   Where new streets extend existing adjoining streets, their
projections shall be at the same or greater width, but in no case less than the
minimum required width.
      3.   Where adjoining areas are not subdivided, the arrangement of streets
in new subdivisions shall make provision for the proper projection of streets.
When a new subdivision adjoins unsubdivided land susceptible to being
subdivided, then the new streets shall be carried to the boundaries of such
unsubdivided land.
      4.   The following standards of street design shall be observed by the
subdivider:
 
Street Category Minimum Right Of Minimum Pavement Maximum Grade Minimum Grade
                Way Width        Width
Arterial/feeder 66 feet          40 feet          5 percent     0.5 percent
and collector
Local           60 feet          36 feet          6 percent     0.5 percent
 
      5.   Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than one hundred twenty
five feet (125') shall be avoided.
      6.   Insofar as practical, streets shall intersect at right angles, and
no intersection shall be at an angle of less than sixty degrees (60°). It must
be evidenced that safe and efficient traffic flow is encouraged.
      7.   Maximum length of permanent cul-de-sac streets shall be four hundred
feet (400') measured along the centerline from the intersection of origin to
end of the right of way. Each cul-de-sac shall be provided at the closed end
with a turnaround having a minimum outside roadway diameter of eighty feet
(80') and a minimum street property line diameter of one hundred feet (100').
      8.   Half streets shall be prohibited except where the board of trustees
finds it to be practicable to require the dedication of the other half when the
adjoining property is subdivided.
      9.   Proposed streets obviously in alignment with existing and named
streets shall bear the names of such existing streets. In no case shall the
name of the proposed street duplicate existing street names, including
phonetical similarities.
      10.   Public improvements shall not be approved for any private street.
      11.   Where a proposed plat is adjacent to a major thoroughfare, spacing
between access points to such thoroughfare of less than six hundred sixty feet
(660') shall be avoided except where impractical or impossible due to existing
property divisions or topography.
      12.   The street arrangements shall not be such as to cause hardship to
owners of adjoining property in platting their own land and providing
convenient access to it.
      13.   Curb lines at street intersections shall be rounded at a radius of
not less than twenty feet (20').
      14.   All streets shall be filled with eight inches (8") of gravel and
graded and surfaced with A-3 hard surface curb and gutter.
   B.   Alleys:
      1.   Alleys shall be prohibited in residential areas unless special
permission is granted by the board of trustees for their provision.
      2.   Alley intersections and sharp changes in alignment shall be avoided,
but where necessary, corners shall be cut off sufficiently to permit safe
vehicular movement.
      3.   Dead end alleys shall be avoided, but if unavoidable, shall be
provided with adequate turnaround facilities at the dead end, as determined by
the village engineer.
   C.   Easements:
      1.   Where alleys are not provided, easements of at least ten feet (10')
wide, centered on rear lot lines, shall be provided for utilities where
necessary.
      2.   Easements for storm or sanitary sewers shall be at least twenty feet
(20') wide, and they shall have continuity of alignment from block to block.
      3.   Temporary construction easements may be required where installation
depths are greater than ten feet (10').
      4.   When a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainageway,
channel or stream, there shall be provided a stormwater easement or drainage
right of way conforming substantially with the lines of such watercourse.
   D.   Block Lengths: Block lengths shall not exceed six hundred sixty six
feet (666') and shall not be less than three hundred feet (300').
   E.   Lots:
      1.   Where possible, side lot lines shall be at right angles to straight
street lines or radial to curved street lines.
      2.   Lots with frontage on two (2) parallel streets shall be avoided.
      3.   Minimum lot areas and lateral dimensions shall be as set forth in
the zoning ordinance.
      4.   Corner lots shall be platted at least ten percent (10%) wider than
the minimum lot width required.
      5.   There shall be no direct vehicular access from residential lots to
arterial streets or highways, and residential lots shall be separated from
railroad rights of way by a twenty five foot (25') buffer strip which may be in
the form of added depth or width of lots backing on or siding on the railroad
right of way.
      6.   Lot remnants which are below the minimum lot size must be added to
adjacent or surrounding lots rather than be allowed to remain as an unusable
outlot or parcel, unless the owner can show plans for the future use of such
remnant.
   F.   Monuments: Steel monuments shall be placed at all block corners, angle
points, points of curves in streets and at intermediate points as shown on the
final plat. All U.S., state, county or other official bench marks, monuments,
or triangulation stations in or adjacent to the property shall be preserved in
precise position.
   G.   Water And Sewer Systems:
      1.   Sanitary sewer and water mains and laterals shall be installed in
all new subdivisions and shall be connected to the community system in an
appropriate manner.
      2.   Water and sanitary sewer laterals shall be laid to the property line
ending at the corporation cock.
      3.   All utilities, whether private or public, shall be installed
underground so as to enhance the visual appearance of the area.
      4.   Where utilities are to be installed in street or alley rights of
way, such installation shall take place prior to street surfacing.
      5.   Storm sewer and/or other surface drainage facilities shall be
installed as determined to be necessary by the village engineer for the proper
drainage of surface water. (Ord. 134, 5-1-1973)
11-3-3: ENGINEERING STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS:
Unless otherwise stated, all of the required improvements shall conform to
engineering standards and specifications as required by the board of trustees.
Such improvements shall be made in sequence as determined by the village
consulting engineer. (Ord. 134, 5-1-1973)
11-3-4: GUARANTEE OF PERFORMANCE:
Before a final plat is approved by the board of trustees, the subdivider shall
submit an agreement and performance bond or cash escrow agreement to assure the
following:
   A.   The subdivider shall pay for the cost of all improvements required in
the subdivision.
   B.   Guaranteed completion of the required improvements within a two (2)
year period.
   C.   Payment by the subdivider for all costs incurred by the village for
review and inspection. This would include preparation and review of plans and
specifications by the consulting engineer, planner and attorney, as well as
other costs of a similar nature.
   D.   The village may elect to install any of the required improvements under
the terms of a cash escrow agreement.
   E.   The performance bond or cash escrow agreement shall be equal to one and
one-fourth (11/4) times the village engineer's estimated cost of the required
improvements.
   F.   If the required improvements are not completed within the two (2) year
period, all amounts held under the escrow agreement or performance bond shall
be turned over and delivered to the village and applied to the cost of the
required improvements. Any balance remaining after such improvements have been
made shall be returned to the owner or subdivider. (Ord. 134, 5-1-1973)
