VILLAGE OF SHILOH, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-23 Supplement
Local legislation current through Ord. 2024-11-04C, passed 11-4-2024; and
State legislation current through 2024 Illinois Legislative Service, Pamphlet
No. 5
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section headings
   
10.04   Rules of construction
   
10.05   Official time
   
10.06   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Conflicting provisions
   
10.09   Amendments to code
   
10.10   Severability
   
10.11   Reference to public office or officer
   
10.12   Errors and omissions
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Ordinances saved
   
10.16   Technical codes
   
10.17   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification by and for the Village of Shiloh, Illinois, shall be
designated as the Code of Shiloh and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this Code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANOTHER. When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons, but also every other owner of
property.
   BOARD OF TRUSTEES or VILLAGE BOARD. The Board of Trustees of the village.
   COUNTY. St. Clair County, Illinois.
   COUNTY BOARD. The County Board of St. Clair County, Illinois.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.07)
   COURT. Any court of competent jurisdiction.
   DECREE. Synonymous with JUDGMENT.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.24)
   ELECTORS. Persons qualified to vote for elective officers at municipal
elections.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-1-2)
   EXECUTIVE OFFICER. Words used for an executive or ministerial officer may
include any deputy or other person performing the duties of that officer,
either generally or in special cases.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.08)
   HERETOFORE or HEREAFTER. HERETOFORE means any time previous to the day on
which the ordinance, resolution or statute takes effect; HEREAFTER means at any
time after that date.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.17)
   HIGHWAY, ROAD or STREET. Any road laid out by authority of the United
States, of the state or of any town or county of the state and all bridges
thereupon.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.16)
   ILCS. Illinois Compiled Statutes, 1992, as heretofore and hereafter amended.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of an incorporeal nature.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MAYOR. The President of the village.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.10)
   MUNICIPAL CODE. The Illinois Municipal Code, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5.
   OATH. Includes AFFIRMATION and SWEAR includes AFFIRM.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.12)
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner,
purchaser and seller under a contract and/or deed, or tenant in common of the
whole or part of the property, and includes any beneficiary of a land trust
which owns property.
   PERSON. Any legal person; includes associations, partnerships, corporations,
joint ventures and bodies politic and corporate as well as individuals.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.05)
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property, except real.
   POLICE OFFICERS. Police officers employed and in the service of the village.
POLICE FORCE shall be construed to include those persons in the  employ of a
village as members of the Department of Police, who are or shall hereafter be
appointed and sworn as POLICE OFFICERS.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.20)
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and other interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes school districts; units of legal government; the
village, county, state or federal governments, officers and agencies thereof,
or any commissions or committees thereof; or any duly authorized public
official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance or any other place for the sale
of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail and CERTIFIED MAIL includes
registered mail.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for use of
pedestrians.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-188)
   SPECIAL DISTRICTS. The meaning ascribed in Article VII of the Constitution
of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.29)
   STATE. The State of Illinois.
   STREET. Where the context admits, includes alleys, lanes, courts,
boulevards, squares and other public thoroughfares.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. The village code hereby adopted, and
as hereinafter modified by amendment, revision and by the adoption of new
titles, chapters or sections.
   UNITS OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT. The meaning established in § 1 of Article VII of
the Constitution of the state of 1970.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.28)
   VILLAGE. The Village of Shiloh, Illinois.
   WEEK. Seven consecutive days.
   WHOEVER. Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners; principals,
agents and employees; and all officials, public or private.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. Includes printing, electronic and any other mode of
representing words and letters; but when the written signature of any person is
required by law on any official or public writing or bond, required by law,
except as otherwise provided by law it shall be:
      (1)   The proper handwriting of that person, or in case he or she is
unable to write, his or her proper mark; or
      (2)   An electronic signature as defined in the Uniform Electronic
Transactions Act.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.15)
   YEAR. A calendar year unless otherwise expressed; and the word YEAR alone is
equivalent to the expression "Year of Our Lord".
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.10)
§ 10.03 SECTION HEADINGS.
   Headings and captions used in this Code are employed for reference purposes
only and shall not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.04 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Words and phrases shall be read in context and construed according to
the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and phrases that have acquired a
technical or particular meaning, whether by legislative or judicial definition
or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
   (B)   As used in this Code, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following rules will be followed.
      (1)   The singular shall include the plural and the plural shall include
the singular.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.03)
      (2)   Words of one gender shall include the other genders.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.04)
      (3)   Words in the present tense shall include the future.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.02)
      (4)   AND may be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the context admits.
   (C)   The time within which any act provided by law is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last, unless the last day
is Saturday or Sunday or is a holiday as defined or fixed in any statute now or
hereafter in force in the state, and then it shall also be excluded. If the day
succeeding Saturday, Sunday or a holiday is also a holiday or a Saturday or
Sunday, then the succeeding day shall also be excluded.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.11)
   (D)   When the law requires an act to be done which may, by law, as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (E)   Words purporting to give joint authority to three or more municipal
officers or other persons shall be construed as giving authority to a majority
of the officers or persons.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.09)
   (F)   These rules of construction shall not apply to any provision of this
Code which shall contain any express provision excluding that construction, or
when the subject matter or context of this Code may be repugnant thereto.
   (G)   All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions shall be
liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the President
and Board of Trustees may be fully carried out.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.01)
   (H)   The provisions of any ordinance, in so far as they are the same as
those of any prior ordinance, shall be construed as a continuation of the prior
provisions, and not as a new enactment.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 2)
§ 10.05 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time for the village shall be as set by federal law.
§ 10.06 REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing ordinance does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed, nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
   (B)   The reenactment, amendment or repeal of an ordinance does not do any
of the following, except as provided in division (C) of this section:
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder;
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded or incurred thereunder;
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal; or
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment. The
investigation, proceeding or remedy may be instituted, continued or enforced,
and the penalty, forfeiture or punishment imposed, as if the ordinance had not
been repealed or amended.
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture or punishment for any offense is reduced by
a reenactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in this Code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of this Code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this Code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision and the context clearly
indicates that the reference to the section as amended or revised was not
intended.
§ 10.08 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters or sections of these codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be construed so as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.09 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or in any
way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of
this Code and printed for inclusion herein, or in the case of repealed
chapters, sections and divisions, or any part thereof, by subsequent
ordinances, the repealed portions may be excluded from the code by the omission
from reprinted pages affected thereby, and the subsequent ordinances as
numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie
evidence of subsequent ordinances until this Code of ordinances and subsequent
ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new code of ordinances by the
Board of Trustees.
§ 10.10 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of these codified ordinances or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of the section or
related sections which can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application and, to this end, the provisions are severable.
§ 10.11 REFERENCE TO PUBLIC OFFICE OR OFFICER.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the village exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary. These references
shall also include the designee or agent of the officer or office, unless the
law or the context clearly requires otherwise.
§ 10.12 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This Code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this Code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this Code of
ordinances.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature (including, but not limited
to, tax levy ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to
boundaries and annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting
special rights to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances
authorizing the execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the village; and all special ordinances) as well as any
other ordinances pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this
Code of ordinances, shall remain in full force and effect unless herein
repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance, by its nature, either authorizes or enables the Board
of Trustees or a certain village officer or employee to make additional
regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
regulations of a similar nature serving that purpose effected prior to the
codification and not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect and are
saved.
§ 10.16 TECHNICAL CODES.
   Whenever any technical codes are incorporated herein by reference, any
subsequent amendments or revisions to the technical codes shall automatically
become a part of this Code and shall be made available for public inspection by
the village. Further, to the extent of any conflict between the technical
provisions of this Code and any technical codes adopted by reference, the most
restrictive provision shall prevail.
§ 10.17 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original revision and amendments and changes, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 2008-08-04, passed 5-13-
1960; Ord. 1970-07-04, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. passed 1-1-1980)
   (B)   (1)   An "ILCS" cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads either verbatim or substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-2-1)
      (2)   An "ILCS" cite set forth as a "statutory reference" following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
   § 38.04 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      The village shall make available to any person for inspection or copying
all public records, as provided in the Illinois Freedom of Information Act.
   Statutory reference:
      Freedom of Information Act, see ILCS Ch. 5, Act 140, §§ 1 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this Code or other ordinance of the
village for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall be fined
in accordance with
Chapter 34 for each and every violation thereof, and every day the violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to imprison for certain ordinance violations, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act
5, § 1-2-1.1
   Limitations on penalties, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-1
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
30.   ADMINISTRATION GENERALLY
         
31.   ORGANIZATION; OFFICIALS
         
32.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
         
33.   TAXATION; REVENUE
         
34.   FEES AND PENALTIES
         
35.   [RESERVED]
         
36.   FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT RULES AND REGULATIONS
         
37.   ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS TO DETERMINE ELIGIBILITY UNDER THE PUBLIC SAFETY
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS ACT
CHAPTER 30: ADMINISTRATION GENERALLY
Section
Rules of the Board
   
30.01   Special rules of the Board
   
30.02   Voting
   
30.03   Reading of ordinances
   
30.04   Citizens addressing the Board
Village Board of Trustees Policies
   
30.12   Social security numbers policy
   
30.13   Investment policy
   
30.14   Capitalization policy
   
30.15   Real estate tax refund policy and procedures for tax incremental
financing districts
   
30.15A   Improvements to businesses within the Village Tax Increment Finance
District
   
30.16   Property owner street light requests
   
30.17   Architectural appearance permit policy
   
30.18   Landscape and streetscape recommendations
   
30.19   Site lighting recommendations
   
30.20   Sign inspection and maintenance policy
   
30.21   Sidewalk inspection and repair policy
RULES OF THE BOARD
§ 30.01 SPECIAL RULES OF THE BOARD.
   The rules of parliamentary practice comprised in the latest published
edition of Robert's Rules of Order revised shall govern the Board in all cases
to which they are not inconsistent with the Illinois Compiled Statutes or the
special rules of the Board in this section.
§ 30.02 VOTING.
   (A)   Every member who shall be present when a question is stated from the
Chair shall vote thereon, unless excused by the Board, or unless he or she is
personally interested in the question, in which case, he or she shall not vote
by abstaining and asking that it be noted for the record of the conflict of
interest.
   (B)   For purposes of the vote count an abstention or present vote does not
count either for nor against a question.
§ 30.03 READING OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances shall be read three times, once each at three successive
meetings before passage, however, the rules may be suspended by a two-thirds
majority of the Board to have all three readings at one meeting by title only
or in its entirety.
§ 30.04 CITIZENS ADDRESSING THE BOARD.
   During the conduct of business at a committee at large meeting, the
President (Mayor) shall call for comments from the citizens in attendance on
any subject germane to the meeting. The Board reserves the right to limit the
number and time of the comments.
VILLAGE BOARD OF TRUSTEES POLICIES
§ 30.12 SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBERS POLICY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      PERSON. Any individual in the employ of the Village of Shiloh
(“village”).
      PUBLICLY POST or PUBLICLY DISPLAY. To intentionally communicate or
otherwise intentionally make available to the general public.
   (B)   Prohibited activities.
      (1)   No officer or employee of the village shall do any of the
following:
         (a)   Publicly post or publicly display in any manner an individual’s
social security number;
         (b)   Print an individual’s social security number on any card
required for the individual to access products or services provided by the
person or entity;
         (c)   Require an individual to transmit his or her social security
number over the Internet, unless the connection is secure or the social
security number is encrypted; or
         (d)   Print an individual’s social security number on any materials
that are mailed to the individual, through the U.S. Postal Service, any private
mail service, electronic mail, or any similar method of delivery, unless state
or federal law requires the social security number to be on the document to be
mailed. Notwithstanding any provision in this section to the contrary, social
security numbers may be included in applications and forms sent by mail,
including, but not limited to, any material mailed in connection with the
administration of the Unemployment Insurance Act, any material mailed in
connection with any tax administered by the Department of Revenue, and
documents sent as part of an application or enrollment process or to establish,
amend, or terminate an account, contract, or policy or to confirm the accuracy
of the social security number. A social security number that may permissibly be
mailed under this section may not be printed, in whole or in part, on a
postcard or other mailer that does not require an envelope or be visible on an
envelope without the envelope having been opened.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this policy no officer or employee
of the village shall do any of the following:
         (a)   Collect, use, or disclose a social security number from an
individual, unless:
            1.   Required to do so under state or federal law, rules, or
regulations, or the collection, use, or disclosure of the social security
number is otherwise necessary for the performance of that agency’s duties and
responsibilities;
            2.   The need and purpose for the social security number is
documented before collection of the social security number; and
            3.   The social security number collected is relevant to the
documented need and purpose;
         (b)   Require an individual to use his or her social security number
to access an internet website; or
         (c)   Use the social security number for any purpose other than the
purpose for which it was collected.
      (3)   The prohibitions in division (B)(2) of this section do not apply in
the following circumstances:
         (a)   The disclosure of social security numbers to agents, employees,
contractors, or subcontractors of the village or disclosure to another
governmental entity or its agents, employees, contractors, or subcontractors if
disclosure is necessary in order for the entity to perform its duties and
responsibilities; and, if disclosing to a contractor or subcontractor, prior to
such disclosure, the officer or employee of the village must first receive from
the contractor or subcontractor a copy of the contractor’s or subcontractors
policy that sets forth how the requirements imposed under this Policy on the
Village to protect an individual’s social security number will be achieved;
         (b)   The disclosure of social security numbers pursuant to a court
order, warrant, or subpoena;
         (c)   The collection, use, or disclosure of social security numbers in
order to ensure the safety of: village employees, persons committed to
correctional facilities, local jails, and other law enforcement facilities or
retention centers; wards of the state; and all persons working in or visiting a
village facility;
         (d)   The collection, use, or disclosure of social security numbers
for internal verification or administrative purposes; and
         (e)   The collection or use of social security numbers to investigate
or prevent fraud, to conduct background checks, to collect a debt, to obtain a
credit report from a consumer reporting agency under the federal Fair Credit
Reporting Act, to undertake any permissible purpose that is enumerated under
the federal Gramm Leach Bliley Act, or to locate a missing person, a lost
relative, or a person who is due a benefit such as a pension benefit or an
unclaimed property benefit.
      (4)   Any standards of the village for the collection, use, or disclosure
of social security numbers that are stricter than the standards under this
policy with respect to the protection of those social security numbers, then,
in the event of any conflict with the provisions of this policy, the stricter
standards adopted by the village shall control.
   (C)   Public inspection and copying of documents.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this policy to the contrary, all
officers and employees of the village must comply with the provisions of any
other state law with respect to allowing the public inspection and copying of
information or documents containing all or any portion of an individual’s
social security number. All officers and employees of the village must redact
social security numbers from the information or documents before allowing the
public inspection or copying of the information or documents.
   (D)   Applicability.
      (1)   This policy does not apply to the collection, use, or disclosure of
a social security number as required by state or federal law, rule, or
regulation.
      (2)   This policy does not apply to documents that are-required to be
open to the public under any state or federal law, rule, or regulation,
applicable case law, Supreme Court Rule, or the Constitution of the State of
Illinois.
   (E)   Compliance with federal law. If a federal law takes effect requiring
any federal agency to establish a national unique patient health identifier
program, the village shall follow that law.
   (F)   Embedded social security numbers. No officer or employee of the
village may encode or embed a social security number in or on a card or
document, including, but not limited to, using a bar code, chip, magnetic
strip, RFID technology, or other technology, in place of removing the social
security number as required by this policy.
   (G)   Identity; protection requirements.
      (1)   All officers, employees and agents of the village identified as
having access to social security numbers in the course of performing their
duties to be trained to protect the confidentiality of social security numbers.
Training shall include instructions on the proper handling of information that
contains social security numbers from the time of collection through the
destruction of the information.
      (2)   Only employees who are required to use or handle information or
documents that contain social security numbers have access to such information
or documents.
      (3)   Social security numbers requested from an individual shall be
provided in a manner that makes the social security number easily redacted if
required to be released as part of a public records request.
      (4)   When collecting a social security number or upon request by the
individual, a statement of the purpose or purposes for which the village is
collecting and using the social security number be provided.
      (5)   A written copy of this privacy policy and any amendment thereto,
shall be filed with the Village Board within 30 days after approval of this
policy or any amendment thereto.
      (6)   The village shall advise its employees of the existence of the
policy and make a copy of the policy available to each employee, and shall also
make this privacy policy available to any member of the public, upon request.
If the village amends this privacy policy, then the village shall also advise
its employees of the existence of the amended policy and make a copy of the
amended policy available to each employee.
   (H)   Violation. Any person who intentionally violates the prohibitions in §
10 of the Identity Protection Act (Division (B) of this section) is guilty of a
Class B misdemeanor, and is subject to a fine in accordance with
Chapter 34.
   (I)   Supersede. This policy does not supersede any more restrictive law,
rule, or regulation regarding the collection, use, or disclosure of social
security numbers.
§ 30.13 INVESTMENT POLICY.
   (A)   Policy. It is the policy of the village through its Board of Trustees
(hereinafter referred to as the Board) to invest public funds in a manner which
will provide the highest investment return with the maximum security while
meeting the daily cash flow demands of the entity and conforming to all state
and local statutes governing the investment of public funds.
   (B)   Scope. This investment policy applies to all financial assets of the
village. These funds are accounted for in the Village Annual Financial Report
and include, if applicable:
      (1)   General fund;
      (2)   Special revenue funds;
      (3)   Capital project funds;
      (4)   Enterprise funds;
      (5)   Trust and agency funds;
      (6)   Retirement/pension funds; and
      (7)   Debt service funds.
   (C)   Prudence.
      (1)   Investments shall be made with judgment and care (under
circumstances then prevailing) which persons of prudence, discretion and
intelligence exercise in the management of their own affairs, not for
speculation, but for investment, considering the probable safety of their
capital as well as the probable income to be derived.
      (2)   The standard of prudence to be used by investment officials shall
be the prudent person standard and shall be applied in the context of managing
an overall portfolio. Investment officers acting in accordance with written
procedures and the investment policy and exercising due diligence shall be
relieved of personal responsibility for an individual security's credit risk or
market price changes, provided deviations from expectations are reported in a
timely fashion and appropriate action is taken to control adverse developments.
   (D)   Objective. The primary objectives, in priority order, of the village
investment activities shall be:
      (1)   Safety. Safety of principal is the foremost objective of the
investment program. Investments shall be undertaken in a manner that seeks to
ensure the preservation of capital in the overall portfolio. To attain the
objective, diversification is required in order that potential losses on
individual securities do not exceed the income generated from the remainder of
the portfolio.
      (2)   Liquidity. The village's investment portfolio will remain
sufficiently liquid to enable the village to meet all operating requirements
which might be reasonably anticipated.
      (3)   Return on investments. The investment portfolio shall be designed
with the objective of attaining a rate of return throughout budgetary and
economic cycles, commensurate with the investment risk constraints and the cash
flow characteristics of the portfolio.
   (E)   Delegation of authority. Authority to manage the village's investment
program is derived from ordinances, statutes, and the like. Management
responsibility for the investment program is hereby delegated to the Treasurer
who shall be responsible for all transactions undertaken and shall establish a
system of controls to regulate the activities of subordinate officials, with
the advice and consent of the Village Board.
   (F)   Investment procedures. The Board shall establish written investment
policy procedures for the operation of the investment consistent with this
policy. The procedures should include reference to safekeeping, banking service
contracts and collateral/depository agreements. Such procedures shall include
explicit delegation of authority to persons responsible for investment
transactions. No person may engage in an investment transaction except as
provided under the terms of this policy and the procedures established by the
Board.
   (G)   Ethics and conflicts of interest. Officers and employees involved in
the investment process shall refrain from personal business activity that could
conflict with proper execution of the investment program or which could impair
their ability to make impartial investment decisions. Employees and investment
officials shall disclose to the Village Board any material financial interests
in financial institutions that conduct business within their jurisdiction, and
they shall further disclose any large personal financial/investment positions
that could be related to the performance of the village.
   (H)   Authorized financial dealers and institutions. 
      (1)   The Treasurer will maintain a list of financial institutions
authorized to provide investment services. In addition, a list will also be
maintained of approved security brokers/dealers selected by credit worthiness
who are authorized to provide investment services in the State of Illinois.
These may include primary dealers or regional dealers that qualify under
Securities and Exchange Commission Rule 15C3-1 (uniform net capital rule). No
public deposit shall be made except in a qualified public depository as
established by state laws. All financial institutions and brokers/dealers who
desire to become qualified for investment transactions must supply the
Treasurer with the following:
         (a)   Audited financial statements;
         (b)   Proof of National Association of Security Dealers certification;
         (c)   Trading resolution;
         (d)   Proof of state registration;
         (e)   Certification of having read entity's investment policy; and
         (f)   Depository contracts.
      (2)   An annual review of the financial condition and registrations of
qualified bidders will be conducted by the Treasurer.
      (3)   A current audited financial statement is required to be on file for
each financial institution and broker/dealer in which the village invests on an
annual basis.
   (I)   Authorized and suitable investments.
      (1)   From the governing body perspective, special care must be taken to
ensure that the list of instruments includes only those allowed by law and
those that local investment managers are trained and competent to handle.
      (2)   The village is empowered by statutes to invest in the following
types of securities:
         (a)   Bank certificates of deposit;
         (b)   State of Illinois Treasurer Pool (IPTIP);
         (c)   U.S. government and agencies securities; and
         (d)   Investment pools/mutual funds (retirement funds only).
   (J)   Investment pools/mutual funds.
      (1)   If governmental sponsored pools and/or mutual funds are included in
authorized investments, a section on investigation and due diligence must be
included.
      (2)   A thorough investigation of the pool/fund is required prior to
investing and on a continual basis. There shall be a questionnaire developed
which will answer the following general questions:
         (a)   A description of eligible investment securities and a written
statement of investment policy and objectives.
         (b)   A description of interest calculations, how it is distributed,
and how gains and losses are treated.
         (c)   A description of how the securities are safeguarded (including
the settlement processes) and how often the securities are priced and the
program audited.
         (d)   A description of who may invest in the program, how often, what
size deposit and withdrawal are allowed.
         (e)   A schedule for receiving statements and portfolio listings.
         (f)   A fee schedule and when and how is it assessed.
   (K)   Collateralization.
      (1)   Collateralization will be required on two types of investments:
certificates of deposit and repurchase agreements. In order to anticipate
market changes and provide a level of security for all funds, the
collateralization level will be 102% of market value of principal and accrued
interest.
      (2)   The village chooses to limit collateral to the following:
         (a)   U.S. securities; and
         (b)   U. S. agencies securities and securities backed by the full
faith and credit of the U.S.
      (3)   Collateral will always be held by an independent third party with
whom the village has a current custodial agreement. A clearly marked evidence
of ownership must be supplied to the village and retained.
      (4)   The right of collateral substitution is granted.
   (L)   Safekeeping and custody. All security transactions, entered into by
the village shall be conducted on a delivery-versus-payment (DVP) basis.
Securities will be held by a third party custodian designated by the Board and
monthly statements and evidenced by safekeeping receipts.
   (M)   Diversification. The village will diversify its investments by
security type. With the exception of U.S. Treasury securities and authorized
pools, no more than 50% of the village total investment portfolio will be
invested in a single security type.
   (N)   Maximum maturities.
      (1)   To the extent possible, the village will attempt to match its
investments with anticipated cash flow requirements. Unless matched to a
specific cash flow, the village will not directly invest in securities maturing
more the five years from the date of purchase. However, the village may
collateralize its repurchase agreements using longer-dated investments not to
exceed two years to maturity.
      (2)   Reserve funds may be invested in securities exceeding five years if
the maturity of such investments is made to coincide as nearly as practicable
with the expected use of the funds.
   (O)   Internal control. The Board shall establish an annual process of
independent review by an external auditor. This review will provide internal
control by assuring compliance with policies and procedures.
   (P)   Performance standards. The investment portfolio shall be designed with
the objective of obtaining a rate of return throughout budgetary and economic
cycles, commensurate with the investment risk constraints and the cash flow
needs.
   (Q)   Market yield. The village's investment strategy is passive. Given this
strategy, the basis used by the Treasurer to determine whether market yields
are being achieved shall be the average Fed Funds rate.
   (R)   Reporting.
      (1)   The Treasurer shall provide the Board monthly Treasurer’s reports
which provide a total amount of the current investment portfolio. If requested,
the Treasurer will provide the Board copies of the detailed investments
including rates of return and maturities.
      (2)   Schedules in the report may include the following:
         (a)   A listing of individual securities held at the end of the
reporting period by authorized investment category;
         (b)   Average life and final maturity of all investments listed;
         (c)   Coupon, discount or earnings rate;
         (d)   Par value, amortized book value and market value; and/or
         (e)   Percentage of the portfolio represented by each investment
category.
(Ord. passed 12-6-1999)
§ 30.14 CAPITALIZATION POLICY.
   (A)   The minimum capitalization amount for individual equipment, buildings
and improvements, and for infrastructure assets (roads, bridges, culverts,
curbs, sidewalks, lighting systems, gutters, and drainage systems) is
established at $10,000.
   (B)   The cost for maintenance will be expensed.
   (C)   The costs for infrastructure will be capitalized and depreciated on a
prospective basis beginning in Fiscal Year 2015-2016.
   (D)   The following depreciation guidelines are established:
 
Classification           Method        Useful Life
Machinery and equipment  Straight line 5 years
Buildings and structures Straight line 20 years
Infrastructure           Straight line 40 years
Other improvements       Straight line 20 years
 
   (E)   This policy shall be applied to the Fiscal Year 2015-2016 audit and
each year thereafter. This policy supersedes any capitalization policy
previously adopted by the Village Board.
   (F)   The Village Board designates the Finance and Budget Committee with the
responsibility for the oversight of capital assets in accordance with the
provisions that are contained in this policy.
(Res. 2015-12-07A, passed 12-7-2015)
§ 30.15 REAL ESTATE TAX REFUND POLICY AND PROCEDURES FOR TAX INCREMENTAL
FINANCING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   It shall be the policy of the Village of Shiloh that any business
located within a Tax Increment Financing (TIF) district will be entitled to
apply for and be considered for a partial refund of real estate taxes based on
the level of investment made and overall economic impact that the project will
have on the community and conformity with the Village of Shiloh criteria to be
considered for a real estate refund.
   (B)   In determining the level of financial assistance to be provided, the
following criteria and factors will be considered:
      (1)   Projected increase in assessed valuation of the project;
      (2)   Number of and quality of new jobs to be created or retained;
      (3)   Amount of other revenue to be derived from the project (i.e. retail
sales tax, and the like);
      (4)   Anticipated growth potential of the business over two years;
      (5)   Financial strength of the business or developer;
      (6)   Expertise of the developer or business owners and principals; and
      (7)   Impact that the business or developer will have on existing similar
business within Shiloh (should the Village Board determine that one is
necessary, the developer or business shall furnish a feasibility study).
   (C)   The amount of the refund that a business may qualify for shall further
be determined by the various agreements that the village has with the
participating taxing bodies (i.e. school districts, St. Clair County, and the
like) who have agreed to provide a refund for projects. Furthermore, the refund
shall be based upon the amount of unreserved funds within the “special tax
allocation fund.”
   (D)   A business or developer therefore cannot assume the refund of taxes
that may be approved by the Village Board. A project must meet the criteria
listed herein and receive prior approval of the Village Board.
   (E)   The Village Board will determine the amount, if any of the refund
based upon the overall impact that the proposed business or development will
have on the community. For example, a retail business that is expected to be a
high sales tax generator will be favorably considered.
   (F)   It should be noted that residential projects including single-family
homes and multi-family developments ARE NOT considered eligible for a properly
tax refund. This also includes specialized housing and institutional living
quarters (i.e. nursing homes, convalescent homes, group housing, and the like).
   (G)   The maximum period of a partial real estate tax refund under this
program being 15 years.
   (H)   Criteria. In order for a business to be considered for a real estate
tax refund, the following requirements must be met:
      (1)   Developer or business must include features above those necessary
to minimally support their own development or business. As an example, better
streets, enhanced streetscapes, providing internal vehicular circulation
between tracts, upgrading from rural section to urban section, larger utility
provisions, providing additional bikeways/trails, providing additional storm
water management, providing increased landscaping, master planning of larger
tracts, and the like.
      (2)   Must be legally established “for profit” business enterprise
recognized by the Illinois Department of Revenue and must further be in good
financial standing.
      (3)   Generally, a business or development determined eligible shall
include commercial establishments both retail and wholesale, service business
including professional offices, industrial firms including manufacturing and
warehouse facilities.
      (4)   Business must be located within a TIF district and in an area
suitably zoned for the proposed use.
      (5)   An existing business as well as new business must demonstrate a
minimum investment of $10,000 through improvements including property
acquisition, site development, new construction, fixtures and equipment, and
the like.
      (6)   Business that creates or retains permanent (full time equivalent)
jobs will receive a higher rating than those that do not.
      (7)   Project must increase the assessed valuation of the property over
and above the current assessed valuation of the property.
      (8)   Refundable funds can only be used for TIF eligible expenditures as
defined within the Tax Increment Allocation Act with documentation of expenses
provided before a refund can be made.
      (9)   Developer or business must show evidence of financial capacity to
complete the project. This may entail letter of credit, documented of
conventional loans, availability of owner equity, and other financial
resources, and the like.
      (10)   Project must be of a nature in which a permit is required to be
obtained through the Village of Shiloh.
      (11)   Projects that have a Project Labor Agreement, with the
Southwestern Illinois Building Trades Council (S.I.B.T.C.) will be given a
higher consideration rating.
      (12)   Projects that purchase construction materials in Shiloh, Illinois
will be given a higher consideration rating.
   (I)   Procedures. In order for a business or development to be considered
for a refund of real estate taxes, the following steps and procedures are
required to be followed:
      (1)   Application must be complete and filed with village staff for
preliminary review. Incomplete forms will be returned to the applicant with an
explanation on what additional information is required.
      (2)   Application must be supplemented by pertinent documentation (i.e.
number of jobs to be created/retained, total amount of investment, site plan,
construction schedule, evidence of project financing, and the like).
      (3)   Complete applications will be submitted, by staff, to the
Chairperson of Administration for review and comment.
      (4)   Within 45 days of staff certifying the application as being
complete and filed, the Chairperson of Administration, in consultation with the
appropriate staff, and Village Treasurer will submit the application to the
Committees at Large Meeting along with a recommendation for consideration.
      (5)   The committee will review and consider the application and act upon
it as promptly as possible. The committee may defer action on any application
pending further information required to clearly evaluate the project. It shall
be the responsibility of the applicant business or developer to supplement the
application with information as may be required by the committee in a timely
manner.
      (6)   The Board Committee shall either approve, deny or amend the
application for full or partial tax refund. The decision of the committee shall
be made in an open meeting properly held and advertised. The committee shall
further provide the applicant with a written response of the actions of the
committee on the status of the application.
      (7)   The committee shall respect the confidentially of financial records
of the business as allowed by law.
      (8)   The recommendation of the committee to provide any refund of real
estate taxes must be submitted and approved by a majority vote of the Village
Board at a regular Village Board meeting before a refund can be assumed to be
approved.
      (9)   If approved by the Village Board at a regular Village Board
meeting, a “letter of commitment” outlining the specific terms and conditions
of the refund will be provided to the applicant within 30 days of approval.
This is to be followed up with a written “redevelopment agreement.”
§ 30.15A IMPROVEMENTS TO BUSINESSES WITHIN THE VILLAGE TAX INCREMENT FINANCE
DISTRICT.
   (A)   The village currently has Tax Increment Finance Districts (TIF
Districts) situated within the corporate limits of the village and the TIF
Districts contains many businesses. The village desires to offer a financial
incentive to businesses within the TIF Districts to make improvements to their
location and it is necessary to establish guidelines and parameters for the
financial incentives.
   (B)   The village may, in its sole discretion, grant financial incentives to
businesses located within the TIF Districts. Any business requesting financial
incentives shall complete a financial incentive application, in a form and
substance approved by the village. The applicant shall, at a minimum, provide
the name, address and telephone number of the business, a detailed description
of the proposed improvement, the approximate cost of the improvement and the
expected date of completion of the improvement.
   (C)   In order to receive said financial incentive, the proposed improvement
must contain costs that are eligible for reimbursement pursuant to the Illinois
Tax Increment Allocation Redevelopment Act ("TIF Act"). The financial incentive
shall be limited to 50% of the cost of the TIF Act eligible improvements. If
the financial incentive application is approved by the village, payment shall
only be made to the applicant after the applicant has submitted receipts of
payment evidencing payment in full for the improvements, along with waivers of
liens from any person, company or entity performing work on the improvements.
   (D)   The applicant shall submit two or more bids or proposals for material
and/or labor to complete the proposed improvements. The village may require
additional bids or proposals.
   (E)   Any recipient of a financial incentive pursuant to this section shall
only receive one award of financial incentive in any six-year period.
§ 30.16 PROPERTY OWNER STREET LIGHT REQUESTS.
   It shall be the policy of the Village of Shiloh that any property owner
requesting an additional street light shall make a written request to the
village. Village Staff will contact the power company who will survey the area
and make a recommendation. If the power company representative recommends
additional light(s) the Village Staff will seek Village Board approval through
its regular meeting schedules. Once approved by the Village Board, the property
owner must pay the upfront installation and pole/light fixture cost.
Thereafter, the village will pay the monthly energy cost.
§ 30.17 ARCHITECTURAL APPEARANCE PERMIT POLICY.
   (A)   It shall be the policy of the village that any building or structure
shall be subject to Village Board architectural appearance approval in
accordance with the development code.
   (B)   The intent of this policy is to provide an opportunity for elected
official review and input prior to issuance of a permit without unnecessary
project delay.
   (C)   The Board can review the submittal at any two meetings (a committee at
large or regular board meeting). Board authorization to staff can only be made
after the application has been reviewed at two meetings - the first to
introduce the project and the second to seek formal acceptance.
   (D)   Each request shall be listed by name and address on the agenda to
allow for public input.
   (E)   Procedures.
      (1)   Applicant shall submit plans or pictures that have sufficient
detail to determine the type of exterior materials, colors and exterior
appearance atleast 14 days prior to the first meeting in which the application
is to be reviewed. Documents are to be submitted to the Village Staff.
      (2)   Staff shall review the submittals using the ordinance as a guide.
      (3)   Staff review comments shall be sent to the applicant within one
week of receipt of documents.
      (4)   Applicant shall address any staff review comments.
      (5)   If all staff comments are addressed prior to the Wednesday before
the meeting at which the Board is to review the project, the application shall
be on the meeting agenda. The Village Staff shall notify the applicant that the
application is on the agenda.
      (6)   Copies of the Staff review comments shall be included in the
meeting information packets.
      (7)   Applicant shall ensure that a sufficient number of plans are
available for review at the meeting.
      (8)   Applicant shall address Board comments in writing. This response
shall become part of the job file.
      (9)   When the Board determines that the architectural appearance review
is complete and all of the concerns have been satisfactorily addressed, it
shall grant permission to the Village Staff to proceed with the permitting
process.
(Am. Ord. 2018-12-03D, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 30.18 LANDSCAPE AND STREETSCAPE RECOMMENDATIONS.
   (A)   The Village Board can review the submittal at any two meetings (a
committee at large or regular Board meeting). Board authorization to staff can
only be made after the application has been reviewed at two meetings - the
first to introduce the project and the second to seek formal acceptance. Each
request shall be listed by name and address on the agenda to allow for public
input.
   (B)   This section contains the performance standards and regulations
pertaining to the landscape elements of residential, commercial and industrial
properties, recommendations for the provision of trees along public right-of-
way, maintenance, recommendations for trees and other landscape components
adjacent to public right-of-way and administration and enforcement of these
regulations.
   (C)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish recommendations
for the provision, installation, maintenance and removal of landscape plantings
in order to achieve a healthy, visually pleasing and safe community by the
following means.
      (1)   Preservation of vegetation. Preserve existing natural vegetation
and the incorporation of native plants, plant communities and ecosystems into
landscape design, where possible.
      (2)   Aesthetics. Improve the appearance of all areas through the
incorporation of open space into development in ways that harmonize and enhance
the natural and built environment.
      (3)   Land values. Maintain and increase the value of land by requiring
landscape improvements to be incorporated into development, thus becoming by
itself a valuable capital asset.
      (4)   Human values. Provide direct and important physical and
psychological benefits to human beings through the use of landscape materials
to reduce noise and glare, to provide visual diversity and seasonal interest,
and visually soften the harsher aspects of urban development.
      (5)   Improved design. Promote innovative and cost-conscious approaches
to the design, installation and maintenance of landscaping, encouraging water
and energy conservation.
      (6)   Improved administration and enforcement. Establish procedures,
standards and qualified staff for the administration and enforcement of this
Code.
   (D)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BUFFER, PERIMETER LANDSCAPE. A continuous area of land set aside along
the perimeter of a lot in which plant materials may be used to provide a
transition between and to reduce the environmental, aesthetic and other impacts
of one type of land use upon another.
      CANOPY TREE. A self-supporting woody plant or species normally growing to
a mature height of not less than 20 feet and a mature spread of not less than
15 feet in the St. Louis metropolitan area. Clusters of more than one tree may
be used when it is demonstrated to the Village Board that the grouping of trees
will, at maturity, surpass the 15-foot diameter requirement and that the
grouping of trees is suitable for the proposed location.
      CULTIVATED LANDSCAPE AREA. Planted areas that receive routine maintenance
such as mowing, irrigating, pruning, fertilizing and the like.
      DEVELOPMENT. Any proposed material change in the use or character of the
land, including, but not limited to, land clearing or the placement of any
structure or site improvements on the land.
      DRIP LINE. A vertical line extending from the outermost branch tips of a
tree perpendicular to the finished grade.
      GROUND COVER. Plants, other than turf grass, normally reaching an average
maximum height of not more than 24 inches to maturity.
      HEDGE. A landscape barrier consisting of a continuous, dense planting of
woody vegetation which may be either composed of trees or shrubs.
      INCOMPATIBILITY OF LAND USES. An issue arising from the proximity or
direct association of contradictory, incongruous or discordant land uses or
activities, including the impacts of noise, vibration, smoke, odors, toxic
matter, radiation and similar environmental conditions.
      IRRIGATION SYSTEM. A permanent, artificial watering system installed
below grade designed to transport and distribute controlled amounts of water to
plants.
      LANDSCAPE AMENITIES. Any combination of non-living landscape material
such as rocks, pebbles, sand, mulch, walls, fences or decorative paving
materials.
      LANDSCAPE PLANTINGS. Any combination of living plants such as grass,
ground cover, shrubs, vines, hedges or trees.
      MULCH. Non-living organic and synthetic materials customarily used in
landscaping designed to retain moisture, stabilize soil temperatures, control
weed growth and retard erosion.
      PLANT COMMUNITY. A natural association of plants that are dominated by
one or more prominent species or a characteristic physical attribute.
      SHRUB. A self-supporting woody perennial plant of low to medium height
characterized by multiple stems and branches continuous from the base, usually
not more than ten feet in height at its maturity.
      SITE SPECIFIC PLANTING. The selection of plant materials which are
particularly well suited to withstand macro and micro climate conditions that
are specific to that location.
      SUBSTANTIAL CHANGE IN LAND USE.
         (a)   A change in land use that increases the intensity of land use;
         (b)   A change in land use that creates an incompatibility or
increases the incompatibility of adjacent land uses; or
         (c)   An increase in the total floor area of multiple dwellings or
nonresidential buildings that results in increased traffic generation.
      TOPPING. The severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than three
inches in diameter with the tree's crown to such degree so as to distort the
normal canopy shape thus disfiguring the tree.
      UNDERSTORY PLANT MATERIAL. Assemblages of natural low-level woody,
herbaceous and ground cover species which exist in the area below the canopy of
the trees.
      UNDERSTORY TREE. Any self-supporting woody perennial plant which has a
diameter at breast height (DBH) of two inches or more and which normally
attains an overall height of at least 15 feet at maturity, usually with one
main stem or trunk and many branches. It may appear to have several stems or
trunks in several species.
      VIABLE. When referring to a tree, shrub or other type of plant, is a
plant that, in the judgment of the Village Staff, is capable of sustaining its
own life processes, unaided by humans, for a reasonable period of time.
   (E)   Applicability. Except as otherwise specifically provided for herein,
this subchapter shall apply to new property development, any cumulative
permitted landscaping renovation in excess of 20%, and maintenance of existing
trees and landscaping on existing individual lots in the B-1, B-2, B-3, B-4, PB
and I districts; and to the installation, maintenance and/or replacement of
trees in public rights-of-way in all zoning districts. No permit shall be
issued as provided for herein in violation of the regulations set forth herein.
   (F)   Conflicts. If the provision of this subchapter conflict with other
sections of this Code or other ordinances or regulations, the more stringent
limitation or requirement shall govern or prevail to the extent of the
conflict.
   (G)   Landscape design recommendations. The following recommendations shall
be considered the minimum requirements for the installation of all plant
materials within the village on existing lots within the MR, B-1, B-2, B-3, B-
4 and I districts and within public rights-of-way in all zoning districts:
      (1)   Minimum tree and shrub planting or preservation recommendations.
         (a)   General. Trees shall not be placed where they interfere with
site drainage or where they shall require frequent pruning in order to avoid
interference with overhead power lines. A minimum of 75% of all required trees
shall be canopy trees.
         (b)   Acceptable tree species, cultivars or varieties. In order to
protect the village's existing trees from disease and to ensure that the
species and varieties of trees which are planted will grow and be healthy,
trees planted on existing sites and in conjunction with new developments within
the MR, B-1, B-2, B-3, B-4, PB and I districts and within public rights-of-way
within all zoning districts shall be of the species, cultivars or varieties
listed in the tables below (except where specific exceptions are noted in a
table.) The species, cultivar and/or variety which are listed in Table 4 are
not acceptable for planting
within the public rights-of-way due to a variety of factors such as
susceptibility to salt damage, potential for providing a traffic visual hazard,
susceptibility to disease, potential for growth into right-of-way and the like.
Table 1
Large Size Canopy Trees
(reaching height of 50 feet or more at maturity)
Botanical Name Common Name
Table 1
Large Size Canopy Trees
(reaching height of 50 feet or more at maturity)
Botanical Name            Common Name
Acer saccharum            Sugar Maple
Celtis occidentalis       Hackberry
Fraxinus pennsylvanica    Green Ash
                          (seedless variety)
Fraxinus americana        White Ash
Quercus alba              White Oak
Quercus rubra             Red Oak
Tilia americana “Redmond"Redmond" Linden
Zelkova serrata           Village Green
                          Japanese Zelkova
Ulmus carpinifolia        "Homestead" and "Pioneer"
 
Table 2
Medium-Size Canopy Trees
(reaching heights of 30 - 45 feet or more at maturity)
Botanical Name Common Name
Table 2
Medium-Size Canopy Trees
(reaching heights of 30 - 45 feet or more at maturity)
Botanical Name                Common Name
Acer platanoides              Norway Maple
Acer rubrum                   Red Maple
Fraxinus americana "Rosehill" White Ash
                              "Rosehill"
Fraxinus excelsior            European Ash
Ginkgo biloba                 Ginkgo (male sex only)
Nyssa sylvatica               Black Gum
Pyrus calleryana varieties    Callery Pear
Taxodium distichom            Common Bald Cypress
Tilia cordata                 Littleleaf Linden
Tilia euchlora                Crimean Linden
Tilia tomentosa               Silver Linden
Gleditisia/triacanthos        Thornless Honeylocust
 
Table 3
Small-Size Canopy Trees
(reaching heights of not more than 30 feet at maturity)
Botanical Name Common Name
Table 3
Small-Size Canopy Trees
(reaching heights of not more than 30 feet at maturity)
Botanical Name                 Common Name
Acer Campestre                 Hedge Maple (Evelyn)
Acer platanoides globusm       Globe Norway Spruce
Camelanchier glandiflora       Serviceberry
Carpinus betulus               European Hornbeam
Carpinus caroliniana           American Hornbeam
Cercis canadaenis              Red Bud
Crataegus species              Hawthorn
Fraxinus quadrangulata globosa Globe Blue Ash
Koelreuteria paniculata        Goldenrain Tree
Magnolia                       Saucer Magnolia
Morus alba "Kingan"            "Kingan" Fruitless Mulberry
Ostrya virginiana              Hop Hornbean
 
Table 4
Evergreen Trees
(not acceptable for planting within right-of- way)
Botanical Name Common Name
Table 4
Evergreen Trees
(not acceptable for planting within right-of- way)
Botanical Name Common Name
Abies sp.      Fir
Picea sp.      Spruce
Pinus sp.      Pine
Thuj a sp.     Arborvitae
Juniper sp.    Junipers
Undesirable tree species, cultivars or varieties: in order to protect the
village's existing trees from disease, to ensure that the species and
varieties of trees which are planted will grow and be healthy, will be
resistant to storms, and do not provide other undesirable effects, the trees
listed below in Table 5 shall not be planted on existing sites and in
conjunction with new developments within the MR, B-1, B-2, B-3, B-4, PB and I
districts and within public rights-of-way within all zoning districts, except
upon the approval of the Planning Commission/Village Board in special
locations where because of characteristics of adaptability or landscape effect
they can be used to public advantage and will not create a detriment to
adjoining property or the trees thereon.
 
Table 5
Undesirable Tree Species, Cultivars or Varieties
Botanical Name Common Name
Table 5
Undesirable Tree Species, Cultivars or Varieties
Botanical Name        Common Name
Acer negundo          Boxelder
Acer saceharinum      Silver or Soft Maple
Aesculus sp.          Horsechestnut
Ailanthus altissima   Tree-of-Heaven
Albizzia sp.          Mimosa
Catalpa sp.           Catalpa
Diospyros             Persimmon
Gleditisia tricanthos Honeylocust
                      (except thornless)
Juglans nigra         Black Walnut
Maculura pomifera     Osage Orange
Malus sp.             Apples
Morns sp.             Mulberry
                      (all fruit-bearing varieties)
Platanus occidentalis Sycamore (American)
Populus sp.           Poplars, Cottonwood
Prunus sp.            Cherry, Plum
                      (all fruit-bearing varieties)
Pyrus sp.             Pear
                      (all fruit-bearing varieties)
Quercus palustris     Pin Oak
Robinia pseudocacia   Black Locust
Salix sp.             Willow
Ulmus sp.             Elms
Liquidar styraciflua  Sweet Gum
 
      (2)   Recommendations for landscape materials.
         (a)   Tree planting recommendations. Immediately upon planting all
trees shall conform to the American Association of Nurserymen Standards and
have the following characteristics.
            1.   In all MR, B-1, B-2, B-3, B-4, PB and I districts, all medium
to large canopy trees shall be a minimum of 12 feet in height and shall have a
minimum caliper of two inches.
            2.   All understory trees shall be at least five feet in height,
except where they are fulfilling the requirement as a landscape buffer as
provided for in this subchapter in which case they shall be a minimum of eight
feet in height. Deciduous small trees shall have a minimum caliper of two
inches, a minimum height of ten feet, and have not less than eight branches on
the upper half of the trunk.
            3.   When more than ten trees are to be planted to meet the
recommendations of this subchapter, a mix of species shall be provided. The
number of species to be planted shall vary according to the overall number of
trees required to be planted. Species shall be planted in proportion to the
mix.
            4.   On a corner lot in any district, development shall conform to
the recommendations of a sight distance triangle in which nothing shall be
erected, placed, planted or allowed to grow in such a manner as to materially
impede vision between a height of two feet and ten feet above the grades at the
back of the curb of the intersecting streets, within the triangular area formed
by the right-of-way lines and a line connecting them at points 40 feet from
their point of intersection or at equivalent points on private streets, except
that the sight distance triangle may be increased when deemed necessary for
traffic safety by Village Staff.
            5.   Only medium deciduous trees shall be acceptable for planting
in public rights-of-way in all zoning districts where the planting area between
the curb or edge of the roadway pavement and the edge of the sidewalk is
limited to a width of between four and five feet. In all zoning districts where
the planting area between the curb or edge of the roadway pavement and the edge
of the sidewalk is greater than five feet, both medium and large deciduous
trees shall be acceptable for planting. In instances where deciduous trees of
either medium or large size are likely to cause interference with overhead
utility wires, understory deciduous trees will be acceptable for planting.
            6.   Except as otherwise provided for herein, a five-foot landscape
buffer shall be recommended in side yards in all zoning districts. In R-1, R-2,
R-3 and CE zone districts this buffer shall be at a minimum grass.
            7.   No tree shall be planted closer than 40 feet of any street
corner, measured from the point of nearest intersecting curbs or curb-lines or
within ten feet of any fire hydrant.
         (b)   Plant material installation recommendations. The following
recommendations shall apply to all landscape installation projects subject to
regulation by this subchapter and this Code.
            1.   Soil utilized for the growing medium of plant materials shall
be friable, well-drained, local soil, capable of sustaining plant life. Areas
which have been compacted by construction activities shall be thoroughly
cultivated to the full depth of the compaction. Soil utilized for planting
within these areas may be existing soil, provided it is friable, well-drained,
free of construction debris including, but not limited to, scrap wood, trash,
chemical/oil spills, excess paving materials, crushed rock, sand, natural site
stones greater than one-inch mortar and all other non-soil materials.
            2.   Organic mulches shall be used to reduce the growth of weeds,
add nutrients to the soil, and retain moisture over the root zones of plant
materials. When appropriate, a minimum of three inches of organic mulch shall
be placed beneath all newly installed tree, shrub and ground cover planting
areas. At no time shall rock of any size or variety be placed around any
existing or newly planted tree located in a public right-of-way.
            3.   The top four inches of the lawn bed for all areas to be seeded
or sodded shall be topsoil. Topsoil shall be brought on-site from a local
commercial source.
         (c)   Recommendations. The following recommendations shall apply to
all B-1, B-2, B-3, B-4, PB and I districts.
            1.   Any part of a lot area not used for buildings or other
structures or for parking, loading or accessways, shall be landscaped with
grass, ground cover, trees, shrubs and pedestrian walks in accordance with the
following provisions.
            2.   A planting strip of ten feet (not including sidewalks) shall
be provided and maintained within the required front yard and shall separate
vehicular parking and drive areas from any public or private street or right-
of-way.
            3.   For all off-street parking areas, the following
recommendations shall apply.
               a.    There shall be one two-inch caliper canopy tree existing
or planted for every ten parking spaces located within planting areas meeting
the recommendations prescribed herein. Each planting area shall be a minimum of
90 square feet in area and shall contain at least one deciduous canopy tree of
a type and size required herein. There shall be a minimum of two trees, within
and up to, every 100 linear feet of parking for each parking row. The trees
shall be spaced evenly wherever possible. The ends of parking rows abutting a
circulation aisle shall be defined by a planting island wherever feasible.
These canopy trees and any associated planting areas shall be protected from
vehicular encroachment by non-mountable, reinforced concrete curbing as
specified elsewhere in this Code. The use of unreinforced extruded curbing of
asphalt or other materials shall be prohibited.
               b.   In addition to any landscaped front, back or side yard
areas or planting islands recommended by this section, for any parking area
containing more than five spaces, a minimum of 20 square feet of interior
landscaped area shall be provided within the parking lot for each parking
space. Landscape areas shall be uniformly distributed in one or more areas so
as to minimize and reduce the apparent size of parking areas. [Also see
division (G)(2)(c)3.f. below for front yard tree recommendations.]
               c.    Planting areas that are parallel to parking spaces should
be a minimum of nine feet wide.
               d.    Where planting areas are perpendicular to parking spaces,
islands should be a minimum of eight feet wide to allow for overhang of parked
cars. If parking is only on one side of the island, an eight-foot width is
still required. Parking stalls can not be closer to the property line than
eight feet. (See buffer requirements elsewhere in this Code.)
               e.   In instances where vehicle parking occurs perpendicular or
parallel to parking islands, no landscape plantings other than grass shall be
installed within 42 inches of the back of the curb.
               f.    Seventy-five percent of the canopy trees recommended
herein shall be located within the paved area, and the remaining canopy trees
shall be located in the front yards but in any event the number of trees to be
provided in the required front yard shall not be less than the equivalent of
one tree for every 50 feet of frontage along any public or private street. In
complying with the front yard requirement and in order to maintain views into
the site, the required number of canopy trees may be clustered at site corners,
entry islands or other appropriate locations along the frontage. The canopy
trees of the variety specified herein shall be counted in determining
compliance with this provision.
               g.   No landscape hedge, bushes, shrubs or other low-growing
plant material, wall or berm shall exceed three feet in height within ten feet
of any driveway opening.
            4.   Screening of mechanical equipment, trash and loading area is
required. All mechanical equipment, trash receptacles, storage of materials and
equipment shall be within a fully enclosed building or in a side or rear yard
screened by berms, dense vegetative plantings, wooden fences or brick walls, or
combinations of these materials at least eight feet in height so that materials
and equipment are not visible at the grade of the nearest adjacent street and/
or adjoining property lines. Roof-mounted mechanical equipment shall also be
screened so that it is not visible from the street or on-site parking areas or
adjacent residential properties. Materials used to screen the roof-mounted
mechanical equipment shall be of a type which is complimentary to the building
architecture.
            5.   Where any parcel abuts any residential district or
development, a 50-foot perimeter landscape buffer shall be provided and
maintained along all rear and side property lines where it abuts the
residential district or development. The buffer area shall contain evergreen
plant material with a minimum height of eight feet, planted in such a manner to
achieve an effective spacing of six foot on center. The berm shall not exceed a
slope of 30 degrees and shall be completely covered with shrubs, grass or other
living ground cover in addition to the evergreen plant material specified
herein.
            6.   All disturbed soil on the site that is not to be covered by
buildings, parking and loading areas, and driveways, and which is not subject
to other landscape treatment in accord with an approved site plan, shall be
graded in accord with the site plan and covered with sod.
      (3)   Irrigation. In the B-1, B-2, B-3, B-4, PB and I districts, in order
to present a healthy and visually appealing appearance, landscaped areas shall
be provided with adequate irrigation for the maintenance of grass, shrubs,
ground cover and other plant materials by utilizing a sprinkler system, hose
bibs, and/or other method of providing water.
      (4)   Zoning district, PRDS, PCDs, and PIDs. The following
recommendations shall apply to all zoning districts and PRDs, PCDs, and PIDs.
         (a)   In circumstances where existing parcels meeting the
recommendation prescribed herein become nonconforming as a result of the loss
of a canopy tree due to storm damage, disease or other means, the nonconforming
condition shall be corrected as soon as weather and planting conditions permit.
In such instances where public right-of-way is involved, the village shall be
responsible for correcting the nonconforming condition (except in instances
where the property owner has caused or condoned the damage.) In such instances
where private right-of-way is involved, the property owner shall be responsible
for correcting the nonconforming condition. Any tree which replaces an existing
tree shall be selected and installed in accordance with the standards provided
for in this subchapter.
         (b)   On parcels where no sidewalk exists, the required canopy trees
shall be planted in an area not more than four feet nor less than three feet
from the back of the curb or street edge. However, in no event shall a tree be
planted where the clear space between the curb and the sidewalk is less than
four feet, except where special permission is obtained from the Village Board.
         (c)   On private property, no tree of any type shall be planted within
five feet of the right-of-way of any public street.
   (H)   Maintenance recommendations for trees and cultivated landscape areas.
The following recommendations shall apply in the maintenance of cultivated
landscape areas as defined in this subchapter which are located within B-1, B-
2, B-3, B-4, PB and I districts and in public rights-of-way in all zoning
districts unless otherwise specifically stated.
      (1)   General. The owner or assigns of land shall be responsible for the
maintenance of the areas of the land subject to this subchapter in good
condition so as to present a healthy, neat and orderly landscape area and
healthy trees.
      (2)   Plants. All required plants shall be maintained in a healthy, pest-
free condition. Within six months of a determination by Village Staff that a
plant is dead or severely damaged or diseased, the plant shall be replaced by
the property owner or owners in accordance with the standards specified in this
section.
      (3)   Removal of trees representing hazards or obstructions. It shall be
the responsibility of each property owner to remove any trees or shrubs, or
parts thereof, which overhang or interfere with traffic control devices, street
lighting, public sidewalks, rights-of-way, or property owned by the village.
The Village Staff shall have the authority to order the pruning or removal of
any such trees subject to the provisions herein or other applicable sections of
the Codified Ordinances of the village.
      (4)   Removal of trees; general. Any trees removed from properties
covered under the provisions of this subchapter or any other village ordinance,
and which will render the property nonconforming with the provisions of this
subchapter, shall be replaced with trees which are of acceptable type and
species and in any previously approved site and landscape plans. Where such
replacement involves properties within a MR, B-1, B-2, B-3, B-4, PB and I
district, a landscape plan shall be required, shall be prepared in accordance
with the provisions of this subchapter, and shall depict the trees to be
removed and the type, species and location of replacement trees.
      (5)   Pruning. All pruning should be accomplished according to standard
horticultural practices. Trees shall be pruned only as necessary to promote
healthy growth. Unless special approval is provided by the Village Board, trees
shall be allowed to attain their normal size and shall not be severely pruned
or "topped" in order to permanently maintain growth at a reduced height. It
shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, form or village
department to top any street tree, park tree or other tree on public property.
Trees may be periodically pruned or thinned in order to reduce the leaf mass
and thus minimize damage from storms. Trees severely damaged by storms or other
causes, or certain trees under utility wires or other obstructions where other
pruning practices are impractical may be exempted from this subchapter at the
determination of the Village Staff. All pruning shall be accomplished in
accordance with the National Arborists Standards.
      (6)   Stumps. The stumps of all removed trees shall be ground out to at
least three inches below the ground level, the chips removed, the soil cavity
filled with soil and the area leveled. If the area where the tree is removed is
to be paved, the top of the stump shall be groung out to at least six inches
below the ground level.
      (7)   Mowing. Grass shall be mowed as necessary in order to encourage
deep root growth and therefore the preservation of irrigation water.
      (8)   Overhanging. In order to assure the safe and unimpeded progress of
fire and street equipment of the village in the performance of its designated
functions, all trees, plants and shrubs that are within or adjacent to and
overhanging any public street, highway, road or thoroughfare shall be
maintained at a minimum height of 12 feet at the center line of the street,
highway, road or thoroughfare and ten feet at the curb of the public way when
the tree, plant or shrub is fully leafed. The Village Staff will require the
property owner to shape the plant growth as specified above or may cause same
to be maintained by Village Staff at the property owner's expense.
      (9)   Removal order. The Village Staff shall, upon knowledge of same,
order to be removed any tree or part thereof on private property which is in an
unsafe condition or which by reason of its nature is injurious to sewers,
electric power lines, gas lines, water lines or other public improvements, or
is afflicted with any injurious fungus, insect or other pest.
      (10)   Right to remove. The village shall have the right to cause the
removal of any dead or diseased trees on private property within the village,
when the trees constitute a hazard to life and property, or harbor insects or
disease which constitute a potential threat to other trees within the village.
   (I)   Procedures upon order to prune or remove.
      (1)   In conjunction with the provisions hereof above, the following
procedures shall be used.
         (a)   When the Village Staff finds it necessary to order the pruning
or removal of trees or plants infected with disease or infested with damaging
or disease-carrying insects upon private property as provided for herein, he or
she shall serve a written order upon the property owner to correct the
condition creating danger or hazard to the public or to village vehicles or
equipment.
         (b)   The order required herein shall be served by at least one of the
following methods:
            1.   By personal delivery of the order to the property owner of
record;
            2.   By mailing a copy of the order to the address of the owner of
the property based on the most recent address on file in the office of the St.
Clair County Assessor;
            3.   If the property owner cannot be located for service by the
means specified in divisions (I)(1)(b)1. and 2. above, then a copy of the order
shall be published twice not less than 15 days between publications in a local
newspaper of general circulation.
      (2)   The order required herein shall set forth a time limit not earlier
than seven days from the date of the order for compliance. In cases of extreme
danger to persons or public property, the Village Staff upon finding a
hazardous condition, shall have the authority to require forthwith compliance
immediately upon service of the order.
         (a)   The property owner to whom an order thereunder is directed shall
have the right within seven days of the service of the order, to appeal to the
Village Board. The appeal shall be filed with the Village Clerk. The Village
Board shall review the order and the property owner's reason for appeal not
later than their next regularly scheduled meeting so long as the meeting is not
sooner than seven days following receipt of the appeal by the Village Clerk.
Unless the order is revoked or modified it shall remain in full force and be
obeyed by the property owner to whom directed. No property owner to whom an
order is directed shall fail to comply with such order within ten days after an
appeal shall have been determined and a copy thereof served on the responsible
person or party. Any persons or parties jointly or severally aggrieved by any
decision of the Village Board under this section may seek a review of the
decision by the Circuit Court of St. Clair County.
         (b)   When a property owner to whom an order is directed shall fail to
comply within the specified period of time, the Village Staff shall remedy the
condition or contract with others for such purpose and charge the cost thereof
to the person or party.
         (c)   When, in the opinion of Village Staff, there is an actual and
imminent danger from a damaged or diseased tree which would endanger life; or
when any tree, or any part thereof, has fallen and life is endangered, the
Village Staff is authorized and empowered to take whatever action as may be
necessary to render the tree or part thereof temporarily safe, whether or not
the notice procedure as previously described in this section has been
instituted.
         (d)   The costs incurred in the performance of any procedure required
as a result of conditions as outlined in divisions (G) and (H) above shall be
billed to the owner of the real property where the work is performed. If such
bill is not paid within 30 days after forwarding a statement therefore by the
Village Staff, the costs shall be levied against the property upon which the
work was performed as a special assessment. The levying of the assessment
herein shall not affect the liability of the persons or parties where the work
was performed. The special assessment shall be collected in the same manner as
other taxes or unpaid village bills by placement of a lien on the property.
   (J)   Interference. It shall be unlawful to delay or in any manner or
interfere with Village Staff in planting, pruning, spraying or removing any
tree, shrub, vine or flowering plant in any public street, boulevard, alley,
park or other public place, or in the removal of any stone, cement or other
material from about the trunk thereof; to interfere with or delay the Village
Staff in the removal of dangerous or diseased trees on private property; or to
interfere with the Village Staff in the discharge of duties provided for in
this subchapter.
   (K)   Penalties. Any person who violates any provision of this section of
this Code or who fails to comply with any notice issued pursuant to the
provision of this chapter upon being found guilty of violation, shall be
subject to a fine in accordance with
Chapter 34 of the Codified Ordinance Book. Each day during which any violation
of the provisions of this section shall occur or continue shall be a separate
offense. If, as the result of the violation of any provision of this section,
the injury, mutilation or death of a tree, shrub or other plant located on
village-owned property is caused, the cost of repair or replacement of the
tree, shrub or other plant shall be borne by the persons or parties in
violation. The replacement value of trees and shrubs shall be determined in
accordance with the latest revision of A Guide to the Professional Evaluation
of Landscape Trees, Specimen Shrubs, and Evergreens, as published by the
International Society of Arboriculture.
   (L)   Landscape plan required. In conjunction with the requirements of other
provisions of this subchapter and this Code with respect to site plan review
and prior to the issuance of any building permit, a landscape plan shall be
submitted to, reviewed by and approved by the Village Board. A landscape plan
for each lot or parcel involved in the proposed development shall be prepared
by and bear the seal of a licensed design professional. The landscape plan
shall comply with the following requirements and contain the following
elements:
      (1)   Be drawn to scale, including dimensions and distances;
      (2)   Delineate the existing and proposed parking spaces, or other
vehicular areas, access aisles, driveways and similar features;
      (3)   Designate by name and location the plant material to be installed
or preserved in accordance with the requirements of this section;
      (4)   Identify and describe the location and characteristics of all other
landscape materials to be used;
      (5)   Show all landscape features, including areas of vegetation to be
preserved, in context with the location and outline of existing and proposed
buildings and other improvements on the site, if any;
      (6)   Include a tabulation clearly displaying the relevant statistical
information necessary for the Village Board to evaluate compliance with the
provisions of this section. This includes gross acreage, area of preservation
areas, number of trees to be planted or preserved, square footage of paved
areas and such other information as the Village Board may require;
      (7)   An irrigation plan indicating the location of sprinklers or water
outlets; and
      (8)   Contain such other information that may be required by the Village
Board to determine that the landscape plan meets the recommendations of this
section.
   (M)   Enforcement. The enforcement of these provisions shall be carried out
in the following manner: The provisions of this section which apply to
properties and public and private street rights-of-way located within all
zoning districts shall be enforced by Village Staff.
(Ord. 2018-12-03D, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 30.19 SITE LIGHTING RECOMMENDATIONS.
   (A)   The Village Board can review the submittal at any two meetings (a
committee at large or regular Board meeting). Board authorization to staff can
only be made after the application has been reviewed at two meetings - the
first to introduce the project and the second to seek formal acceptance. Each
request shall be listed by name and address on the agenda to allow for public
input.
   (B)   This section contains the performance recommendations pertaining to
site lighting for development within the B-1, B-2, B-3, B-4, PB and I
districts.
   (C)   Scope of provisions. The following recommendations shall apply to all
uses within the B-1, B-2, B-3, B-4, PB and I districts and to all development
approved in conjunction with the Planned Development regulations including all
new developments, amendment of an approved site plan, amendment of a special
use permit, or any lighting change to an existing development, involving new
fixtures, standards, heads or luminaries.
   (D)   General recommendations.
      (1)   Site lighting shall include all lighting on property, other than
lighting within a fully-enclosed building, provided that site lighting shall
include interior lighting when used as accent lighting, as provided herein.
      (2)   Site lighting fixtures shall be compatible with the building design
and the adjoining landscape and shall not be used in such a manner as to turn
the building itself into "signage".
      (3)   Excessive brightness of site lighting shall be avoided.
      (4)   Site lighting shall not spill over to adjacent sites or properties.
      (5)   Site lighting shall not create glare which is directed toward or
reflected onto adjoining properties.
      (6)   Site lighting shall not create glare which is directed toward or
reflected onto streets, or interior drives where the glare could negatively
impact vehicular or pedestrian safety.
      (7)   Except as may be provided elsewhere in this section, site lighting
shall at no time be directed upward, in a radiating and/or moving or sweeping
pattern, or at any angle which will light surfaces other than building walls,
parking or pedestrian areas and landscaped areas, and shall not create lighting
patterns which will direct light toward residential areas.
      (8)   At the time of filing any application for any use, development,
amendment or change as set out herein, a lighting plan for site lighting shall
be provided on a separate sheet. The following information shall be submitted
as part of the lighting plan:
         (a)   Manufacturer's catalog cut sheet or other graphic and narrative
description of the light standards, fixture heads and/or luminaries with
specification data;
         (b)   Photometric curves indicating both vertical and horizontal
candle-power distribution; and
         (c)   A plan of the site superimposed with a grid of not more than 20
feet between light sources showing the calculated footcandle levels at average
site grade at the center of each 20-foot grid.
      (9)   All site lighting shall be installed utilizing underground cable.
      (10)   When site lighting is on light standard poles, the poles shall be
either black or brown in color.
   (E)   Illumination recommendations.
      (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in the following provisions of
this section, all parking and loading areas and walkways shall be illuminated
so as to produce a uniform minimum illumination within such areas of two
footcandles of illumination, measured at the ground level.
         (b)   For places of worship, the minimum maintained illumination for
parking areas shall be one footcandle of illumination measured three feet above
the ground.
      (2)   Lighting fixtures or standards without cutoff-type luminaries or
with globe-style luminaries shall be no higher than 15 feet and shall have a
maximum illumination output of not more than 10,000 lumens.
      (3)   Lighting fixtures or standards with a cutoff-type luminaire shall
be no higher than 30 feet with a maximum illumination of the property, measured
at ground level over the site, of five footcandles.
      (4)   Except as may be otherwise approved by the Village Board, where
parking and loading areas are adjacent to residential areas, the maximum
average illumination of the area between the rear building wall line and the
property line abutting a residential area shall be one footcandle measured at
ground level over the site; provided that, at the property line abutting a
residential area, the maximum illumination of the property shall be no higher
than one-tenth footcandle.
      (5)   Where parking or loading areas abut residential property, the
fixture head shall be of an appropriate type which controls the lighting
pattern and shields the residential property from direct view of the light
source. In order to achieve this end, reflector shields may be required for
fixture heads.
      (6)   Globe-style fixture heads (including other shapes such as acorn or
cylinder styles) may only be used as decorative accents along the front of
properties or buildings which face bordering streets which are occupied by, or
zoned for, commercial or light industrial uses and where adjoining uses on the
same side of the street are not residential. No such fixtures shall be located
in any side or rear yard. Globe-style fixture heads shall be of the types which
are frosted or translucent so that the bulb lighting source is not visible and
that emitted light is diffused.
(Ord. 2018-12-03D, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 30.20 SIGN INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE POLICY.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this procedure is to formalize and document
inspection and operational procedures to maximize the effectiveness of village
signs and balance maximum sign effectiveness and public safety while
maintaining fiscal responsibility.
   (B)   Goal. The goal is to confirm and formalize engineering inspection,
inventory, and maintenance procedures with respect to signs and to balance
maximum sign effectiveness and public safety with fiscal responsibility.
   (C)   Introduction.
      (1)   There are five different types of signs. These include:
         (a)   Regulatory signs.
         (b)   Warning signs.
         (c)   Guide signs.
         (d)   Miscellaneous signs.
         (e)   Construction signs (generally temporary signs related to
construction).
      (2)   Sign priority based on function and classification.
         (a)   Priority One:
            1.   Stop signs.
            2.   Yield signs school crosswalk.
            3.   Pedestrian signs.
            4.   Handicap parking and loading signs.
         (b)   Priority Two:
            1.   Other regulatory signs (includes: speed limit, no parking, and
the like).
            2.   Warning signs (includes: height restriction signs, road narrow
signs, curve ahead signs, and the like).
         (c)   Priority Three:
            1.   Information signs (includes: route signs, police signs, and
the like).
            2.   Miscellaneous signs (includes: photo radar signs, and the
like).
   (D)   Inspection and inventory.
      (1)   An inventory of all signs will be maintained by the village. This
inventory will include a history of inspection and condition of the signs. All
signs will be inspected on a rotational basis as follows:
 
Priority One   Once every 12 months
Priority Two   Once every 18 months
Priority Three Once every 24 months
 
      (2)   Sign inspections will confirm that the sign is in place and will
document the appearance, condition, and reflectivity of the sign as well as
visibility of the sign with regard to obstructions (i.e., trees that have grown
in front of signs).
      (3)   The person or persons conducting the sign inspection shall have a
class attendance certification to carry out the required duties in conformance
with the village inspection procedures. The persons or persons shall also meet
the age requirements of the Nighttime Visual Assessment Method as outlined in
the 2009 Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices.
   (E)   Other inspections.
      (1)   Public concerns. In addition to formal inspections, citizen
concerns related to village signs will be documented in the village’s work
request form system and directed to the Village Engineer. Safety related
concerns will be investigated promptly. All concerns will be investigated in a
timely manner as staff workload permits.
      (2)   Village staff. In addition to formal inspections, staff shall
inform the Village Engineer of any concerns related to village signs. Safety
related concerns will be investigated as promptly as is expedient and staff is
available. All concerns will be investigated in a timely manner as staff
workload permits.
      (3)   Sign cleaning.
         (a)   Engineering Department staff will monitor the accumulation of
dirt, snow, or other visual impairment.
         (b)   Based on these inspections, when the Village Engineer determines
that the signs require cleaning because of accumulations of dirt or snow, a
cleaning program will be initiated as resources allow. Priority will be given
to major streets on the village system.
   (F)   Sign conditions. Signs are rated on appearance and reflectivity, and
placed into one of the following four levels:
 
Level One   New
Level Two   Starting to fade and noticeable color change
Level Three Minor damage or very noticeable fading and color change
Level Four  Damaged severely or badly faded and color almost gone
 
   (G)   Action.
      (1)   Priority One signs: When signs reach Level Two, they are replaced
as workload and budget restraints warrant. If there is a safety issue then, at
the discretion of the Village Engineer, the sign will be replaced as soon as is
reasonable based on the availability of work force.
      (2)   Priority Two signs: When signs reach Level Three, they are replaced
as workload and budget restraints warrant. If there is a safety issue then, at
the discretion of the Village Engineer, the sign will be replaced as soon as is
reasonable based on the availability of work force.
      (3)   Priority Three signs: When signs reach Level Four, they are
replaced as workload and budget restraints warrant. If there is a safety issue
then, at the discretion of the Village Engineer, the sign will be replaced as
soon as is reasonable based on the availability of work force.
   (H)   Visibility of signs. When the visibility of a sign is found to be
impaired by other signs, trees, shrubs, and the like, so that the effectiveness
of the sign is significantly reduced, the Village Engineer will dispatch crews
to bring the sign back to a functional level, as staff workload permits. In the
event of private trees or bushes obstructing roadway signs, the Village
Engineer will notify the property owner to deal with the situation in
accordance with applicable statutes.
   (I)   Interpretation. The Village of Shiloh acknowledges that all signs
cannot be maintained in perfect condition due to fiscal and practical
constraints. The timing of maintenance and inspection will be planned within
the scope of this study, at the discretion of the Village Engineer within the
scope of the current operating budget, to balance safety and appearance.
§ 30.21 SIDEWALK INSPECTION AND REPAIR POLICY.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this policy is to establish a guideline for
the inspection and operational procedures for sidewalk conditions and possible
repair for public safety while maintaining fiscal responsibility.
   (B)   Inspection and inventory. The goal of this policy is for the village
to inventory and inspect all sidewalks on village owned property and village
right- of-way on a two year rotating basis. The inventory created shall include
a history of inspection and condition of the sidewalk. The inventory shall be
broken down as follows:
      (1)   The location of sidewalks on village right-of-way for other than
residential neighborhoods.
      (2)   The location of sidewalks on residential neighborhood through
streets. (Those directly connecting to other subdivisions or collector
streets.)
      (3)   The location of sidewalks on other residential neighborhood
streets.
      (4)   The location of sidewalks in village owned parks.
      (5)   The location of sidewalks on other village owned properties.
      (6)   The location of sidewalks on village right-of-way adjoining
schools, churches and village governmental facilities.
   (C)   Other inspections.
      (1)   Public concerns. In addition to formal inspections, citizen
concerns related to village sidewalks will be documented in the village’s work
request form system and directed to the Village Engineer. All concerns will be
investigated in a timely manner as staff workload permits.
      (2)   Village staff. In addition to formal inspections, staff may inform
the Village Engineer of any concerns related to village sidewalks. All concerns
will be investigated in a timely manner as staff workload permits.
   (D)   Action. Following an inspection:
      (1)   Any elevation offsets over one inch in a sidewalk identified in the
inventory under (B)(1), (B)(4) or (B)(6) shall be repaired as soon as is
reasonable based on the availability of the village work force and funds.
      (2)   Any elevation offsets over two inches in a sidewalk in the balance
of the inventory classifications shall be repaired as soon as is reasonable
based upon the availability of village work force and funds.
      (3)   When either condition in (D)(1) or (D)(2) are found following
inspection the offset shall be painted with yellow paint, a picture log shall
be made taken and added to the work request or inspection log.
      (4)   Any smaller elevation offsets in either (D)(1) or (D)(2) than those
listed shall be considered de minimis.
   (E)   Interpretation. The Village of Shiloh acknowledges that all sidewalks
cannot be maintained in perfect condition due to fiscal and practical
constraints. The timing of the maintenance and inspection planned within this
policy are to be carried out within the scope of the current operating budget.
CHAPTER 31: ORGANIZATION; OFFICIALS
Section
   
31.01   Officers
   
31.02   Village President (Mayor)
   
31.03   Board of Trustees
   
31.04   Village Clerk
   
31.05   Treasurer
   
31.06   Additional appointive offices
   
31.07   Vacancies
   
31.08   Meetings of Board of Trustees
   
31.09   Board of Trustees committees
   
31.10   Special committees
   
31.11   Membership in committees
   
31.12   Records
   
31.13   Meetings open to public
   
31.14   Organizational chart
§ 31.01 OFFICERS.
   (A)   The elective officers for the government of the village shall consist
of a President of the Board of Trustees (Mayor) and six Trustees.
   (B)   The appointive officers shall consist of:
      (1)   Village Clerk;
      (2)   Treasurer;
      (3)   Village Administrator;
      (4)   Chief of Police;
      (5)   Planning Commission;
      (6)   Zoning Board of Appeals; and
      (7)   Other officers as may by ordinance be provided.
§ 31.02 VILLAGE PRESIDENT (MAYOR).
   (A)   The Village President, or Mayor, as he or she may be referred to as,
shall be the chief executive officer of the village, shall preside at all
meetings of the Board of Trustees, shall when authorized, execute in behalf of
the village, all of its contracts and obligations, shall enforce all ordinances
of the village, and shall fulfill all duties of his or her office as prescribed
by law. He or she shall receive a salary as provided for by ordinance.
   (B)   The Mayor shall he elected and serve a four-year term as is provided
by statute.
§ 31.03 BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   (A)   The members of the Board of Trustees shall be elected and serve for
four-year terms as is provided by statute (beginning with the first regular
meeting after receipt of the canvassing results.) The Board shall be the
legislative division of the village government and shall perform such duties
and have such powers as may be authorized by the Illinois Compiled Statutes.
   (B)   The Trustees of the village shall faithfully perform their duties as
Trustees and as such members of the committee to which they are appointed, and
otherwise so fulfill their duties that the corporate affairs of the village may
be faithfully and efficiently administered. For their services as Trustees,
members of the Board shall be compensated as provided by ordinance.
   (C)   Duties and responsibilities of the Village Board of Trustees related
to the administration and enforcement of the Development Code shall include,
but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   To make a decision on all applications for special and temporary
use permits, amendments, appeals and variances at the next regularly scheduled
Board meeting following submittal of an advisory report by the Village Planning
Commission;
      (2)   To make a decision on all applications for preliminary and final
plat review within a reasonable time after a review and the application have
been transmitted by the Village Planning Commission to the Village Board of
Trustees;
      (3)   To make a decision on the acceptance and extension of assurances;
      (4)   To make a decision on the acceptance of improvements made by
subdivider for dedication; and
      (5)   To perform such other duties as prescribed by the Development Code
or the Village Board of Trustees itself.
§ 31.04 VILLAGE CLERK.
   (A)   The position of Village Clerk is a non-policy making appointive
salaried exempt position. He or she shall receive a salary as provided for by
ordinance.
   (B)   He or she shall perform all duties as prescribed in the Illinois
Compiled Statutes.
   (C)   He or she shall with the advice and consent of the Mayor and Trustees
appoint a Deputy Clerk. The Deputy Clerk's duties will be as prescribed by the
Clerk and the Illinois Compiled Statutes.
   (D)   The Village Clerk is responsible for the supervision and assignment of
duties for personnel assigned to the Village Clerk's Office.
§ 31.05 TREASURER.
   (A)   The Treasurer shall be an annual appointment by the Mayor with the
advice and consent of the Village Board of Trustees. This is a non-policy
making position. He or she shall receive a salary as provided for by ordinance.
   (B)   He or she shall perform all duties as prescribed in the Illinois
Compiled Statutes.
§ 31.06 ADDITIONAL APPOINTIVE OFFICES.
   (A)   Village Board of Appeals.
      (1)   The Village Board of Appeals shall consider all appeals. Their
findings shall be forwarded to the Village Board of Trustees meetings for final
determination.
      (2)   The Village Board of Appeals of the municipality is hereby
established in accordance with Illinois law.
         (a)   Membership. The Village Board of Appeals shall consist of the
current sitting members of the Board of Trustees. The Mayor shall appoint a
Chairperson and Co-Chairperson. The Village Attorney shall attend such hearings
as counsel for the village.
         (b)   Meetings. All meetings of the Board of Appeals shall be held at
the call of the Chairperson and at such time as the Board may determine. All
Board meetings shall be open to the public. The Board may adopt their own rules
of meeting procedures, so long as these rules do not conflict with this Code or
with the applicable state statutes. The Chairperson, or in his or her absence
the Acting Chairperson, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of
witnesses. A majority of members of the Board shall constitute a quorum and the
affirmative vote of a majority of all members shall be necessary to authorize
any Board action.
         (c)   Records. The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings and
examinations. These minutes shall indicate the absence of any member, the vote
or abstention of each member on each question, and any official action taken. A
copy of every rule, variance, order or decision of the Board shall be filed
immediately in the Board's office, and shall be a public record.
         (d)   Duties. The Village Board of Appeals is hereby authorized and
directed to perform the following duties:
            1.   To hear appeals from any zoning-related decision or order; or
any appeal from any ordinance violation made by the Village Staff and or
Planning Commission; and
            2.   To perform such other duties as prescribed.
   (B)   Planning Commission.
      (1)   A Planning Commission consisting of five members is established.
      (2)   Planning Commission shall prepare a comprehensive plan for land use
within the jurisdiction of the village.
      (3)   Planning Commission shall prepare a map setting forth the land use,
within the jurisdiction of the village.
      (4)   The Planning Commission shall prepare and submit to the Board of
Trustees of the village, for its passage, an ordinance setting forth the rules
and conditions for the implementation of the Development Code and update and
upgrade the ordinance from time to time and submit them to the Board of
Trustees.
      (5)   Planning Commission shall conduct public hearings for special use
permits, variances, changes to zoning or the Development Code and the like.
      (6)   Duties and responsibilities of the Village Planning Commission
related to the administration and enforcement of the Development Code shall
include, but are not limited to, the following:
         (a)   To provide a periodic review of the Development Code to the
Village Board of Trustees and to provide a comprehensive review within ten
years of the Code’s enactment;
         (b)   To hold a public hearing on all applications for special and
temporary use permits, variances and amendments within a reasonable time after
the application has been transmitted by the Code Administrator to the Village
Planning Commission;
         (c)   To make a recommendation to the Village Board of Trustees on all
applications for special and temporary use permits, area\bulk variances and
amendments at the next regularly scheduled Village Planning Commission meeting
following the public hearing;
         (d)   To submit a review to the Village Board of Trustees on all
applications for preliminary and final plat review at the next regularly
scheduled Village Planning Commission meeting following transmittal of the
application by the Code Administrator; and
         (e)   To perform such other duties as prescribed by the Development
Code or the Village Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Village Administrator.
      (1)   Creation of office; appointment; term; removal. There is hereby
created the office of the Village Administrator under and subject to the
authority and direction of the Village President (Mayor) and Board of Trustees.
The Village Administrator shall be the chief administrator of the village and
shall be responsible to the above corporate authorities for the proper
administration of the affairs of the village and policies adopted by the Board
of Trustees.
         (a)   The Village Administrator shall be appointed by the Village
President (Mayor) with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees.
         (b)   The term of appointment shall run concurrent with current term
of the appointing Village President (Mayor). At the end of which, the new or
incumbent Village President (Mayor) may choose to reappoint the Village
Administrator subject to the above process.
         (c)   The Village Administrator may be removed by the Village
President (Mayor), subject to reinstatement by two-thirds vote of the Board of
Trustees in accordance with § 3.1-35-10 of the Illinois Municipal Code.
      (2)   Qualifications. The Village Administrator shall be appointed on the
basis of education and professional ability. The appointment shall be made
without regard to political considerations, race, color, national origin,
religion, gender, age, disability or other legally protected statuses.
      (3)   General duties. In discharging the responsibilities of the
position, the Village Administrator shall:
         (a)   Effectively and efficiently administer the policies adopted by
the Village President (Mayor) and the Board of Trustees.
         (b)   Supervise the activities of all departments through the
appropriate department head and coordinate activities between departments and
offices of the village.
         (c)   Attend all Village Board, committee and advisory meetings and
participate, as required, in all discussions unless excused by the Village
President (Mayor).
         (d)   Make such reports to the Village President (Mayor) and Board of
Trustees as may be required, concerning the programs and operations of the
village, its departments and offices, including analysis and recommendations on
various courses of action, alternatives and fiscal impacts and will keep the
Board of Trustees fully advised regarding the current financial condition and
the future needs of the village.
         (e)   Assist the Village President (Mayor) and perform such duties as
may be directed by the President and/or Trustees.
         (f)   Create and formulate the annual budget for timely submission to
the Board of Trustees and prepare such administrative and other reports of the
activities of the village as may be required at the conclusion of the fiscal
year and periodically throughout the year.
         (g)   Coordinate and ensure appropriate staffing for all village
boards and commissions and participate as necessary and appropriate in
deliberations.
         (h)   Provide for the enforcement of all laws and ordinances of the
village and be the primary point of contact with the Village Attorney.
Coordinate attorney assignments, disseminate legal work product to the Board of
Trustees, serve as the point of contact for legal advice required of any
village department head and ensure protection of attorney-client privilege.
Nothing herein prohibits the Village President (Mayor), Trustees and department
heads from consulting with the Village Attorney as needed.
         (i)   Investigate and respond in a timely manner to resident inquiries
and concerns related to the operations of the village.
         (j)   Promote good relations and cooperation with other governmental
agencies and the public.
         (k)   Work with the Village President (Mayor) and Board of Trustees to
effectively administer and coordinate communications with the public and the
press, including but not limited to, press releases, newsletters, website,
social media and other forms of official correspondence.
         (l)   Propose and recommend to the Village President (Mayor) and Board
of Trustees such personnel rules, regulations and staffing needs as may ensure
effective and efficient operations for the village.
         (m)   Recommend appointments, and when necessary recommend suspension
or removal of any village employees to the Village President (Mayor) and Board
of Trustees.
         (n)   Supervise and administer collective bargaining processes of the
village assisted by appropriate department head(s)/labor attorney and
recommend to the Village President (Mayor) and Board of Trustees agreements for
consideration and final approval and oversee the administration of contracts
reached through the collective bargaining process.
         (o)   Oversee evaluation of village employee performance and provide
written evaluation of department heads at least once a year.
         (p)   Participate in and oversee the development and implementation of
economic and community development programs for the village including business
retention, expansion and recruitment programs, TIF administration and other
economic development incentive programs.
         (q)   Oversee the administration and compliance of all contracts
entered into by the village.
         (r)   Oversee all purchases of materials and supplies as necessary for
the village and as provided for in the annual budget/appropriations ordinance.
The statutory requirements for the solicitation of bids must be followed and
Board approval is required for purchases that exceed $7,500.
         (s)   Identify, coordinate and ensure preparation of grant and loan
applications for village programs, operations and services and ensure continued
compliance with any grant or loan requirements.
      (4)   Compensation and employment agreement. The terms of compensation of
the Village Administrator shall be such as is approved by the Village President
(Mayor) and Board of Trustees. The Village President (Mayor) shall, with
subsequent approval of the Board of Trustees, enter into an employment
agreement, that specifies, in writing, the level of compensation for the
Village Administrator. Said employment agreement may also include provisions
for one or more of the following: benefits, agreements for separation pay upon
termination of employment, continuing professional education, other appropriate
agreements describing the working relationship between the Village
Administrator and the elected officials and performance expectations for the
Village Administrator. Said employment agreement and the stipulations therein,
including salary, shall only apply to the signatories of the agreement.
      (5)   Work status. The position of Village Administrator is considered
full-time and outside employment is prohibited without approval of the Village
President with advice and consent of the Board of Trustees.
      (6)   Absence. If, because of temporary absence, disability or illness,
the Village Administrator is unable to carry out the functions of this office,
the Village President (Mayor), subject to the advice and consent of the Board
of Trustees, may appoint a member of the village’s staff or a qualified
consultant to serve as acting administrator and carry out the duties of the
position during the Village Administrator’s absence.
      (7)   Conflict of interest prohibited. The Village Administrator shall
not derive any personal benefit, directly or indirectly from any contractual
work or business of the village or from the sale of any article from the
village or from the purchase of property from it. The Village Administrator
shall be subject to the ethics and conflict of interest policies and ordinances
of the village.
      (8)   Matters directed to Village Administrator. Except for purposes of
inquiry and as otherwise provided by state law or village ordinance, elected
and appointed village officers shall deal with the administrative services of
the village through the Village Administrator. Elected officials shall not give
directives to any department heads or subordinates either publicly or
privately.
      (9)   Bond. The Village Administrator shall be covered by the blanket
bond for all employees.
      (10)   Authority of elected officers undiminished. Nothing in this
section shall be deemed to diminish or detract from the statutory powers and
authority of the village’s elected officials.
   (D)   Director of Public Works.
      (1)   Type of position. The Director of Public Works is a full-time/
exempt position.
      (2)   Summary of responsibilities.
         (a)   The Director of Public Works manages and supervises the overall
public works functions for the village. They oversee the operation,
maintenance, and repair, and the like, of the village’s infrastructure system
consisting of sewers, streets, sidewalks, parks, public facilities, vehicle
fleet and equipment and all other related facilities and infrastructure.
         (b)   Be a salaried department head position that reports to and is
under the general direction of the Village Administrator and Mayor.
      (3)   Functions include but are not limited to:
         (a)   Directly supervise and be responsible for the day to day
operations and performance of the Public Works Department.
         (b)   Schedule his/her work day to coincide with the normal work
schedule of the Public Works staff and shall work from the Maintenance
Building. Be available to work extra time to address emergency situations as
necessary.
         (c)   Submit reports as needed on completed and planned department
activities.
         (d)   Order and schedule delivery of all materials and equipment
necessary for the performance of Public Works activities.
         (e)   Process all Public Works invoices for payment. Verify delivery
and process staff time sheets for submission to the Village Administrator.
         (f)   Manage and inspect contractor performance and compliance on
maintenance contracts. Issue necessary corrective work orders.
         (g)   Ensure park facilities are maintained and prepared for events
including those scheduled by the O’Fallon Parks and Recreation District and
village staff. Preparation shall include advanced planning and scheduling to
ensure optimum field, park and building conditions.
         (h)   Responsible for and work with staff on the village weed spraying
and mosquito program.
         (i)   Provide Village Administrator with recommendations and cost
estimated for facility use, maintenance, and improvements.
         (j)   Responsible for maintenance of all village streets, storm/
sanitary sewers, park and recreation facilities, vehicle fleet, and the like.
         (k)   Work closely with other department heads on all village matters.
         (l)   Effectively communicate with federal and state regulatory
agencies, consultants, developers, property owners and citizens.
         (m)   Possess a valid driver’s license.
         (n)   Perform other duties as required, including assistance to the
other departments as time permits.
      (4)   Skills, knowledge and abilities.
         (a)   Comprehensive knowledge of public works practices.
         (b)   Ability to interpret and apply the codes.
         (c)   Ability to reason and use sound judgment in a manner consistent
with department policies.
         (d)   Ability to communicate clearly, concisely, and tactfully in oral
and written form.
         (e)   Ability to assign, direct, and coordinate work of subordinate
employees.
         (f)   Ability to prioritize multiple tasks and work independently with
others.
         (g)   Ability to maintain productive working relationship with
officials and co-workers.
         (h)   Ability to use technology to be productive and efficient.
      (5)   Education and experience. Bachelor’s degree in Civil Engineering,
Construction Management or closely related field. Minimum of five years senior
management, supervisory experience in public works in the public sector or in a
field closely related to the public sector.
(Ord. 2015-09-08C, passed 9-8-2015; Am. Ord. 2022-05-02A, passed 5-2-2022)
§ 31.07 VACANCIES.
   If any person elected to a village office shall fail to qualify, the vacancy
shall be filled by appointment or election subject to the provisions of the
Illinois Compiled Statutes. Should any person appointed to a village office
fail to qualify, the vacancy may be filled with the President (Mayor) making
another appointment in accordance with the Illinois Compiled Statutes.
§ 31.08 MEETINGS OF BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   (A)   Generally. Robert's Rules of Order and the following procedure shall
govern the deliberations and meetings of the Village Board.
   (B)   Location of meetings; regular meetings.
      (1)   All meetings of the Board of Trustees shall take place at the
Shiloh Municipal Building and begin at the hour of 7:00 p.m.
      (2)   Regular meetings shall be held on the first Monday of each month;
committee at large meetings shall be held on the third and fourth Monday of
each month.
      (3)   If the meetings fall on a legal holiday, the meetings shall take
place on the next secular day at the same hour.
      (4)   Adjourned meetings may be held at such times as the Board may
determine and announced during the regular or committee at large meeting.
   (C)   Special meetings.
      (1)   Special meetings of the Board of Trustees may be called by the
(President) Mayor or any three Trustees, by giving at least 48 hours notice
thereof, by delivering to the (President) Mayor and Trustees personally or by
leaving written or printed notices of the time of the meeting at the residences
of the Trustees and President (Mayor). Compensation for attendance of special
meetings shall be provided for by ordinance.
      (2)   In case all of the elected members of the Board are present at any
meeting when a special meeting is called then the requirements of notice shall
be unnecessary and shall be deemed waived. Absences from special meetings shall
not apply to rules governing absences of the Board meetings.
   (D)   Presiding officer. The President (Mayor) shall be the presiding
officer of the Board at all regular or special meetings and when the Board
meets as a committee at large.
   (E)   Agenda. The Village Clerk shall publish an agenda.
   (F)   Quorum. A majority of the Board of Trustees or the President (Mayor)
and three Trustees shall constitute a quorum to do business.
   (G)   Disruption of meeting. It shall be unlawful to disturb any meeting of
the corporate authorities or of any committee thereof, or to behave in a
disorderly manner at the meeting.
   (H)   Electronic attendance at meetings.
      (1)   Rules statement. It is the decision of the Village of Shiloh Board
of Trustees that any elected official may attend any open meeting (Not
executive (closed) session) of the Board of Trustees via electronic means (such
as by telephone, video or internet connection) provided that such attendance is
in compliance with these rules and any applicable laws.
      (2)   Prerequisites. An elected official may attend two meetings per
fiscal year electronically under the following conditions:
         (a)   The elected official must notify the village staff by 12:00 p.m.
the day of the meeting to ensure the necessary communications equipment can be
arranged. Inability to make the necessary technical arrangements will result in
denial of a request for remote attendance.
         (b)   The elected official must assert that the member cannot attend
because of travel, employment purposes, or the other business when approved by
the Mayor.
         (c)   The elected official shall be able to participate electronically
at the same meeting provided that enough members are present in person for a
quorum.
      (3)   Authorization to participate.
         (a)   The village staff, after receiving the attendance request, shall
inform the elected officials via email of the request for electronic
attendance.
         (b)   After establishing that a quorum is physically present at a
meeting where an elected official desires to attend electronically, the
presiding officer shall state that:
            1.   A notice was received by elected officials in accordance with
these rules; and
            2.   The elected official will be deemed authorized to attend the
meeting electronically unless a motion objecting to the elected official's
electronic attendance is made, seconded, and approved by two-thirds of the
Trustees physically present at the meeting. If no such motion is made and
seconded or if any such motion fails to achieve the required vote by the
Trustees physically present at the meeting, then the request by the elected
official to attend the meeting electronically shall be deemed approved by the
Board of Trustees and the presiding officer shall declare the requesting
elected official present. After such declaration by the presiding officer, the
question of an elected official's electronic attendance may not be
reconsidered.
      (4)   Adequate equipment required. The elected official participating
electronically and other members of the Board of Trustees must be able to
communicate effectively, and members of the audience must be able to hear all
communications at the meeting site. Before allowing electronic attendance at
any meeting, the Board of Trustees shall provide equipment adequate to
accomplish this objective at the meeting site.
      (5)   Minutes. Any elected official attending electronically shall be
considered an off-site attendee and counted as present electronically for that
meeting if the elected official is allowed to attend. The meeting minutes shall
also reflect and state specifically whether each member is physically present
or present by electronic means.
      (6)   Rights of remote elected official. An elected official permitted to
attend electronically, must attend the entire meeting except for executive
(closed) session, will be able to express his or her comments during the
meeting and participate in the same capacity as those elected officials
physically present, subject to all general meeting guidelines and procedures
previously adopted and adhered to. The elected official attending
electronically shall be heard, considered, and counted as to any vote taken.
Accordingly, the name of any elected official attending electronically shall be
called during any vote taken, and his or her vote counted and recorded by the
village staff and placed in the minutes for the corresponding meeting. An
elected official attending electronically may leave a meeting and return as in
the case of any elected official, provided the elected official attending
electronically shall announce his or her leaving and returning.
      (7)   Committees and boards. These rules shall apply to all committees,
boards and established by authority of the Village of Shiloh.
§ 31.09 BOARD OF TRUSTEES COMMITTEES.
   (A)   The following Shiloh Village Board of Trustees Committees shall be
appointed by the President (Mayor) prior to the Board Meeting of June of each
year:
      (1)   Planning and development; and
      (2)   Administration.
      (3)   Finance;
      (4)   Parks/building and grounds;
      (5)   Police; and
      (6)   Streets/sewers.
   (B)   The President (Mayor) shall be ex-officio member with a vote in all
Board of Trustees committees.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees committees shall have four members to prevent
any two Trustee's meeting on the street constituting a quorum.
§ 31.10 SPECIAL COMMITTEES.
   The President (Mayor), by and with the advice and consent of the Board shall
appoint such special committees as may be determined necessary.
§ 31.11 MEMBERSHIP IN COMMITTEES.
   (A)   Every committee of the Board of Trustees is to consist of four
members, including the Chairperson. Each member is to serve on two Committees
wherever possible.
   (B)   Every member shall be an ex-officio member with a vote in every
standing Board of Trustees committee that he or she is not serving on by
appointment.
   (C)   The President (Mayor) shall be an ex-officio member with a vote in all
Board of Trustees committees.
§ 31.12 RECORDS.
   (A)   The Village Clerk shall keep the minutes and records of the Board and
Committee proceedings.
   (B)   The Village Clerk may designate a member/staff person to submit
minutes to him or her if he or she is unable to attend a meeting.
§ 31.13 MEETINGS OPEN TO PUBLIC.
   (A)   All meetings shall be open to the public, as is required by the Open
Meetings Act, being ILCS Ch. 5, Act 120, §§ 1 et seq., and the Illinois
Compiled Statutes.
   (B)   (1)   Citizens are encouraged to attend and participate at the
committees at large meetings.
      (2)   The public may participate by invitation only at the regular
meetings of the Board of Trustees.
§ 31.14 ORGANIZATIONAL CHART.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d14942e4c4f8cb463017d7393a947477e3bbd522/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1774.jpg]
 
CHAPTER 32: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
Board of Police Commissioners
   
32.01   Creation
   
32.02   Membership
   
32.03   First appointments
   
32.04   Qualification; oath; bond; removal
   
32.05   Appointment of members
   
32.06   Rules; publications
   
32.07   Rules and ordinances; exercise of political rights
   
32.08   Secretary
   
32.09   Compensation
   
32.10   Compliance
Police Pension Board
   
32.20   Establishment
   
32.21   Board
   
32.22   Board meetings
   
32.23   Account
   
32.24   Reserve
   
32.25   Appropriations
Police Department; Law Enforcement
   
32.40   Establishment and purpose
   
32.41   Organization
   
32.42   Appointments
   
32.43   Oath
   
32.44   Duties of police
   
32.45   Duties of Chief of Police
   
32.46   Salaries
   
32.47   Uniform allowance
   
32.48   Police District; powers of police
   
32.49   Uniforms
   
32.50   Policy Manual
   
32.51   Part-time police officers
BOARD OF POLICE COMMISSIONERS
§ 32.01 CREATION.
   There is hereby established a Board of Police Commissioners in the
municipality. The Village President, or Mayor, as he or she may be referred to
as, with the consent of the Board of Trustees shall appoint a Board of Police
Commissioners.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 65, Art. 5, § 10-2.1-1
§ 32.02 MEMBERSHIP.
   The Board of Police Commissioners shall consist of three members whose terms
of office shall be three years and until their respective successors are
appointed and have qualified, except as provided in §
32.03 hereof. No such appointment, however, shall be made by the Mayor within
30 days before the expiration of his or her term of office.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 10-2.1-2
§ 32.03 FIRST APPOINTMENTS.
   (A)   The Mayor, with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees, shall
appoint the new members of the Board. One of the members shall be appointed to
serve until the end of the then current municipal year, another to serve until
the end of the municipal year next ensuing and the third to serve until the end
of the municipal year second next ensuing. Every member shall serve until his
or her successor is appointed and has qualified.
   (B)   Vacancies on the Board of Police Commissioners shall be filled in the
same manner as the original appointment.
   (C)   The Board members shall elect a chairperson to serve during the
municipal fiscal year.
   (D)   A majority of the Board constitutes a quorum for the conduct of all
business.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 10-2.1-2
§ 32.04 QUALIFICATION; OATH; BOND; REMOVAL.
   (A)   The three members of the Board shall be considered officers of the
municipality and shall file an oath or affirmation and a fidelity bond in the
amount of $1,000. The bond shall be paid by the village.
   (B)   (1)   No person holding an office under the village shall be a member
of the Board of Police Commissioners or the Secretary thereof. The acceptance
of any such office by a member of the Board shall be treated as a resignation
of his or her office. No person shall be appointed a member of the Board of
Police Commissioners who has been convicted of a felony under the laws of the
state or comparable laws of any other state or the United States. No person
shall be appointed a member of the Board of Police Commissioners who is
related, either by blood or marriage up to the first degree of first cousin, to
any elected official of the village. No more than two members of the Board
shall belong to the same political party existing in the village at the time of
such appointments as defined in the ILCS Ch. 10, Act 5, § 10-2. If only one or
no political party exists in the village at the time of the appointments, then
state or national political party affiliations shall be considered in making
the appointments.
      (2)   Party affiliations shall be determined by affidavit of the person
appointed as a member of the Board.
   (C)   The members shall not be subject to removal, except for cause, upon
written charges, and after an opportunity to be heard within 30 days in his or
her own defense, before a regular meeting of the Board of Trustees. A majority
vote of the elected members of the Board of Trustees shall be required to
remove any such member from office.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 10-2.1-4
§ 32.05 APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS.
   (A)   The Board of Police Commissioners shall appoint all officers and
members of the Police Department of the village, except the Chief of Police,
who shall be appointed according to the provisions of §
32.03.
   (B)   All appointments to each department other than that of lowest rank,
however, shall be from the rank next below that to which the appointment is
made, except that the Chief of Police may be appointed from among the members
of the Police Department regardless of rank.
   (C)   The sole authority to issue certificates of appointment shall be
vested in the Board of Police Commissioners and all certificates of
appointments issued to any officer or member of the Police Department of the
village shall be signed by the Chairperson and Secretary, respectively, of the
Board of Police Commissioners of the village, upon appointment of the officer
or member of the Police Department of the village by action of the Board of
Police Commissioners.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 10-2.1-4
§ 32.06 RULES; PUBLICATIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Police Commissioners shall make rules:
      (1)   To carry out the purpose of the statutes of the state; and
      (2)   For appointments and removals in accordance with the provisions
which are now, or may hereafter be given to it by law. The Board, from time to
time, may make changes in these rules.
   (B)   All these rules and changes therein shall be printed immediately for
distribution. The Board shall give note:
      (1)   Of the places where the printed rules may be obtained; and
      (2)   Of the date, not less than ten days subsequent to the time of
publication, when the rules or changers therein shall go into operation.
   (C)   (1)   These rules of the Board shall apply only to the conduct of
examinations for original appointments, for promotions, and to the conduct of
hearings on charges brought against a member of the police department.
      (2)   No such rules shall be made by the Board to govern the operation of
the Police Department or the conduct of its members except as provided in §§
32.40 through
32.50.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 10-2.1-5
§ 32.07 RULES AND ORDINANCES; EXERCISE OF POLITICAL RIGHTS.
   The Police Commission may not make or enforce any rule or ordinance which
will in any way inhibit or prohibit any employee from exercising his or her
political rights to engage in political activities, including the right to
petition, make speeches, campaign door to door and to run for public office, so
long as the employee does not use his or her official position to coerce or
influence others and does not engage in these activities while he or she is at
work on duty.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 65, Art. 5, § 10-2.1-5.1
§ 32.08 SECRETARY.
   The Board may appoint a Secretary or may designate one of its own members to
act as such. The Secretary shall keep the minutes of the Board's proceedings,
shall be the custodian of all records pertaining to the business of the Board,
shall keep a record of all examinations held, shall perform all other duties
the Board prescribes, and shall be the custodian of the seal of the Board, if
one is adopted, and the Board is hereby authorized to adopt an official seal
and to prescribe the form thereof by resolution of the Board.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 65, Art. 5, § 10-2.1-20
§ 32.09 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The Secretary may be paid a reasonable compensation for his or her
services, to be fixed by the corporate authorities.
   (B)   The corporate authorities may also fix the compensation to be paid to
the members of the Board, but until the corporate authorities make provision
therefor, the members of the Board shall serve without compensation.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 65, § 10-2.1-22
§ 32.10 COMPLIANCE.
   The Board of Police Commissioners shall hereafter perform and strictly carry
out all the terms and provisions contained in the ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 10-
2.1-1 and 10-2.1-3, to the same extent as if the statute were set out herein.
POLICE PENSION BOARD
§ 32.20 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There shall be a Police Pension Fund established in the municipality for the
benefit of its police officers and of their surviving spouses, children and
certain other dependents, as provided by law.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 40, Act 5, § 3-101
§ 32.21 BOARD.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Trustees of the Fund shall consist of five members,
two appointed by the Mayor and two elected by the members of the Police
Department, and one elected by the beneficiaries of the Pension Fund.
      (2)   One of the members appointed by the Mayor shall serve from 10-5-
1998 until the second Tuesday in May, 1999. The other appointed member shall
serve from 10-5-1998 until the second Tuesday in May, 2000. Their successors
shall serve for two years each or until their successors are appointed and
qualified. The elections for Board Members shall be held biennially on the
third Monday in April.
   (B)   Members of the Board shall neither receive nor have any right to
receive any salary from the pension fund for services performed as trustees in
that office. There shall be in the Board the powers and duties, as provided by
law.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 40, Act 5, § 3-128
§ 32.22 BOARD MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Pension Board shall hold annually regular quarterly meetings in
July, October, January and April and shall hold such additional meetings as may
be called by the President of the Pension Board.
   (B)   At the regular July meeting, the Board shall select from its members a
President, Vice-President, Secretary and Assistant Secretary to serve for one
year and until their respective successors are elected and qualified.
   (C)   The Vice-President shall perform the duties of the president during
any vacancy in that office, or during the President's absence from the
municipality, or if he or she is by reason of illness or other causes unable to
perform the duties of the office.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 40, Act 5, § 3-130
§ 32.23 ACCOUNT.
   (A)   The money in the Police Pension Fund shall be held in a separate
account by the Municipal Treasurer, as provided by statute.
   (B)   This fund shall consist of the deduction from the pay of the police
officer, subject to the act, as provided by statute; and there shall be
annually levied a tax sufficient to enable the Police Pension Fund to meet its
obligations.
Cross-reference:
   Appropriations, see §
32.25
§ 32.24 RESERVE.
   (A)   There shall be established and maintained a reserve in the Police
Pension Fund, as required by statute.
   (B)   The Police Pension Board in making its annual report to the Board of
Trustees of the village shall designate the amount, calculated as a level
percentage of payroll, needed annually to insure the accumulation of the
reserve to the level of the fund's accrued liabilities over a period of 40
years from the date of establishment of the Police Pension Fund, so that
necessary reserves will be attained over such a period.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 40, Act 5, § 3-127
§ 32.25 APPROPRIATIONS.
   The Board of Trustees of the village at any time, by a two-thirds vote of
all of the members of the Board, may make transfers within any department or
other separate agency of the village of sums of money appropriated for one
corporate object or purpose to the Police Pension Fund, but no appropriation
for any object or purpose shall be reduced below an amount sufficient to cover
all obligations incurred or to be incurred against the appropriation.
POLICE DEPARTMENT; LAW ENFORCEMENT
§ 32.40 ESTABLISHMENT AND PURPOSE.
   A Police Department is hereby established to provide for the preservation of
the peace and the enforcement of all municipal ordinances and applicable state
statutes within the corporate limits of this municipality.
§ 32.41 ORGANIZATION.
   The Municipal Police Department shall consist of a Village Chief of Police
who shall head the Department, Deputy Chief, Sergeants and such other officers
as may be authorized through budget by the Village Board.
§ 32.42 APPOINTMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   The Village Chief of Police is a salaried exempt position.
      (2)   He or she shall receive a salary as provided for by ordinance.
      (3)   (a)   The Village Chief of Police shall be appointed by the Mayor
with the advice and consent of the Village Board.
         (b)   The Village Chief of Police shall be removed from office in
accordance with ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 10-2.1-4.
   (B)   (1)   The Deputy Chief Position shall be a salaried exempt position
immediately below the Chief of Police.
      (2)   He or she shall receive a salary as provided for by ordinance.
      (3)   The Deputy Chief shall be appointed by the Chief of Police in
accordance with ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 10-2.1-4.
§ 32.43 OATH.
   Before entering upon the duties of his or her office every member of the
Police Department shall subscribe to the oath for municipal officers.
§ 32.44 DUTIES OF POLICE.
   Every full-time or part-time village police officer shall be conservators of
the peace as authorized by ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-15-25 and ILCS Ch. 5, Act
70, § 1.20.
§ 32.45 DUTIES OF CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The Chief of Police of the municipality shall have the following powers and
duties in addition to those set forth in §
32.44:
   (A)   Aid municipal officers in the execution of their official duties upon
request;
   (B)   Shall monthly report to the Board of Trustees on the state of the
Police Department and from time to time as may be required by the Board of
Police Commissioners;
   (C)   Be in command of all municipal police officers, and shall see that the
discipline and conduct of every policeman conforms to the policies, directives,
special orders, rules and regulations of the Department;
   (D)   Be responsible for the care, maintenance and use of all vehicles and
equipment for the Department;
   (E)   Have charge of all persons held and shall be responsible for conveying
prisoners from the County Jail to other facilities; and
   (F)   Shall direct the administration and operation of the Police Department
and in addition to policies transmitted by the Mayor, shall establish such
other policies, directives, special orders, rules and regulations for the
administration and operation of the Department as he or she sees fit. The Chief
shall notify the Mayor and the Board of Police Commissioners concerning all
policies, directives, special orders, rules and regulations for the
administration and operation of the Department. The directives, special orders,
rules and regulations shall remain in full force and effect unless otherwise
directed by the Mayor or Board of Trustees.
§ 32.46 SALARIES.
   (A)   Police officers of this municipality, not covered by the FOP Labor
Agreement, shall be compensated in accordance herewith, which is hereby
incorporated by reference. These salaries shall comply with the state minimum
wage provisions for police officers.
   (B)   Merit and seniority increases in the salary of the police, not covered
by the FOP Labor Agreement, shall be determined by the Village Board of
Trustees.
§ 32.47 UNIFORM ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   Any officer who leaves the Department shall return all official
equipment in good condition, including insignia, before receiving final
compensation.
   (B)   Beginning 1-1-2007, all police officers not covered by the FOP labor
agreement will receive a yearly maintenance allowance of $300 to be used for
the purchase and maintenance of clothing and equipment items used in the
performance of their duties. The clothing allowance is to be paid either
through purchase orders/vouchers, prior authorization by the employer, or by
reimbursing officers upon presentation of a paid receipt.
§ 32.48 POLICE DISTRICT; POWERS OF POLICE.
   Powers of the police in the Police District shall be authorized as defined
by ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 7-4-7 and 7-4-8.
§ 32.49 UNIFORMS.
   See the Police Policy Manual for specific initial issue, equipment,
uniforms, dress and appearance standards.
§ 32.50 POLICY MANUAL.
   The Police Department's Policy Manual is hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as if set out in full.
§ 32.51 PART-TIME POLICE OFFICERS.
   The Mayor or President, with the advice and consent of the Village Board of
Trustees, may appoint part-time police officers in accordance with ILCS Ch. 65,
Act 5, § 3.1-5 ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-30-21.
   (A)   Part-time police officers employed by the village must meet the
following standards;
      (1)   Be at least 21 years of age.
      (2)   Must have a high school education or its equivalent.
      (3)   Be of good moral character, of temperate habits, and sound health
and must be physically and mentally able to perform assigned duties.
      (4)   Must not have been convicted of a felony or any misdemeanor
involving moral turpitude, as specified in § 10-2.10-6 of the Board of Fire and
Police Commissioners Act.
      (5)   Must be a resident of the State of Illinois.
      (6)   Must possess a valid Illinois driver’s license.
      (7)   Must be qualified to enter and must successfully complete any
training or certification mandated by the Illinois Law Enforcement Training and
Standards Board.
   (B)   Part-time police officers may be disciplined by the Chief of Police
the same as full time police officers except all appeal of discipline shall be
to the Village Mayor and Village Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Part-time police officers may be discharged by the Mayor, upon
recommendation of the Chief of Police and consent of the Village Board of
Trustees.
   (D)   Part-time police officers shall be members of the regular Police
Department, except for pension purposes.
   (E)   Part-time police officers shall be governed by the same rules,
regulations, policies and directives as full time members of the police
department, except they shall not be subject to any portion of any FOP labor
agreement;
   (F)   Part-time police officers shall not be assigned under any
circumstances to supervise or direct full-time police officers.
   (G)   Part-time police officers shall not be used as permanent replacements
for permanent full-time police officers;
   (H)   Part-time police officers shall not work more than 1,540 hours in a
12-month period, beginning January 1 and ending December 31 of each year,
without the specific authorization of the Village Mayor and Village Board of
Trustees.
CHAPTER 33: TAXATION; REVENUE
Section
Municipal Taxes
   
33.01   Municipal Use Tax
   
33.02   Municipal Utility Tax (gross receipts)
   
33.03   Municipal Utility Tax (excise receipts)
   
33.04   Municipal Utility Tax (water receipts)
   
33.05   Municipal Franchise Utility Tax (water receipts)
Rights, Responsibilities; Locally-Imposed and Administered Taxes
   
33.20   Title
   
33.21   Scope
   
33.22   Definitions
   
33.23   Notices
   
33.24   Late payment
   
33.25   Payment
   
33.26   Certain credits and refunds
   
33.27   Audit procedure
   
33.28   Appeal
   
33.29   Hearing
   
33.30   Interest and penalties
   
33.31   Abatement
   
33.32   Installment contracts
   
33.33   Statute of limitations
   
33.34   Voluntary disclosure
   
33.35   Publication of tax ordinances
   
33.36   Internal review
   
33.37   Application
Municipal Telecommunications Infrastructure Maintenance Fee
   
33.50   Recitals
   
33.51   Adoption of fee
   
33.52   Definitions
   
33.53   Registration of providers
   
33.54   Fee
   
33.55   Collection, enforcement and administration
   
33.56   Compliance with other laws
   
33.57   Existing franchises and licenses
   
33.58   Enforcement
   
33.59   Waiver and fee implementation
 
   
33.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Hotel/Motel Tax, see
Chapter 113
MUNICIPAL TAXES
§ 33.01 MUNICIPAL USE TAX.
   (A)   A tax is hereby imposed, in accordance with the provisions of ILCS Ch.
65, Act 5, § 8-11-6, upon the privilege of using in the municipality any item
of tangible personal property which is purchased outside Illinois at retail
from a retailer and which is titled or registered with any agency of state
government. The tax shall be at the rate of 1% price of the selling price of
the tangible property with selling price to have the meaning as defined in the
Use Tax Act, being ILCS Ch. 35, Act 105, §§ 1 et seq., approved 7-14-1955.
   (B)   The tax shall be collected by the state's Department of Revenue for
all municipalities imposing tax and shall be paid before the title registration
for the personal property is issued.
   (C)   The village staff is hereby directed to transmit to the state's
Department of Revenue a certified copy of this section no later than five days
after its effective date.
§ 33.02 MUNICIPAL UTILITY TAX (GROSS RECEIPTS).
   (A)   Tax imposed. A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the following
occupations or privileges: The privilege of using or consuming electricity/gas
acquired in a purchase at retail and used or consumed within the corporate
limits of the municipality at the following rate, calculated on a monthly basis
for each purchaser: 5% of the gross receipts for electricity/gas.
   (B)   Exceptions. 
      (1)   None of the taxes authorized by this section may be imposed with
respect to any transaction in interstate commerce or otherwise to the extent to
which the business or privilege may not, under the Constitution and statutes of
the United States, be made the subject of taxation by the state or any
political subdivision thereof; nor shall any persons engaged in the business of
distributing, supplying, furnishing or selling or transmitting gas, water or
electricity, or engaged in the business of transmitting messages, or using or
consuming electricity/gas acquired in a purchase at retail, be subject to
taxation under the provisions of this section for those transactions that are
or may become subject to taxation under the provisions of the “Municipal
Retailers’ Occupation Tax Act” authorized by ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-1; nor
shall any tax authorized by this section be imposed upon any person engaged in
a business or on any privilege unless the tax is imposed in like manner and at
the same rate upon all persons engaged in businesses of the same class in the
municipality, whether privately or municipally owned or operated, or exercising
the same privilege within the municipality.
      (2)   Any account(s) of the Village of Shiloh shall be exempt from the
taxes imposed by this section.
   (C)   Additional taxes. The tax shall be in addition to other taxes levied
upon the taxpayer or its business.
   (D)   Collection.
      (1)   The tax authorized by this section shall be collected from the
purchaser by the person maintaining a place of business in the state who
delivers the electricity/gas to the purchaser. This tax shall constitute a debt
of the purchaser to the person who delivers the electricity/gas to the
purchaser and if unpaid, is recoverable in the same manner as the original
charge for delivering the electricity/gas. Any tax required to be collected
pursuant to this section and any such tax collected by a person delivering
electricity/gas shall constitute a debt owed to the municipality by such person
delivering the electricity/gas. Persons delivering electricity/gas shall
collect the tax from the purchaser by adding such tax to the gross charge for
delivering the electricity/gas.
      (2)   Persons delivering electricity/gas shall also be authorized to add
to the gross charge an amount equal to 3% of the tax to reimburse the person
delivering electricity/gas for the expense incurred in keeping records, billing
customers, preparing and filing returns, remitting the tax and supplying data
to the municipality upon request. If the person delivering electricity/gas
fails to collect the tax from the purchaser, then the purchaser shall be
required to pay the tax directly to the municipality in the manner prescribed
by the municipality. Persons delivering electricity/gas who file returns
pursuant to this paragraph shall, at the time of filing the return, pay the
municipality the amount of the tax collected pursuant to this section.
      (3)   Persons delivering electricity/gas shall provide the village an
updated list of the purchasers of electricity/gas within the village on a
quarterly basis commencing 9-1-1998.
      (4)   Revenues generated from this utility tax are to be allocated for
street lights and acquisition or improvement of the park(s) by the village.
   (E)   Reports to municipality.
      (1)   On or before the last day of each month, the persons delivering
electricity/gas shall make a return to the village for the preceding month
stating:
         (a)   His or her name;
         (b)   His or her principal place of business;
         (c)   His or her gross receipts and/or kilowatt-hour/therms usage
during the month upon the basis of which the tax is imposed;
         (d)   Amount of tax; and
         (e)   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
      (2)   The persons delivering electricity/gas making the return herein
provided for shall, at the time of making the return, pay to the village, the
amount of tax herein imposed: provided that, in connection with any return, the
persons delivering electricity/gas may, if he or she so elects, report and pay
an amount based upon his or her total billings of business subject to the tax
during the period for which the return is made (exclusive of any amounts
previously billed) with prompt adjustments of later payments based upon any
differences between the billings and the taxable gross receipts.
   (F)   Credit for over-payment.
      (1)   If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid which was
not due under the provisions of this section, whether as the result of a
mistake of fact or an error of law, then the amount shall be credited against
any tax due, or to become due, under this section from the persons delivering
electricity/gas who made the erroneous payment; provided that no amounts
erroneously paid more than three years prior to the filing of a claim therefor
shall be so credited.
      (2)   No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of
this section shall be commenced more than three years after the due date of the
amount.
(Ord. 2016-01-04D, passed 1-4-2016)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-2
§ 33.03 MUNICIPAL UTILITY TAX (EXCISE RECEIPTS).
   (A)   Tax imposed.
      (1)   A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the following
occupations or privileges: The privilege of using or consuming electricity
acquired in a purchase at retail and used or consumed within the corporate
limits of the municipality at the following rates, calculated on a monthly
basis for each purchaser:
         (a)   For the first 2,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month;
.5130 cents per kilowatt-hour;
         (b)   For the next 48,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month;
.3364 cents per kilowatt-hour;
         (c)   For the next 50,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month;
.3027 cents per kilowatt-hour;
         (d)   For the next 400,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month;
.2943 cents per kilowatt-hour;
         (e)   For the next 500,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month;
.2859 cents per kilowatt-hour;
         (f)   For the next 2,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a
month; .2691 cents per kilowatt-hour;
         (g)   For the next 2,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a
month; .2649 cents per kilowatt-hour;
         (h)   For the next 5,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a
month; .2607 cents per kilowatt-hour;
         (i)   For the next 10,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a
month; .2565 cents per kilowatt-hour; and
         (j)   For all electricity used or consumed in excess of 20,000,000
kilowatt-hours in a month; .2523 cents per kilowatt-hour.
      (2)   The tax rates set forth in the preceding table will be used at
least through 12-31-2008, are proportional to the rates enumerated in ILCS Ch.
65, Act 5, § 8-11-2 (as modified by Public Act 90-561), and do not exceed the
revenue that could have been collected during 1997 using the rates enumerated
in ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-2 (as modified by Public Act 90-561).
      (3)   Pursuant to ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-2, the rates set forth in
division (A)(1) above shall be effective:
         (a)   On 8-1-1998 for residential customers; and
         (b)   On the earlier of:
            1.   The last bill issued prior to 12-31-2000; or
            2.   The date of the first bill issued pursuant to ILCS Ch. 220,
Act 5, § 16-104, for nonresidential customers.
      (4)   The provisions of this division (A) shall not be effective until 8-
1-1998.
   (B)   Exceptions.
      (1)   None of the taxes authorized by this section may be imposed with
respect to any transaction in interstate commerce or otherwise to the extent to
which the business or privilege may not, under the Constitution and statutes of
the United States, be made the subject of taxation by the state or any
political subdivision thereof; nor shall any persons engaged in the business of
distributing, supplying, furnishing or selling or transmitting gas, water or
electricity, or engaged in the business of transmitting messages, or using or
consuming electricity acquired in a purchase at retail, be subject to taxation
under the provisions of this section for those transactions that are or may
become subject to taxation under the provisions of the “Municipal Retailers’
Occupation Tax Act” authorized by ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-1; nor shall any
tax authorized by this section be imposed upon any person engaged in a business
or on any privilege unless the tax is imposed in like manner and at the same
rate upon all persons engaged in businesses of the same class in the
municipality, whether privately- or municipally-owned or operated, or
exercising the same privilege within the municipality.
      (2)   Any account(s) of the Village of Shiloh shall be exempt from the
taxes imposed by this section.
   (C)   Additional taxes. The tax shall be in addition to other taxes levied
upon the persons delivering electricity or its business.
   (D)   Collection.
      (1)   The tax authorized by this section shall be collected from the
purchaser by the person maintaining a place of business in the state who
delivers the electricity to the purchaser. This tax shall constitute a debt of
the purchaser to the person who delivers the electricity to the purchaser and
if unpaid, is recoverable in the same manner as the original charge for
delivering the electricity. Any tax required to be collected pursuant to this
section and any such tax collected by a person delivering electricity shall
constitute a debt owed to the municipality by the person delivering the
electricity. Persons delivering electricity shall collect the tax from the
purchaser by adding the tax to the excise charge for delivering the
electricity. Persons delivering electricity shall also be authorized to add to
the excise charge an amount equal to 3% of the tax to reimburse the person
delivering electricity for the expense incurred in keeping records, billing
customers, preparing and filing returns, remitting the tax and supplying data
to the municipality upon request. If the person delivering electricity fails to
collect the tax from the purchaser, then the purchaser shall be required to pay
the tax directly to the municipality in the manner prescribed by the
municipality. Persons delivering electricity who file returns pursuant to this
division shall, at the time of filing the return, pay the municipality the
amount of the tax collected pursuant to this section. Persons delivering
electricity shall provide the village an updated list of the purchasers of
electricity within the village on a quarterly basis commencing 9-1-1998.
      (2)   Revenues generated from this utility tax are to be allocated for
street lights and acquisition or improvement of the park(s) by the village.
   (E)   Reports to municipality.
      (1)   On or before the last day of each month, each person delivering
electricity shall make a return to the village for the preceding month stating:
         (a)   His or her name;
         (b)   His or her principal place of business;
         (c)   His or her excise and/or kilowatt-hour usage during the month
upon the basis of which the tax is imposed;
         (d)   Amount of tax; and
         (e)   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
      (2)   The persons delivering electricity making the return herein
provided for shall, at the time of making the return, pay to the village, the
amount of tax herein imposed: provided that, in connection with any return, the
persons delivering electricity may, if he or she so elects, report and pay an
amount based upon his or her total billings of business subject to the tax
during the period for which the return is made (exclusive of any amounts
previously billed) with prompt adjustments of later payments based upon any
differences between the billings and the taxable excise.
   (F)   Credit for over-payment.
      (1)   If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid which was
not due under the provisions of this section, whether as the result of a
mistake of fact or an error of law, then the amount shall be credited against
any tax due, or to become due, under this section from the persons delivering
electricity who made the erroneous payment; provided that no amounts
erroneously paid more than three years prior to the filing of a claim therefor
shall be so credited.
      (2)   No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of
this section shall be commenced more than three years after the due date of the
amount.
(Ord. 2016-01-04D, passed 1-4-2016)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-2
§ 33.04 MUNICIPAL UTILITY TAX (WATER RECEIPTS).
   (A)   Necessity. There is a continuing increase in cost of services rendered
to its citizens.
   (B)   Tax imposed. Pursuant to the powers granted under the terms and
provisions of ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-2, a tax is hereby imposed upon all
persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying, furnishing or
selling water for use or consumption within the corporate limits of the
village, and not for resale, said tax to be in the amount of 5% of the gross
receipts therefrom.
   (C)   Additional taxes. The tax imposed in division (B) above shall be in
addition to the payment of any monies or services furnished to the village as
compensation for the use of its streets, alleys or other public place, or
installations and maintenance therein, thereon or thereunder, of poles, wires,
pipes or other appurtenant equipment used by any such persons engaged in the
business of distributing, supplying, furnishing or selling water for use or
consumption within the corporate limits of the village.
   (D)   Gross receipts. GROSS RECEIPTS, as used herein, means the
consideration received for distributing, supplying, furnishing or selling water
for use or consumption and not for resale, and for all services rendered in
connection therewith valued in money, whether received in money or otherwise,
including cash, services and property of every kind and material and for all
services rendered therewith, and shall be determined without any deduction on
account of the cost of the services, product or commodity supplied, the cost of
material used, labor or services cost or any other expense whatsoever.
   (E)   Definitions. PERSON, as used in this section, shall include any
natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association, joint trust
company, other governmental body, joint venture, corporation or a receiver,
trustee or other representative appointed by order of any court.
   (F)   Effective date. This section shall be effective and shall apply to all
monies which may be collected on accounts "billed" on and after the billing
cycle one month from the date of this section as "gross receipts" as herein
above defined by any "persons" engaged in the business on which the foregoing
tax is imposed.
   (G)   Notification. The village staff is herewith directed to forward
certified copies of this section to all "persons" engaged in the business of
distributing, supplying, furnishing or selling water for use or consumption
within the corporate limits of the village which is not for resale.
   (H)   Collection. The tax authorized by this section shall be collected from
the purchaser by the person maintaining a place of business in the state who
delivers the water to the purchaser. This tax shall constitute a debt of the
purchaser to the person who delivers the water to the purchaser and if unpaid,
is recoverable in the same manner as the original charge for delivering the
water. Any tax required to be collected pursuant to this section and any such
tax collected by a person delivering water shall constitute a debt owed to the
municipality by the person delivering water. Persons delivering water shall
collect the tax from the purchaser by adding the tax to the gross charge for
delivering the water. Persons delivering water shall also be authorized to add
to the gross charge an amount equal to 3% of the tax to reimburse the person
delivering water for the expense incurred in keeping records, billing
customers, preparing and filing returns, remitting tax, supplying data to the
village upon request and any other costs associated with this tax. If the
person delivering water fails to collect the tax from the purchaser, then the
purchaser shall be required to pay the tax directly to the municipality in the
manner prescribed by the municipality. Persons delivering water who file
returns pursuant to this division shall, at the time of filing the return, pay
the municipality the amount of the tax collected pursuant to this section.
Persons delivering water shall provide the village an updated list of the
purchasers of water within the village on a quarterly basis commencing 11-1-
2001.
   (I)   Reports to municipality.
      (1)   On or before the last day of each month, the persons delivering
water shall make a return to the village for the preceding month stating:
         (a)   Name;
         (b)   Principal place of business;
         (c)   Gross receipts during the month upon the basis of which the tax
is imposed;
         (d)   Amount of tax; and
         (e)   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
      (2)   The persons delivering water making the return herein provided for
shall, at the time of making the return, pay to the village, the amount of tax
herein imposed: provided that in connection with any return, the persons
delivering water may, if he/she so elects, report and pay an amount based upon
his or her total billings of business subject to the tax during the period for
which the return is made (exclusive of any amounts previously billed) with
prompt adjustments of later payments based upon any differences between the
billings, and the taxable gross receipts.
   (J)   Credit for over-payment.
      (1)   If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid which was
not due under the provisions of this section, whether as the result of a
mistake of fact or an error of law, then the amount shall be credited against
any tax due, or to become due, under this section from the persons delivering
water who made the erroneous payment; provided that no amounts erroneously paid
more than three years prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be so
credited.
      (2)   No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of
this section shall be commenced more than three years after the due date of the
amount.
   (K)   Tax allocation. The revenues generated from this utility tax are to be
allocated for the Village of Shiloh General Fund.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS. Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-2
§ 33.05 MUNICIPAL FRANCHISE UTILITY TAX (WATER RECEIPTS).
   (A)   Necessity. There is a continuing increase in cost of services rendered
to its citizens.
   (B)   Effective date. This section shall be effective and shall apply to all
billings after 1-1-2002.
   (C)   Fee schedule.
      (1)   See the Fee Schedule in §
34.01.
      (2)   The following bulk users are identified herein. Additional ones may
be known to the Company and shall be assessed accordingly.
 
Valley View Mobile Home Park
100 Julius Drive              250 units
Shiloh, IL 62269
Shiloh Mobile Home Park
109 South High Street         35 units
Shiloh, IL 62269
Lake Suzanne Mobile Home Park
301 North Main Street         111 Units
Shiloh, IL 62269
 
      (3)   The rate to be subject to change from time to time as the village
determines necessary.
   (D)   Collection. The tax authorized by this section shall be collected from
the purchaser by the person maintaining a place of business in the state who
delivers the water to the purchaser. This tax shall constitute a debt of the
purchaser to the person who delivers the water to the purchaser and if unpaid,
is recoverable in the same manner as the original charge for delivering the
water. Any tax required to be collected pursuant to this section and any such
tax collected by a person delivering water shall constitute a debt owed to the
municipality by the person delivering water. Persons delivering water shall
collect the tax from the purchaser by adding the tax to the gross charge for
delivering the water. Persons delivering water shall also be authorized to add
to the gross charge an amount equal to 3% of the tax to reimburse the person
delivering water for the expense incurred in keeping records, billing
customers, preparing and filing returns, remitting tax, supplying data to the
village upon request and any other costs associated with this tax. If the
person delivering water fails to collect the tax from the purchaser, then the
purchaser shall be required to pay the tax directly to the municipality in the
manner prescribed by the municipality. Persons delivering water who file
returns pursuant to this division shall, at the time of filing the return, pay
the municipality the amount of the tax collected pursuant to this section.
Persons delivering water shall provide the village an updated list of the
purchasers of water within the village on a quarterly basis commencing 1-11-
2002.
   (E)   Reports to municipality.
      (1)   On or before the last day of each month, the persons delivering
water shall make a return to the village for the preceding month stating:
         (a)   Name;
         (b)   Principal place of business;
         (c)   Gross receipts during the month upon the basis of which the tax
is imposed;
         (d)   Amount of tax; and
         (e)   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
      (2)   The persons delivering water making the return herein provided for
shall, at the time of making the return, pay to the village, the amount of tax
herein imposed: provided that, in connection with any return, the persons
delivering water may, if he or she so elects, report and pay an amount based
upon his or her total billings of business subject to the tax during the period
for which the return is made (exclusive of any amounts previously billed) with
prompt adjustments of later payments based upon any differences between the
billings, and the taxable gross receipts.
   (F)   Credit for over-payment. If it shall appear that an amount of tax has
been paid which was not due under the provisions of this section, whether as
the result of a mistake of fact or an error of law, then the amount shall be
credited against any tax due, or to become due, under this section from the
persons delivering water who made the erroneous payment; provided that no
amounts erroneously paid more than three years prior to the filing of a claim
therefor shall be so credited. No action to recover any amount of tax due under
the provisions of this section shall be commenced more than three years after
the due date of the amount.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-2
RIGHTS, RESPONSIBILITIES; LOCALLY-IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAXES
§ 33.20 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as, and may be cited as, the "Locally Imposed
and Administered Tax Rights and Responsibility Ordinance".
(Ord. 876, passed 1-2-2001)
§ 33.21 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to the village's procedures in
connection with all of the village's locally imposed and administered taxes.
(Ord. 876, passed 1-2-2001)
§ 33.22 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The "Local Government Taxpayers' Bill of Rights Act", being ILCS Ch.
50, Act 45, §§ 1 et seq.
   CORPORATE AUTHORITIES. The village's President and Board of Trustees.
   HEARING OFFICER. An administrative individual appointed by the village with
the advice and consent of the corporate authorities to conduct hearings and to
issue final determinations regarding the collection of all locally imposed and
administered taxes.
   LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR. The Village Clerk's Office, is charged with the
administration and collection of the locally imposed and administered taxes,
including staff, employees or agents to the extent they are authorized by the
Local Tax Administrator to act in the Local Tax Administrator's stead. The
Local Tax Administrator shall have the authority to implement the terms of this
subchapter to give full effect to this subchapter. The exercise of the
authority by the local tax administrator shall not be inconsistent with this
subchapter and the Act.
   LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX or TAX. Each tax imposed by the village
that is collected or administered by the village not an agency or department of
the state. It does not include any taxes imposed upon real property under the
Property Tax Code or fees collected by the village other than infrastructure
maintenance fees.
   NOTICE. Each audit notice, collection notice or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the village's locally-imposed and
administered taxes.
   TAX ORDINANCE. Each ordinance adopted by the village that imposes any
locally imposed and administered tax.
   TAXPAYER. Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered
tax and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of the tax
is placed and with respect to consumer taxes includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
village.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Shiloh, Illinois.
(Ord. 876, passed 1-2-2001)
§ 33.23 NOTICES.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given,
the notice is to be in writing mailed not less than seven calendar days prior
to the day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit or other scheduled act of
the Local Tax Administrator.
   (B)   The notice shall be sent by the Local Tax Administrator as follows:
      (1)   First class or express mail, or overnight mail, addressed to the
persons concerned at the person's last known address; or
      (2)   Personal service or delivery.
(Ord. 876, passed 1-2-2001)
§ 33.24 LATE PAYMENT.
   Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required to be made to the
village pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered late unless it is:
   (A)   Physically received by the village on or before the due date; or
   (B)   Received in an envelope or other container displaying a valid,
readable U.S. postmark dated on or before the due date, properly addressed to
the village, with adequate postage prepaid.
(Ord. 876, passed 1-2-2001)
§ 33.25 PAYMENT.
   Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be applied in the
following order:
   (A)   First to the tax due for the applicable period;
   (B)   Second to the interest due for the applicable period; and
   (C)   Third to the penalty for the applicable period.
(Ord. 876, passed 1-2-2001)
§ 33.26 CERTAIN CREDITS AND REFUNDS.
   (A)   The village shall not refund or credit any taxes voluntarily paid
without written protest at the time of payment in the event that a locally
imposed and administered tax is declared in validly enacted or unconstitutional
by a court of competent jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer shall not be deemed
to have paid the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked knowledge of the facts
upon which to protest the taxes at the time of payment or if the taxpayer paid
the taxes under duress.
   (B)   The statute of limitations on a claim for credit or refund shall be
four or less years after the end of the calendar year in which payment in error
was made. The village shall not grant a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest or penalties to a person who has not paid the
amounts directly to the village.
   (C)   The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest or penalties paid in error shall be as follows:
      (1)   The taxpayer shall submit to the Local Tax Administrator in writing
a claim for credit or refund together with a statement specifying:
         (a)   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
         (b)   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
         (c)   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the
cancelled check or receipt for the payment;
         (d)   The taxpayer's recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
         (e)   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest and penalties overpaid and,
as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however, that
there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer owes
any monies to the village.
      (2)   Within ten days of the receipt by the Local Tax Administrator of
any claim for a refund or credit, the Local Tax Administrator shall either:
         (a)   Grant the claim; or
         (b)   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement
as to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
      (3)   In the event the Local Tax Administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate of 0.5% per month, or portion thereof.
(Ord. 876, passed 1-2-2001)
§ 33.27 AUDIT PROCEDURE.
   Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any local administered tax shall
comply with the notice requirements of this subchapter.
   (A)   Each notice of audit shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The tax;
      (2)   The time period of the audit; and
      (3)   A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the auditor.
   (B)   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours and if the
date and time selected by the Local Tax Administrator is not agreeable to the
taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer within 30 days
after the originally designated audit and during normal business hours.
   (C)   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted not less than seven days nor more than
30 days from the date the notice is given, unless the taxpayer and the Local
Tax Administrator agreed to some other convenient time. In the event the
taxpayer is unable to comply with the audit on the date in question, the
taxpayer may request another date within the 30 days, approved in writing, that
is convenient to the taxpayer and the Local Tax Administrator.
   (D)   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the taxpayer's
business or activities, including original source documents and books of entry
denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given rise to any
tax liability, exemption or deduction. All books shall be kept in the English
language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by the village.
   (E)   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make available
its books and records for inspection by the village. If the taxpayer or tax
collector fails to provide the documents necessary for audit within the time
provided, the Local Tax Administrator may issue a tax determination and
assessment based on the Tax Administrator's determination of the best estimate
of the taxpayer's tax liability.
   (F)   If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a locally
imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice of the
amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within 30 days of the
village's determination of the amount of overpayment.
   (G)   In the event a tax payment was submitted to the incorrect local
governmental entity, the Local Tax Administrator shall notify the local
governmental entity imposing the tax.
(Ord. 876, passed 1-2-2001)
§ 33.28 APPEAL.
   (A)   The Local Tax Administrator shall send written notice to a taxpayer
upon the Local Tax Administrator's issuance of a protestable notice of tax due,
a bill, a claim denial or a notice of claim reduction regarding any tax. The
notice shall include the following information:
      (1)   The reason for the assessment;
      (2)   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
      (3)   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
      (4)   The obligations of the village during the audit, appeal, refund and
collection process.
   (B)   A taxpayer who receives written notice from the Local Tax
Administrator of a determination of tax due or assessment may file with the
Local Tax Administrator a written protest and petition for hearing, setting
forth the basis of the taxpayer's request for a hearing. The written protest
and petition for hearing must be filed with the Local Tax Administrator within
45 days of receipt of the written notice of the tax determination and
assessment.
   (C)   If a timely written notice and petition for hearing is filed, the
Local Tax Administrator shall fix the time and place for hearing and shall give
written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be scheduled for a date
within 14 days of receipt of the written protest and petition for hearing,
unless the taxpayer requests a later date convenient to all parties.
   (D)   If a written protest and petition for hearing is not filed within the
45-day period, the tax determination, audit or assessment shall become a final
bill due and owing without further notice.
   (E)   Upon the showing of reasonable cause by the taxpayer and the full
payment of the contested tax liability along with interest accrued as of the
due date of the tax, the Local Tax Administrator may reopen or extend the time
for filing a written protest and petition for hearing. In no event shall the
time for filing a written protest and petition for hearing be reopened or
extended for more than 90 days after the expiration of the 45-day period.
(Ord. 876, passed 1-2-2001)
§ 33.29 HEARING.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely
written protest and petition for hearing under section nine, above, the Local
Tax Administrator shall conduct a hearing regarding any appeal.
      (2)   The taxpayer may request that a hearing officer conduct the hearing
rather than the Local Tax Administrator.
   (B)   No continuances shall be granted except in cases where a continuance
is absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of
preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted
shall not exceed 14 days.
   (C)   (1)   At the hearing, the Local Tax Administrator/hearing officer
shall preside and shall hear testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the
tax determination, audit or assessment.
      (2)   The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall not apply.
   (D)   (1)   At the conclusion of the hearing, the Local Tax Administrator/
hearing officer shall make a written determination on the basis of the evidence
presented at the hearing.
      (2)   The taxpayer or tax collector shall be provided with a copy of the
written decision.
(Ord. 876, passed 1-2-2001)
§ 33.30 INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   In the event a determination has been made that a tax is due and owing,
through audit, assessment or other bill sent, the tax must be paid within the
time frame otherwise indicated.
   (A)   Interest. The village hereby provides for the amount of interest to be
assessed on a late payment, underpayment, or nonpayment of the tax, to be 1%
per month, or portion thereof.
   (B)   Late filing penalties. If a tax return is not filed within the time
and manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance, a late filing penalty, of
5% of the amount of tax for each month the return is late up to a maximum of
25% of the net tax amount shall be added.
(Ord. 876, passed 1-2-2001)
§ 33.31 ABATEMENT.
   The Local Tax Administrator shall have the authority to waive or abate any
late filing penalty, late payment penalty or failure to file penalty if the
Local Tax Administrator shall determine reasonable cause exists for delay or
failure to make a filing.
(Ord. 876, passed 1-2-2001)
§ 33.32 INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS.
   The village may enter into an installment contract with the taxpayer for the
payment of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance. The Local Tax
Administrator may not cancel any installment contract so entered unless the
taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing. Upon written notice by the
Local Tax Administrator that the payment is 30 days delinquent, the taxpayer
shall have 14 working days to cure any delinquency. If the taxpayer fails to
cure the delinquency within the 14-day period or fails to demonstrate good
faith in restructuring the installment contract with the Local Administrator,
the installment contract shall be canceled without further notice to the
taxpayer.
(Ord. 876, passed 1-2-2001)
§ 33.33 STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.
   The village, through the Local Tax Administrator, shall review all tax
returns in a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due
and owing. The taxpayer shall have 45 days after receiving notice of the
reviewed tax returns to make any request for refund or provide any tax still
due and owing.
   (A)   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than four
years maximum after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later.
   (B)   If any tax return is not filed or if during any four-year period for
which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the village,
the tax paid was less than 75% of the tax due, the statute of limitations shall
be six years maximum after the end of the calendar year in which return for the
applicable period was due or end of the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was filed.
   (C)   No statute of limitations shall apply if a fraudulent tax return was
filed by the taxpayer.
(Ord. 876, passed 1-2-2001)
§ 33.34 VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE.
   For all locally-imposed and administered tax for which a taxpayer has not
received a written notice of an audit, investigation or assessment from the
Local Tax Administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an application with the
Local Tax Administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the tax due. A taxpayer
filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to pay the amount of tax
due, along with interest of 1% per month, for all periods prior to the filing
of the application but not more than four years before the date of filing the
application. A taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure application may not
be liable for any additional tax, interest or penalty for any period before the
date the application was filed. However, if the taxpayer incorrectly determined
and underpaid the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is liable for the underpaid
tax along with applicable interest on the underpaid tax, unless the
underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the taxpayer, in which case
the application shall be deemed invalid and void. The payment of tax and
interest must be made by no later than 90 days after the filing of the
voluntary disclosure application or the date agreed to by the Local Tax
Administrator. However, any additional amounts owed as a result of an
underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under this section must be
paid within 90 days after a final determination and the exhaustion of all
appeals of the additional amount owed or the date agreed to by the Local Tax
Administrator, whichever is longer.
(Ord. 876, passed 1-2-2001)
§ 33.35 PUBLICATION OF TAX ORDINANCES.
   Any locally administered tax ordinance shall be published via normal or
standard publishing requirements. The posting of a tax ordinance on the
Internet shall satisfy the publication requirements. Copies of all tax
ordinances shall be made available to the public upon request at the Village
Clerk's office.
(Ord. 876, passed 1-2-2001)
§ 33.36 INTERNAL REVIEW.
   (A)   The Local Tax Administrator shall establish an internal review
procedure regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for unpaid taxes.
Upon a determination by the Local Tax Administrator that the lien is valid, the
lien shall remain in full force and effect.
   (B)   If the lien is determined to be improper, the Local Tax Administrator
shall:
      (1)   Timely remove the lien at the village's expense;
      (2)   Correct the taxpayer's credit record; and
      (3)   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien.
(Ord. 876, passed 1-2-2001)
§ 33.37 APPLICATION.
   This subchapter shall be liberally construed and administered to supplement
all of the village's tax ordinances. To the extent that any tax ordinance is in
conflict with or inconsistent with this subchapter, this subchapter shall be
controlling.
(Ord. 876, passed 1-2-2001)
MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTENANCE FEE
§ 33.50 RECITALS.
   The facts and statements contained in the preamble to this subchapter are
found to be true and correct and are hereby adopted as part of this subchapter.
(Ord. 785, passed 11-3-1997)
§ 33.51 ADOPTION OF FEE.
   The Municipal Code of the village shall be amended by the addition of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 785, passed 11-3-1997)
§ 33.52 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GROSS CHARGES. The amount paid to a telecommunications retailer for the act
or privilege of originating or receiving telecommunications within the village,
and for all services rendered in connection therewith, valued in money whether
paid in money or otherwise, including cash, credits, services and property of
every kind or nature, and shall be determined without any deduction on account
of the cost of the telecommunications, the cost of the materials used, labor or
service costs or any other expense whatsoever. In case credit is extended, the
amount thereof shall be included only as and when paid. GROSS CHARGES for
private line service shall include charges imposed at each channel point within
the village; charges for the channel mileage between each channel point within
the village, and charges for that portion of the interstate inter-office
channel provided within the village. However, GROSS CHARGES shall not include:
      (1)   Any amounts added to a purchaser's bill because of a charge made
under:
         (a)   The fee imposed by this section;
         (b)   Additional charges added to a purchaser's bill under ILCS Ch.
220, Act 5, §§ 9-221 or 9-222 of the Public Utilities Act;
         (c)   Amounts collected under the Illinois Municipal Code;
         (d)   The tax imposed by the Telecommunications Excise Tax Act;
         (e)   911 surcharges; or
         (f)   The tax imposed by § 4251 of the Internal Revenue Code;
      (2)   Charges for a sent collect telecommunication received outside the
village;
      (3)   Charges for leased time on equipment or charges for the storage of
data or information or subsequent retrieval or the processing of data or
information intended to change its form or content. The equipment includes, but
is not limited to, the use of calculators, computers, data processing
equipment, tabulating equipment or accounting equipment and also includes the
usage of computers under a time-sharing agreement;
      (4)   Charges for customer equipment, including equipment that is leased
or rented by the customer from any source, wherein the charges are
disaggregated and separately identified from other charges;
      (5)   Charges to business enterprises certified under ILCS Ch. 220, Act.
5, § 9-222.1 of the Public Utilities Act to the extent of the exemption and
during the period of time specified by the village;
      (6)   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment
provided in connection therewith between a parent corporation and its wholly
owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, and only to the extent
that the charges between the parent corporation and wholly owned subsidiaries
or between wholly owned subsidiaries represent expense allocation between the
corporations and not the generation of profit other than a regulator: required
profit for the corporation rendering such services;
      (7)   Bad debts ( BAD DEBT means any portion of a debt that is related to
a sale at retail for which gross charges are not otherwise deductible or
excludable that has become worthless or uncollectible, as determined under
applicable federal income tax standards: if the portion of the debt deemed to
be bad is subsequently paid, the retailer shall report and pay the tax on that
portion during the reporting period in which the payment is made);
      (8)   Charges paid by inserting coins in coin-operated telecommunications
devices; or
      (9)   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment
provided to the village.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any municipal street, alley, water or public right-of-
way dedicated or commonly used for utility purposes, including utility
easements wherein the village has acquired the right and authority to locate or
permit the location of utilities consistent with telecommunications facilities.
PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY shall not include any real or personal village property
that is not specifically described in the previous sentence and shall not
include village buildings and other structures or improvements, regardless of
whether they are situated in the public right-of-way.
   RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE. Or any like term,
any retailer having or maintaining within the state, directly or by a
subsidiary, an office, distribution facilities, transmission facilities, sales
office, warehouse or other place of business, or any agent or other
representative operating within the state under the authority of the retailer
or its subsidiary, irrespective of whether the place of business or agent or
other representative is located here permanently or temporarily, or whether the
retailer or subsidiary is licensed to do business in the state.
   SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL. The transmitting, supplying or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly-owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not
for sale.
   SERVICE ADDRESS. The location of telecommunications equipment from which
telecommunications services are originated or at which telecommunications
services are received. If this is not a defined location, as in the case of
wireless telecommunications, paging systems, maritime systems, air-to-ground
systems and the like. SERVICE ADDRESS shall mean the location of the customer's
primary use of the telecommunications equipment as defined by the location in
the state where bills are sent.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS. Includes, but is not limited to, messages or information
transmitted through use of local, toll, and wide area telephone service,
channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer exchange
services, private line services, specialized mobile radio services or another
transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means, between
or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite or similar facilities. Unless the context clearly requires otherwise,
TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall also include WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS, as
hereinafter defined. TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include value added services
in which computer processing applications are used to act on the form, content,
code and protocol of the information for purposes other than transmission.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include purchase of telecommunications by a
telecommunications service provider for use as a component part of the service
provided by him or her to the ultimate retail consumer who originates or
terminates the end-to-end communications. Retailer access charges, right of
access charges, charges for use of intercompany facilities and all
telecommunications resold in the subsequent provision and used as a component
of or integrated into; end to end telecommunications service shall not be
included in gross charges as sales for resale. TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not
include the provision of cable services through a cable system as defined in
the Cable Communications Act of 1984 (47 U.S.C. §§ 521 and following) as now or
hereafter amended or cable or other programming services subject to an open
video system fee payable to the village through an open video system as defined
in the Rules of the Federal Communications Commission (47 C.D.F. 76.1550 and
following) as now or hereafter amended.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER.
      (1)   Any telecommunications retailer; and
      (2)   Any person that is not a telecommunications retailer that installs,
owns, operates or controls equipment in the public right-of-way that is used or
designed to be used to transmit telecommunications in any form.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER or RETAILER or CARRIER. Every person engaged in
the business of making sales of telecommunications at retail as defined in this
section. The village may, in its discretion, upon application, authorize the
collection of the fee hereby imposed by any retailer not maintaining a place of
business within the state, who, to the satisfaction of the village, furnishes
adequate security to ensure collection and payment of the fee. When so
authorized, it shall be the duty of the retailer to pay the fee upon all of the
gross charges for telecommunications in the same manner and subject to the same
requirements as a retailer maintaining a place of business within the village.
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS. Cellular mobile telephone services, personal
wireless services as defined in § 704(C) of the Telecommunications Act of 1996
(Pub. Law No. 104-104), 42 U.S.C. § 332(c)(7), as now or hereafter amended,
including all commercial mobile radio services, and paging services.
(Ord. 785, passed 11-3-1997)
§ 33.53 REGISTRATION OF PROVIDERS.
   (A)   Every telecommunications provider as defined by this subchapter shall
register with the village within 30 days after the effective date of this
subchapter or becoming a telecommunications provider, whichever is later, on a
form to be provided by the village, provided. however, that any
telecommunications retailer that has filed a return pursuant to §
33.55 shall be deemed to have registered in accordance with this section.
   (B)   Every telecommunications provider who has registered with the village
pursuant to division (A) above has an affirmative duty to submit an amended
registration form or current return as required by §
33.55, as the case may be, to the village within 30 days from the date of the
occurrence of any changes in the information provided by the telecommunications
provider in the registration form or most recent return on file with the
village.
(Ord. 785, passed 11-3-1997)
§ 33.54 FEE.
   (A)   A village telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee is hereby
imposed upon all telecommunications retailers in the amount of 1% of all gross
charges charged by the telecommunications retailer to service addresses within
the village for telecommunications originating or received in the village.
   (B)   Upon the effective date of the infrastructure maintenance fee
authorized in this subchapter, the village infrastructure maintenance fee
authorized hereunder shall be the only fee or compensation for the use of all
public rights-of-way within the village by telecommunications retailers.
Imposition of the infrastructure maintenance fee provided under this subchapter
does not, however, serve as a limitation on the levying of any taxes or
imposition of any fees otherwise authorized by law.
   (C)   The village telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee
authorized by this section shall be collected, enforced and administered as set
forth in §
33.55.
(Ord. 785, passed 11-3-1997)
§ 33.55 COLLECTION, ENFORCEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   A telecommunications retailer shall charge to and collect from each
customer an additional charge in an amount equal to the village infrastructure
maintenance fee attributable to that customer's service address.
   (B)   Unless otherwise approved by the Village Board the infrastructure
maintenance fee shall be remitted by the telecommunications retailer to the
village not later than the last day of the month subsequent to the month in
which a bill is issued to the customer: provided, however, that the
telecommunications retailer may retain an amount not to exceed 2% of the
village infrastructure maintenance fee collected by it to reimburse itself for
expenses incurred in accounting for and remitting the fee.
   (C)   Remittance of the municipal infrastructure fee to the village shall be
accompanied by a return, in a form to be prescribed by the Village Board, which
shall contain such information as the Village Board may reasonably require.
   (D)   (1)   Any infrastructure maintenance fee required to be collected
pursuant to this subchapter and any such infrastructure maintenance fee
collected by the telecommunications retailer shall constitute a debt owed by
the teleconununications retailer to the village.
      (2)   The charge imposed under this section by the telecommunications
retailer pursuant to this subchapter shall constitute a debt of the purchaser
to the telecommunications retailer who provides the services until paid and, if
unpaid, is recoverable at law in the same manner as the original charge for the
services.
   (E)   If it shall appear that an amount of infrastructure maintenance fee
has been paid that was not due under the provisions of this subchapter, whether
as a result of a mistake of fact or an error of law, then the amount shall be
credited against any infrastructure maintenance fee due, or to become due,
under this subchapter, from the telecommunications retailer who made the
erroneous payment; provided, however, the Village Board may request, and
telecommunications retailer shall provide, written substantiation for the
credit. However, no claim for the credit may be made more than three years
after the date of the erroneous payment unless:
      (1)   The credit is used only to offset a claim of underpayment made by
the village within the applicable statutory period of limitations; and
      (2)   The credit derives from an overpayment made by the same
telecommunications retailer during the applicable statutory period of
limitations.
   (F)   Amounts paid under this subchapter by telecommunications retailers
shall not be included in the tax base under any of the following acts as
described immediately below:
      (1)   "Gross charges" for purposes of the Telecommunications Excise Tax
Act;
      (2)   "Gross receipts" for purposes of the municipal utility tax as
prescribed in ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 8-11-2 of the Illinois Municipal Code;
      (3)   "Gross charges" for purposes of the municipal telecommunications
tax as prescribed in the Illinois Municipal Code; and
      (4)   "Gross revenue" for purposes of the tax on annual gross revenue of
public utilities prescribed in ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 2-202 of the Public
Utilities Act.
   (G)   (1)   The village shall have the right, in its discretion, to audit
the books and records of all telecommunications retailers subject to this
subchapter to determine whether the telecommunications retailer has properly
accounted to the village for the village infrastructure maintenance fee.
      (2)   Any underpayment of the amount of the village infrastructure
maintenance fee due to the village by the telecommunications retailer shall be
paid to the village plus 5% of the total amount of the underpayment determined
in an audit, plus any costs incurred by the village in conducting the audit, in
an amount not to exceed 5% of the total amount of the underpayment determined
in an audit.
      (3)   The sum shall be paid to the village within 21 days after the date
of issuance of an invoice for same.
   (H)   The Village Board, or designee, may promulgate such further or
additional regulations concerning the administration and enforcement of this
subchapter, consistent with its provisions, as may be required from time to
time and shall notify all telecommunications retailers that are registered
pursuant to §
33.53 of the regulations.
(Ord. 785, passed 11-3-1997)
§ 33.56 COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER LAWS.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall excuse any person or entity from
obligations imposed under any law, including, but not limited to:
   (A)   Generally applicable taxes:
   (B)   Standards for construction on, over, under or within, use of or repair
of the public rights-of-way, including standards relating to free standing
towers and other structures upon the public rights-of-way, as provided:
   (C)   Any liability imposed for the failure to comply with such generally
applicable taxes or standards governing construction on, over, under or within,
use of or repair of the public rights-of-way; and
   (D)   Compliance with any ordinance or provision of this Code concerning
uses or structures not located on, over or within the right-of-way.
(Ord. 785, passed 11-3-1997)
§ 33.57 EXISTING FRANCHISES AND LICENSES.
   Any franchise, license or similar agreements between telecommunications
retailers and the village entered into before the effective date of this
subchapter regarding the use of public rights-of-way shall remain valid
according to and for their stated terms except for any fees, charges or other
compensation to the extent waived.
(Ord. 785, passed 11-3-1997)
§ 33.58 ENFORCEMENT.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the village may have for enforcement of this subchapter.
(Ord. 785, passed 11-3-1997)
§ 33.59 WAIVER AND FEE IMPLEMENTATION.
   (A)   The village hereby waives all fees, charges and other compensation
that may accrue, after the effective date of the waiver, to the village by a
telecommunications retailer pursuant to any existing village franchise, license
or similar agreement with a telecommunications retailer during the time the
village imposes the telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee. This
waiver shall only be effective during the time the infrastructure maintenance
fee provided for in this subchapter is subject to being lawfully imposed on the
telecommunications retailer and collected by the telecommunications retailer
from the customer.
   (B)   Village staff shall send a notice of the waiver by certified mail,
return receipt requested to each telecommunications retailer with whom the
village has a franchise.
   (C)   The village infrastructure maintenance fee provided for in this
subchapter shall become effective and imposed on the first day of the month not
less than 90 days after the village provides written notice by certified mail
to each telecommtniications retailer with whom the village has an existing
franchise, license, or similar agreement that the village waives all
compensation under the existing franchise, license or similar agreement during
such time as the fee is subject to being lawfully imposed and collected by the
retailer and remitted to the village. The infrastructure maintenance fee shall
apply to gross charges billed on or after the effective date as established in
the preceding sentence.
(Ord. 785, passed 11-3-1997)
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person delivering electricity/gas who fails to make a return, or
who makes a fraudulent return, or who willfully violates any other provision of
§
33.02 is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined
in accordance with
Chapter 34 in addition, shall be liable in a civil action for the amount of tax
due.
   (C)   Any person delivering electricity who fails to make a return, or who
makes a fraudulent return, or who willfully violates any other provision of §
33.03 is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined
in accordance with
Chapter 34 in addition, shall be liable in a civil action for the amount of tax
due.
   (D)   Any person delivering water who fails to make a return, or who makes a
fraudulent return, or who willfully violates any other provisions of §
33.04 is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined
in accordance with
Chapter 34 in addition, shall be liable in a civil action for the amount of tax
due.
   (E)   Any person delivering water who fails to make a return, or who makes a
fraudulent return, or who willfully violates any other provisions of §
33.05 is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined
in accordance with
Chapter 34 in addition, shall be liable in a civil action for the amount of tax
due.
   (F)   Any telecommunications provider who violates, disobeys, omits,
neglects or refuses to comply with any of the provisions of §§
33.50 through
33.59 shall be subject to fine in accordance with
Chapter 34. Each day that a violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense.
CHAPTER 34: FEES AND PENALTIES
Section
   
34.01   Fee schedule
   
34.02   Penalties
§ 34.01 FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   General fees.
Type of Fee Code Section Fee/Provision
Type of Fee  Code    Fee/Provision
             Section
Business     115.05  Annual fee         $50
license
Cemetery;            Full vault         $550
interment    94.11   Cremation         $350
fee                  Cost of grave         $500
                     Any person, business utility or entity of any kind desiring to excavate or
Excavations; 92.01   work on village right-of-way is hereby required to obtain a permit from the
permits              village and comply with all the requirements contained herein. The permit
                     fee shall be $5 for each location.
Fireworks    138.06  $200 for the issuance of a permit
Golf cart or
utility-
terrain      70.07   Permit fee         $50
vehicle;
permits
                     Type               Annual Fee
                     Class A         $600
                     Class B         $700
Liquor               Class C         $600
control      110.08  Class D         $700
                     Class E         $25
                     Class F         $600
                     Class G         $500
                     Special license            $8
                              Monthly Rate
Municipal            Meter Size            Fee
franchise    33.05   5/8" meter             $.57
utility tax          3/4" meter            $.85
                     1" meter            $1.42
                     1-1/2" meter and above      $2.84
                     For entities that receive water at a bulk meter or meters and then
                     distribute to individual homes, the fee shall be the same as a residential
                     service. However, the $2.84 for one and one-half inch meter and above shall
                     not be assessed in this case.
Short-term
rental       150.52  Annual fee         $50
business
license
Video gaming 112.20  Annual fee      $250 for the operation of each individual video gaming
terminals            terminal.
 
   (B)   Development Code.
      (1)   Any person who is convicted of a violation of the Development Code
shall be fined not less than $25, nor more than $500, plus costs. Each day that
a violation continues shall be considered a separate offense.
      (2)   All fees shall be paid to the village staff at such time that the
request form is properly completed and returned by the applicant. The fees are
intended to defray the administrative costs related to the filing and review of
the application and inspections and do not constitute a tax or other revenue-
raising device. All fees shall be paid to the village staff prior to beginning
construction. Failure to pay fees before beginning construction shall subject
applicant to a late filing fee charge of 100% of the building permit fee.
         (a)   Code permits and procedures generally. A fee for plat
examinations, construction/building permits, special inspections and the like
shall be paid to the village staff at a rate or rates recommended by the
Planning Commission and approved by the Board of Trustees. These rates shall be
updated as required. Current rates are listed below.
            1.   For the purpose of this fee schedule, residential (RES) shall
be defined as a one or two dwelling unit structure.
            2.   The (RES) rates shall also apply to accessory uses for the
above defined structures.
Action Fees
Action                                                                            Fees
GENERAL PERMIT FEES
Application review fee                                                            $60.00
Commercial, multi-family, industrial and institutional construction               $0.15 per sq.
                                                                                  ft.*
Demolition. The requirements for demolition may be found on page 221 of the land  $50.00 per
use chapter.                                                                      structure
If basement unfinished at time of original construction                           $70.00
Initial certificate of compliance (RES). This shall not be applicable to items    $85.00
listed under Miscellaneous Construction Improvements and Additions
                                                                                  $20.00 for
                                                                                  first $1,000
                                                                                  plus $1.00
                                                                                  for each
                                                                                  additional
                                                                                  $1,000 of
Miscellaneous construction improvements and additions. This category applies only estimated
to (RES) and covers miscellaneous items such as replacing a window with a bay     cost of
window, skylights, installing a patio door where a walk door existed, cutting an  construction
additional door or window into an existing structure, installing larger windows   But not to
in framed wall or basement concrete wall, architectural dormer, expanding a patio exceed
which requires a footing or dowelling, architectural appearance change, repairs   $200.00 plus
to existing decks, new decks without roofs, swimming pools, hot tubs, basement    review fee,
finish, and the like.                                                             plus
Any reinspections will be $35.00 each. The inspector to collect at the time of    occupancy
the reinspection.                                                                 permit fee,
                                                                                  plus any
                                                                                  electrical or
                                                                                  plumbing
                                                                                  inspections
                                                                                  or
                                                                                  reinspections
                                                                                  of any type.
Residential construction (main structures)                                        $0.09 per sq.
                                                                                  ft.
Residential site inspection                                                       $50.00
*In addition to the amounts listed, any plans which require review by other than village staff
shall be submitted with a fee to cover the costs of outside services and/or professionals. The
village shall be the sole judge of when outside services are used.
INSPECTION PERMITS
Electrical
   Commercial 200 amp                                                          $330.00
   Commercial 400 amp                                                          $395.00
   Commercial 600 amp                                                          $530.00
   Commercial 600 amp+                                                         Varies
      + = $725.00 plus amp rating over 600 divided by 200 times             $330.00
   New residential over 200 amp                                                $280.00
   New residential up to 200 amp
   (RES) For items listed under Miscellaneous Construction Improvements and
Additions                                                                         $380.00
   Inspector compensation for the first inspection per category shall be $45.00$110.00
per inspection.
   Any reinspections will be an additional $30.00 each. Inspector to collect at
the time of the reinspection.
   Residential (service panel change and bringing building wiring into code
compliance)                                                                       $135.00
   (RES) - Upgrade service panel, meter box, repair, add outlets, and the like
   Upgrade commercial (service panel change and bringing building wiring into  $180.00
code compliance)
   Upgrade commercial service (service panel change only)                      $140.00
   Upgrade residential service (service panel change only)                     $75.00
Plumbing
   Commercial/industrial and institutional, plus $7.50 per fixture to include
lavatories, sinks, water heaters, water closets, showers, bathtubs, urinals and   $330.00
the like
   Residential and multi-family (permit includes two inspections: ruff-in and
trim)
   (RES) - For items listed under Miscellaneous Construction Improvements and
Additions                                                                         $260.00
   Rough in                                                                    $110.00
   Final                                                                       $35.00
   Inspector compensation for the first inspection per category shall be $45.00
per inspection.
   Any reinspections will be an additional $30.00 each with the inspector
collecting at the time of reinspection.
Fire protection                                                                   $150.00
   Any cost above that listed will be paid by applicant: before inspection is
done. (Required on commercial, industrial and institutional only)
Special inspection (septic tanks)                                                 $35.00
Special inspections (per reinspection 1 per violation)                            $35.00
OCCUPANCY PERMIT
Temporary utility permit                                                          $50.00
Certificate of occupancy                                                          $10.00
New construction and commercial remodel (to be included in building permit)       $75.00
(RES) For items listed under Miscellaneous Construction and Improvements.         $25.00
Dwelling unit (on change of occupancy max. 1 per year)                            $50.00
Occupant requested complaint inspection                                           $25.00
Commercial (sale of property before closing)                                      $75.00
Any occupancy re-inspection(s) to ensure compliance. Inspector to collect at the  $35.00 each
time of the reinspection.
MISCELLANEOUS
                                                                                  $200.00 and
Amendment                                                                         newspaper
                                                                                  publication
                                                                                  cost
Commercial communication tower application fee                                    $500.00
Emergency/special inspection (at the request of the contractor/owner.) Any
inspection not scheduled 48 hours in advance shall be charged the cost of the
contract inspector’s fees plus $25.00. Fee must be paid prior to the issuance of
an occupancy permit.
Special inspections (VA/FHA feasibility studies and letters)                      $100.00
Special meeting                                                                   $500.00
   Upgrade commercial service (service panel change only)                      $100.00
                                                                                  $200.00 and
Special use permit                                                                newspaper
                                                                                  publication
                                                                                  cost
                                                                                  $200.00 and
Variance                                                                          newspaper
                                                                                  publication
                                                                                  cost
Work in easement application                                                      $75.00
 
         (b)   Signs.
Action Fees
Action                                                           Fees
Master signage plan per zone lot, application fee                $100.00
Common signage plan per zone lot, application fee                $100.00
Permit per sign, initial, including review                       $100.00*
Reinspection fee                                                 $50.00
Additional fee (initial and continuing) for signs extending over $50.00
public right-of-way, per sign
Temporary sign permit, private property per sign                 NA
* In calculating the fees for the “permit, per sign”, one side of the
building is considered one sign provided the sign(s) are for the same
entity. Note: Must still meet square footage requirements but can include
multiple signs per side of the building per entity.
 
         (c)   Development matters.
Activity Cost
Activity                                                                       Cost
                                                                               $150.00,
Submittal of preliminary plat                                                  plus
                                                                               $10.00
                                                                               per lot
Submittal of improvement plans per phase                                       $200.00
Submittal of final plat per phase. (No changes are made to the preliminary     $50.00
plat otherwise $100.00, plus $10.00/lot)
Application fee for proposed division of or modifications to a previously
platted parcel not being submitted as part of a subdivision preliminary or     $100.00
final plat. (This in addition to any other fees required herein.)
Inspection of improvements (per phase)
Of site improvement costs to include, but not be limited to the costs for:
earth work, grading, storm sewers, ditches, lakes, water features, culverts,
detention ponds, inlets, manholes, headwalls, paved swales, rip rap, sanitary
sewer systems and appurtenances, sediment and erosion controls, subgrade and
subbase for pavements, streets, paths, trails, sidewalks, landscape that is
part of the street scape, demolition or removal necessary for development,     3%
backfill of sewers, culverts, curbs, final site seeding and the like, items
not included in the calculation to determine the inspection of improvement fee
are: public utilities, i.e., water, electric, gas, phone, cable, sanitary
sewer systems in areas not covered by a village sub facility planning area and
road improvements under the inspection purview of another government body such
as the St. Clair county highway department and the state’s Department of
Transportation.
Note: Does not include the cost of testing. Should the village determine that inspection
services are required by other than village personnel, developer shall pay the village
for the cost of such outside services in addition to the fees listed.
                                                                               $100.00,
Submittal of a final plat for a minor subdivision                              plus
                                                                               $5.00 per
                                                                               lot
Planned unit development application fee - per §                              $250.00
151.454
Planned unit development modification application fee                          $100.00
                                                                               $150.00,
Planned unit development master development plan fee - per §                  plus
151.454                                                                        $10.00
                                                                               per lot
Planned unit development site improvement inspection (per phase) in addition   $500.00
to any above listed fees or cost
Development in floodplain areas. (Development permits other than for:
buildings on which owner has furnished an elevation certification as required  $200.00
by code. This to be in addition to the above listed fees.)
Wetlands - per §                                                              $1,000.00
151.303                                                                        per acre
                                                                               pro rata
Demolition - per Appendix F-1                                                  $50.00
 
         (d)   Sewer rates inaction.
            1.   Appendix #1C, Contributions for Green Space, Park, Playgrounds
or Other Public Purposes.
               a.   This appendix shall not apply to any development or
subdivision for which there is an ordinance approving the preliminary plat or
improvement plans, by the village, as of 4-3-2006.
               b.   To be considered as being “active green space”, the
following minimum contiguous outlot size must be:
                  i.   To be considered mini park: one acre;
                  ii.   To be considered a neighborhood park: three to ten
acres; and
                  iii.   To be considered a community wide park: 30 to 50
acres.
               c.   For single-family districts (NU, CE, R-1, R-2, R-3), the
breakdown of required active green space shall be no less than:
                  i.   Mini park: 62 square feet per dwelling unit;
                  ii.   Neighborhood park: 185 square feet per dwelling unit;
and
                  iii.   Community wide park: 494 square feet per dwelling
unit.
               d.   For MR Districts, the breakdown of required active green
space shall be no less than:
                  i.   Mini park: 241 square feet per dwelling unit;
                  ii.   Neighborhood park: 754 square feet per dwelling unit;
and
                  iii.   Community wide park: 2,022 square feet per dwelling
unit.
               e.   For MH Districts, the breakdown of required active green
space shall be no less than:
                  i.   Mini park: 58 square feet per dwelling unit;
                  ii.   Neighborhood park: 180 square feet per dwelling unit;
and
                  iii.   Community Wide Park: 483 square feet per dwelling
unit.
               f.   In lieu of providing the required amount of active green
space per classification listed above, the developer may contribute the
following to the village’s park improvement funds:
                  i.   (A)   In NU, CE, R-1, R-2 and R-3 Zone Districts, for
every acre of the required classification of active green space not provided
the developer’s contribution of $51,000.00 per acre or proportional amount
thereof.
                     (B)   As an example, for a 100-unit single-family
development, if the mini park and neighborhood park amount is provided, but the
developer chooses not to incorporate the community wide park space the
developer contribution would be:
100 Homes x 494 square feet per home ÷ 43,560 square feet per acre x $51,000.00
per acre or $57,838.00
                     (C)   The same type of calculation would apply to MR and
MH with the associated square foot per unit requirements.
                  ii.   In B-1, B-2, B-3, B-4, PB and I-1 Districts the
developer must comply with §
151.302. For every acre or portion of an acre still needed to meet the 8% green
space requirement, the developer may elect to contribute $51,000.00 for every
acre or prorated portion of an acre.
(Am. Ord. 2011-11-07B, passed 11-7-2011; Am. Ord. 2012-07-02B, passed 7-7-2012;
Am. Ord. 2013-02-04C, passed 2-4-2013; Am. Ord. 2014-04-07B, passed 4-7-2014:
Am. Ord. 2014-10-06D, passed 10-6-2014; Am. Ord. 2017-02-06B, passed 2-2-2017;
Am. Ord. 2019-02-04B, passed 2-4-2019; Am. Ord. 2019-05-06B, passed 5-6-2019;
Am. Ord. 2019-06-03A, passed 6-3-2019; Am. Ord. 2020-03-02C, passed 3-2-2020;
Am. Ord. 2021-12-06C, passed 12-6-2021; Am. Ord. 2021-12-06D, passed 12-6-2021;
Am. Ord. 2021-12-17, passed 12-17-2021; Am. Ord. 2022-05-02A, passed 5-2-2022)
§ 34.02 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provisions of the Village of Shiloh Code of
Ordinances for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall be
fined not less than $75 nor more than $750 for each violation.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
30.12 is guilty of a Class B misdemeanor. For purposes of the violation of the
village code, the person is subject to a fine of $100 for the first such
violation and a $500 fine for each violation thereafter. For purposes of
criminal prosecution, such person may face any or all penalties that the state
legislature may establish from time to time for the commission of Class B
misdemeanors, including incarceration.
   (C)   Any person who violates §
136.52 is guilty of an ordinance violation. For violation of the village code,
the person is subject to a fine of $150 for the first such violation, and up to
a maximum fine of $750 for each violation thereafter.
(Am. Ord. 2019-12-02A, passed 12-2-2019)
CHAPTER 35: [RESERVED]
CHAPTER 36: FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT RULES AND REGULATIONS
Section
   
36.01   Introduction
   
36.02   Procedures for the request of inspection of copying of records
   
36.03   Fee schedule
   
36.04   Village response to request for inspection or copying records
   
36.05   Administrative and judicial review procedures
   
36.06   Village of Shiloh FOIA administrative procedures
§ 36.01 INTRODUCTION.
   (A)   The Illinois Freedom of Information Act (ILCS Ch. 5, Act 140 et seq.),
as supplemented and amended since its effective date of July 1, 1984, requires
all public bodies in the state to make non-exempt public records available for
inspection and copying. The Village of Shiloh not only strives to comply with
the law, but also fully endorses the fundamental concept that all persons are
entitled to full, accurate, and complete information regarding the affairs of
the Village and the official acts and policies adopted by Village officials and
public employees. The Village of Shiloh recognizes that its desire for the
active and informed participation of its citizens in the public policy process
necessitates as full and as free an access to this information as possible. In
determining the parameters of public access to information, the Village of
Shiloh also understands its obligations to protect legitimate privacy interests
and maintain the efficiency of its administrative operations.
   (B)   Pursuant to Section 3 of the Act, the Shiloh Village Board shall have
the authority to promulgate rules and regulations pertaining to the
availability of records and procedures to be followed in conformity with the
provisions of the Freedom of Information Act. The rules and regulations
contained herein have thus been established by the Village of Shiloh to ensure
that its obligations under the law and its philosophical obligation to its
citizens to promote openness and transparency are satisfactorily met. These
rules are intended to serve as procedural guidelines for citizens and employees
and officers of the Village in expediting the process of obtaining access to
public records. In any instance in which these procedures shall conflict with
language contained in the Illinois Freedom of Information Act as now existing
or hereafter amended, the terms of the Act shall prevail.
§ 36.02 PROCEDURES FOR THE REQUEST OF INSPECTION OF COPYING OF RECORDS.
   (A)   Requests for the inspection and copying of non-exempt public records
pursuant to FOIA may be made in person at the Shiloh Village Hall, 1 Park
Drive, Shiloh, Illinois, Mondays through Fridays, between the hours of 8:00
a.m. and 4:00 p.m., except on holidays.
   (B)   The Village of Shiloh shall also accept FOIA requests received via
facsimile and through the United States mail. The village is only responsible
for responding to requests that it actually receives and is not responsible for
transmission or delivered errors for FOIA requests that are submitted through
these alternative means. Any requests received by the village after normal
business hours shall be considered received on the following business day.
   (C)   All requests for public records must be made in writing, preferably
upon a Village of Shiloh Freedom of Information Request Form. If a requesting
party is unable to obtain one of these forms, the village will accept any
legible written request, provided that such written request is clearly and
concisely stated and contains the name, address, and telephone number of the
requestor.
   (D)   To ensure that each FOIA request is acted upon in a complete and
timely fashion, the requestor should ensure that the public record being sought
is clearly identified in his/her request. Requestors should provide as much
known information about the requested record as possible (e.g. type of record,
approximate date of record, department where record may be located, etc.) The
request should indicate whether the records are to be inspected, copied, and/or
certified. The Village of Shiloh is not obligated to respond to requests that
are overly broad or that would place an undue burden upon its operations; nor
is the village obligated to interpret or advise requestors as to the meaning or
significance of public records that may be provided.
   (E)   If the request is being made for a commercial purpose, the requestor
must disclose that fact to the village at the time the request is made. It is
violation of the Act to knowingly obtain a public record for a commercial
purpose without such disclosure.
§ 36.03 FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Pursuant to ILCS Ch. 5, Act 140, § 6, the Village of Shiloh is given
the authority to charge reasonable fees for the duplication and/or
certification of public records produced in compliance with FOIA requests. The
Freedom of Information Officer is given the authority to grant a waiver or
reduction of fees for copying records if the requestor’s stated purpose is to
obtain information regarding the health, safety, and welfare of the general
public and is not for the principal purpose of personal or commercial benefit.
In determining the amount of any such waiver or fee reduction, the village will
also consider the number of records requested and the actual costs of copying.
   (B)   Unless otherwise waived, copying fees that must be paid in advance of
the records being made available to the requestor, are as follows:
      8.5" x 11" documents: $0.15/page
      8.5 x 14" documents: $0.15/page
      11" x 14" documents: $0.15/page
      Audio Tape: $5.00/unit
      Compact Disc: $5.00/unit
      Certification: $1.00/document
   (C)   For each request form filed, citizens shall be furnished with the
first 50 pages of standard, black and white copies at no charge. Fees will not
be waived for the first 50 pages of colored copies or copies exceeding 11" x
14" in area, unless a waiver or fee reduction is granted by the Freedom of
Information Officer as a means of furthering the public interest.
   (D)   Fees to copy blueprints, oversized documents, pamphlets, manuals and
any other records which are to be copied by an outside service shall be based
on the actual costs incurred by the Village. Information regarding these fees
will be provided to the requestor before copying. Additional fees for accident
records may apply, as allowable by law.
§ 36.04 VILLAGE RESPONSE TO REQUEST FOR INSPECTION OR COPYING RECORDS.
   (A)   In accordance with the law, the Village of Shiloh will respond to all
non-commercial requests within five working days of receipt. Responses will be
provided to any commercial requests within 21 working days of receipt. In
processing requests for information made under the Act, the village shall give
priority first to any non-commercial requests pending before it. The village
must respond in one of the following methods:
      (1)   Approval of request.
         (a)   If the requested records are available and determined to be non-
exempt, the village will advise the requestor of the documents which are
available and the cost to copy the records. For commercial requests, the
village response will include an estimate of the time required to locate and
compile the records requested, as well as the estimated fees to be assessed to
the requestor.
         (b)   If the requestor has asked to inspect the documents, the village
will provide the requestor with notice of a time and location in which the
records will be conducted during normal business hours at the Village Hall,
unless another location is otherwise agreed upon by the village and the
requesting party. The village may require that an officer or employee of the
village be present during any inspection of public records. A requestor may
also be prohibited from bringing bags, briefcases, or other containers into the
room in which the inspection takes place. Documents made available for
inspection will be held for fourteen working days from the date of the
village’s response and, thereafter, will be re-filed.
         (c)   Fees for copies of records, unless waived, must be paid in
advance. All copying of documents shall be done by an officer or employee of
the Village of Shiloh. Upon written request, the village will mail copies of
public records to the requestor.
      (2)   Notice of extension. Under certain circumstances, the Freedom of
Information Act allows the Village to provide notice of an extension of time
for response to a request. This time period shall not exceed an additional five
working days, or a total of ten working days from the receipt of the original
request. Any notice of extension must cite the reason why the extension is
necessary.
      (3)   Denial of request.
         (a)   Any denial of any part of a request shall be made in writing and
shall state the reason(s) for the denial in accordance with Section 3(g), or if
the record is determined to be exempt, pursuant to Section 7 of the Freedom of
Information Act.
         (b)   Section 3(g) of the Act allows the village to deny a request for
a category of records if compliance with the request would place an undue
burden upon the village and there is no way to narrow the scope of the request,
and/or the burden on the village outweighs the public interest in the
information. Before denying a request on the basis of the exemption, the
village will contact the requestor to offer him/her an opportunity to confer
with the village in an attempt to reduce the scope of the request to a
manageable proportion. Any denial pursuant to Section 3(g) shall specify the
reason(s) why it would be unduly burdensome to the village and the extent to
which compliance with the request would burden the operation of the village.
Repeated requests for the same public records by the same person shall be
deemed unduly burdensome and shall be denied accordingly.
         (c)   Section 7 of the Act enumerates a series of records that are
considered exempt from public disclosure and, therefore, need not be produced
by the village.
         (d)   All denials shall include the name and title of the individual
or individuals responsible for the denial of the request, and shall include a
detailed factual basis for the application of any exemption claimed. Any denial
must also include a notice of the requestor’s statutory right to petition the
office of the Public Access Counselor in the office of the Illinois Attorney
General for review of the denial, as well as the right to judicial review under
Section 11 of the Act. In accordance with the provisions of the Act, copies of
all denials shall be retained by the Freedom of Information Officer and will be
indexed according to the type of exemption asserted and, to the extent
feasible, according to the type of records requested.
         (e)   If the village determines that a FOIA request should be denied
by claiming an exemption under subsection (l)(c) or (l)(f) of Section 7 of the
Act, the Freedom of Information Officer shall provide written notice to both
the requestor and the Public Access Counselor of the village”s intent to deny
the request in whole or in part. This notice shall include: a copy of the
original FOIA request; the proposed response from the village; and a detailed
summary of the village’s basis for asserting the exemption. Upon receipt of the
notice of intent to deny, the Public Access Counselor shall determine whether
or not further inquiry is warranted. Within five working days after receipt of
the notice of intent to deny, the Public Access Counselor shall notify the
village and the requestor whether further inquiry is warranted.
§ 36.05 ADMINISTRATIVE & JUDICIAL REVIEW PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Any requestor whose request for information has been denied by the
village may exercise his/her statutory right to petition the Public Access
Counselor in the office of the Illinois Attorney General for review of said
denial. A request for review must be filed with the Public Access Counselor not
later than 60 days after the date of the final denial. Any such request for
review must be in writing, signed by the requestor, and include copies of the
original FOIA request and any responses received from the village.
   (B)   Upon receipt of a request for review, the Public Access Counselor
shall determine whether further action is warranted. If the Public Access
Counselor determines that the alleged violation of the Act is unfounded, he/she
shall so advise the requestor and the Village and no further action will be
taken with respect to the complaint. In all other cases, the Public Access
Counselor shall forward a copy of the request for review to the village within
seven working days after receipt and shall specify the records or other
documents that the village shall furnish to facilitate the review. Within seven
working days after receipt of the request for review, the Freedom of
Information Officer must provide copies of the records requested and shall
otherwise fully cooperate with the Public Access Counselor. To the extent that
records produced by the village for the purposes of review contain information
that is claimed to be exempt, the Public Access Counselor shall not further
disclose that information.
   (C)   Within seven working days after he/she receives the request for review
and request for production of records from the Public Access Counselor, the
village may provide an answer to the allegations of the request for review in
the form of a letter, brief, or memorandum. The Public Access Counselor shall
forward a copy of any such written answer to the person submitting the request
for review and the requestor may respond in writing to such answer within seven
working days. If the requestor chooses to file a written response to the
village’s answering of the allegations, he/she must also provide a copy of that
response to the village.
   (D)   The Attorney General shall examine the issues and records submitted in
conjunction with any request for review and shall, within 60 days, issue to the
requestor and to the village an opinion in response to the request for review.
The opinion shall be binding upon both the requestor and the village, subject
to administrative review under Section 11.5. The Public Access Counselor may
opt to extend the 60-day time period by up to 21 additional working days,
provided that he/she sends written notice of such extension to both the
requestor and the village. The Attorney General may exercise his/her discretion
and choose to resolve a request for review by mediation or by a means other
than the issuance of a binding opinion.
   (E)   Upon receipt of a binding opinion concluding that a violation of the
Act has occurred, the Freedom of Information Officer shall either take
necessary action immediately to comply with the directive of the opinion, or
shall initiate administrative review under Section 11.5. If the opinion
concludes that no violation occurred, the requestor may initiate administrative
review under Section 11.5.
   (F)   Any person denied access to inspect or copy any public record shall
also have the right to file suit for injunctive or declaratory relief in the
Circuit Court of St. Clair County, Illinois.
§ 36.06 VILLAGE OF SHILOH FOIA ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   In accordance with Section 3.5 of the Act, the Village Board shall
designate an employee or officer of the village to serve as Freedom of
Information Officer. The designated Freedom of Information Officer may. from
time to time, designate additional employees or officers to serve as deputy
Freedom of Information Officers for particular departments or divisions of the
village as necessary to expedite the FOIA process. Freedom of Information
Officers and Deputies shall be charged with the responsibility for implementing
these policies and procedures and processing all requests for information in
accordance with the terms of the Act. Deputy Freedom of Information Officers
shall, at the discretion of the Freedom of Information Officer, be given the
authority to act as the primary Freedom of Information Officer for each
department or division in which they have been assigned. Each individual
designated as a Freedom of Information Officer or Deputy shall successfully
complete an annual training curriculum through the State of Illinois, as
provided in the Act.
   (B)   All FOIA requests shall be date stamped upon receipt, the Freedom of
Information Officer shall forward a copy of the request to the appropriate
contact employee for the department in which the records are located. Upon
forwarding the request to the appropriate department, the Freedom of
Information Officer shall also indicate the date by which the request must be
approved or denied (five working days from the date of receipt).
   (C)   The employee responsible for providing the information on behalf of
his/her department shall promptly either comply with or deny the request. The
employee shall notify the Freedom of Information Officer of his/her action on
the request no later than five working days after its receipt. The Freedom of
Information Officer shall then respond in writing to the requestor accordingly.
If denying the request, the official responsible for the denial must include,
in writing, the following information:
      (1)   The statutory exemption used as the basis for the denial and the
specific reasons for the denial, including a detailed factual basis and
citation to supporting legal authority;
      (2)   The names/titles of each person responsible for the denial;
      (3)   The notice of the requestor’s statutory right to petition the
Public Access Counselor for review of the denial; and
      (4)   The notice of the requestor’s statutory right to judicial review
under section 11 of the Act.
   (D)   If any public record exempt from disclosure contains material which is
not exempt, the village shall delete the exempt information and make the
remaining information available for inspection and copying.
   (E)   If the responsible employee determines that there is not adequate time
to gather the requested information, the time limit may be extended by an
additional five working days. Extensions should be reserved only for
extenuating circumstances. Appropriate reasons for extension include:
      (1)   The requested record is in a place other than the office at which
the record is being requested.
      (2)   The request requires the collection of a substantial number of
specified records.
      (3)   The request is understood in categorical terms and requires an
extensive search for the records responsive to it.
      (4)   The requested records have not been located in the course of
routine search and additional efforts are being made to locate them.
      (5)   The requested records require examination and evaluation by
personnel having the necessary competence and discretion to determine if the
records are exempt from disclosure under Section 7 of the Act, or should be
revealed only with appropriate deletions.
      (6)   The request for records cannot be complied with by the public body
within the time limits prescribed by Section 3 of the Act without unduly
burdening or interfering with the operations of the public body.
      (7)   There is a need for consultation, which shall be conducted with all
practicable speed with another public body or among two or more components of a
public body having a substantial interest in the determination or in the
subject matter of the request.
   (F)   When additional time is required for any of the aforementioned
reasons, the responsible employee shall notify the Freedom of Information
Officer as soon as possible, but no later than four working days after receipt
of the request. The Freedom of Information Officer shall then immediately send
written notice of extension to the requestor, stating the reasons for the
extension and the date by which the records will be available or that a denial
will be forthcoming. Extensions will not be granted for a period exceeding five
working days, except in the most unusual circumstances; provided that any such
extraordinary period for extension will first be agreed upon in writing by both
the requestor and the Freedom of Information Officer.
   (G)   All requests for public records made under the FOIA shall be
maintained in a file in an office designated by the Freedom of Information
Officer and preserved in accordance with the provisions of the Local Records
Act. Documents maintained in this file shall include, but not be limited to,
the following: the original request, a copy of the written response, a record
of written communications with the requestor, and a copy of all other
communications. Additionally, all denials of FOIA requests shall, by law, be
indexed according to the statutory basis for the individual denial. To the
extent practicable, these records should be further subdivided by type or
category of record requested.
   (H)   In accordance with the provisions of Section 4 of the Act, the Freedom
of Information Officer shall be responsible for publishing and maintaining a
local FOIA manual, pamphlet, or other substantially similar document containing
the following information:
      (1)   A brief description of the Village of Shiloh, including, but not
limited to:
         (a)   A short summary of its purpose;
         (b)   A block diagram of its functional subdivisions;
         (c)   The total amount of its operating budget;
         (d)   The number and location of each of its separate offices;
         (e)   The approximate number of full and part time employees; and
         (f)   The identification and membership of any board, commission,
committee or council which operates in an advisory capacity relative to the
operation of the public body, or which exercises control over its policies or
procedures.
      (2)   A brief description of the methods whereby the public may request
information and public records.
      (3)   A directory designating by titles and addresses those employees to
whom requests for public records should be directed.
      (4)   A schedule of local fees, as allowable under Section 6 of the Act.
      (5)   A reasonably current list of all types or categories of records
maintained by the Village of Shiloh.
      (6)   A listing of all documents or categories of records that the
Village shall immediately disclose upon request.
      (7)   A description of the manner in which public records stored by means
of electronic data processing may be obtained in a format comprehensible to
persons lacking knowledge of computer language or printout format.
   (I)   All of the foregoing general information shall also be made available
for public access on the Village of Shiloh’s website.
CHAPTER 37: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS TO DETERMINE ELIGIBILITY
UNDER THE PUBLIC SAFETY EMPLOYEE BENEFITS ACT
Section
   
37.01   Purpose
   37.02   Application procedure
   37.03   Administrative composition
   37.04   Administrative hearing
§ 37.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide a fair and efficient method for
determining the eligibility of a full-time employee for the benefits enumerated
under PSEBA through an administrative process, including if necessary, an
administrative hearing.
(Ord. 2018-01-02 A, passed 1-2-2018; Am. Ord. 2022-04-04B, passed 4-4-2022)
§ 37.02 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   As noted by the Court in Pedersen, "the Act, however, does not provide any
guidance on the proper procedure for seeking [PSEBA] benefits." ¶ 37. This
chapter and the application procedure of this section establishes guidance on
the proper procedure for public safety officers seeking PSEBA benefits in the
village.
 
   (A)   Public safety officers, or family member(s) of an injured or deceased
public safety officer, ("Applicant") must file a full and complete PSEBA
application in writing within 30 days of filing a pension claim with the
village or within 30 days of the date of the adoption of this chapter, in the
event that an applicant has filed for a PSEBA claim prior to the date of
adoption of this chapter, whichever is later, if the applicant is seeking
benefits under PSEBA. The village shall notify applicant if the PSEBA
application is incomplete and applicant shall have five days to remedy their
application. Failure to timely file the full and complete application shall
result in a forfeiture of the benefits under PSEBA by failure to properly
submit a complete application.
   (B)   A complete PSEBA application includes the following:
      (1)   The name of the applicant, date of hire, detailed information
regarding the incident, including information relating to how the injury was
sustained in the line of duty (date, time, place, nature of injury, and other
factual circumstances surrounding the incident giving rise to said claim);
      (2)   The applicant's firsthand knowledge explaining, to the village's
satisfaction, how the injury/death directly resulted from:
         (a)   Response to fresh pursuit;
         (b)   Response to what is reasonably believed to be an emergency;
         (c)   An unlawful act perpetrated by another; or
         (d)   Participation during the investigation of a criminal act;
      (3)   A signed PSEBA medical authorization release which authorizes the
collection of information related to the incident including, but not limited
to, disability pension proceedings, worker's compensation records, and medical
records and specifies the name and address for pertinent health care provider
(s);
      (4)   A signed PSEBA general information release specifying the name and
signature of the applicant or her/his authorized representative along with
legal proof of said representation and name and signature of witness
authorizing the collection of information pertinent to the incident review
process;
      (5)   The name(s) of witnesses to the incident;
      (6)   The name(s) of witnesses the applicant intends to call at the PSEBA
hearing;
      (7)   Information and supporting pension documentation filed with the
appropriate pension board;
      (8)   Information supporting the PSEBA eligibility requirements; and
      (9)   Other sources of health insurance benefits currently enrolled in or
received by the applicant and/or family members if the applicant is deceased.
   (C)   The PSEBA application must be submitted to the Village Clerk in its
entirety.
   (D)   The PSEBA application must be sworn and notarized to certify the
truthfulness of the content of the information. A review of the application
shall not occur until the application is complete.
   (E)   On the date that the PSEBA application is deemed complete by the
village, the completed application shall then be submitted to the village as
the preliminary record, and a copy of the same shall be date stamped and
provided to the applicant.
   (F)   Upon receipt of a complete application for PSEBA benefits, the village
shall set the matter for an administrative hearing before a hearing officer to
make a determination on whether to grant the applicant PSEBA benefits based on
the result of the administrative hearing.
   (G)   The applicant will be given written notice of the date for the
scheduled administrative hearing to be served not less than ten days prior to
the commencement of the hearing. If the applicant, upon receiving written
notice of the administrative hearing, cannot attend said date, the applicant
must contact the hearing officer in writing within seven days after being
served. The hearing officer shall establish an alternative hearing date which
is within 30 days of the original hearing date. Failure to appear at the
administrative hearing shall result in denial of PSEBA benefits.
(Ord. 2018-01-02 A, passed 1-2-2018; Am. Ord. 2018-07-02A, passed 7-2-2018; Am.
Ord. 2022-04-04B, passed 4-4-2022)
§ 37.03 ADMINISTRATIVE COMPOSITION.
   The administrative hearing shall be scheduled and conducted by a hearing
officer whose authority and limitations are as follows:
   (A)   Authority of the hearing officer. The hearing officer shall have all
of the authorities granted to her/him under common law relative to the conduct
of an administrative hearing, including the authority to:
      (1)   Preside over village hearings involving PSEBA;
      (2)   Administer oaths;
      (3)   Hear testimony and accept evidence that is relevant to the issue of
eligibility under PSEBA;
      (4)   Issue subpoenas to secure attendance of witnesses and the
production of relevant papers or documents upon the request of the parties or
their representatives;
      (5)   Rule upon objections in the admissibility of evidence;
      (6)   Preserve and authenticate the record of the hearing and all
exhibits in evidence introduced at the hearing; and
      (7)   Issue a determination based on the evidence presented at the
hearing, the determination of which shall be in writing and shall include a
written finding of fact, decision and order.
   (B)   Hearing officer. The Village President, with the advice and consent of
the Board of Trustees, is hereby authorized to appoint a person to hold the
position of hearing officer for each hearing on PSEBA benefits that shall come
before this village. In making said selection, the following information should
be considered, at a minimum:
      (1)   The individual's ability to comply with the job description as set
forth herein; and
      (2)   The individual must be an attorney licensed to practice law in the
State of Illinois and have knowledge of and experience in employment and labor
law, general civil procedure, the rules of evidence, and administrative
practice.
(Ord. 2018-01-02 A, passed 1-2-2018; Am. Ord. 2022-04-04B, passed 4-4-2022)
§ 37.04 ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING.
   The system of administrative hearings for the determination of eligibility
for benefits under PSEBA shall be initiated either by the village or by the
applicant after the submission of a full and complete PSEBA application. An
administrative hearing shall be held to adjudicate and determine whether the
applicant is eligible for benefits under PSEBA. If the applicant is found
eligible, the benefits shall be consistent with the Act.
   (A)   Record. The village shall ensure that all hearings are attended by a
certified court reporter and a transcript of all proceedings shall be made by
said certified court reporter and a copy be provided to the applicant within 28
days of the date of the administrative hearing.
   (B)   Procedures. The village and the applicant shall be entitled to
representation by counsel at said administrative hearing and present witnesses,
testimony, and documents, may cross-examine opposing witnesses, and may request
the issuance of subpoenas to compel the appearance of relevant witnesses or the
production of relevant documents.
   (C)   Evidence. The Illinois Rules of Evidence shall apply to the extent
practicable unless, by such application, the hearing officer determines that
application of the rule would be an injustice or preclude the introduction of
evidence of the type commonly relied upon by a reasonably prudent person in the
conduct of her or his affairs. Such determination shall be in the sole
discretion of the hearing officer. The hearing officer must state on the record
her or his reason for that determination.
   (D)   Final determination. A written determination by the hearing officer of
whether the petitioning applicant is eligible for the benefits under PSEBA
shall constitute a final administrative determination for the purpose of
judicial review under the common law writ of certiorari.
   (E)   Burden of proof. At any administrative hearing, the applicant shall
have the obligation and burden of proof to establish that the applicant is
eligible and qualified to receive PSEBA benefits. The standard of proof in all
hearings conducted under this chapter shall be by the preponderance of the
evidence.
   (F)   Administrative records. All records pertaining to the administrative
process shall be held in a separate file under the applicant's name with the
village.
(Ord. 2018-01-02 A, passed 1-2-2018; Am. Ord. 2022-04-04B, passed 4-4-2022)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      Chapter
         
50.   SEWERS
         
51.   WATER
CHAPTER 50: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
50.001   Definitions
Sewer Use Regulations
   
50.020   Deposit of wastes unlawful
   
50.021   Polluting waters
   
50.022   Discontinuance of private disposal system
   
50.023   Sewer available
   
50.024   Additional requirements
   
50.025   Ground water infiltration unlawful
   
50.026   Permit required
   
50.027   Unlawful discharges
   
50.028   Reserved
   
50.029   Reserved
   
50.030   Reserved
   
50.031   Reserved
   
50.032   Reserved
   
50.033   Reserved
   
50.034   Reserved
   
50.035   Downspouts prohibited
   
50.036   Building sewer; plumbing
   
50.037   Reserved
   
50.038   Barricades at excavations
   
50.039   Lawful discharge of storm water
   
50.040   Discharge of storm water unlawful
   
50.041   Prohibited discharges
   
50.042   Specific discharges prohibited
   
50.043   Approval of prohibited wastes
   
50.044   Grease, oil and sand interceptors
   
50.045   Facility maintenance
   
50.046   Control manhole
Analyses, Testing, Inspections
   
50.060   Laboratory analysis
   
50.061   Testing requirements
   
50.062   Special arrangements
   
50.063   Inspection and testing
   
50.064   Safety rules
Rates and Charges; Liability
   
50.080   Liability of person
   
50.081   Reserved
   
50.082   Reserved
   
50.083   Reserved
   
50.084   Reserved
   
50.085   Reserved
   
50.086   Reserved
   
50.087   Reserved
   
50.088   Reserved
   
50.089   Reserved
   
50.090   Reserved
   
50.091   Reserved
   
50.092   Reserved
   
50.093   Reserved
   
50.094   Reserved
   
50.095   Reserved
   
50.096   Reserved
   
50.097   Validity
   
50.098   Reserved
   
50.099   Installation required
   
50.100   Construction of sewer lines
   
50.101   Connections to sewer lines
   
50.102   Reserved
   
50.103   Customer's responsibility
Private Sewage Disposal
   
50.120   Reference
   
50.121   Violation
   
50.122   Discharge of waste in system
   
50.123   Test and analysis
   
50.124   Examination and testing
   
50.125   Protection from damage
   
50.126   Power and authority of inspections
   
50.127   Safety rules and indemnification
 
   
50.999   Penalty
 
   
Appendix A:   Private Waste Disposal Application
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency.
   APPROVING AUTHORITY. The Board of Trustees of the village.
   BASIC USER CHARGE. The basic assessment levied on all users of the public
sewer system.
   BOD (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest piping of a drainage system which
receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside the
walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer or other approved
point of discharge, beginning five feet (1.5 meters) outside the inner face of
the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer which is designed and intended to receive
wastewater, storm, surface and ground water drainage.
   COMMERCIAL USER. Includes transit lodging, retail and wholesale
establishments or places engaged in selling merchandise or rendering services.
   CONTROL MANHOLE. A structure located on a site from which industrial wastes
are discharged. Where feasible, the MANHOLE shall have an interior drop. The
purpose of a CONTROL MANHOLE is to provide access for the village
representative to sample and/or measure discharges.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   EFFLUENT CRITERIA. Defined in any applicable NPDES permit.
   FEDERAL ACT. The Federal Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. §§ 466 et seq., as
amended, Pub. Law No. 95-217.
   FEDERAL GRANT. The U.S. government participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by Title II, Grants for
Construction of Treatment Works, of the Act and implementing regulations.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL USERS. Includes establishments engaged in manufacturing
activities involving the mechanical or chemical transformation of materials of
substance into products.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance discharged,
permitted to flow or escaping from any industrial, manufacturing, commercial or
business establishment or process or from the development, recovery or
processing of any natural resource as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   INSTITUTIONAL/GOVERNMENTAL USER. Includes schools, churches, penal
institutions and users associated with federal, state and local governments.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY. An industrial user of the publicly-owned
treatment works that:
      (1)   Has a flow of 50,000 gallons or more per average work day;
      (2)   Has a flow greater than 10% of the flow carried by the municipal
system receiving the waste;
      (3)   Has in its waste, a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
standards issued under 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a); or
      (4)   Is found by the permit issuance authority, in connection with the
issuance of the NPDES permit to the publicly-owned treatment works receiving
the waste, to have significant impact, either singly or in combination with
other contributing industries, on that treatment works or upon the quality of
effluent from that treatment works.
   MAY. Is permissible.
   MILLIGRAMS PER LITER. A unit of the concentration of water or wastewater
constituent. It is 0.001 g of the constituent in 1,000 ml of water. It has
replaced the unit formerly used commonly, parts per million, to which it is
approximately equivalent, in reporting the results of water and wastewater
analysis.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or ground water.
   NPDES PERMIT. Any permit or equivalent document or requirements issued by
the Administrator or, where appropriate by the Director, after enactment of the
Federal Clean Water Act to regulate the discharge of pollutants pursuant to 3
U.S.C. § 1342.
   ORDINANCE. This ordinance or chapter. Also referred to as CHAPTER.
   PERMIT. A written permit issued by the village permitting construction of a
sanitary sewer system including individual sewage systems.
   PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial including any individual,
firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association, society,
institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
   pH. The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen-ion
concentration expressed by one of the procedures outlined in the IEPA Division
of Laboratories Manual of Laboratory Methods.
   POPULATION EQUIVALENT. A term used to evaluate the impact of industrial or
other waste on a treatment works or stream. One population equivalent is 100
gallons of sewage per day.
   PPM. Parts per million by weight.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of wastewaters from sources before introduction
into the wastewater treatment works.
   PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. Any sewage handling or treatment facility
receiving domestic sewage from less than 15 people or population equivalent and
having a ground surface discharge or any sewage handling or treatment facility
receiving domestic sewage and having no ground surface discharge. PRIVATE
SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS do not discharge into a municipal or township sewer
system.
   PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM CONTRACTOR'S REGISTRATION. An annual
registration certificate issued by the village to all private sewage disposal
installation contractors or private sewage disposal system pumping contractors
engaged in the installation and/or servicing of private sewage disposal systems
within the limits of the village.
   PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM INSTALLATION CONTRACTOR. Any person
constructing, installing, repairing, modifying or maintaining private sewage
disposal systems.
   PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM PUMPING CONTRACTOR. Any person who cleans or
pumps waste from a private sewage disposal system or hauls or disposes of waste
removed therefrom.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters) in any
dimension.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which the works
were designed and constructed. The term OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE includes
REPLACEMENT.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that conveys sewage or industrial wastes, or a
combination of both, and into which storm, surface and ground waters or
polluted industrial wastes are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. Used interchangeably with WASTEWATER.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for conveying sewage or any other waste liquids,
including storm, surface and ground water drainage.
   SEWERAGE. The system of sewers and appurtenances for the collection,
transportation and pumping of sewage.
   SEWERAGE FUND. The principal accounting designation for all revenues
received in the operation of the sewerage system.
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   STATE ACT. The Illinois Anti-Pollution Bond Act of 1970, being ILCS Ch. 30,
Act 405, §§ 1 et seq. [Repealed by P.A. 103-616, § 15-40.]
   STATE GRANT. The state's participation in the financing of the construction
of treatment works as provided for by the Illinois Anti-Pollution Bond Act and
for making such grants as filed with the Secretary of State.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer that carries storm, surface and ground water drainage,
but excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted cooling water.
   STORM WATER RUNOFF. The portion of the precipitation that is drained into
the sewers.
   SURCHARGE. The assessment in addition to the basic user charge and debt
service charge which is levied on those persons whose wastes are greater in
strength than average concentration values as established herein.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS). Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension, in water, sewage or industrial waste, and which are removable by a
laboratory filtration device. Quantitative determination of suspended solids
shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in the IEPA Division of
Laboratories Manual of Laboratory Methods.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   USEFUL LIFE. The estimated period during which the collection system and/or
treatment works will be operated.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of treatment works for the cost of
operation, maintenance and replacement.
   USER CLASS. The type of user "residential, institutional/governmental,
commercial" or "industrial", as defined herein.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Shiloh, Illinois.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community. From this standpoint of course,
it may be a combination of the liquid- and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institution, together
with any ground water, surface water and storm water that may be present.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes and transport
effluent to a watercourse.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge. Sometimes used as synonymous
with WASTE TREATMENT PLANT or WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or POLLUTION CONTROL
PLANT.
   WATER QUALITY STANDARDS. Defined in the Water Pollution Regulations of
Illinois.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(Am. Ord. 2020-03-02C, passed 3-2-2020)
SEWER USE REGULATIONS
§ 50.020 DEPOSIT OF WASTES UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
village any human or animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
(Am. Ord. 2020-03-02C, passed 3-2-2020) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.021 POLLUTING WATERS.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the village
any sewage or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been
provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
(Am. Ord. 2020-03-02C, passed 3-2-2020) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.022 DISCONTINUANCE OF PRIVATE DISPOSAL SYSTEM.
   (A)   The owner of all the houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes situated where a public
sanitary sewer of the village or community sewage system is available or may,
in the future, be located any public sanitary sewer of the village, is hereby
required at his or her expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein
and to connect the facilities directly with the proper public sewer in
accordance with the provisions of these code provisions.
   (B)   Connections to be within 90 days after date of official notice to do
so; provided that, the public sewer is within 200 feet of the property line for
a single-family residence and 3,000 feet for a commercial institutional/
governmental, industrial or residential subdivision use. If a pump is required
to accomplish the connection, the pump shall be installed and maintained at the
property owner's expense.
(Am. Ord. 2020-03-02C, passed 3-2-2020)
§ 50.023 SEWER AVAILABLE.
   At such times as a public sewer becomes available to property served by a
sewage disposal system as provided in §
50.022, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance
with this Code and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage
disposal facilities shall be abandoned and properly filled.
(Am. Ord. 2020-03-02C, passed 3-2-2020)
§ 50.024 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed to interfere with
any additional requirements that may be imposed by any government agency.
(Am. Ord. 2020-03-02C, passed 3-2-2020)
§ 50.025 GROUND WATER INFILTRATION UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain private sewer lines or lateral which allow
infiltration of ground water or other substances to flow into the village's
sewer system.
   (A)   Notice. Any owner of sewer lines or laterals which are causing inflow
or infiltration into the village's system shall be given 90 days to correct the
problem.
   (B)   Administrative assessment. If the owner of sewer lines or laterals
fails to correct any inflow or infiltration problem after being given 90 days
to correct the infiltration, a penalty of 20% of the monthly sewer charge shall
be added to the monthly sewer bill until such time as the infiltration problem
has been corrected to the satisfaction of the village.
(Am. Ord. 2020-03-02C, passed 3-2-2020) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.026 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with, or opening
into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the village.
(Am. Ord. 2020-03-02C, passed 3-2-2020) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.027 UNLAWFUL DISCHARGES.
   All disposal by any person into the sewer system is unlawful except those
discharges in compliance with federal standards promulgated pursuant to the
Federal Act and/or more stringent state and local standards.
(Am. Ord. 2020-03-02C, passed 3-2-2020) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.028 RESERVED.
§ 50.029 RESERVED.
§ 50.030 RESERVED.
§ 50.031 RESERVED.
§ 50.032 RESERVED.
§ 50.033 RESERVED.
§ 50.034 RESERVED.
§ 50.035 DOWNSPOUTS PROHIBITED.
   No person(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, foundation drains,
areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or ground water to a building
sewer or building drain which, in turn, is connected directly or indirectly to
a public sanitary sewer.
(Am. Ord. 2020-03-02C, passed 3-2-2020) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.036 BUILDING SEWER; PLUMBING.
   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall conform to
the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code, applicable rules and
regulations of the village, and the procedures set forth in appropriate
specifications of the American Society of Testing Materials, Water Pollution
Control Federation Manual of Practice No. 9 and the latest edition of the
Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois. All
such connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any deviation from the
prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the village before
installation.
(Am. Ord. 2020-03-02C, passed 3-2-2020)
§ 50.037 RESERVED.
§ 50.038 BARRICADES AT EXCAVATIONS.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored per village ordinance at the owner/permittee's expense.
(Am. Ord. 2020-03-02C, passed 3-2-2020)
§ 50.039 LAWFUL DISCHARGE OF STORM WATER.
   (A)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers or to a natural
outlet approved by the village.
   (B)   Industrial cooling water or unpolluted process waters may be
discharged, on approval of the village, to a storm sewer or natural outlet.
(Am. Ord. 2020-03-02C, passed 3-2-2020)
§ 50.040 DISCHARGE OF STORM WATER UNLAWFUL.
   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
(Am. Ord. 2020-03-02C, passed 3-2-2020) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.041 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described water or wastes to any public sewers:
   (A)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
   (B)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or
gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant;
   (C)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than six or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the sewage works; and/or
   (D)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of a size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interference with the proper
operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes, cinders,
sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood,
unground garbage, whole block, paunch manure, hair and fleshing, entrails and
papers, dishes, cups, milk containers and the like, either whole or ground by
garbage grinders.
(Am. Ord. 2020-03-02C, passed 3-2-2020) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.042 SPECIFIC DISCHARGES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, water or wastes that appear likely, in the
opinion of the village, that the wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage
treatment process or equipment; have an adverse effect on the receiving stream;
or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a nuisance.
   (B)   In forming an opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the
village will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of subject
wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of
the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage
treatment plant and maximum limits established by regulatory agencies. Some
substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous materials; or
oils whether emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances
which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32° and 150°F (0°
and 65°C);
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths
horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to review and approval
of the village;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes
or concentrated plating solution whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc,
boron, lead, nickel, cadmium or similar objectionable or toxic substances; or
wastes exerting any excessive chlorine requirement, to such degree that any
such material received in the composite sewage at the sewage treatment works
exceeds the limits established by the village for the materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor-
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the village as necessary after treatment of the composite
sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other public agencies
or jurisdiction for the discharge to the receiving water;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of a half-life or concentration
as may exceed limits established by the village in compliance with applicable
state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Any wastes or waters having a pH in excess of nine;
      (9)   Any mercury or any of its compounds in excess of 0.0005 mg/l as Hg
at any time except as permitted by the village in compliance with applicable
state and federal regulations;
      (10)   Any cyanide in excess of .01 mg/l at any time except as permitted
by the village in compliance with applicable state and federal regulations;
      (11)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage works; and
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentrations of wastes constituting
"slugs", as defined herein.
      (12)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed or are
amenable to treatment only to a degree that the sewage treatment plant effluent
cannot meet the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over discharge to
receiving waters; and
      (13)   Objectionable material effluent limits:
Waste or Chemical Concentration mg/l
Waste or Chemical                                      Concentration mg/l
Boron                                                  1.0
Chromium (Hexavalent)                                  5.0
Chromium (Trivalent)                                   10.5
Copper                                                 3.0
Cyanide                                                0.005
Iron                                                   15.0
Lead                                                   0.1
Mercury or its compounds                               0.005
Nickel                                                 3.0
Oil and grease (carbon tetrachloride extraction)       100.0
Temperature not over 150°F (65°C)
Acid from pickling waste or concentrated plating waste 0
Free acids and alkalis pH                              Between 6 and 9
Zinc                                                   2.0
Cadmium                                                2.0
Chlorine demand                                        30.0
Phenols                                                0.5
 
(Am. Ord. 2020-03-02C, passed 3-2-2020)
§ 50.043 APPROVAL OF PROHIBITED WASTES.
   (A)   If any waters are discharged or are proposed to be discharged to the
public sewer, which waters contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in §
50.042, and/or which are in violation of the standards for pretreatment
provided in 40 C.F.R. part 403, 6-26-1978, and/or the sewage treatment service
agreement with the cities of O'Fallon and/or Belleville, any amendments
thereto, and which in the judgment of the village may have a deleterious effect
upon the sewer works, processes, equipment or receiving waters, or which
otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the village
may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges, under the provisions
of §
50.062.
   (B)   If the village permits the pretreatment of equalization of waste flow,
the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject to the
review and approval of the village, and subject to the requirements of all
applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
(Am. Ord. 2020-03-02C, passed 3-2-2020)
§ 50.044 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when required by
the state's Plumbing Code and/or the village.
      (1)   All gas, oil and flammable liquids interceptors shall be of a type
and capacity required by the state's Plumbing Code and shall be located as to
be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
      (2)   All grease interceptors to be located within the village's Sub
Facility Planning Area, as defined by the state's Plumbing Code, for new
construction or changes in uses of existing structures shall be a minimum of
1,000-gallons' capacity and located outside the building.
   (B)   Owners shall maintain all interceptors to ensure proper operation and
shall maintain a service log for village inspection which shall include copies
of service tickets.
(Am. Ord. 2020-03-02C, passed 3-2-2020)
§ 50.045 FACILITY MAINTENANCE.
   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided, they
shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the
owner at his or her expense.
(Am. Ord. 2020-03-02C, passed 3-2-2020)
§ 50.046 CONTROL MANHOLE.
   Each industry shall be required to install a control manhole and, when
required by the village, the owner of any property serviced by a building sewer
carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control manhole together
with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building sewer to
facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the wastes. The manhole,
when required, shall be accessibly and safely located, and shall be constructed
in accordance with plans approved by the village. The manhole shall be
installed by the owner at his or her expense and shall be maintained by him or
her so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
(Am. Ord. 2020-03-02C, passed 3-2-2020)
ANALYSES, TESTING, INSPECTIONS
§ 50.060 LABORATORY ANALYSIS.
   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial
wastes shall provide laboratory measurements, tests and analysis of waters and
wastes to illustrate compliance with this chapter and any special conditions
for discharge established by the village or regulatory agencies having
jurisdiction over the discharge. The number, type and frequency of laboratory
analysis to be performed by the owner shall be as stipulated by the village,
but no less than once per year, the industry must supply a complete analysis of
the constituents of the wastewater discharge to assure codes are being met. The
owner shall report the results of measurements and laboratory analysis to the
village at such times and in such a manner as prescribed by the village. The
owner shall bear the expense of all measurements, analysis and reporting
required by the village. At such times as deemed necessary, the village
reserves the right to take measurements and samples for analysis by an outside
laboratory service. The owner shall pay for the costs of the outside laboratory
service.
(Am. Ord. 2020-03-02C, passed 3-2-2020)
§ 50.061 TESTING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All measurements, tests and analysis of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of the Standard Methods for Examination of
Water and Wastewater, and shall be determined at the control manhole provided,
or upon suitable samples taken at the control manhole.
   (B)   In the event that no special manhole has been required, the control
manhole shall be considered to be the nearest down-stream manhole in the public
sewer to the point at which the building sewer is connected.
   (C)   Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb and property. The particular analysis
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premise is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
   (D)   Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analysis are
obtained from 24-hour composites of all outfalls, whereas pHs are determined
from periodic grab samples.
(Am. Ord. 2020-03-02C, passed 3-2-2020)
§ 50.062 SPECIAL ARRANGEMENTS.
   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the village and any industrial concern
whereby an industrial waste or unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the village for treatment, subject to payment therefor, in accordance with the
charges established by the village, and by the industrial concern; provided,
the payments are in accordance with federal and state guidelines for user
charge system.
(Am. Ord. 2020-03-02C, passed 3-2-2020)
§ 50.063 INSPECTION AND TESTING.
   Any duly authorized employees of the village, the state's Environmental
Protection Agency and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency bearing proper
credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all properties for
the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The village or its
representative shall have authority to inquire into any processes, including
metallurgical, chemical, oil refining, ceramic, paper or other industries
beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge
to the sewers or waterway or facilities for waste treatment.
(Am. Ord. 2020-03-02C, passed 3-2-2020)
§ 50.064 SAFETY RULES.
   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in
this chapter, the state’s Environmental Protection Agency, and the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency shall observe all safety rules applicable to
the premises established by the company and the company shall be held harmless
for injury or death to the village employees and the village shall indemnify
the company against liability claims and demands for personal injury or
property damage asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and
sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of
the company to maintain conditions as required in §
50.060.
(Am. Ord. 2020-03-02C, passed 3-2-2020)
RATES AND CHARGES; LIABILITY
§ 50.080 LIABILITY OF PERSON.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall become
liable to the village by reasons of violation.
(Am. Ord. 2020-03-02C, passed 3-2-2020)
§ 50.081 RESERVED.
§ 50.082 RESERVED.
§ 50.083 RESERVED.
§ 50.084 RESERVED.
§ 50.085 RESERVED.
§ 50.086 RESERVED.
§ 50.087 RESERVED.
§ 50.088 RESERVED.
§ 50.089 RESERVED.
§ 50.090 RESERVED.
§ 50.091 RESERVED.
§ 50.092 RESERVED.
§ 50.093 RESERVED.
§ 50.094 RESERVED.
§ 50.095 RESERVED.
§ 50.096 RESERVED.
§ 50.097 VALIDITY.
   If any section, division, clause or provision of this chapter shall be held
to be invalid or unenforceable for any reason, the invalidity or enforceability
of the section, division, clause or provision shall not affect any of the
remaining provisions of this chapter.
(Am. Ord. 2020-03-02C, passed 3-2-2020)
§ 50.098 RESERVED.
§ 50.099 INSTALLATION REQUIRED.
   Developers of any developments or subdivisions which have not yet been
constructed within the village must install suitable toilet facilities therein
and shall connect or make ready to connect the facilities directly with the
proper public sewer system provided that the public sewer is within or is
planned to be within 3,000 feet of the property line of the original parcel
being subdivided or developed.
(Am. Ord. 2020-03-02C, passed 3-2-2020)
§ 50.100 CONSTRUCTION OF SEWER LINES.
   (A)   Construction of sewer lines within any subdivision or development
shall meet all requirements of the village and the state's Environmental
Protection Agency.
   (B)   Any easements reasonably necessary for the village to operate and
maintain the sewer lines and appurtenances shall be dedicated as part of the
subdivision or development and copies of the applicable recorded documents
shall be furnished to the village upon request. No construction of any
building, subdivision or development may be undertaken until such time as
detailed plans of proposed sewer lines are reviewed and approved by the
village.
   (C)   All landowners and developers shall install adequate sewer lines in
conformance with industry standards, state's Environmental Protection Agency
requirement and village requirements. Inspections of sewer lines installed in a
subdivision, development or other new construction shall be made by the village
or its consulting engineer during installation to insure compliance with all
standards. Landowner or developer shall contact the village at least 30 days
prior to commencing installation of the sewer lines. Costs of the inspections
and review of plans, as determined by the village, shall be borne by the
landowner.
   (D)   Further, every landowner or developer shall furnish "as built plans"
to the village, at no cost to the village, showing the location, elevation and
other pertinent information of all sewer lines, manholes, laterals, pump
stations and appurtenances, as they were installed.
(Am. Ord. 2020-03-02C, passed 3-2-2020)
§ 50.101 CONNECTIONS TO SEWER LINES.
   (A)   The property owner shall, after applying for and being issued a
permit, connect to the existing main. Connection to be at the lateral placed
during truck line construction or by a tapping saddle.
   (B)   At least two work days prior to the time of the actual connection to
the existing main, the property owner shall notify the village. The connection
shall be inspected by the employees of the village prior to placing said
service into operation. The property owner shall be responsible for replacement
of all streets surfaces per village ordinance after the initial construction is
completed.
   (C)   The village reserves the right to refuse service when the treatment
facilities will not permit additional customers.
   (D)   Each dwelling unit shall be considered as a single customer even
though one or more family units may be housed under one roof.
(Am. Ord. 2020-03-02C, passed 3-2-2020)
§ 50.102 RESERVED.
§ 50.103 CUSTOMER'S RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   The customer shall be responsible for the sewer service line from the
main dwelling unit.
   (B)   The customer shall provide the village with a copy of an easement when
the service is extended over private property not owned by the customer.
   (C)   The customer shall be liable for any damage that he or she may incur
on public property.
(Am. Ord. 2020-03-02C, passed 3-2-2020)
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL
§ 50.120 REFERENCE.
   All private sewer systems installed after the passage of this chapter shall
conform to the St. Clair County Health Department and/or the Village Board
rules and regulations.
(Am. Ord. 2020-03-02C, passed 3-2-2020)
§ 50.121 VIOLATION.
   (A)   Whenever the Building Inspector determines that a violation of any
provision of §§
50.120 through
50.127 has occurred, the Building inspector shall give notice to the person
responsible for the violation. The notice shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include a statement of the reasons for issuance of the notice;
      (3)   Allow reasonable time as determined by the Building Inspector for
performance of any act it required;
      (4)   Be served upon the person responsible for the violation(s) and
property owners. The notice shall have been properly served when a copy has
been sent to the last known address known by the Building Inspector; and
      (5)   Contain an outline of remedial action which is required to affect
compliance with this chapter.
   (B)   It shall not be a prerequisite to enforcement of the penalty
provisions of this chapter that the Building Inspector first resort to the
notice procedure set forth in division (A)(4) above.
   (C)   (1)   Any person affected by an order or notice issued by the Building
Inspector in connection with the enforcement of any section of this chapter,
may file in the Office of the Building Inspector a written request for a
hearing before the Board of Trustees. The Board of Trustees shall hold a
hearing within 30 days from the date on which the written request was filed.
      (2)   The petitioner for the hearing shall be notified of the time and
place of the hearing not less than five days prior to the date on which the
hearing is to be held.
      (3)   If the Board of Trustees finds that strict compliance with the
order, or notice, would cause undue hardship on the petitioner, and that the
public health would be adequately protected and substantial justice done by
varying or withdrawing the order or notice, the Board of Trustees may modify or
withdraw the order or notice.
      (4)   As a condition for the action, the Board may make requirements
which are additional to those prescribed in this chapter for the purpose of
properly protecting the public health.
      (5)   The Board of Trustees shall render a decision within ten days after
the date of the hearing which shall be reduced to writing and placed on file
with village staff as a matter of public record.
   (D)   (1)   In any case where a provision of any zoning, building, fire,
safety or health ordinance, or code of village existing on the effective date
of this chapter, the provision which, in the judgment of the Board of Trustees
establishes the higher standard for the promotion and protection of the health
and safety of the people the existing shall prevail.
      (2)   In any case where a provision of any other ordinance existing on
the effective date of §§
50.120 through
50.127 establishes a lower standard for the promotion and protection of the
health and safety of the people the provisions of §§
50.120 through
50.127 shall be deemed to prevail and such other ordinances or codes are hereby
declared to be repealed to the extent that they may be found in conflict with
§§
50.120 through
50.127.
      (3)   If any section, division, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of
this chapter should be declared invalid for any reason whatsoever, the decision
shall not affect the remaining portions of this chapter which shall remain in
full force and effect and, to this end, the provisions of this chapter are
hereby declared to be served.
(Am. Ord. 2020-03-02C, passed 3-2-2020)
§ 50.122 DISCHARGE OF WASTE IN SYSTEM.
   (A)   Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall discharge or cause to
be discharged any of following described waters wastes to any unit:
      (1)   Any vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F;
      (2)   Any liquids or gases which, by reason of their nature or quantity,
may cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the units or to
the operation of the system;
      (3)   Any solids or viscous wastes which cause obstruction to the flow in
laterals or other interference with the proper operation of the system;
      (4)   Other wastes such as garbage, refuse, wood residues, sand, lime,
cinders, ashes, offal, night soil, silt, oil tar, dyestuffs, acids, chemicals
and all other substances whose discharge would cause pollution;
      (5)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating
public nuisance;
      (6)   The following level of contaminates during a period of 24 hours or
a period of normal daily operation, whichever is less:
Contaminate Concentration (mg/l)
Contaminate                         Concentration (mg/l)
Arsenic (total)                     0.25
Barium (total)                      2.0
Cadmium (total)                     0.15
Chromium (total)                    2.0
Copper (total)                      1.5
Cyanide (total)                     1.0
Fluoride (total)                    2.5
Iron (total)                        15.0
Lead (total)                        0.1
Manganese (total)                   1.0
Mercury (total)                     0.0005
Nickel (total)                      2.0
Oil (Hexane solubles or equivalent) 100.0
PH range                            5 through 10
Phenols                             1.0
Selenium (total)                    1.0
Silver (total)                      0.1
Zinc (total)                        2.0
 
      (7)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded; and
      (8)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes
or concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not.
   (B)   Effluent standards must comply with those established in the latest
edition of the state's Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act, being ILCS Ch.
225, Act 225, §§ 1 et seq. and code.
   (C)   Disinfection standards must comply with those established in the
latest edition of the state's Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act and code.
(Am. Ord. 2020-03-02C, passed 3-2-2020)
§ 50.123 TEST AND ANALYSIS.
   All tests and analysis of the characteristics of waters and wastes to which
reference is made above shall be determined in accordance with the most recent
edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Sewage, or 40
C.F.R. part 136 entitled Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures for Analysis
of Pollutants as published in the 10-16-1973, Federal Register, or method
approved by the village. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted
methods to reflect that effect of constituents upon the system and to determine
the existence of hazards to life, limb and property. Any test shall be paid for
by the property owner.
(Am. Ord. 2020-03-02C, passed 3-2-2020)
§ 50.124 EXAMINATION AND TESTING.
   (A)   The village, and its agents and employees shall have ready access at
all reasonable times to the premises, places or building where the system is
installed for the purpose of examining and testing the operation of the sewage
system.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or corporation to interfere with,
prevent or obstruct the village, or its duly authorized employees or agents, in
its or their duties hereunder.
   (C)   Every property owner shall take and accept the services of the
wastewater treatment system and facilities upon the conditions prescribed in
this section.
(Am. Ord. 2020-03-02C, passed 3-2-2020) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.125 PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently
break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure,
appurtenance or equipment which is part of the private sewage system.
   (B)   Any person guilty of an infraction of this provision shall be subject
to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct and/or criminal damage
to property and subject to such other penalties as provided by law.
(Am. Ord. 2020-03-02C, passed 3-2-2020) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.126 POWER AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTIONS.
   Representatives of the state's Environmental Protection Agency and the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency, bearing proper credentials and identification
shall be permitted to enter upon all properties at any time for the purpose of
inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter.
(Am. Ord. 2020-03-02C, passed 3-2-2020)
§ 50.127 SAFETY RULES AND INDEMNIFICATION.
   (A)   While performing the necessary work herein referred to, the village,
the state's Environmental Protection Agency, the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency and the Illinois Department of Public Health shall observe all safety
rules applicable to inspection, testing, installation and maintenance of the
system.
   (B)   The property owner shall be held harmless for injury or death to
village employees and the village shall indemnify the property owner against
loss or damage to his or her property by village employees and against
liability claims and demands for personal injury or property damage asserted
against the property owner and growing out of the inspection, testing,
installation and maintenance operation, except as such may be caused by
negligence or failure of the property owner to maintain safe conditions.
(Am. Ord. 2020-03-02C, passed 3-2-2020)
§ 50.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found to be in violation of any provision of §§
50.120 through
50.127 shall be served by the village with written notice, by registered or
certified mail, stating the nature of the infraction and providing 15 days from
the date of the written notice as the time limit for the satisfactory
correction of the infraction.
   (B)   The offender shall, within the period of time stated in the notice,
permanently cease all infractions.
   (C)   Any person who shall continue beyond the time limit provided for the
above, shall be guilty and, upon conviction, shall be fined in accordance with
Chapter 34 for each separate violation.
   (D)   Each day in which any such infraction of §§
50.120 through
50.127 shall continue, shall be deemed a separate violation.
   (E)   Further, any person guilty of an infraction of any of the provisions
of §§
50.120 through
50.127 shall become liable to the village for any expense, loss or damage
incurred by the village by reason of the violation including, but not limited
to, a charge in accordance with
Chapter 34 for each notification required.
   (F)   Failure to provide evidence of inspection for the 365 days proceeding
receipt of notification from the village, in accordance herewith, will subject
the owner to an additional fine in accordance with
Chapter 34.
(Am. Ord. 2020-03-02C, passed 3-2-2020)
APPENDICES
Appendix A: Private Waste Disposal Application
   TO THE CLERK:
   The undersigned, being the                                                   (owner[s]) of the property located at                             (address) does hereby request a permit to
install sanitary sewage disposal facilities to serve the                                   (residence/commercial building and the like).
   1.   The proposed facilities include:                             to be constructed in complete accordance with the plans and specifications attached hereunto as Exhibit “A”.
   2.   The area of the property is ( ) square feet or ( ) square meters.
   3.   The name and address of the person or firm who will perform the work is                                            .
   4.   The maximum number of persons to be served by the proposed facilities is                                           .
   5.   The locations and nature of all sources of private or public water supply within 200 feet (61 meters) of any boundary of the property are shown on the plat attached hereunto as
Exhibit “B”.
   6.   Installation contractor’s registration with the village (Exhibit C).
   IN CONSIDERATION OF THE GRANTING OF THIS PERMIT, THE UNDERSIGNED AGREES:
   1.   To furnish any additional information relating to the proposed work that shall be requested by the village.
   2.   To accept and abide by all provisions of the Village Code and of all other pertinent codes or ordinances that may be adopted in the future.
   3.   To operate and maintain the wastewater disposal facilities covered by this application in a sanitary manner at all times, in compliance with all requirements of this village and at
no expense to the village.
   4.   To notify this municipality at least 48 hours prior to commencement of the work proposed, and again at least 24 hours prior to the covering of any underground portions of the
installation.
   DATE:                       SIGNED:                                                                    
                       
                                                           (APPLICANT)
                                                                                                                               
                                                         (ADDRESS OF APPLICANT)
                                                   
   $  (Inspection Fee Paid)                     DATE:                                                                        
   $  (Connection Fee Paid)                        SIGNED:                                                                    
                                                         (CLERK)
                                                   
   (APPLICATION APPROVED AND PERMIT ISSUED)      
                                                   
   DATE:                        SIGNED:                                                                   
                    
   Village of Shiloh                             
 
To view this application in PDF, click here.
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Use of groundwater as a potable water supply prohibited
 
   
51.99   Penalty
   
Appendix:    Limited Ordinance Area
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply,
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company, limited
liability company, corporation, association, joint stock company, trust,
estate, political subdivision, or any other legal entity, or their legal
representatives, agents or assigns.
   POTABLE WATER. Any water used for human or domestic consumption, including,
but not limited to, water used for drinking, bathing, swimming, washing dishes,
or preparing foods.
(Ord. 2022-08-01C, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 51.02 USE OF GROUNDWATER AS A POTABLE WATER SUPPLY PROHIBITED.
   Except for such uses or methods in existence before the effective date of
this chapter, the use or attempt to use as a potable water supply groundwater
from the limited ordinance area depicted on
Appendix A, attached hereto and incorporated herein within the corporate limits
of the Village of Shiloh, as a potable water supply, by the installation or
drilling of wells or by any other method is hereby prohibited. This prohibition
expressly includes the Village of Shiloh.
(Ord. 2022-08-01C, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to a
fine of not less than $25, nor more than $500.
(Ord. 2022-08-01C, passed 8-1-2022)
APPENDICES
APPENDIX A: LIMITED ORDINANCE AREA
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d14942e4c4f8cb463017d7393a947477e3bbd522/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1892.png]
 
(Ord. 2022-08-01C, passed 8-1-2022)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      Chapter
         
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
71.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
         
72.   BICYCLES
         
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
         
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Obedience to police
   
70.02   Signs and signals
   
70.03   Through streets
   
70.04   Parking rules
   
70.05   Snow removal; emergency
   
70.06   Recreational vehicles and travel trailers
   
70.07   Golf carts and utility-terrain vehicles
Illinois Vehicle Code Regulations Adopted
   
70.20   Definitions
   
70.21   Vehicle registration
   
70.22   Driver licensing
   
70.23   Rules of the road
   
70.24   Vehicle equipment
   
70.25   Child Passenger Protection Act
   
70.26   Fire safety
   
70.27   Roads and bridges
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE.
   Members of the Police Department assigned to traffic duty are hereby
authorized to direct all traffic in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter, or in emergencies as public safety or convenience may require, and it
shall be unlawful for any person to willfully fail or refuse to comply with any
lawful order, signal or direction of a police officer. Except in cases of
emergency, it shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by law to direct
or attempt to direct traffic.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02 SIGNS AND SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to willfully
disobey the instructions of any traffic sign or signal placed in view by
authority of the corporate authorities or in accordance with the laws of the
state, except on direction of a police officer.
   (B)   All signs and signals established by direction of the governing body
shall conform to the Illinois State Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices
for Streets and Highways.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 THROUGH STREETS.
   The streets and parts of streets of the village designated by ordinance as
through streets are hereby declared to be through streets. The driver of a
vehicle shall stop at the entrance to a through street and shall yield the
right-of-way to other vehicles which have entered the intersection or which are
approaching so close on a through street as to constitute an immediate hazard
unless directed otherwise by the traffic officer or a traffic-control signal.
Cross-reference:
   Through traffic, see
Chapter 73, Sch. IV
§ 70.04 PARKING RULES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle or to permit a vehicle to
remain parked in any zone for a period longer than designated.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle or to permit a vehicle to
remain parked in any fire lane on streets which have posted thereon the
appropriate fire lane signs.
   (C)   (1)   It shall be unlawful to park any commercial vehicle,
recreational vehicle or utility trailer, on any residential street; except
that, any commercial vehicle parked or stopped for the purpose of pick-up or
delivery of residents and/or personal property for a period not to exceed eight
hours shall be exempt.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (C), the following definitions
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Any vehicle operated for the transportation of
persons and/or industrial enterprise.
         RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Any type of vehicle used for recreational,
avocational or competitive purpose on land, sea or air. RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
include, but are not to be limited to, camping trailers, travel trailers, motor
homes, mini-motor homes, van campers, camper shells, boats, snowmobiles and the
like.
Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   Parking Schedules, see
Chapter 74
§ 70.05 SNOW REMOVAL; EMERGENCY.
   An emergency is automatically declared to exist within the village whenever
there is an accumulation of snow and ice of two inches or more; at which time a
parking prohibition shall automatically become effective throughout the village
in accordance with the provisions of this section. All public streets in the
village are designated snow routes.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park, or allow to remain parked
or unattended, any vehicle on any designated snow route until the streets have
been cleared of snow.
   (B)   A vehicle that is parked and/or unattended when there is an
accumulation of snow or ice of two inches or more shall be prima facie evidence
of violation of this section by the person in whose name the vehicle is
registered.
   (C)   Members of the Police Department are hereby authorized to ticket,
pursuant to this section, any vehicle parked and/or unattended in violation of
this section, and if the village staff deems it necessary to effectuate snow
removal operations, have the vehicle removed.
   (D)   When the parking prohibition of this section becomes effective upon
the occurrence of certain weather conditions, it shall take precedence over
provisions of law normally in effect; except, that it shall not take precedence
over provisions of law relating to traffic accidents, emergency travel of
authorized emergency vehicles or emergency vehicles or emergency traffic
direction by a police officer.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 RECREATIONAL VEHICLES AND TRAVEL TRAILERS.
   (A)   Recreational vehicles and travel trailers placed or located within the
jurisdictional boundaries of the village shall not:
      (1)   Be parked more than one per lot;
      (2)   Be used as a dwelling;
      (3)   Be used as an office or for other commercial purposes; and
      (4)   Be parked on any front yard, except on a driveway.
   (B)   With the exception of the recreational vehicle or travel trailer being
used as a dwelling, the requirements above shall not generally apply to
permitted bona fide sale lots.
§ 70.07 GOLF CARTS AND UTILITY- TERRAIN VEHICLES.
   (A)   Golf carts and utility-terrain vehicles (not intended for four
wheelers), as defined and qualified herein, shall be allowed on village streets
under the conditions stated herein.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      GOLF CART. A motorized vehicle with three or four wheels that is not
designated to be operated at a speed of more than 25 miles per hour whose
purpose can include, but is not limited to, the playing of golf and is
generally designed to carry persons including the driver.
      UTILITY-TERRAIN VEHICLE. Not intended for four-wheelers, a self-
propelled, electrically powered four-wheel motor vehicle or a self-propelled
gasoline or diesel-powered four-wheel motor vehicle.
      VILLAGE STREETS. Any of the streets within the boundaries of the Village
of Shiloh, Illinois.
   (C)   Requirements. All persons wishing to operate a golf cart or a utility-
terrain vehicle on the village streets must ensure compliance with the
following requirements:
      (1)   Proof of current liability insurance;
      (2)   Must be certified with the village and have the vehicles certified
with the village by inspection by a village-designated representative;
      (3)   Must comply with the published Rules Concerning Alternative
Transportation for the Village of Shiloh, as periodically updated;
      (4)   Must have village decal on the rear of vehicle;
      (5)   Must have current, valid Illinois driver license;
      (6)   Golf carts must be equipped as follows:
         (a)   Brakes and brake lights;
         (b)   Turn signals;
         (c)   Steering wheel apparatus;
         (d)   Tires;
         (e)   Rearview mirror;
         (f)   Approved "Slow Moving Vehicle" emblem on the rear of the vehicle
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-709);
         (g)   Headlight that emits a white light visible from a distance of
300 feet to the front which will illuminate when in operation;
         (h)   Tail lamp that emits red light visible from at least 100 feet
from the rear which must illuminate when in operation; and
         (i)   Any additional requirements which may be amended to ILCS Ch. 65,
Act 5, § 11-1428 or the Illinois Vehicle Code.
      (7)   Utility-terrain vehicles must be equipped as follows:
         (a)   Brakes and brake lights;
         (b)   Turn signals on the front and rear;
         (c)   Steering wheel apparatus;
         (d)   Tires;
         (e)   Rearview mirror;
         (f)   Approved "Slow Moving Vehicle" emblem on the rear of the vehicle
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-709);
         (g)   Headlight that emits a white light visible from a distance of
300 feet to the front which will illuminate when in operation;
         (h)   Tail lamp that emits red light visible from at least 100 feet
from the rear which must illuminate when in operation; and
         (i)   Any additional requirements which may be amended to ILCS Ch. 65,
Act 5, § 11-1426 or the Illinois Vehicle Code.
      (8)   Must obey all traffic laws of the State of Illinois and the Village
of Shiloh;
      (9)   Must be 21 years of age;
      (10)   Must be operated only on village streets, except for the following
streets: Johnson Road, Hartman Lane, Main Street, Old Collinsville Road, Green
Mount Road, Lebanon Avenue, Frank Scott Parkway, Thouvenot Lane, Shiloh Station
Road, Shiloh Station East/West, Seibert Road, Maple Street, or Cross Street,
except to cross at any intersection;
      (11)   Must not be operated in excess of a posted speed limit and may not
exceed 25 miles per hour;
      (12)   A person operating or that is in physical control of a golf cart
or utility-terrain vehicle as described herein on a roadway while under the
influence is subject to ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 11-500 through 11-502;
      (13)   Golf carts and utility-terrain vehicle shall not be operated on
sidewalks or in village parks other than parking areas;
      (14)   Golf carts may not be operated on streets and highways and roads
under the jurisdiction of the Illinois Department of Transportation.
   (D)   Permits.
      (1)   No person shall operate a qualified golf cart or utility-terrain
vehicle without first obtaining a permit from the village as provided herein.
Permits shall be granted for a period of one year and renewed annually. The
cost of the permit is $50. Insurance coverage to be verified when obtaining or
renewing a permit.
      (2)   Every application for a permit shall be on a form supplied by the
village and shall contain the following:
         (a)   Name and address of applicant;
         (b)   Name and address of liability insurance carrier;
         (c)   Serial number, make, model and description of golf cart or
utility-terrain vehicle;
         (d)   Signed waiver of liability by applicant releasing the village
and agreeing to indemnify and hold the village harmless from any and all future
claims resulting from the operation of their golf cart or utility-terrain
vehicle on the village streets;
         (e)   Photocopy of applicable liability insurance coverage card
specifically for the vehicle to be operated pursuant to the permit; and
         (f)   Other information as the village may require.
      (3)   No permit shall be granted unless the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The vehicle must be inspected by the village designee to ensure
that the vehicle is safe to operate on village streets and is in compliance
with this section and with the State of Illinois Motor Vehicle Code.
         (b)   A physically handicapped applicant must submit a certificate
signed by a physician certifying the applicant is competent to safely operate a
qualified golf cart or utility-terrain vehicle on village streets.
         (c)   The applicant must provide evidence of insurance in compliance
with the provision of Illinois statutes regarding minimum liability insurance
for passenger motor vehicle to operate on the roads of the State of Illinois.
      (4)   The village may suspend or revoke a permit granted hereunder upon
finding the holder has violated any provisions of this section or there is
evidence the holder cannot safely operate a qualified golf cart or utility-
terrain vehicle on designated roadways.
(Ord. 2021-11-01C, passed 11-1-2021) Penalty, see §
70.99
ILLINOIS VEHICLE CODE REGULATIONS ADOPTED
§ 70.20 DEFINITIONS.
   The Illinois Vehicle Code, ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 1-1 et seq. entitled,
"Title and Definitions", except ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 1-100 and 1-300, as
passed, approved and amended from time to time by the Illinois General Assembly
is hereby adopted by the village, the provisions thereof shall be controlling
within the corporate limits of the village.
§ 70.21 VEHICLE REGISTRATION.
   The Illinois Vehicle Code, ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 3-100 et seq., entitled,
"Registration", as passed, approved and amended from time to time by the
Illinois General Assembly is hereby adopted by the village and the provisions
thereof shall be controlling within the corporate limits of the village.
§ 70.22 DRIVER LICENSING.
   The Illinois Vehicle Code, ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 6-100 et seq., entitled
"The Illinois Driver Licensing Law", as passed, approved and amended from time
to time by the Illinois General Assembly is hereby adopted by the village, and
the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the corporate limits of the
village.
§ 70.23 RULES OF THE ROAD.
   The Illinois Vehicle Code, ILCS Ch. 625, § 11, entitled "Rules of the Road",
as passed, approved and amended from time to time by the Illinois General
Assembly, is hereby adopted by the village and the provisions thereof shall be
controlling within the corporate limits of the village, except for the
following changes, deletions and omissions.
   (A)   Omissions.
      Omit ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 11-207, 11-208, 11-208.1, 11-208.2, 11-209,
11-211, 11-302, 11-303, 11-313, 11-401 to and including 11-416, 11-501(h), 11-
602, 11-603, 11-604, 11-606(b), 11-608.
   (B)   Changes and additions.
      Add to ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-601 the following: "(h)" the following
speed restrictions are hereby established for the streets as set out in
Chapter 73, Sch. II.
§ 70.24 VEHICLE EQUIPMENT.
   The Illinois Vehicle Code, ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 12-100 et seq., entitled,
"Equipment of Vehicles", as passed, approved and amended from time to time by
the Illinois General Assembly is hereby adopted by the village, and the
provisions thereof shall be controlling within the corporate limits of the
village.
§ 70.25 CHILD PASSENGER PROTECTION ACT.
   The Illinois Vehicle Code, ILCS Ch. 625, § 25, entitled "Child Passenger
Protection Act", as passed, approved and amended from time to time by the
Illinois General Assembly is hereby adopted by the village, and the provisions
thereof shall be controlling within the corporate limits of the village.
§ 70.26 FIRE SAFETY.
   ILCS Ch. 425, § 35, entitled "Fire Safety", as passed, approved and amended
from time to time by the Illinois General Assembly is hereby adopted by the
village, and the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the corporate
limits of the village.
§ 70.27 ROADS AND BRIDGES.
   ILCS Ch. 605, § 5, entitled "Roads and Bridges", as passed, approved and
amended from time to time by the Illinois General Assembly is hereby adopted by
the village, and the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the
corporate limits of the village.
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person accused of a violation of an ordinance prohibiting
parking a vehicle in a designated area, or restricting the length of time a
vehicle may be parked there, may settle and compromise the claim against him or
her for the illegal parking by paying to the village: a fine in accordance with
Chapter 34 for each such offense. The payment may be made at or mailed to the
village staff to be credited to the municipal treasury.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) above shall not apply to persons parking a vehicle
in a fire lane, to persons parking a vehicle so as to obstruct the entrance or
exit of any place where Police or Fire Department apparatus or other emergency
equipment is kept or housed, or so as to block an emergency entrance in a
hospital. Nor shall division (B)(1) above apply to any person charged with
parking a vehicle so as to entirely obstruct traffic in any street or alley, or
parking in such a way as to reduce traffic on an arterial street to a one-way
traffic only, nor to any person who refuses to move a vehicle illegally parked
at the request of any member of the Police Department.
      (3)   In addition to the authority granted by state statutes and
elsewhere in this code to tow, remove and store vehicles, any police officer of
the village is hereby authorized to remove or cause to be removed to a place of
safety, any vehicle found parked in a designated fire lane. The costs of the
removal, and reasonable storage costs if the vehicle is not removed by the
owner thereof on the same day that the vehicle is removed from the fire lane,
shall be at the expense of the owner of the vehicle.
   (C)   The penalty for violating §
70.05 shall be in accordance with
Chapter 34 per violation and, if it becomes necessary for the police to have a
vehicle removed and relocated, the violator shall not be deemed to comply with
§
70.05 and shall remain liable for the fine provided, plus all costs resulting
from the removal, relocation and storage of the vehicle.
CHAPTER 71: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
71.01   Definitions
   
71.02   Violations
   
71.03   Temporary possession
   
71.04   On through streets
   
71.05   Towing
   
71.06   Identifying owner
   
71.07   Unable to identify owners
   
71.08   Notifying owner
   
71.09   Unclaimed vehicles; disposal; proceeds
   
71.10   Claimed vehicle; records
   
71.11   Liability
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. All motor vehicles or other vehicles in a state of
disrepair rendering the vehicle incapable of being driven in its condition; or
any motor vehicle or other vehicle that has not been moved or used for seven
consecutive days or more and is apparently deserted.
   ANTIQUE VEHICLE or CLASSIC VEHICLE. Any vehicle or other vehicle 25 years of
age or older.
   HIGHWAY. Any street, alley or public way within the village.
§ 71.02 VIOLATIONS.
   The abandonment of a motor vehicle or other vehicle or part thereof on any
highway in the municipality is unlawful and subject to penalties as set forth
herein. The abandonment of a motor vehicle or other vehicles or any part
thereof on private or public property, other than a highway in view of the
general public, anywhere in the municipality is unlawful except on property of
the owner or bailee of the abandoned vehicle. A motor vehicle or other vehicle
or any part thereof so abandoned on private property may be authorized for
removal by or upon the order of the Police Department of the municipality after
a waiting period of seven days has expired.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 TEMPORARY POSSESSION.
   When an abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or other vehicle
comes into the temporary possession or custody of a person in the state, not
the owner of the vehicle, the person shall immediately notify the Police
Department when the vehicle is within the corporate limits of the municipality.
Upon receipt of the notification, the Police Department shall authorize a
towing service to remove and take possession of the abandoned, lost, stolen or
unclaimed motor vehicle or other vehicle. The towing service will safely keep
the towed vehicle and its contents, maintain a record of the tow until the
vehicle is claimed by the owner or any other person legally entitled to
possession thereof or until it is disposed of as provided in this chapter.
§ 71.04 ON THROUGH STREETS.
   (A)   When a motor vehicle or other vehicle is abandoned on a highway in the
municipality ten hours or more, its removal by a towing service may be
authorized by order of the Police Department of the municipality.
   (B)   When an abandoned, unattended, wrecked, burned or partially dismantled
motor vehicle or other vehicle is creating a traffic hazard because of its
position in relation to the highway or its physical appearance is causing the
impediment of traffic, its immediate removal from the highway by a towing
service may be authorized by order of the Police Department of the
municipality.
   (C)   When a vehicle removed from either public or private property is
authorized by order of the Police Department of the municipality, the owner of
the vehicle will be responsible for all towing costs.
§ 71.05 TOWING.
   When a motor vehicle or other vehicle is authorized to be towed away, the
Police Department shall keep and maintain a record of the vehicle towed,
listing by color, year of manufacture, manufacturer's trade name,
manufacturer's series name, body style, vehicle identification number and
license plate year and number displayed on the vehicle. The record shall also
include the date and hour of tow, location towed from, location towed to,
reason for towing and the name of the officer authorizing the tow.
§ 71.06 IDENTIFYING OWNER.
   When the municipal Police Department does not know the identity of the
registered owner or other legally entitled person, it will cause the motor
vehicle registration records of the state to be searched by a directed
communication to the Secretary of State for the purpose of obtaining the
required ownership information. The Police Department will cause the stolen
motor vehicle files of the state police to be searched by a directed
communication to the state police for stolen or wanted information of the
vehicle. When the state police files are searched with negative results, the
information contained in the National Crime Information Center (NCIC) files
will be searched by the state police. The information determined from these
record searches will be used by the Police Department in sending a notification
by certified mail to the owner or legally entitled person advising where the
vehicle is held, requesting a disposition be made and setting forth public sale
information.
§ 71.07 UNABLE TO IDENTIFY OWNERS.
   When the registered owner or other person legally entitled to the possession
of a motor vehicle or other vehicle cannot be identified from the registration
files of the state or from the registration files of a foreign state, if
applicable, the Police Department shall notify the state police for the purpose
of identifying the vehicle's owner or other person legally entitled to the
possession of the vehicle. The information obtained by the state police will be
immediately forwarded to the law enforcement agency having custody of the
vehicle for notification of owner.
§ 71.08 NOTIFYING OWNER.
   Any time before a motor vehicle or other vehicle is sold at public sale or
disposed of as provided herein, the owner or other person legally entitled to
its possession may reclaim the vehicle by presenting to the Police Department
proof of ownership or proof of the right to possession of the vehicle. No
vehicle shall be released to the owner or other person under this section until
all towing and storage charges have been paid.
§ 71.09 UNCLAIMED VEHICLES; DISPOSAL; PROCEEDS.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever an abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle
or other vehicle, seven years of age or newer, remains unclaimed by the
registered owner or other person legally entitled to its possession for a
period of 30 days after notice has been given as provided herein, the Police
Department having possession of the vehicle shall cause it to be sold at public
sale to the highest bidder. Notice of the time and place of the sale shall be
posted in a conspicuous place for at least ten days prior to the sale on the
premises where the vehicle has been impounded. At least ten days prior to the
sale, the Police Department shall cause a notice of the time and place to be
sent by certified mail to the registered owner or other person known by the
Police Department or towing service to be legally entitled to the possession of
the vehicle. The notice shall contain a complete description of the vehicle to
be sold and what steps must be taken by a legally entitled person to reclaim
the vehicle.
      (2)   In those instances where the certified notification specified
herein has been returned by the postal authorities to the Police Department due
to the addressee having moved, or being unknown at the address obtained from
the registration records of the state, the sending of a second certified notice
will not be required.
   (B)   When the identity of the registered owner or other person legally
entitled to the possession of an abandoned, lost or unclaimed vehicle of seven
years of age or newer cannot be determined by any means provided for in this
chapter, the vehicle may be sold as provided herein or disposed in the manner
authorized by the chapter without notice to the registered owner or other
person legally entitled to the possession of the vehicle. When an abandoned
vehicle of more than seven years of age is impounded as specified by this
chapter, it will be kept in custody for a minimum of ten days for the purpose
of determining ownership, the contacting of the registered owner by the U.S.
mail, public service or in person for a determination of disposition; and an
examination of the state police stolen motor vehicle files for theft and wanted
information. At the expiration of the ten-day period, without the benefit of
disposition information being received from the registered owner, the Chief of
Police will authorize the disposal of the vehicle as junk only. A motor vehicle
or other vehicle classified as an antique or classic vehicle is excluded from
this chapter.
   (C)   When a vehicle located within the corporate limits of the municipality
is authorized to be towed away by the Chief of Police and disposed of as set
forth in this chapter, the proceeds of the public sale or disposition after the
deduction of towing, storage and processing charges shall be deposited in the
municipal treasury.
§ 71.10 CLAIMED VEHICLE; RECORDS.
   When a motor vehicle or other vehicle in the custody of the Police
Department is reclaimed by the registered owner or other legally entitled
person, or when the vehicle is sold at public sale or otherwise disposed of as
provided in this chapter, a report of the transaction will be maintained by the
Police Department for a period of one year from the date of the sale or
disposal.
§ 71.11 LIABILITY.
   Any police officer, towing service owner, operator or employee shall not be
held to answer or be liable for damages in any action brought by the registered
owner, former registered owner, or his or her legal representative, or any
other person legally entitled to the possession of a motor vehicle or other
vehicle when the vehicle was processed and sold or disposed of as provided by
this chapter.
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of
a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined an amount in
accordance with
Chapter 34. Each day the violation is committed or permitted to continue shall
constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable hereafter as such.
CHAPTER 72: BICYCLES
Section
   
72.01   Traffic laws
   
72.02   Riding on bicycles
   
72.03   Riding on roadways and bicycle paths
   
72.04   Riding on sidewalks
   
72.05   Equipment
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Traffic Schedules, see
Chapter 73
§ 72.01 TRAFFIC LAWS.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all the rights
and shall be subjected to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by this title, except as to special regulations set forth in this title
and except as to those provisions of traffic ordinances which, by their nature,
can have no application.
§ 72.02 RIDING ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a
permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons than for which it is
designed and equipped.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 RIDING ON ROADWAYS AND BICYCLE PATHS.
   (A)   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to
the right side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when passing
a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (B)   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two
abreast.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk within the business
district.
   (B)   The sidewalks bordering Main and Cross Streets are herewith designated
as bicycle paths.
   (C)   Whenever a person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk, the person
shall yield right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall give audible signals
before overtaking and passing the pedestrian.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Every bicycle when operated at nighttime shall be equipped with a lamp
in the front which shall emit a white light visible for a distance of 500 feet
and shall have a red reflector on the rear which shall be visible for a
distance of not less than 50 feet.
   (B)   No person shall operate a bicycle unless it is equipped with a bell or
other device capable of giving an audible signal for a distance of 100 feet,
except that a bicycle shall not be equipped with siren or whistle.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of this chapter shall be punishable by impounding of the
violator's bicycle for such period as is determined by the Police Department of
the municipality, the impounding not to exceed 30 days.
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Stop and yield signs
   
II.   Speed limits
   
III.   School zone
   
IV.   Through traffic
SCHEDULE I. STOP AND YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   Stop signs on.
Acorn Lake Drive @ Lebanon Avenue
Anderson Lane (South) @ "B" Street
Anderson Lane @ Lebanon Avenue
Antiquity Drive (East & West) @ Winthrop Drive
Antiquity Drive @ Anderson Lane
Archview Drive @ Lebanon Avenue
"B" Street @ Green Mount Road
Barton Drive @ Edbrooke
Barton Drive @ Golden Spring Parkway
Birmingham Drive @ Cromwell Lane
Birmingham Drive @ Haverford Drive
Bobbie Drive @ Maple Street
Bridgewater @ Green Mount Road
Calista Ridge @ Magena Court
Calista Ridge @ Middlebury Way (all locations)
Calista Ridge Drive @ Golden Spring Parkway
Cedarwood Trail @ Thouvenot Lane
Cheyenne Wells and Hawkridge
Chippewa Drive @ Golden Spring Parkway
Christine Drive @ Lebanon Avenue
Church Street @ Main Street
Corliss Court @ Westinghouse Drive
Country Road @ Hartman Lane
Country View Drive @ Hartman Lane
Cross Street @ Main Street
Crosswinds Lane @ "B" Street
Deer Spring Trail @ Hartman Lane
Diamond Court @ Seibert Road
Dunbar Court @ Westinghouse Drive (all locations)
Eagle Drive @ Lebanon Avenue
East Street @ Second Street (South)
Edbrooke Drive @ Harbor Way
First Street (South) @ East Street
First Street (South) @ Shiloh Station Road
Fortune Boulevard @ Green Mount Crossing Drive
Fox Glenn Lane @ Millbrook Drive
Fox Glenn Lane @ Stonebridge Drive and Stonebridge Court
Glenn Addle Boulevard @ Lebanon Avenue
Golden Spring Parkway @ Barton Drive
Harbor Way @ Archview Drive
Hartfield Lane @ Green Mount Road
Haverford Drive @ Cromwell Lane
Haverford Drive @ Preswyck Drive
Hawkridge Run @Greystone Estates Parkway
High Street (north and south) @ Cross Street
High Street @ Church Street
Hunters Way @ Green Mount Road
Innsbruck Lane @ Lebanon Avenue
Innsbruck Lane @ Rolling Meadows Drive
Johnson Road (East) @ Seibert Road
Johnson Road @ Shiloh Station Road
Juanita Circle @ Shiloh Station Road
Julie Street (East) @ Main Street
Kathy Drive @ Seibert Road
Kingsley Drive @ Hartman Lane
Kinney Drive @ Country Meadows Lane
Knightsbridge Crossing @ Greystone Estates Parkway
Lake Lucerne Drive @ Green Mount Road
Linden Drive @ Lebanon Avenue
Linwood Drive @ Innsbruck Lane
Linwood Drive (East & West) @ Linden Drive
Lowell Court @ Main Street
Lucia Lane @ Main Street
Main Street @ Cross Street
Maple Street @ Main Street
Meadowbruck Lane @ Innsbruck Lane
Meadowview Drive at Westinghouse Drive
Middlebury Way @ Caton Run Crossing
Monarch Lake Lane at Westinghouse Drive
Old O'Fallon Township Line Road @ Cross Street (All locations)
Park Drive @ Seibert Road
Piper Hills Drive @ Green Mount Road
Prairie View Drive @ Hartman Lane
Ramona Drive @ Lebanon Avenue
Rasp Street @ First Street (South)
Rasp Street @ Second Street (South)
Raven Oaks Drive @ Hartman Lane
Richland Prairie Boulevard @ Hartman Lane
Richland Prairie Boulevard @ St. John Drive
Rogue River @ Golden Spring Parkway
Sandpiper Drive @ Hartman Lane
Sarpy Road @ Country Meadow Lane
Second Street (South) @ Shiloh Station Road
Seibert Road @ Main Street
Shiloh Heights Drive @ Maple Street
Shiloh Ridge @ Ganim
Shiloh Station Road @ Main Street
Shiloh Station West @ Green Mount Road
Simeon Drive @ Greystone Estates Parkway
Simeon Drive @ Westinghouse Drive
Sir Lawrence Drive @ Lebanon Avenue
Sky Hawk Drive @ Montrose Court
South Ridge Drive @ Seibert Road
St. Andrews Drive @ Tamarack Lane
St. John Drive @ Lebanon Avenue
Stonewall Lane @ Shiloh Station Road
Tamarack Lane @ Cross Street
Timberline @ Shiloh Station Road
Twin Oaks Drive @ Lebanon Avenue
Vintage Forest Drive @ Sir Lawrence Drive
Welsch Drive @ Berwick Crossing
West Waters Edge Drive @ Hartman Lane
Westplank Drive @ Hartman Lane
Williamsburg Drive @ "B" Street
Willoughby Circle (smith intersection) @ Woods Edge Drive
Willoughby Circle (north intersection) @ Woods Edge Drive
Wilson Creek @ Ganim
Wilson Creek @ Shiloh Ridge
Woods Edge Drive @ Vintage Forest Drive
Yorkshire Lane @ Anderson Lane
 
   (B)   Yield signs on.
Biscayne Drive @ West Waters Edge Drive
Crown Pointe @ West Waters Edge Drive
Diamond Court @ Park Drive
East Ridge Drive @ Hunters Way
East Waters Edge Drive @ West Waters Edge Drive
Fairway Drive @ St. Andrews Drive
Green Ash @ Cedarwood Trail
Ironwood @ Cedarwood Trail
Johnson Road (North) @ Seibert Road
Langford Lane @ Caton Run Crossing
Madero Drive @ San Mateo Drive
Mahogany @ Cedarwood Trail
Raintree Drive @ Sandpiper Drive
Raintree Drive @ West Waters Edge Drive
Sandpiper Drive @ East Waters Edge Drive
Sequoia @ Cedarwood Trail (north)
Sequoia @ Cedarwood Trail (south)
Shiloh Heights Drive (southwest corner of 122 Shiloh Heights Road to direct the
west bound traffic to yield to the north/south bound)
Tanglebrook Drive @ Hunter's Way
Waterford Drive @ West Waters Edge Drive
Waterford Drive @ Sandpiper Drive
Williamsburg Drive @ Antiquity Lane
Winthrop Drive @ Williamsburg Drive
Winthrop Drive @ Chippendale Drive (north side)
 
(Am. Ord. 2013-06-03D, passed 6-3-2013; Am. Ord. 2019-08-05D, passed 8-5-2019;
Am. Ord. 2019-11-04E, passed 11-4-2019; Am. Ord. 2020-08-03C, passed 11-4-2019;
Am. Ord. 2020-02-03A, passed 11-4-2019; Am. Ord. 2021-04-05E, passed 4-5-2021;
Am. Ord. 2021-05-03D, passed 5-3-2021; Am. Ord. 2021-08-02C, passed 8-2-2021;
Am. Ord. 2021-11-01B, passed 11-1-2021; Am. Ord. 2022- 07-05D, passed 7-5-2022;
Am. Ord. 2022-08-01D, passed 8-1-2022; Am. Ord. 2024-06-03E, passed 6-3-2024)
SCHEDULE II. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   Twenty-five mph speed limit unless otherwise posted.
   (B)   Twenty mph speed limit signs on.
Church Street
East Street
First (S.)
Juanita Circle
Julie Street (Main to Park)
Kathy Drive
Kay Street
Linwood Drive
Lowell Court
Lucia Lane
Oak Street
Rasp Street
Second (S.) Street
Shiloh Heights Drive
Street High Street
 
   (C)   Thirty mph speed limit signs on.
 
Main Street from Cross Street to Shiloh Station Road
Shiloh Station Road (East and West)
Shiloh Station Road: From the south right-of-way of Johnson Road to 100 feet
south of Stonewall Lane
Thouvenot Lane
 
   (D)   Thirty-five mph speed limit signs on.
 
B Street Road
 
   (E)   Forty mph speed limit signs on.
 
Shiloh Station Road: From 100 feet south of Stonewall to the southerly village
limits
 
SCHEDULE III. SCHOOL ZONE.
 
One way street - Diamond Court, except for the new extension, counterclockwise
direction
One way street - during the school hours from 7:00 a.m until 4:00 p.m. daily
Monday through Friday, commencing at the intersection of First South Street and
East Street (northbound) to Kay Street. From the intersection of East Street
and Kay Street (westbound) to intersection of Kay Street and Rasp Street. Then,
south to intersection of First South Street and Rasp Street
All lanes on Country Road from Hartman Lane to the edge of the private drive/
parking lot at 2400 Country Road
All lanes on Main Street (Lebanon Avenue) from Shiloh Station Road to Seibert
Road
All lanes on Lebanon Avenue one tenth of a mile east and west of the
intersection of Sierra Drive and Warrior Way
 
SCHEDULE IV. THROUGH TRAFFIC.
 
No through traffic to circumvent traffic, on Oak Street from Cross Street to
Church Street; on High Street from Cross Street to Church Street; or vice versa
There shall be no through traffic on Diamond Court during activities on the
ball diamond or other park related activities which would require Diamond
Court, in the discretion of the Chief of Police, to be barricaded for
pedestrian safety. Only approved traffic barricades shall be used
 
CHAPTER 74: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Restricted parking
   
II.   Americans with Disabilities Act parking
SCHEDULE I. RESTRICTED PARKING.
No parking on Diamond Court, either side, from 90 feet westerly of the
southwesterly concrete pavement corner of Diamond Court to 188 feet westerly of
the concrete pavement corner
No parking in front of driveways or mailboxes; parking is prohibited in front
of all public and private driveways or mailboxes
No parking - northwest side of South Main Street from West Julie Street to 35
feet northeast, for bus stop
No parking between signs, driveways at 325 South Main Street
No parking at any time on Main Street from Maple to Seibert
No parking on the south westerly side of Main Street from Eden Park Boulevard
to Seibert Road
No parking on the north easterly side of Main Street at the following
locations: from Eden Park Boulevard to 40.26 feet northeasterly of the
centerline of Julie Street, from 140.62 feet northeasterly of the centerline of
Julie Street to 251.55 feet northeasterly of the centerline of Julie Street and
from 371.55 feet north easterly of the centerline of Julie Street to Seibert
Road
No parking here to corner - Kathy Drive from Seibert Road to 110 feet northeast
of Seibert Road
No parking, either side, of the entrance drive from Seibert Road to the
maintenance building addressed as 142 Seibert Road
No parking between signs - SEB Lucia Lane from northwest corner of lot 108-110
Lucia Lane to 420 feet southeast
No parking - Lowell Court from Main to 30 feet east of Main
No parking at any time on either side on Kay Street
No parking - east side of East Street
No parking on either side - Shiloh Station Road
No parking - IL Route 158 (Both sides of all the portions within the village
limits between the south village limits and the most northerly village limits)
No parking - Maple Street west and Wherry Road (Both sides from 300 feet west
to 350 feet east of the centerline of IL Route 158)
No parking at any time on Julie Street (East) from the fire hydrant, center of
the cul-de-sac, to the end of the curb and gutter on the northerly side of
Julie Street (East)
No parking at any time on both sides of Deer Springs Trail from Hartman Lane to
Pheasant Ridge Court
No parking at any time on both sides of Seibert Road
No parking at any time on both sides of Adeline Drive in front of 108 and 112
No parking at any time on Pleasant View Court from the NE corner of 47 to
southwest corner of 437
No parking at any time on the south side of Richland Prairie Drive
No parking at any time on the north side of Kinney Drive
No parking at any time on the east side of Biggs Drive
No parking at any time on the west and south sides of Baltes Drive
No parking at any time on the north side of Sarpy Road
No parking at any time on both sides of Sierra Drive from 2603 to 2632 Sierra
Drive
No parking at any time on both sides of Yorkshire Drive
No parking at any time on the north side of Country Road at 2365 Country Road
No parking at any time on the westerly side of the road at #9 Sierra Drive
No parking - northwest side of South Main Street from West Julie Street to 35
feet northwest.
 
(Am. Ord. 2017-06-05E, passed 6-5-2017; Am. Ord. 2019-11-04F, passed 11-4-2019)
SCHEDULE II. AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT PARKING.
 
13 feet by 20 feet non-van accessible, north-west side of South Main Street
starting 12 feet from Norther Driveway Entrance at 325 South Main Street
 
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.   NUISANCES; HEALTH AND SANITATION
         
91.   PARKS AND RECREATION
         
92.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
         
93.   ANIMALS
         
94.   CEMETERY
CHAPTER 90: NUISANCES; HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
   
90.01   Specific nuisances enumerated
   
90.02   Abatement; notice required
   
90.03   Special assessment
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 SPECIFIC NUISANCES ENUMERATED.
   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance and to be against the health, peace
and comfort of the village for any person, firm or corporation within the
limits of the village to permit the following, the enumeration of which shall
not be deemed to be exclusive:
   (A)   Filth. To cause or suffer the carcass of any animal or any rubbish,
garbage, filth or dangerous substance to be collected, deposited or to remain
in any place;
   (B)   Deposit of offensive materials. To throw or deposit any rubbish,
garbage or other offensive matter, or the carcass of any dead animal, in any
watercourse, lake, pond, spring well or common sewer, street or public highway;
   (C)   Corruption of water. To corrupt or render unwholesome or impure the
water of any spring, river, stream, pond or lake;
   (D)   Highway encroachment. To obstruct or encroach upon public highways,
private ways, streets, alleys, commons, landing places and ways to cemeteries;
   (E)   Unlawful advertising. To advertise wares or occupations by painting
notices of the same on, or affixing them to fences or other private property,
or on rocks or other natural objects without the consent of the owner or, if in
the highway or other public place, without permission of the proper
authorities;
   (F)   Filthy premises conditions. To keep or suffer to be in a foul,
offensive, nauseous or filthy condition, any chicken coop, barn, cellar, vault,
drain, sewer or sink upon any premises belonging to or occupied by him or her,
or any, dwelling, outbuilding, yard, pool, grounds and premises belonging to or
occupied by him or her;
   (G)   Accumulation of junk, trash and the like. To deposit or pile up any
rags, old rope, paper, iron, brass, copper, tin, aluminum, ashes, garbage,
refuse, plastic, brush, litter, weeds, slush, lead, glass bottles or broken
glass upon any lot, piece or parcel of land or upon any public or private
alley, street or public way within the village, or to place same so that it can
be blown about or scattered by the wind;
   (H)   Rodents. To cause or permit any condition or situation to exist that
shall attract, harbor or encourage the infestation of rodents;
   (I)   Sump pump discharge. To discharge any water or other fluids
originating from sumps, sump pits, sump pumps or other pumps, or any reservoir
serving as a water drain or receptacle for water, from pipes or other
structures onto any public sidewalk, street or street curb, street gutter or
storm sewer, causing runoff to be concentrated over and onto that public
sidewalk, street, street curb or street gutter whereby the water will stagnate,
freeze or cause slippery conditions on the sidewalk, street or street curb or
street gutter.
   (J)   To obstruct any watercourse, ravine or gutter so as to cause water to
stagnate therein, or permit foul or stagnate water to stand upon any premises;
      (1)   To allow any accumulation of stagnant water, permitted or
maintained, which is breeding mosquitoes, or is considered by the Village Board
to be mosquito breeding area, or is otherwise considered to be detrimental to
the health or safety of the public;
      (2)   To construct, maintain or allow to remain any structure, fence,
retaining wall, earth fill or install pipe on any easement without permission
from the village. In no case shall any item be so constructed, installed or
planted that will obstruct drainage, eliminate detention or reduce the water
carrying capacity of the easement (see also §
151.167 Fences, walls and natural barriers and §
151.293 Easements);
   (K)   To allow any area of private property to fall in disrepair, including,
but not limited to, yards, driveways, parking lots, curbs or borders, buildings
or structures, landscaping, trees and drainage areas where safety or
construction concerns are present.
   (L)   To permit the growth upon any premises of any noxious weed such as
jimsonweed, burdock, ragweed, thistles, cockleburs or any other collection of
weeds or natural grass to exceed a height of eight inches;
   (M)   To openly burn any debris or trash except for common yard waste (i.e.
leaves, tree/scrub limbs, grass and the like) and only the which is generated
on the property on which it is being intentionally burnt. It is further
unlawful to burn at any time any noxious or poison weeds, vegetation and/or
shrubs, such as, but not limited to, poison ivy, poison oaks, sumac or other
related vegetation that is determined to be noxious or poisonous and is a
threat to the well being and public health of the general community. Violations
are subject to immediate abatement and violators are required to pay all costs
associated with abatement of the violation(s).
      (1)   Burning will be permitted between the hours of 9:00 am and 4:00 pm
on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday between March 15 through June 1 and from
October 15 through December 15;
      (2)   Burning on any public or utility easement is prohibited;
      (3)   Burning that creates an excessive amount of smoke is prohibited;
and
      (4)   It shall be unlawful to burn or dispose of construction materials
on site.
   (N)   To conduct any building operations, refuse collection, deliveries and/
or trash pickups between the hours of 10:00 pm and 7:00 am; the use of which is
attended with loud or unusual noise audible to residents within the village.
   (O)   Environmental Protection Act, being ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5, § 55,
pertaining to the open dumping, abandoning, burning of or any unauthorized
disposing of any amount of nonconverted, nonaltered or nonconverted tires in
any public or private place, which includes any applicable sections or
subsections to this act regarding exemptions or definitions;
   (P)   To permit or maintain an unsightly yard or premises where there is an
accumulation or deposit of any operable or inoperable, unlicensed vehicle,
equipment, junk, wrecked or disabled automobiles, trucks, material of any
nature, waste or earth accumulation of vehicle parts in excess of seven days.
(Ord. 2022-11-07A, passed 11-7-2022) Penalty, see §
90.99
Cross-reference:
   Also, see §§
151.167 and
151.293
§ 90.02 ABATEMENT; NOTICE REQUIRED.
   (A)   General. Whenever the village staff finds that a nuisance or other
condition listed in this chapter exists, he or she shall cause to be served
upon the property owner or occupant a written notice to abate the nuisance
within five days after such notice has been duly served.
   (B)   Contents of notice to abate. The notice to abate shall contain:
      (1)   A description of what constitutes the nuisance or other condition;
      (2)   The location of the nuisance or condition;
      (3)   A notice that the nuisance must be abated within five days after
service of the notice; and
      (4)   A statement that if the nuisance or condition is not abated as
directed and no request for a hearing is made before expiration of the five
days after notice has been served on a person, the village will abate it and
assess the costs against the person.
   (C)   Abatement; hearing; appeal. Any person ordered to abate a nuisance or
condition may have a hearing with the officer ordering the abatement as to
whether a nuisance or prohibited condition exists. A request for a hearing must
be made in writing and delivered to village staff, #1 Park Drive, Shiloh,
Illinois, within the time stated in the notice or it will be conclusively
presumed that a nuisance or prohibited condition exists and it must be abated
as ordered.
(Ord. 2015-11-02A, passed 11-2-2015)
§ 90.03 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   In addition to any other method authorized by law, those costs may be
collected as a special assessment on the property pursuant to ILCS Ch. 65, Act
5, §§ 11-31.1-1 et seq., if:
      (1)   A property owner is cited with a code violation requiring the
cutting of grass and weeds, the removal of garbage and debris, the removal of
inoperable motor vehicles or rodent or vermin abatement;
      (2)   Noncompliance is found upon reinspection of the property after the
due date for compliance with an order to correct the code violation or with an
order for abatement;
      (3)   Costs for services rendered by the municipality to correct the code
violation remain unpaid at the point in time that they would become a debt due
and owing the municipality, as provided in Illinois Municipal Code Act 11,
Division 31.1; and
      (4)   A lien has been filed of record by the municipality in the office
of the Recorder of the county in which the property is located.
   (B)   Upon payment of the costs by the owner of record or persons interested
in the property, the lien shall be released by the municipality and the release
shall be filed of record in the same manner as the filing of notice of the
lien.
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   Any person found in violation shall be subject to penalties defined in §
10.99.
CHAPTER 91: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Park area goal
   
91.02   Funding
   
91.03   Prohibited acts
   
91.04   Group activities
   
91.05   Curfew
Three Springs Park
   
91.10   Fishing Regulations
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 PARK AREA GOAL.
   (A)   In order to enhance the quality of life of its residents and respond
to the survey of same on parks and recreational facilities, the village staff
hereby establishes as the village goal for park area, the statewide average of
8.25 acres per 1,000 residents.
   (B)   To achieve this goal, village staff shall endeavor to seek out
properties conducive to open space/park activities for acquisition and
development keeping in mind the future growth of the village.
   (C)   A playground and recreation system for the village is hereby created
and shall hereafter he maintained and operated as hereinafter set forth.
§ 91.02 FUNDING.
   Revenues generated from the gas/electricity utility tax are to be allocated
for street lights and acquisition or improvement of the park(s) by the village.
Cross-reference:
   Taxation; revenue, see
Chapter 33
§ 91.03 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   Damage to or destruction of village park property, grounds and
resources is prohibited.
   (B)   No person shall practice golf or hit any golf balls in any village
park.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry into or possess while in
the village park(s) any glass bottle or glass container.
   (D)   Cutting of trees or firewood, open fires or burning is prohibited in
the village park(s) except when permitted and where so designated by the
village.
   (E)   Hunting or trapping with bow and arrows, BB guns, pellet guns or
firearms is prohibited in the village park(s) except with special permission
from the village.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person to bring or have any animal in any
village park at any time except for as follows.
      (1)   Animals shall be allowed in the village park(s) for the purpose of
events authorized by the village.
      (2)   When accompanied by its master, a service animal for the physically
challenged shall be allowed in village park(s) subject to defecation control.
   (G)   Camping or overnight trailers is prohibited except with special
permission from the village.
   (H)   No person shall park or operate any motor vehicle in any place within
the village park(s) other than in those places designated by the village.
   (I)   No person shall travel on the streets within the village park(s) when
the streets are so posted and barricaded by the village.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.04 GROUP ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   The village has the final determination on any uses, activities or
programs. The village reserves the right to reject any requests for any
reasons.
   (B)   The village retains the right to ask for proof of insurance or other
security measures to protect the village from liability issues and other
matters that may affect the village.
§ 91.05 CURFEW.
   It shall be unlawful to be present in a park between dusk and dawn, unless
the person is attending a community function, approved special event, or
participating in an organized sport through the O’Fallon-Shiloh Sports Program.
(Ord. 2022-07-05C, passed 7-5-2022)
THREE SPRINGS PARK
§ 91.10 FISHING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Fishermen shall possess a valid Illinois fishing license.
   (B)   No boats/floats, wading, etc. are allowed. Fishing from the bank only.
   (C)   No waterfowl hunting allowed.
   (D)   No catching of turtles allowed.
   (E)   No ice fishing allowed.
   (F)   Only the use of two poles and line fishing is allowed. The use of trot
lines, jugs, etc. is prohibited.
   (G)   Largemouth bass shall be a minimum of 18 inches in length. The limit
is one fish per day per person.
   (H)   Bluegill and/or redear sunfish shall have no minimum length. The limit
is ten fish per day per person.
   (I)   Channel catfish shall have no minimum length. The limit is three fish
per day per person.
   (J)   Hours of fishing are the same hours as the Park is open for public
use.
   (K)   Aquatic plants shall not be removed.
   (L)   Fish from any outside location(s) shall not be released in the lake
(no outside fish shall be deposited in the lake).
   (M)   Motorized vehicles shall not be permitted to drive to or park by the
lake. Parking is only allowed in dedicated parking areas.
   (N)   Unused bait shall not be dumped into the lake.
   (O)    Violation of any of the above shall incur a fine as per
Chapter 34 of this code.
   (P)   This section will be enforced by Village of Shiloh Police and IDNR
Conservation Police.
(Ord. 2019-03-04A, passed 3-4-2019)
CHAPTER 92: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Street Excavations
   
92.01   Permit required
   
92.02   Certificate of insurance
   
92.03   Procedure
   
92.04   Satisfactory work guarantee
 
   
92.99   Penalty
STREET EXCAVATIONS
§ 92.01 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person, business utility or entity of any kind desiring to
excavate or work on village rights-of-way is hereby required to obtain a permit
from the village and comply with all the requirements contained herein. The
permit fee shall be set forth in
Chapter 34 of this Code.
   (B)   Each application shall be accompanied by a site sketch indicating lot
lines, easements, proposed layout, existing storm water management system,
dimensions of proposal, dimensions from lot lines, dimensions from existing
structures, dimensions from road centerline, proposed construction and proposed
temporary facilities that may be required.
§ 92.02 CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE.
   (A)   As a condition of being issued a permit a business shall post with
village staff a certificate of insurance indicating the business has obtained
insurance as required under Article 107.27 of the Illinois Department of
Transportation, Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction. The
certificate shall list the village, its elected officials and employees as
additional insured.
   (B)   Individuals shall post with village staff a certificate listing the
village, its elected officials and employees as additional insured on their
homeowner’s liability policy.
§ 92.03 PROCEDURE.
   It will be necessary to follow the procedures as outlined below and all
applicable Illinois Department of Transportation standards when opening,
backfilling and constructing on village rights-of-way. In case of conflict,
this notice shall take precedence. All article and section references are to
the Illinois Department of Transportation Standard Specifications for Road and
Bridge Construction, adopted 1-1-2012, herein referred to as IDOT standards.
   (A)   Compaction of backfill material. Each excavation in or on a public
street, driving surface or sidewalk shall be backfilled per Section 208 of the
IDOT Standards, except as modified herein:
      (1)   Article 208.02 “Materials” shall be changed to require the use of
coarse aggregate as specified in Section 1004 of the IDOT Standards, and that
the coarse aggregate gradation shall be CA6. Fine aggregate will not be
allowed.
      (2)   Trench backfill material shall be compacted in accordance with
Method 1, as specified in Article 542.04 of the IDOT Standards.
      (3)   Whenever the village staff have reasonable cause to believe that
backfilling for any excavation is not being done with acceptable materials or
is not being adequately compacted, village staff will require tests to
determine whether or not the backfill material/compaction technique meets the
minimum requirements prescribed. All expense for such tests shall be borne by
the permittee.
   (B)   Twelve-inch bench on all excavations in public streets, driving
surfaces and sidewalks required. A one-foot ledge of undisturbed earth on all
four sides of the excavation shall be left to support the pavement patch. The
one-foot distance shall be measured from the edge of the subgrade which is
disturbed by the vertical excavation.
   (C)   Patches in pavement.
      (1)   Existing un-reinforced pavement must be first scored with a saw to
a depth of three inches. All others to be determined by pavement type per
Article 442.01 class A, B or C.
      (2)   Patches in concrete pavements shall be placed equal to the
thickness of the adjacent pavement but in no case shall a concrete patch be
less than eight inches deep. Saw kerfs in concrete pavement to be filled and
sealed with either hot poured joint sealer or self leveling polyurethane
sealer, limestone color. Edges of all concrete pavement patches and any
construction joints within the patch shall be tooled or sawn to provide an
adequate reservoir for joint sealer. Joints to be sealed in the same manner as
saw kerfs. The patching technique is to be determined by existing pavement type
per Article 442.01 class A, B or C. All patch classes to be placed per § 442,
pavement patching.
      (3)   Where excavations are made in concrete pavements the pavement area
removed will also be controlled by the proximity of existing joints. If the
pavement area to be removed is one foot or less from a joint, the pavement
shall be removed to the existing joint. In no case, however, shall the one-foot
distance required by division (B) herein be disregarded. If, in the removal of
pavement, an expansion joint is damaged, or removed, it shall be replaced with
pre-molded asphaltic expansion joint one inch thick. Joints are to be sealed
per Article 420.12.
      (4)   Patches in oil and chip surface treatment shall be Class A-3 per §
403.
      (5)   Patches in areas previously overlain with asphalt or asphalt
streets shall be replaced as follows:
         (a)   Asphalt overlays shall have an asphalt surface equal to the
thickness of the existing blacktop surface placed on a concrete base course.
The concrete base course shall be the thickness of the original concrete, but
not less than eight inches. All asphalt work shall be per § 406.
         (b)   Asphalt streets shall match the existing, but in no case shall
asphalt thickness be less than six inches, with four inches being base course
and two inches surface course. The base course is to be per § 355 and the
surface course to be per § 406.
      (6)   Written notification shall be given to village staff 24 hours prior
to pouring or placing any permanent street patches.
      (7)   Temporary patches for the convenience of traffic movement must be
placed. They shall be made with a good quality of bituminous patching material
properly placed and thoroughly rolled, or tamped to optimum compaction. The
individual or company holding the excavation permit shall be responsible to
insure that the temporary patch is properly maintained. Temporary patching may
not be left in place longer than 60 days. After removal of temporary patch and
prior to placing permanent repair, rock subbase surface shall be compacted.
      (8)   Any striping that is removed with the patch shall be replaced in
kind. Pavement striping shall be per § 780.
   (D)   Sidewalk. Sidewalk shall be sawn full depth at nearest joint. Sidewalk
is to be constructed per § 424.
      (1)   Where sidewalks are perpendicular to curb, or parallel and
restricted on side opposite curb, a one-inch preformed expansion joint filler
shall be inserted by curb before sidewalk replacement. Otherwise a one-half-
inch expansion joint will be required between sidewalk and curb. Expansion
joint filler shall be equal to “Homex-Plus” with bond breaker.
      (2)   After removal of top filler, expansion joint shall be sealed with
polyurethane sealant, limestone color, equal to “Sonolastic” SL1 or SL2.
      (3)   Where street signs occur in sidewalk to be replaced, a four-inch
diameter plastic pipe shall be placed centered on sign, full depth of sidewalk.
Void around post shall be filled with cold patch and compacted.
   (E)   Curb or curb and gutter. Curbs to be cut full width a minimum depth of
four inches and carefully removed as to insure a vertical edge. Curb or curb
and gutter to be constructed per § 606.
      (1)   Where a patch occurs at a pavement expansion joint or no existing
expansion device is within 50 feet of the patch, a one-inch thick preformed
expansion joint filler, cut cross section of the curb or curb and gutter shall
be inserted and a one and one-fourth-inch diameter, 18-inch long, smooth coated
dowel bar, greased or fitted with end cap providing a minimum of one-inch
expansion be installed.
      (2)   Expansion fillers shall be equal to “Homex-Plus” with bond breaker.
      (3)   After removal of top filler strips, expansion joints shall be
sealed with polyurethane sealer, limestone color equal to “Sonolastic”.
      (4)   Saw kerfs resulting from cutting operation will be remedied as per
this section by sealing with approved sealer.
      (5)   Requirements of the Illinois Accessibility Code shall be adhered to
at all times. If a ramp is built on one corner another shall be built on
opposite corner. Ramps shall be constructed per IDOT Standard.
   (F)   Driveway. Driveways shall be the same as sidewalks except that the
driveway shall have #6 reinforcing mesh across the entire breadth and width at
driveway and the concrete shall be a minimum of six inches deep for residential
and eight inches deep for commercial.
   (G)   Traffic control.
      (1)   All excavation areas shall be properly barricaded and lighted for
the protection of the general public.
      (2)   The individual or company holding the excavation permit shall be
responsible to insure that traffic control is maintained per applicable IDOT
standards.
   (H)   Clean up. As the excavation work progresses, all streets, sidewalks
and yards shall be thoroughly cleaned of all rubbish, excess earth, rock and
other debris resulting from the work. All clean up operations at the location
of the excavation shall be accomplished at the expense of the permittee and
shall be completed to the satisfaction of the village staff. From time to time
as needed, and in any event immediately after completion of the work, the
permittee shall at his or her own expense clean up and remove all refuse and
unused materials of any kind resulting from the work. Failure to do so within
24 hours after having been notified by the village staff, will result in the
village staff having the work done and the cost thereof charged to the
permittee.
   (I)   Lawn restoration. At locations where it is necessary to excavate in
lawns that are in public right-of-way, the persons making the excavation will
complete the restoration in the following manner:
      (1)   Backfill. Excavation shall be backfilled within 12 inches of final
grade as per a compaction of backfill material. The final 12 inches shall be of
compacted top soil.
      (2)   Turf or grass areas. At the request of the village or adjacent
property owners, sod of the type and quality that existed prior to excavation
will be replaced in kind.
      (3)   Decorative rock and miscellaneous landscaping material. At the
request of the village and the adjacent property owners, decorative rock and
other landscaping material of the type and quality that existed prior to
excavation, will be replaced.
      (4)   Trees and shrubs.
         (a)   At the request of the village and the adjacent owners, trees and
shrubs of the type and quality that existed prior to excavation will be
replaced. Village staff shall make the final determination based on “clear
zones”, sewer locations and public safety.
         (b)   Village staff to determine acceptable types.
§ 92.04 SATISFACTORY WORK GUARANTEE.
   (A)   The permit holder shall guarantee the satisfactory condition of the
work on the rights-of-way for a period of two years from the date of the
village’s written inspection report indicating the work appears to be per code.
   (B)   If, at any time during the two-year period, the work on the right of
way is found to be defective, it shall be repaired/replaced at the permit
holder’s expense.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
34.01.
   (B)   Should the permit holder fail or refuse to effect the repairs/
replacement, as set out in §
92.04, within 60 days after demand is made by the village the permit holder
shall be fined in accordance with
Chapter 34, plus costs, as well as the cost of repairs/replacement. Each day
that the repairs/replacement are not complete shall be considered a separate
offense.
CHAPTER 93: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Injury to property
   
93.03   Manner of keeping
   
93.04   Dogs and cats in public places
   
93.05   Barking dogs and crying cats
   
93.06   Cruelty to animals prohibited
   
93.07   Keeping wild and vicious animals
   
93.08   Animals in village generally
   
93.09   Limitation on number of dogs and cats kept
   
93.10   Regulations as to chickens
Domestic Animals
   
93.20   Definitions
   
93.21   Certificate required
   
93.22   Restraint required
   
93.23   Impoundment of dogs, citation of owner or keeper
   
93.24   Notice of impoundment and citation of owner or keeper
   
93.25   Impoundment of biting animal
   
93.26   Impoundment generally
   
93.27   Designation of village pound
   
93.28   Disposition of dogs deemed nuisances
   
93.29   Dangerous dogs at large
   
93.30   Female dogs with other dogs
   
93.31   Vicious dogs prohibited
   
93.32   Liability for unregistered animals on premises
   
93.33   Registration plate removal unlawful
 
   
93.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Accessory uses (including pets, wild animals, horses), see § 153.039
   Kennels, see §
151.172
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AT LARGE. Any dog shall be deemed to be AT LARGE when it is off the property
of his or her owner and not under the control of a responsible person.
   CAT. Any feline, regardless of age or sex.
   DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE. The Department of Agriculture of the state.
   DOG. Any canine, female as well as male dog, regardless of age.
   FOWL. Chickens.
   INOCULATION AGAINST RABIES. The injection, subcutaneously or otherwise, as
approved by the Department of Agriculture of the state of canine anti-rabies
vaccine, approved by the Department of Agriculture.
   OWNER. A person having a right of property in an animal or who keeps or
harbors an animal, who has an animal in his or her care, who acts as its
custodian or who knowingly permits an animal to remain on or about any premises
occupied by him or her.
   POULTRY YARD. Every enclosure, shed or structure used to house two or more
live fowl.
   RESTRAINT. Controlled by a leash; at “heel” beside a responsible person;
within a vehicle being driven or parked on the streets; or within the property
limits of his or her owner or keeper.
   SHADE. Protection from the direct rays of the sun.
   SHELTER.
      (1)   A moisture-proof structure of suitable size to accommodate the dog
and allow retention of body heat, made of durable material with a solid floor
raised at least two inches from the ground and with the entrance covered by a
flexible, wind-proof material.
      (2)   The structure shall be provided with a sufficient quantity of
suitable bedding to provide insulation and protection against cold and
dampness.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal which has previously attacked or bitten any
person or which has behaved in a manner that the person who harbors the animal
knows or should reasonably know that the animal is possessed of tendencies to
attack or bite persons.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any live monkey or ape, raccoon, skunk, fox, snake or other
reptile, leopard, panther, tiger, lion, lynx or any other animal or any bird of
prey which can normally be found in the wild state.
(Am. Ord. 2017-06-05C, passed 6-5-17)
§ 93.02 INJURY TO PROPERTY.
   (A) It shall be unlawful for any person owning or possessing a dog or cat to
permit the dog or cat to go upon any sidewalk, parkway or private lands or
premises without the permission of the owner of such premises and break,
bruise, tear up, crush or injure any lawn, flower bed, plant, shrub, tree or
garden in any manner whatsoever or to defecate thereon.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or permit a dog or
cat to be on property, public or private, not owned or possessed by the person
unless the person has, in his or her immediate possession, an appropriate
device for scooping excrement and an appropriate depository for the
transmission of excrement to a receptacle located upon property owned or
possessed by the person. Further for any person in control of a dog or cat to
fail to remove excrement left by the animal on property, public or private, not
owned or possessed by the person.
      (2)   This section shall not apply to a person who is visually or
physically handicapped.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 MANNER OF KEEPING.
   (A)   All pens, yards, runs or other structures wherein any animal is kept
shall be of a construction so as to be easily cleaned and kept in good repair.
   (B)   Fences which are intended as enclosures for any animal shall be
securely constructed, shall be adequate for the purpose, kept in good repair
and shall not be allowed to become unsightly.
§ 93.04 DOGS AND CATS IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   No dog or cat shall be permitted in any cemetery or shall be allowed in any
parks, swimming areas or beaches open to the public in the village unless
otherwise posted by the village.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 BARKING DOGS AND CRYING CATS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly keep or harbor any
dog which habitually barks, howls or yelps, or any cat which habitually cries
or howls to the great discomfort of the peace and quiet of the neighborhood, or
in a manner as to materially disturb or annoy persons in the neighborhood who
are of ordinary sensibilities. The dogs and cats are hereby declared to be a
public nuisance.
   (B)   Whenever any person shall complain to the Police Department that a dog
which habitually barks, howls or yelps or a cat which habitually cries or howls
is being kept by any person in the village, the Police Department shall notify
the owner of the dog or cat that a complaint has been received and that the
person should take whatever steps are necessary to alleviate the howling,
yelping or crying.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      HABITUALLY. Longer than 20 minutes.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or maliciously
inflict unnecessary or needless cruelty, torture, abuse or cruelly beat, strike
or abuse any animal, or by an act, omission or neglect, cause or inflict any
unnecessary or unjustifiable pain, suffering, injury or death to any animal,
whether the animal belongs to the person or to another, except that reasonable
force may be employed to drive away vicious or trespassing animals.
      (2)   Any unwanted animals should be delivered an animal shelter or to
the County Animal Control Facility for proper disposal.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use poison of any kind in
order to destroy and domestic animal.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person in charge of any animal to
fail, refuse or neglect to
provide the animal with food, potable water, shade or shelter, or to cruelly or
unnecessarily expose any animal in hot, stormy, cold or inclement weather, or
to carry any animal in or upon any vehicle in a cruel or inhumane manner.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.07 KEEPING WILD OR VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or permit to be kept on
his or her premises any wild or vicious animal, as described in this chapter,
for display or for exhibition purposes, whether gratuitously or for a fee. This
section shall not be construed to apply to zoological parks, performing animal
exhibitions or circuses.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or permit to be kept any
wild animal as a pet unless a permit is granted by the Illinois Department of
Natural Resources and a copy of which is on file with the Village Police
Department.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to harbor or keep a vicious animal
within the village. Any animal which is found off the premises of its owner may
be seized by any police officer or humane officer and upon establishment to the
satisfaction of any court of competent jurisdiction of the vicious character of
the animal, it may be killed by a police officer or humane officer; provided,
however, that this section shall not apply to animals under the control of a
law enforcement or military agency, nor to animals which are kept for the
protection of property, provided that the animals are restrained by a leash or
chain, cage, fence or other adequate means from contact with the general public
or with persons who enter the premises with the actual or implied permission of
the owner or occupant.
   (D)   The licensing authority may issue a temporary permit for the keeping,
care and protection of any infant animal native to this area which has been
deemed to be homeless.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.08 ANIMALS IN VILLAGE GENERALLY.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no person shall keep
within the village, any cattle, cows, ducks, geese, turkeys, guinea, horses,
sheep, swine or other livestock.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to areas of the village that are zoned
non-urban and country estates as permitted by the Development Code
Chapter 151, nor shall this chapter apply to livestock brought into the village
for the purpose of being shipped out of the village.
   (C)   The Mayor, or his or her designee, shall have the power to issue an
order prohibiting the keeping of any animal, fowl or bird which is deemed to
pose a health hazard to the general public.
   (D)   Except during an authorized public function, it is hereby declared to
be unlawful for any person to allow any horse or pony to walk, graze, roam free
or be ridden upon any public park, playground, cemetery or sidewalk; including
all roadways, except rights-of-way; or upon private property without the
owner’s consent in the appropriately zoned areas, in the village.
   (E)   It is the responsibility of the animal owner to maintain control of
their animal at all times, whether on or off of the owner’s property.
(Am. Ord. 2017-06-05C, passed 6-5-2017) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.09 LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF DOGS AND CATS KEPT.
   (A)   The keeping of an unlimited number of dogs and cats in the village for
a considerable period of time detracts from, and in many instances, is
detrimental to the healthful and comfortable life for which the areas were
created. The keeping of an unlimited number of dogs and cats is, therefore,
declared to be a public nuisance. The terms DOG and CAT shall be construed as
provided in §
93.01.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to keep more than
three dogs and/or three cats within the village, with the exception that a
litter of pups, a litter of kittens or a portion of a litter may be kept for a
period of time not exceeding five months from birth. Further restrictions are
provided in §§
151.010 and
151.172.
      (2)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any establishment
wherein dogs or cats are kept for breeding, sale, sporting purposes or
boarding.
   (C)   In the areas where kennels are permitted, no kennel shall be located
closer than 200 feet to the boundary of the nearest adjacent residential lot.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.10 REGULATIONS AS TO CHICKENS.
   (A)   No person shall keep or harbor more than six chickens if the property
is less than one acre and no more than 12 chickens if the property is over one
acre;
   (B)   Chickens shall be kept in a covered outside enclosure coop;
   (C)   Chickens shall not be permitted to run at large within the village;
   (D)   Chickens may be allowed outside in a fenced rear yard area between the
hours of 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. under owners' supervision only;
   (E)   There shall be no slaughtering of any poultry;
   (F)   An outdoor shelter shall be located in the rear yard of a lot and not
closer than ten feet of each side yard lot line and no closer than ten feet
from any rear yard lot line;
   (G)   The interior of any shelter and the rear yard are to be maintained in
a sanitary condition;
   (H)   All coops shall be designed and constructed with adequate ventilation
that allows the coop to be cleaned easily;
   (I)   Maximum roof height shall not exceed four feet. Total square footage
of a coop not to exceed 20 square feet total;
   (J)   An applicant must reside in a single-family home;
   (K)   Any person found to be in violation of this ordinance shall be fined
per
Chapter 34, §
34.02.
   (L)   No person shall keep or harbor any rooster.
(Ord. 2017-06-05C, passed 6-5-2017)
DOMESTIC ANIMALS
§ 93.20 DEFINITIONS.
   The terms used in this subchapter shall comply with §
93.01 unless otherwise provided in this subchapter.
§ 93.21 CERTIFICATE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Anyone who has lived in the village for at least 30 days must register
cats and dogs older than four months with the St. Clair County animal control.
Current rabies inoculation is required for both dogs and cats.
   (B)   Anyone who has lived in the county for 30 days, who allowed their dog
or cat to be within the village, must register cats and dogs older than four
months with the county. Rabies inoculation also is required for both dogs and
cats.
   (C)   At any reasonable time, upon request of any member of the Police
Department or village employee, the owner or keeper of any dog or cat shall
exhibit his or her county certificate showing the inoculation against rabies of
any dog or cat owned or controlled by him or her.
§ 93.22 RESTRAINT REQUIRED.
   The owner or keeper of a dog shall keep the dog under restraint at all times
and shall not permit the dog to be at large or off the premises of the property
of the owner or keeper unless the dog is under complete control, as defined §
93.01.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.23 IMPOUNDMENT OF DOGS; CITATION OF OWNER OR KEEPER.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the employees and officers of the Police
Department or other village employee, as shall be designated for that purpose
by the Mayor to take up and impound in such place as may be designated and set
apart for that purpose, any dog found running at large or unlicensed in the
village, contrary to any of the provisions of this chapter or other regulations
of the village.
   (B)   When dogs are found running at large or unlicensed and their ownership
is known to the designated employees, the dogs may be impounded at the
discretion of the employees, but the employees may cite the owner of the dog to
answer charges of violation of this chapter.
   (C)   Any dog permitted to run at large within the village is hereby
declared to be a nuisance.
   (D)   Any impounded dog which shall not be redeemed within seven days may be
humanely destroyed or otherwise disposed of by St. Clair County Animal Control.
§ 93.24 NOTICE OF IMPOUNDMENT AND CITATION TO OWNER OR KEEPER.
   In case of impounding and where the owner or keeper of the dog is disclosed
by any tax or license tag worn by it or is otherwise known to the officers
impounding the same, the designated official shall make reasonable attempts to
contact the owner, informing him or her of the impounding of his or her dog and
may cite the owner or keeper of the dog to answer charges of violation of this
chapter.
§ 93.25 IMPOUNDMENT OF BITING ANIMAL.
   (A)   Any dog or cat not having a valid St. Clair County vaccination
certification or verifiable vaccination certificate from another jurisdiction,
which shall have bitten or otherwise injured any person so as to cause an
abrasion of the skin shall be immediately taken, impounded and kept separated
from other animals for 14 days. If, during that period, the animal develops
symptoms of illness, a veterinarian shall be called to diagnose its condition.
If the symptoms disclosed are such as to indicate the presence of rabies, the
dog shall be destroyed in a manner, however, as to preserve intact the head,
which shall thereupon be detached and immediately sent to the diagnostic
laboratory of the Department of Agriculture. In case the animal cannot be
safely taken up and impounded, it may be shot, care being taken to preserve the
head intact which shall thereupon be immediately detached and be delivered to
the diagnostic laboratory of the Department of Agriculture.
   (B)   If, at the expiration of the 14 days, no symptoms of rabies have
developed in the animal so impounded, the same may be redeemed by the owner
upon payment of the redemption fees and charges specified by this chapter;
provided, however, that in case any animal so impounded for biting a person
shall have previously bitten any person, the animal shall be humanely destroyed
by St. Clair County Animal Control. After having been notified that his or her
animal has bitten or otherwise injured any person, the owner or keeper thereof
shall not, under any circumstances, permit the animal to be at large unless
securely muzzled.
§ 93.26 IMPOUNDMENT GENERALLY.
   Those persons charged with the duty of enforcing this chapter may employ any
method found practical and humane in capturing and impounding any animal found
running at large.
§ 93.27 DESIGNATION OF VILLAGE POUND.
   Village Board designates the St. Clair County Animal Control Center as the
village pound.
§ 93.28 DISPOSITION OF ANIMALS DEEMED NUISANCES.
   Any animal which may, in any manner, continually disturb the quiet of any
person or neighborhood or shall destroy or in any manner injure any animal,
plant, shrub or other property not on the premises of its owner or keeper is
hereby declared to be a nuisance, and the animal may be taken up and impounded
and may be redeemed or disposed of in the manner provided for under this code
or the county code.
§ 93.29 DANGEROUS DOGS AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or keeper of any fierce or dangerous dog
to allow the fierce or dangerous dog to run at large within the village limits.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.30 FEMALE DOGS WITH OTHER DOGS.
   No person in control or possession of a female dog or permitting the same to
remain upon his or her premises, shall permit any such female dog, while in
heat, to consort with any other dog or dogs in an indecent manner in any place
of public view, whether upon his or her own or any other premises.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.31 VICIOUS DOGS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Prohibitions. No person, natural or otherwise, shall keep, harbor, or
maintain, at any time after the expiration of 90 days from the effective date
hereof, any vicious dog, as that term is defined herein, upon any premises
situated within the corporate limits of the village.
   (B) Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      (1)   VICIOUS DOG.
         (a)   Any dog that has a propensity, tendency, or disposition to
attack, to cause injury, or to otherwise endanger the safety of human beings or
domestic animals; or
         (b)   Any dog which has attacked or caused injury to any human being
or domestic animal.
      (2)   VICIOUS DOG shall not include any dog which has been trained for
the purpose of or for the use as a police dog or security dog by any federal,
state or governmental authority, and which is currently being used in said
capacity, nor shall the term VICIOUS DOG include any dog which has been trained
for the purpose of or for the use as a police dog or security dog by any
federal, state or governmental authority, and which is being utilized as a
guard dog or security dog by any business or individual in the village;
provided, however, that the business or individual must first register with the
village’s Police Department giving the following information:
         (a)   The name and breed of the dog;
         (b)   The name of the dog owner, the dog owner’s address, and the dog
owner’s telephone number;
         (c)   The location and hours that the dog will be on guard duty or
security duty; and
         (d)   Proof of insurance for each such registered dog with minimum
policy limits of $300,000 aggregate coverage per occurrence.
§ 93.32 LIABILITY FOR UNREGISTERED ANIMAL ON PREMISES.
   Every householder permitting an unregistered and or non vaccinated animal to
remain upon his or her premises shall be liable for the fees and penalties
prescribed by this chapter.
§ 93.33 REGISTRATION PLATE REMOVAL UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to take up any registered animal wearing
a metallic plate, remove the plate and collar from the neck of the animal,
entice any animal so registered and wearing the plate and collar into or from
any enclosure for the purpose of taking it up or bring any animal into the
village for the purpose of taking up and impounding the same.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be fined in accordance with §
34.02.
   (B)   In addition to the penalty provided in §
34.02, any person found guilty of violating §
93.25 or §
93.31 shall pay all expenses, including shelter, food, veterinary expenses for
identification or certification of the breed of animal or boarding and
veterinary expenses necessitated by the seizure of any dog for violation of §
93.25 or §
93.31.
CHAPTER 94: CEMETERY
Section
   
94.01   Cemetery system established
   
94.02   Interment rules
   
94.03   Cemetery authority and responsibilities
   
94.04   Rules concerning lots and lot owners
   
94.05   Care of lots
   
94.06   Rules and regulations concerning the purchase and transfer of lots
   
94.07   General rules
   
94.08   Rules for monument placement
   
94.09   Administration and enforcement
   
94.10   Perpetual fund
   
94.11   Interment fees
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§94.01 CEMETERY SYSTEM ESTABLISHED.
   A cemetery system for the Village of Shiloh is hereby created and shall
hereafter be maintained and operated as hereinafter set forth.
(Ord. 2019-05-06B, passed 5-6-2019)
§94.02 INTERMENT RULES.
   Funeral directors must give at least 48 hours' notice of all funerals by
written notice to the Village of Shiloh.
   (A)   The Village of Shiloh shall not commence the opening of any grave
until written notice is received via a fully completed burial request form.
   (B)   General hours for the performance of interments are Monday through
Friday from 7:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. unless extraordinary circumstances exist,
and the requested interment has received prior approval from village.
   (C)   The Village of Shiloh shall be provided 48 hours' notice to locate and
open graves. The 48 hours' notice shall commence when the burial request form
is received by the Village of Shiloh.
   (D)   (1)   Funeral directors shall provide the dimensions of the burial
receptacle and state the date and time when the funeral will arrive at the
cemetery. The exact location of the graves in private lots must also be
provided.
      (2)   Funeral directors will be held responsible for damage and loss of
time or labor caused by them in providing incorrect information to the Village
of Shiloh.
      (3)   Funeral notices and/or burial requests are scheduled by written
notice to the Village of Shiloh Municipal Building during regularly scheduled
business hours Monday through Friday 7:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m.
   (E)   Graves will be opened on the order of funeral directors and lot
owners, but no interment will be made without the proper certificate from the
Illinois Department of Public Health or approved disposition authorization. Any
burial must have a designated witness in attendance. Parties claiming burials
in private lots must prove their ownership by providing their deed and, if they
are not the owners or legal heirs, they must file a written order signed by the
owner(s) or the legal representative(s).
   (F)   One interment shall be made in any one grave, except for permitted
exceptions provided for in this section.
   (G)   Burial of bodies, body parts, infants, or ashes in a wooden container
is not permitted. The outside receptacle must be concrete or a vault, except
for infants up to one year of age.
   (H)   Village of Shiloh staff or other designated cemetery caretakers as
assigned by the Village of Shiloh shall oversee all funerals from the time they
enter the cemetery. Processions shall follow designated routes and automobiles
shall be parked, as directed.
   (I)   Two urns of cremated remains are permitted in a single grave space.
Each set of cremated remains will be in its own container for burial. Monuments
placed for such double interments must meet the specified regulations for the
cemetery section in which the burial takes place. Two names will be allowed on
such monuments. In no instance will two separated monuments be permitted on one
grave space.
   (J)   Burial of one cremated remains may be interred with a full single
burial in a single grave. Monuments placed for such double interments must meet
the specified regulations for the cemetery section in which the burial takes
place. Two names will be allowed on such monuments. In no instance will two
separated monuments be allowed except in the instance of a veteran's monument.
   (K)   The cemetery permits the burial of one parent/child interment in the
same grave space and same casket. The Village of Shiloh reserves the right to
approve every parent/child burial on an individual basis, depending on the size
and age of the deceased. The general guideline will be a parent and child under
the age of two years. Monument regulations are the same as for any other burial
in the section. Two names will be allowed on such monuments.
(Ord. 2019-05-06B, passed 5-6-2019)
§94.03 CEMETERY AUTHORITY AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The Village of Shiloh shall keep a permanent record of those interred,
lot ownership and lots sold.
   (B)   The Village of Shiloh is responsible for the maintenance of the
cemetery and the performance of interments upon the receipt of a grave opening.
Normal cemetery maintenance operating hours, unless posted otherwise, are
Monday through Friday 7:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m., excluding holidays designated by
the Village of Shiloh.
   (C)   The Village of Shiloh reserves the right to enter upon any lot to
enforce applicable rules and regulations and perform all work necessary for the
care and upkeep of all cemetery lots and graves.
(Ord. 2019-05-06B, passed 5-6-2019)
§94.04 RULES CONCERNING LOTS AND LOT OWNERS.
   Cemetery rules are not made to interfere with your rights; they are imposed
to protect the interest of all lot owners and to promote the general harmony to
the benefit of all.
   (A)   No lot shall be used for any purpose other than as a place for the
burial of human remains.
   (B)   Heirs or assigns of lot owners must prove their rights to the
satisfaction of the Village of Shiloh before their orders for interment will be
accepted. Lot owners may dispose of their lots by will, subject to the rules of
the cemetery. Otherwise, ownership and the right to give orders for burial
shall occur in accordance with the laws of descent of the State of Illinois.
   (C)   All monuments are subject to the approval of Village of Shiloh.
Monument foundations shall be substantial and installed in accordance with the
currently adopted "Village of Shiloh Cemetery Rules and Regulations."
   (D)   All monuments shall be placed in the cemetery in accordance with the
currently adopted "Village of Shiloh Cemetery Rules and Regulations" and as
shown on the plat of the cemetery on file with the Village of Shiloh.
   (E)   It is the responsibility of the lot owner to make arrangements with a
professional and reputable monument company to install monument foundations and
monuments pursuant with the most currently adopted "Village of Shiloh Cemetery
Rules and Regulations."
   (F)   Wooden or iron fences, copings, posts connected with bars, hedges,
hanging baskets, and shepherd hooks are prohibited. Only flower vases may be
inserted into the ground.
   (G)   (1)   Lot owners shall not have the right to plant trees, shrubs,
flowers, or establish vegetation of any type on their lots.
      (2)   Lot owners are not allowed to add soil, lay sod, plant grass seed
or otherwise alter the landscape of their lot without permission from the
Village of Shiloh.
   (H)   (1)   The village reserves the right to enter upon any lot for purpose
of removal and remediation of anything that is non-compliant, offensive,
improper, or injurious from graves and lots.
      (2)   Flowers and items placed on cemetery graves that become defaced or
unsightly in appearance are subject to removal and disposal at any time.
   (I)   No interments shall be made, nor shall any work be done on any lot on
which unpaid charges are due for work done upon it.
   (J)   Orders for disinterment or removals will be taken by the Village of
Shiloh in accordance with the State law.
(Ord. 2019-05-06B, passed 5-6-2019)
§94.05 CARE OF LOTS.
   (A)   All lots are sold under the Perpetual Care Fund established for that
purpose.
   (B)   The scope of perpetual care provided for by the village shall consist
of the general care of the cemetery as provided for in "State of Illinois
Cemetery Care Act" (ILCS Ch. 760, Act 100, §2) as "Care." This care includes
the maintenance of the lawn, shrubs and trees at reasonable intervals, and
keeping in repair the drains, water lines, roads, buildings, fences and other
structures. The village will seed or sod new graves to establish turf cover and
add soil to sunken graves to maintain a consistent and level surface throughout
the cemetery. Monuments will be blown clean of grass clippings and other debris
at regular intervals. The cemetery grounds in general will be maintained free
of excessive litter and debris at routine intervals.
   (C)   The scope of perpetual care provided by the village does not include
the cleaning, repair, or replacement of vases, marker foundations, markers, or
other memorial structures unless the need for such cleaning, repair, or
replacement is directly caused by the village. Cleaning or repairs due to
factors that include, but are not limited to, vandalism, theft, acts of nature,
workmanship or age will be the sole responsibility of the lot owner.
(Ord. 2019-05-06B, passed 5-6-2019)
§94.06 RULES AND REGULATIONS CONCERNING THE PURCHASE AND TRANSFER OF LOTS.
   (A)   Persons desiring to purchase lots should contact the Village of
Shiloh, where information about lots and prices are available. The Village of
Shiloh will, upon receipt of the price of the lot in full, issue a deed. An
order for interment may be procured after purchase. No grave shall be
considered as sold nor shall any interment be made thereon until the price of
the grave has been paid in full. No grave will be placed "on hold".
   (B)   Owners can transfer their lots only by applying to the Village of
Shiloh. A charge will be assessed for all transfers. In the case of the death
of a lot owner, the heir should contact the Village of Shiloh and have the
proper entries made on the records. The same should be done if the lot owners
change their name(s).
   (C)   It is the responsibility of the lot owner to notify the Village of
Shiloh, should they inherit a lot or wish to transfer ownership. Interment
orders may be delayed or denied if records do not reflect true ownership of a
lot.
(Ord. 2019-05-06B, passed 5-6-2019)
§94.07 GENERAL RULES.
   (A)   Cemetery grounds are sacredly devoted to the interment and repose of
the dead. Strict observance of decorum due such a place shall be required of
all visitors. The Village of Shiloh shall prohibit any person from disturbing
the quiet and good order of the cemetery by noise or other improper conduct.
   (B)   No animal shall be allowed in the cemetery, except when defined as a
service animal according to the Americans with Disabilities Act.
   (C)   Fast and reckless driving is not allowed in the cemetery. Unless
authorized, motorized vehicles are not allowed to leave cemetery roads.
   (D)   The picking or taking of flowers or the breaking of any tree, shrub or
plant is prohibited.
   (E)   All persons are prohibited from writing upon, defacing, or causing
damage to any enclosure, structure, or element of hardscape in the cemetery.
   (F)   The discharging of firearms is prohibited, except for an approved
military funeral or patriotic service.
   (G)   Solicitation on the cemetery grounds is strictly prohibited.
(Ord. 2019-05-06B, passed 5-6-2019)
§94.08 RULES FOR MONUMENT PLACEMENT.
   (A)   The erection, installation, and repair of monuments, vases and
foundations is subject to the authority of the Village of Shiloh staff or other
designated cemetery caretakers as assigned by the Village of Shiloh.
   (B)   Monument companies must contact the Village of Shiloh to request and
receive permission to proceed prior to commencing with the erection,
installation, and repair of any monument, vase or foundation. The Village of
Shiloh will arrange for a representative to contact the monument company to
arrange an agreeable time to complete work. The requests will be taken during
regularly scheduled office hours. A follow up response will normally be
provided within one to two business days of receipt. Village of Shiloh staff
will generally be available within one to two hours of notice during normal
cemetery operating hours to assist with onsite monument questions and lot
location, as long as the section, lot, and grave information is provided.
   (C)   Monument companies shall not damage any tree or shrub during the
performance of their work. Construction or excavation material or debris shall
not be scattered over adjacent lots or left on the grounds any longer than
necessary. All work-related rubbish and debris shall be removed to a place
designated for that purpose. Work is to be confined to the lot in which they
are engaged, and such additional limits as provided by the Village of Shiloh.
   (D)   The Village of Shiloh assumes no responsibility for the removal and/or
repair of monuments that do not meet the standards specified in §
94.07.
   (E)   Foundations shall consist of concrete unless otherwise specified.
Specific foundation dimensions are required and provided for each section.
   (F)   Monument material is specified for each section. Granite or bronze are
approved monument materials with what material is acceptable for each cemetery
section provided below in detail. Special material requests that are proven as
durable and appropriate as granite or bronze are approved on an individual
basis by Village of Shiloh. To maintain consistency and appearance of the
cemetery, special material requests outside of granite and bronze must be
extraordinary in nature to receive approval and not detract from the appearance
of the cemetery grounds.
   (G)   (1)   Section A is laid out as companion (two graves) lots. Granite
grave markers for single graves shall be 24 inches in length, 12 inches in
width and a maximum height of 18 inches. For double graves, markers shall be 36
inches in length, 12 inches in width, and a maximum of 18 inches in height.
Foundations shall consist of concrete and be a minimum depth of 36 inches with
an apron of four inches on each side of the marker and flush to the ground.
Government markers are excluded from this rule.
      (2)   Bronze markers for single graves shall be 24 inches in length and
14 inches in width. Double grave markers shall be 36 inches in length and 14
inches in width. Foundations shall consist of concrete and be a minimum depth
of 30 inches with an apron of at least two inches on each side of the marker
and flush to the ground.
   (H)   Veteran's markers. Veteran's markers may be placed flush with the
ground at either the head or foot of the grave.
(Ord. 2019-05-06B, passed 5-6-2019)
§94.09 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   The Village of Shiloh shall have the control, supervision and direction of
the village's cemetery.
(Ord. 2019-05-06B, passed 5-6-2019)
§94.10 PERPETUAL FUND.
   All monies received for the sale of lots shall be held in a perpetual trust
for the maintenance, repair, upkeep and ornamentation of the cemetery. The
principal of such trust fund shall be kept intact and perpetually invested, and
the income thereof shall be used as aforesaid.
(Ord. 2019-05-06B, passed 5-6-2019)
§94.11 INTERMENT FEES.
   Interment fees shall be as set forth in
Ch. 34 of this Code.
(Ord. 2019-05-06B, passed 5-6-2019)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.   LIQUOR CONTROL
         
111.   PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
         
112.   AMUSEMENTS
         
113.   HOTEL/MOTEL/SHORT-TERM RENTAL TAX
         
114.   SPECIAL EVENTS
         
115.   BUSINESS LICENSES
         
116.   MUNICIPAL CANNABIS RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX
         
117.   CABLE AND VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDERS
CHAPTER 110: LIQUOR CONTROL
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   License requirements
   
110.03   Nature of license
   
110.04   License applications
   
110.05   Issuance of license
   
110.06   Prohibited licenses
   
110.07   License classification
   
110.08   License fees
   
110.09   Record maintained by village staff
   
110.10   Dram shop insurance
   
110.11   License revocation
   
110.12   Prohibited sales
   
110.13   Identification requirements
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL. The product from distillation of any fermented liquid, whether
rectified or diluted, whatever the origin. This includes synthetic ethyl
alcohol, but does not include denatured or wood alcohol.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. The four varieties of liquor defined herein. It also
includes every liquid or solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits,
wine or beer, and capable of consumption as a beverage by humans.
   BEER. A beverage obtained by alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
concoction of barley, other grains, malt and hops, in water. It includes beer,
ale, stout, lager beer and porter.
   ORIGINAL PACKAGE. Any type receptacle or container used to contain and
convey any type of alcoholic liquor. They may have a cork, cap or seal and
manufacturer's label.
   SPIRITS. Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by distillation and
mixed with water or other substance in solution. This includes brandy, rum,
whiskey, gin or other spirituous liquors, when rectified, blended or otherwise
mixed with alcohol or other substances.
   TO SELL. Retail sales, which refers to and means sale for use or consumption
and not for resale in any form.
   WINE. Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
contents of fruits or vegetables containing sugar. It includes such beverages
when fortified by the addition of alcohol or spirits, as defined above.
§ 110.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful to sell any alcoholic liquor within the village without
a license issued by the village. Violation of the license terms is also
unlawful.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 NATURE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   General. A license issued under this chapter shall be purely a
personal privilege. It is valid for 12 months from date of issue unless revoked
sooner as authorized and provided for in this chapter. The license shall not
constitute property nor shall it be subject to attachment, garnishment or
execution. It shall not be alienable or transferable, voluntarily or
involuntarily, nor shall it be subject to becoming encumbered or hypothecated.
The license shall not descend by the laws of testate or intestate devolution,
but it shall cease upon the death of the licensee. When an estate consists of a
license to sell alcoholic liquor, the executors or administrators of the
deceased's estate may continue the sale of alcoholic liquor; provided, a court
having jurisdiction over the estate issues an order to this effect. This is
also true for the trustees of an insolvent or bankrupt licensee. In these
cases, the privileges of the deceased, insolvent or bankrupt licensee continues
until the expiration of the license. They must then submit an application of
their own as prescribed in §
110.04.
   (B)   Location. A retail dealer's liquor license permits the sale of
alcoholic liquor only on the premises described in the application and license.
Village staff may issue a written permit to make any changes in the location
specified in the license.
   (C)   Display of license. Every licensee, under this chapter, shall frame
and hang his, her or its liquor license in plain view in the premises.
   (D)   Exceptions to closing hours. All places licensed to sell retail liquor
or beer within the village may remain open for business until the hour of 3:00
a.m. on January 1 of each year. Village staff and the Board of Trustees may
extend the business hours of licensees of the village for other special
occasions.
   (E)   Legal age. Nothing in this chapter allows persons between the age of
18 and 21 years to tend bar, sell, draw, pour, mix or serve any alcoholic
liquor for on site consumption. Persons between the age of 18 and 21 years may
sell and serve alcoholic liquor in retail businesses operating under Class “A”,
“C” or “D” license as long as that person is under the direct “on site”
supervision of a person at least 21 years of age.
   (F)   Election days. All places selling alcoholic liquors at retail within
the village may remain open during election hours on all election days.
However, during the hours of any election, during the canvas of votes, or the
marking of returns, no person shall bring or try to bring, take, order or send
into any room where the election or primary is in progress any distilled or
spirituous liquors whatever. Nor shall any person at any time consume alcoholic
liquors in an election place. Exception: The Shiloh Village Improvement
Association Hall (Klucker Hall) as an authorized voting place is exempt only
from the provision of having alcohol on premises during an election. Also
exempted is the delivery of alcoholic liquors by a distributor and receipt by a
representative of the improvement association not involved in the elective
process.
   (G)   Open view into interior. Locations with a license to sell alcoholic
liquor for consumption on the premises must maintain a clear view into the
entire interior. No screen, blind, curtain, partition, article or obstruction
may be in the windows or upon the doors of the premises to prevent a clear view
from the street, sidewalk or parking lot entrance.
   (H)   Complaint by residents. Any five village residents have the right to
file a complaint with village staff about violations by any licensee of this
chapter, any amendments or any of the statutes of the state. The complaints
shall be in writing, signed and sworn to by all complainants. The complaint
must contain the particular provision, rule or regulation to which they believe
a violation has occurred. It should also give detailed facts surrounding the
violation(s) on which they base the complaint. If village staff believes the
facts substantiate a violation exists, the staff will schedule a hearing as
prescribed in §
110.11.
(Am. Ord. 2012-07-02C, passed 7-7-2012)
§ 110.04 LICENSE APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   All applicants for a liquor license shall submit a written application
to village staff as the local Liquor Commissioner. An individual or duly
authorized agent may submit the application. Applications made by a club or
corporation must verify eligibility by oath or affidavit.
   (B)   Applications must include:
      (1)   The individual's name, age and address of the applicant. For a co-
partnership, the names, ages and addresses of persons entitled to share in the
profits. For a corporation for profit or a club, the date of incorporation
along with the names, ages and addresses of the officers and directors. A
corporation that has a majority stockholder shall also include that person's or
his or her nominee's name and address;
      (2)   The applicant's citizenship status and place of birth. If a
naturalized citizen, the date and place of naturalization;
      (3)   A statement that the applicant(s) has no convictions for a felony
or a crime opposed to decency or morality. It should state whether or not they
have had a liquor license revoked in the state or in any other political
subdivision of the United States;
      (4)   The location of the proposed place of business and the owner's
name. If the applicant is not the owner, then the owner's name and the extent
of the lease of the applicant;
      (5)   The character of the applicant's business and the length of time
the applicant has been in business of that type. For a corporation, include the
objects for which it formed and the date on which it received its charter;
      (6)   The class of license applied for; and
      (7)   A statement whether the applicant has applied for a similar license
on a premises other than that described in the application, if so the
disposition of such an application.
§ 110.05 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   Upon preparation and execution of the application, the applicant shall
submit it to village staff for approval. The village staff may withhold action
on the application for 30 days for investigation of the application file before
taking final action. In case a business with a valid liquor license changes
ownership, the new owner(s) must submit an application for license within ten
days of closing the sale. Village staff may issue an interim license for up to
60 days pending review of the new application.
§ 110.06 PROHIBITED LICENSES.
   Village staff shall not issue a liquor license to:
   (A)   A person who is not a citizen of the United States;
   (B)   A person who has a felony conviction under any federal or state law;
   (C)   A person convicted of being the keeper of, or keeping, a house of ill-
fame;
   (D)   A person convicted of pandering or other crime or misdemeanor opposed
to decency or morality;
   (E)   A person who had a previous license revoked for cause;
   (F)   A person who, at the time of the application for renewal of any
license issued hereunder, would not be eligible for the license upon first
application;
   (G)   A partnership, unless all members qualify to obtain the license;
   (H)   A corporation if any officer, manager, director would not be eligible
to receive a license hereunder for any reason. This includes any stockholder
owning a total of more than 5% of the corporation;
   (I)   A person convicted of a violation of any federal or state law
concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor, after 2-6-
1934. Any person who forfeited a bond to appear in court to answer charges for
any such violation;
   (J)   Any person, association or corporation not eligible for a state retail
liquor license;
   (K)   Any public law enforcement official or the mayor. No such official
shall have any direct interest in the manufacture, sale or distribution of
alcoholic liquor; and
   (L)   A person who does not own the premises listed in the license
application or who does not have a lease for the full period of the license
period.
§ 110.07 LICENSE CLASSIFICATION.
   The classifications of licenses listed below shall be available within the
village.
   (A)   Class "A" license shall authorize the holder to sell retail alcoholic
liquor for consumption on or off the premises specified in the license from the
hour of 5:00 a.m. until the hour of 1:00 a.m. the following morning, during all
days of the week. The places operating under this class of license must close
for all purposes and cease doing business of any kind after the hour specified
for closing and shall conduct no other business before the hour of 5:00 a.m.
All patrons must vacate the premises within one-half hour of the close of
business.
   (B)   Class "B" license shall authorize the holder to sell retail alcoholic
liquor for consumption on or off the premises specified in the license from the
hour of 5:00 a.m. until the hour of 1:00 a.m. the following morning, during all
days of the week, except Friday and Saturday, when the hours shall be until 2:
00 a.m. the next morning. The places operating under this class of license must
close for all purposes and cease doing business of any kind after the hour
specified for closing and shall conduct no other business before the hour of 5:
00 a.m. All patrons must vacate the premises within one-half hour of the close
of business.
   (C)   Class "C" license shall authorize the holder to sell retail alcoholic
liquor in the original package only, on the premises specified in the license,
for consumption off the premises. Hours for sales are from the hour of 5:00
a.m. until the hour of 1:00 a.m. the following morning, during all days of the
week. The places operating under this class of license may remain open 24 hours
for other routine business, such as sale of gas, household items and groceries,
but must cease sale of alcohol at the hour specified, and shall not resume sale
of alcoholic liquor before the hour of 5:00 a.m. the following morning.
   (D)   Class "D" license shall authorize the holder to sell retail alcoholic
liquor in the original package only, on the premises specified in the license,
for consumption off the premises. Hours for sales are from the hour of 5:00
a.m. until the hour of 1:00 a.m. the following morning, during all days of the
week, except Friday and Saturday, when the hours shall be until 2:00 a.m. the
next morning. The places operating under this class of license may remain open
24 hours for other routine business, such as sale of gas, household items and
groceries, but must cease sale of alcohol at the hour specified, and shall not
resume sale of alcoholic liquor before the hour of 5:00 a.m. the following
morning.
   (E)   Class "E" license applies to nonprofit organizations, chartered by the
state and located in the village, as well as clubs, defined in the ILCS Ch. 235
Act 5, § 1-3.24. This license authorizes the retail sale of beer and wine on
the premises specified in the license from the hour of 5:00 a.m. until the hour
of 2:00 a.m. the following morning, during all days of the week. The places
operating under this class of license must close for all purposes and cease
doing business of any kind after the hour specified for closing and shall
conduct no other business before the hour of 5:00 a.m. All patrons must vacate
the premises within one-half hour after closing. Nonprofit organizations, not
located within the village, may also apply for this class of license. In
addition to the requirements of §
110.04, these organizations shall submit a full description of the organization
and the purpose of the proposed sales. If approved, the Liquor Commissioner may
place limitations on the license, as thought appropriate.
   (F)   In case of a special event, function or meeting held in the village
park, applicants may apply for a license for retail sale of alcoholic liquors.
Village staff must receive the application at least ten days before the desired
date and it must be approved by village staff and the Village Board of
Trustees. The application must contain the information contained in §
110.04 and include the number of days or nights needed for the license.
   (G)   Class “F” license shall authorize the licensee for licensed premises
to sell at retail beer and wine only for consumption on premises only. Said
premises may serve other beverages such as juices, coffees, teas, sports
drinks, and the like, of a non-alcoholic nature and the licensee may serve food
(sandwiches, pastries, and the like) that are prepared and packaged off
premises for sale and consumption on premises. Premises shall be allowed to
open all days of the week at the same hour as a Class A license. Live
entertainment shall not be permitted inside the premises.
   (H)   Class "G" license is for residents and their guests of 55+ apartments.
This license shall authorize the holder to sell retail alcoholic liquor for
consumption on the premises specified on the license, from the hour of 5:00
a.m. until the hour of 1:00 a.m. the following morning, all days of the week.
(Am. Ord. 2013-02-04C, passed 2-4-2013; Am. Ord. 2021-12-06D, passed 12-6-2021)
§ 110.08 LICENSE FEES.
   Applicants shall pay license fees for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor at
the time of application for a license and annually thereafter. If a license
application is denied for any reason, village staff shall return the fee to the
applicant. Fees for approved licenses are deposited in the General Fund, or any
such fund as designated by the Village Board, by proper action.
Cross-reference:
    For license fees, see §
34.01, Fee Schedule
§ 110.09 RECORD MAINTAINED BY VILLAGE STAFF.
   Village staff shall keep, or direct keeping, a complete record of all such
licenses issued. These records shall be under the supervision of the Village
President and Village Board. The Village Clerk shall furnish the Village
Treasurer and the Chief of Police with a copy. Upon issuing any new license, or
revoking any license, village staff, under the supervision of the Village
President, shall give written notice of the action to each of the officers
within 48 hours of the action.
§ 110.10 DRAM SHOP INSURANCE.
   Every applicant for a liquor license shall possess a valid certificate of
dram shop liability coverage, ensuring against the exposure allowed by statute
under the Dram Shop Act, being ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, §§ 1-1 et seq. Limits of
coverage should equate with the statutory limits of recovery from dram shop
liability.
§ 110.11 LICENSE REVOCATION.
   (A)   Village staff may revoke or suspend any license issued under the
provisions of this chapter; provided, the Commissioner determines that the
licensee violated any provisions of this chapter, the Dram Shop Act of the
state, any other valid ordinance of the village or any applicable regulation
established by village staff, consistent with the law. However, village staff
shall issue a three-day notice to the licensee before acting to suspend or
revoke the license. This gives the licensee an opportunity to appear and defend
himself, herself or themselves.
   (B)   If village staff has reason to believe that continued operation of a
premises serving or selling alcoholic liquor immediately threatens the welfare
of the community, village staff may issue a written order stating the reason
for the action, and without notice or hearing, order the licensee's premises
closed for not more than seven days. The licensee has an opportunity to be
heard during that period. Exception: This will not affect a licensee also
engaged in operating another business or businesses on the same premises. The
order shall not be applicable to the other business. Village staff shall,
within five days after the hearing, if determined that the license should be
revoked or suspended, state the reason or reasons for the action in a written
order to revoke or suspend and shall serve a copy of the order within the five
days upon the licensee. The licensee may appeal the decision to village staff's
order in accordance with state statutes.
   (C)   The following conditions are examples of situations which can result
in suspension or revocation of a liquor license. This list is representative
and in no way provides a comprehensive listing.
      (1)   Gambling. It is unlawful to keep, place, maintain or operate any
gambling device or instrument in and upon premises used to serve, consume, sell
or give away alcoholic liquor except in accordance with
Chapter 112 of the Village Code. However, this section does not apply to
bingos, lotteries or other gambling-like events; or devices licensed by the
village and/or the state.
      (2)   Disorderly house. No person licensed under this chapter shall allow
any disorderly or riotous conduct, such as drunkenness, quarreling or fighting,
excessive noise or gambling in any house or premises kept or used for the sale
of alcoholic liquor.
      (3)   Sanitary conditions. It is unlawful for a person licensed under
this chapter to maintain the premises in an unsanitary condition. The keeper of
the premises shall maintain both the interior and exterior in a wholesome and
sanitary condition. This includes keeping all toilets clean and free of odors,
toilet fixtures operational and providing toilet supplies. Outside sidewalks,
streets, alleys, gutters and drains next to the premises shall be free from all
rubbish or other like matter, materials or waste.
(Am. Ord. 2012-07-02C, passed 7-7-2012)
§ 110.12 PROHIBITED SALES.
   It is unlawful for any licensee, officer, associate, member, representative,
agent or employee of the licensee to sell, give, deliver or otherwise provide
alcoholic liquor of any kind to anyone listed below.
   (A)   Any person under 21 years of age, except in the performance of a
religious ceremony or under direct supervision and approval of the person’s
parents in the privacy of his or her home (ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-20(g)); and
   (B)   Any intoxicated person, or to any person known to him or her to be a
habitual drunkard, spendthrift, insane or mentally deficient or in need of
mental treatment.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.13 IDENTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A licensee or agent who believes a person to be under 21 years old
shall demand presentation of some valid form of positive identification, with
accompanying photograph. This shall occur before selling or providing the
person with any alcoholic liquor. It is unlawful to sell or give alcoholic
liquor to anyone who refuses or fails to show valid identification. Acceptance
or use of identification as listed below is unlawful to obtain or posses
alcoholic liquor.
   (B)   These are violations of this chapter and can result in fines, loss of
license or both:
      (1)   A transferred, altered or defaced identification card;
      (2)   The identification card of someone other than the bearer;
      (3)   To carry or use a false or forged identification card; and/or
      (4)   To obtain an identification card by false information.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violations of this chapter are misdemeanors punishable by a fine in
accordance with
Chapter 34. In addition, violators face suspension or revocation of their
liquor licenses.
   (B)   The penalty for violation of §
110.02 shall be an amount in accordance with
Chapter 34 for each offense.
   (C)   Opening an original package of, or consumption of, alcoholic liquor on
the premises specified in §
110.07 is a violation and subject to a fine in accordance with
Chapter 34.
CHAPTER 111:  PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License requirement
   
111.03   Application procedure
   
111.04   Standards for issuance
   
111.05   Revocation procedure
   
111.06   Standards for revocation
   
111.07   Appeal procedure
   
111.08   Exhibition of identification
   
111.09   Village policy on soliciting
   
111.10   Notice regulating soliciting
   
111.11   Duty of solicitors
   
111.12   Uninvited soliciting prohibited
   
111.13   Time limit on soliciting
   
111.14   Soliciting in a public place prohibited
   
111.15   Soliciting on private property
 
   
111.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority of village to license, tax, regulate, or prohibit peddlers,
itinerant merchants, or transient vendors, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-42-5
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler, or solicitor as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes but is not
restricted to wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent, or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the village and who, in
the furtherance of that business, uses any building, structure, vehicle, or any
place within the village.
   PEDDLER. Any person, not an itinerant merchant, who:
      (1)   Travels from place to place by any means carrying goods for sale,
or making sales, or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Without traveling from place to place, sells or offers goods for
sale from any public place within the village.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a SOLICITOR is not
a peddler.
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in this activity within the village.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D) All licenses issued under this chapter shall be valid for one day only
from 9:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m., regardless of the time of issuance.
(Am. Ord. 2012-07-02D, passed 7-2-2012) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the village staff. This application shall be signed by the
applicant if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the
president if a corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide
information concerning the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant's business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the village;
         (b)   The local address of the individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of the individual; and
         (d)   The capacity in which the individual will act.
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on, and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant's business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character, and quality of the goods or services
to be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock; and
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom the goods are manufactured or grown,
and where the goods are at the time of application.
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified in
division (A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) has been
convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each offense
and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant; and
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application, if required by the village, credentials from the person, if
any, for which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant
to act as the representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C), a
statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to the
date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant's
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless the investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant's business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant has committed the following
will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like;
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts.
§ 111.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the Clerk
after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
111.06. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. This notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his or her last known
address, at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
§ 111.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals, or general welfare
of the public.
§ 111.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
111.04 or
111.06 shall have the right to appeal to the Board of Trustees. The appeal
shall be taken by filing with the Board of Trustees, within 14 days after
notice of the decision has been mailed to the person's last known address, a
written statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The Board of Trustees
shall set the time and place for a hearing, and notice for the hearing shall be
given to the person in the same manner as provided in §
111.05.
   (B)   The order of the Board of Trustees after the hearing shall be final.
§ 111.08 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the village shall be used to conduct the business
licensed, separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The Clerk shall issue a license to each peddler or solicitor licensed
under this chapter. The license shall contain the words "Licensed Peddler" or
"Licensed Solicitor," the expiration date of the license, and the number of the
license. The license shall be kept with the licensee during the time that he or
she is engaged in the business licensed.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.09 VILLAGE POLICY ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the village that the occupants of
the residences in the village shall make the determination of whether
solicitors shall be, or shall not be, invited to their respective residences.
§ 111.10 NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING.
   (A)   Notice of the refusal of invitation to solicitors, to any residence,
shall be exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence,
indicating the determination by the occupant, or for multi-family residences at
the public entrance(s) to the property, indicating the determination by the
property owner, containing the applicable words, as follows:
   “NO SOLICITORS INVITED”,
   “NO SOLICITORS PERMITTED”,
   “NO SOLICITORS”
   (B)   Sign providing notice that solicitors are not allowed shall be either
rectangular or square in shape and of a size allowing for letters that are at
least three inches in height.
   (C)   The notice so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination of the occupant.
(Am. Ord. 2012-07-02D, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 111.11 DUTY OF SOLICITORS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any premises
in the village upon which a residence is located to first examine the notice
provided for in §
111.10 if any is attached, and be governed by the statement contained on the
notice. If the notice states “NO SOLICITORS INVITED”, “NO SOLICITORS
PERMITTED”, “NO SOLICITORS” then the solicitor, whether registered or not,
shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises.
   (B)   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
(Am. Ord. 2012-07-02D, passed 7-2-2012) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.12 UNINVITED SOLICITING PROHIBITED.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or
create any sound in any manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of the residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting in defiance of the notice exhibited
at the residence in accordance with the provisions of §
111.10 above.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.13 TIME LIMIT ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door of a
residence located thereon, or rap or knock upon any door, or create any sound
in any other manner calculated to attract the attention of the occupant of the
residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the occupant thereof
and engage in soliciting, prior to 9:00 a.m. or after 6:00 p.m. of any weekday
or Saturday, or at any time on a Sunday or on a state or national holiday.
(Am. Ord. 2012-07-02D, passed 7-2-2012) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.14 SOLICITING IN A PUBLIC PLACE PROHIBITED.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and constitute a nuisance for any
person to pedal or solicit for money, goods, services, business, or
transportation or any unauthorized purpose upon any roadway, right of way,
walkway, public park, or any other public property.
(Ord. 2017-04-03A, passed 4-3-2017)
§ 111.15 SOLICITING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   It will be considered a violation of local ordinance to pedal or solicit for
money, goods, services, business, or transportation or any unauthorized purpose
at any private property that is open to the public such as parking lots,
stores, restaurants or other such business, without the consent of the
management of that business.
(Ord. 2017-04-03A, passed 4-3-2017)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined in accordance
with
Chapter 34. Each day’s violation shall constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 112: AMUSEMENTS
Section
Raffles
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Construction of chapter
   
112.03   License required
   
112.04   License approval
   
112.05   Fees
   
112.06   Issuance; denial of license
   
112.07   Restrictions
   
112.08   Raffle manager; bond
   
112.09   Records and reports
Gaming
   
112.20   Video gaming terminals
   
112.21   Amusement tax
 
   
112.99   Penalty
RAFFLES
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them:
   CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION. An organization or institution organized to benefit
an indefinite number of the public. The service rendered to those eligible for
benefits must also confer some benefit on the public.
   EDUCATIONAL ORGANIZATION. An organization or institution organized and
operated to provide systematic instruction in useful branches of learning by
methods common to schools and institutions of learning which compare favorably
in their scope and intensity with the course of study presented in tax-
supported schools.
   FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION. An organization of persons having a common interest,
the primary interest of which is to both promote the welfare of its members and
to provide assistance to the general public in such a way as to lessen the
burdens of government by caring for those that otherwise would be cared for by
the government.
   LABOR ORGANIZATION. An organization composed of workers organized with the
objective of betterment of the conditions of those engaged in such pursuit and
the development of a high degree of efficiency in their respective occupation.
   NET PROCEEDS. The gross receipts from the conduct of raffles, less
reasonable sums expended for prizes, local license fees and other reasonable
operating expenses incurred as a result of operating a raffle.
   NONPROFIT ORGANIZATION. An organization or institution organized and
conducted on a not-for-profit basis with no personal profit inuring to anyone
as a result of the operation.
   RAFFLE. A form of lottery, as defined in §28-2(b) of the Criminal Code,
being ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, §28-2 conducted by an organization licensed under
this chapter in which:
      (1)   The player pays or agrees to pay something of value for a chance,
represented and differentiated by a number or by a combination of numbers or by
some other medium, one or more of which chances is to be designated the winning
chance; and
      (2)   The winning chance is to be determined through a drawing or by some
other method based on an element of chance by an act or set of acts on the part
of the persons conducting or connected with the lottery; except that the
winning chance shall not be determined by the outcome of a publicly exhibited
sporting contest.
   RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATION. Any church, congregation, society or organization
founded for the purpose of religious worship.
   VETERANS' ORGANIZATION. An organization or association comprised of members
of which substantially all are individuals who are veterans or spouses, widows
or widowers of veterans, the primary purpose of which is to promote the welfare
of its members and to provide assistance to the general public in such a way as
to confer a public benefit.
(Ord. 2018-03-05 A, passed 3-5-2018)
§ 112.02 CONSTRUCTION OF CHAPTER.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to authorize the conduct or
operation of any gambling scheme, enterprise, activity or device other than
raffles as provided for this chapter.
(Ord. 2018-03-05 A, passed 3-5-2018)
§ 112.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall conduct a raffle, or sell chances for a raffle, in the
village without first having obtained a license therefor pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter. Such license shall be issued pursuant and subject
to the provisions of the Illinois Raffle Act, being ILCS Ch. 230, Act 15,
§§0.01 et seq. License shall be issued only to bona fide religious, charitable,
labor, business, fraternal, education or veterans' organizations that operate
without profit to their members and which have been in existence continuously
for a period of five years immediately before making application for a license
and which have had during that entire five year period a bona fide membership
engaged in carrying out their objects, or to a nonprofit fundraising
organization that the village determines is organized for the sole purpose of
providing financial assistance to an identified individual or group of
individuals suffering extreme financial hardship as the result of an illness,
disability, accident or disaster.
(Ord. 2018-03-05 A, passed 3-5-2018)
§ 112.04 LICENSE APPROVAL.
   Application for a raffle license shall be made on forms provided by the
village at least 14 calendar days prior to the sale of any raffle chances. Such
applications shall contain the following information:
   (A)   Name and address of the applicant;
   (B)   Authorized representative of the applicant;
   (C)   Date of incorporation, where applicable;
   (D)   Names and addresses of officers and directors;
   (E)   The area or areas within the village in which raffle chances, tickets,
and the like will be sold or issued;
   (F)   The time period during which raffle chances will be sold;
   (G)   The maximum price which may be charged for each chance issued or sold;
   (H)   The time of determination of winning chances and the location or
locations at which winning chances will be determined;
   (I)   A sworn statement attesting to the not for profit character of the
prospective licensee organization signed by the presiding officer and the
secretary of the organization; and
   (J)   A statement that the applicant agrees to comply with all laws of the
state, the United States, and the village in the conduct of the raffle.
(Ord. 2018-03-05 A, passed 3-5-2018)
§ 112.05 FEES.
   A license shall be issued when the requirements of this chapter have been
met and the fee contained in §34.01 has been paid to the village and received
by the Village Clerk. A license authorizes the licensee to conduct one raffle.
(Ord. 2018-03-05 A, passed 3-5-2018)
§ 112.06 ISSUANCE; DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   Within 14 calendar days from the date of an application for a license, the
Village Clerk or designee shall either issue a license or advise the applicant
in writing of the reason for denial of a license.
(Ord. 2018-03-05 A, passed 3-5-2018)
§ 112.07 RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Each license is valid for one raffle only.
   (B)   No more than six raffle licenses shall be issued to any organization
in any calendar year.
   (C)   The aggregate retail value of all prizes or merchandise awarded by a
licensee in a single raffle shall not exceed $250,000. The maximum retail value
of each prize by a licensee in a single raffle shall not exceed $100,000. The
Village Board may authorize a higher aggregate retail value and/or retail value
of a single prize written upon request of applicant.
   (D)   The maximum duration during which chances may be issued or sold shall
be six months prior to the drawing. The drawing shall be held at the time and
location set forth in the license.
   (E)   Each licensee shall keep records as required under the Act.
   (F)   The conduct of raffles within the village is subject to applicable
restrictions and conditions as set forth in the Raffle Act, being ILCS Ch. 230,
Act 15, §§0.01 et seq.
   (G)   In no event shall the price of each raffle chance issued or sold
exceed $250.
   (H)   The entire net proceeds of any raffle must be exclusively devoted to
the lawful purposes of the organization permitted to conduct the raffle.
   (I)   No person except a bona fide member of the sponsoring organization may
participate in the management or operation of the raffle.
   (J)   No person under the age of 18 years may participate in the conduct of
raffles without the permission of a parent or guardian. A person under the age
of 18 years may be within the area where winning chances are being determined
only when accompanied by his/her parent or guardian.
   (K)   Raffle chances may be sold or issued only at the location(s) as set
forth in the license.
(Ord. 2018-03-05 A, passed 3-5-2018)
§ 112.08 RAFFLE MANAGER; BOND.
   All operation and conduct of raffles shall be under the supervision of a
single raffle manager designated by the organization. The raffle manager shall
give a fidelity bond in an amount not less than the anticipated gross receipts
for the raffle. The bond shall be in favor of the organization and conditioned
upon the raffle manager's honesty and the performance of his/her duties. The
terms of the bond shall provide that notice shall be given in writing to the
village not less than 30 days prior to its cancellation, provided, the village
may waive this bonding requirement when, due to the nature, past experience or
competence of the organization involved, the village determines that such bond
would be unnecessarily burdensome.
(Ord. 2018-03-05 A, passed 3-5-2018)
§ 112.09 RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   (A)   Records kept.
      (1)   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles shall keep records of
its gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds for each single gathering or
occasion at which winning chances are determined. All deductions from gross
receipts for each single gathering or occasion shall be documented with
receipts or other reason for the deduction, and the recipient. The distribution
of net proceeds shall be itemized as to payee, purpose, amount and date of
payment.
      (2)   Gross receipts from the operation of raffles programs shall be
segregated from other revenues of the organization, including bingo gross
receipts, if bingo games are also conducted by the same nonprofit organization
pursuant to license thereof issued by the Department of Revenue of the State of
Illinois, and placed in a separate account. Each organization shall have
separate records of its raffles. The person who accounts for gross receipts,
expenses and net proceeds from the operation of raffles shall not be the same
person who accounts for other revenues of the organization.
      (3)   Records required by this section shall be preserved for three
years, and organizations shall make available their records relating to
operation of raffles for public inspection at reasonable times and places.
   (B)   Reports required. Each organization licensed to conduct raffles shall
report monthly to its membership and to the village its gross receipts,
expenses and net proceeds from the raffles, and the distribution of net
proceeds itemized as required by this section.
(Ord. 2018-03-05 A, passed 3-5-2018)
GAMING
§ 112.20 VIDEO GAMING TERMINALS.
   (A)   Activities undertaken pursuant to, and in accordance with, the Video
Gaming Act (ILCS Ch. 230, Act 40), shall be allowed in the village.
   (B)   Activities undertaken pursuant to, and in accordance with, the Act
(ILCS Ch. 230, Act 40), that would otherwise be deemed gambling, shall not be
deemed a violation of this Code.
   (C)   There is established an annual fee for the operation of each
individual video gaming terminal.
   (D)   The annual video gaming terminal fee is to be paid to the village on,
or before, the initial date of operation, and for terminals then in operation,
on, or before, April 30th thereafter. The annual fee shall not be prorated for
periods of less than 12 months. For the annual video gaming terminal fee, see §
34.01, Fee Schedule.
   (E)   All revenue received pursuant to the Act (ILCS Ch. 230, Act 40) shall
be deposited into the village’s Police Pension Fund.
(Ord. 2012-07-02B, passed 7-7-2012)
§ 112.21 AMUSEMENT TAX.
   (A)   Applicability of provisions. The provisions of this section, except as
otherwise provided, shall apply to all amusements as hereinafter defined,
whether specifically licensed or regulated under other provisions of this code
or other ordinances, or not.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply.
      (1)   AMUSEMENT.
         (a)   Any theatrical, dramatic, musical or spectacular performance,
motion picture show, flower, poultry, or animal show, animal act, circus,
rodeo, athletic contest, sport, game or similar exhibition for public
entertainment, including, without being limited to, boxing, wrestling, skating,
dancing, swimming, racing, or riding on animals or vehicles, baseball,
basketball, softball, football, tennis, golf, hockey, track and field games,
bowling, billiard and pool games;
         (b)   Any entertainment offered for public participation, including,
without being limited to, dancing, carnival, amusement park rides and games,
bowling, billiard and pool games, or any video gaming terminal.
      (2)   PERSON. Any natural individual that participates in an amusement,
including a firm, organization, society, foundation, institution, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint venture, limited liability company,
public or private corporation, receiver, executor, trustee or other
representative appointed by order of any court, or any other entity recognized
by law.
      (3)   PLAY. Each individual push of the video gaming terminal which
initiates the simulation provided by the video gaming terminal. PLAY shall not
include the push of individual wager amounts, selection of types of games on
the video gaming terminal or entry of any information or printing of winning
receipts.
      (4)   TERMINAL OPERATOR. Any individual, partnership, corporation, or
limited liability company that is licensed under the Video Gaming Act, ILCS Ch.
230, Act 40, §§ 1 et seq., and that owns, services, and maintains video gaming
terminals for placement in licensed establishments, licensed truck stop
establishments, licensed large truck stop establishments, licensed fraternal
establishments, or licensed veterans establishments.
      (5)   VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL. Any electronic video game machine that, upon
insertion of cash, electronic cards or vouchers, or any combination thereof, is
available to play or simulate  the play of a video game, including but not
limited to video poker, line up, and blackjack, as authorized by the Illinois
Gaming Board utilizing a video display and microprocessors in which the player
may receive free games or credits that can be redeemed for cash. The term does
not include a machine that directly dispenses coins, cash, or tokens or is for
amusement purposes only.
   (C)   Amusement tax imposed.
      (1)   Push tax.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided by this section, an amusement tax
is imposed upon any person who participates in the play of a video gaming
terminal that takes place within the jurisdictional boundaries of the Village
of Shiloh.
         (b)   The rate of the tax shall be equal to $0.01 (one cent) per play
on a video gaming terminal.
         (c)   The terminal operator of a video gaming terminal may separately
itemize and charge each person who plays a video gaming terminal.
      (2)   Tax additional. The tax imposed in this section is in addition to
all other taxes imposed by the State of Illinois or any municipal corporation
or political subdivision thereof.
      (3)   Registration.
         (a)   Every terminal operator of a video gaming terminal(s) located in
the Village of Shiloh shall apply for registration as a tax collector with the
village no later than 30 days after commencing such business or 30 days after
the effective date of this section imposing the push tax, whichever occurs
later.
         (b)   The application shall be submitted to the village on the forms
provided by the village and contain such information as reasonably required by
the village to impose, collect, and audit all amounts related to the push tax.
      (4)   Collection, payment, and accounting.
         (a)   It shall be the joint and several duty of every terminal
operator of a video gaming terminal(s) to secure from each person participating
in the play of a video gaming terminal the push tax imposed by this section.
         (b)   For purposes of this section it shall be presumed that the
amount of the push tax imposed on each person, unless the taxpayer or tax
collector provides otherwise with books, records, or other documentary
evidence, has been collected from the person by the terminal operator.
         (c)   Push tax payments accompanied by tax returns prescribed by the
village shall be remitted to the village on or before the 20th day of the month
following the month in which payment for the push tax is made.
         (d)   Every terminal operator of a video gaming terminal who is
required to collect the push tax by this section shall be considered a tax
collector for the village. All push tax amounts collected shall be held by the
terminal operator as trustee for and on behalf of the village. The failure of
the operator to collect the tax shall not excuse or release the person from the
obligation to pay the tax.
         (e)   The ultimate incidence of the push tax shall remain on the
person and shall never be shifted to the terminal operator.
         (f)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, in order to
permit sound fiscal planning and budgeting by the village, no person shall be
entitled to a refund of, or credit for, the push tax imposed by this chapter
unless the person files a claim for a refund or credit within one year after
the date on which the push tax was paid or remitted to the village.
         (g)   The terminal operator of any video gaming terminal(s) shall be
subject to audit, inspection, and record keeping provisions of this code.
         (h)   It shall be unlawful for any terminal operator and/or person to
prevent, hinder, or interfere with the village's officials, employees, and/or
agents designated to discharge their respective duties in the performance and
enforcement of the provisions of this section.
         (i)   It is the duty of every terminal operator of a video gaming
terminal(s) to keep accurate and complete books and records to which the
village's officials, employees, and/or agents will at all times have full
access.
      (5)   Rules and regulations; authorized. The village is authorized to
adopt, promulgate, and enforce any additional rules and regulations pertaining
to the interpretation, collection, administration, and enforcement of this
section.
      (6)   Application of village code. Any citation under this section may be
in addition to any other citations issued by the village under any and all
applicable sections of the Village Code.
      (7)   Violations. It shall be a violation of this section for a terminal
operator to fail to file a report within the time prescribed in this section.
         (a)   Report required. A terminal operator who falsely reports or
fails to report the amount of push tax due as required by this section shall be
in violation of this section and is subject to the suspension and/or revocation
of their terminal operator license. All payments not remitted when due shall be
paid together with a penalty assessment on the unpaid balance at a rate of 1.5%
per month.
         (b)   Suspension or revocation of license. The local liquor
commissioner or his or her designee shall have the power to suspend for not
more than 30 days or revoke any video gaming license issued under the
provisions of this chapter for cause, or if he/she determines that a terminal
operator shall have violated any of the provisions of this chapter, any of the
statutes of the state or any other valid ordinance or resolution enacted by the
corporate authorities of the village. However, no such license shall be revoked
or suspended except after the holding of a public hearing by the local liquor
commissioner or his or her designee. Ten days' notice of the hearing shall be
given to the terminal operator. Alternatively, the terminal operator shall have
the opportunity to engage in a prehearing conference and agree to negotiated
penalties rather than proceed to a hearing.
         (c)   It shall be deemed a violation of this section for any person to
knowingly furnish false or inaccurate information to the village.
(Ord. 2020-05-04A, passed 5-4-2020) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person found to be in violation of any provision of this
chapter for which no specific penalty is otherwise provided, shall be subject
to the penalties contained in §
34.02 of this code.
      (2)   Passage. This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and
after its passage and approval as provided by law.
   (B)   Any terminal operator violating the provisions of §
112.21 shall be subject to a fine of $250 for the first offense, and $500 for
the second offense and $750 for a third offense and subject to a revocation of
any license to operate a video gaming terminal for the third offense. Each day
a violation continues shall constitute a separate violation.
(Ord. 2018-03-05 A, passed 3-5-2018; Am. Ord. 2020-05-04A, passed 5-4-2020)
Cross-reference:
   Fees, see
Chapter 34
CHAPTER 113: HOTEL/MOTEL/SHORT-TERM RENTAL TAX
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Tax imposed
   
113.03   Shiloh Tourism and Convention Promotion Fund
 
   
113.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Hotel/Motel Tax Return
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HOTEL/MOTEL/SHORT-TERM RENTAL. Any building or buildings in which the public
may, for a consideration, obtain living quarters, sleeping or housekeeping
accommodations. The term includes inns, motels, tourists homes, tourists
courts, lodging houses, rooming houses and apartment houses.
   OCCUPANCY. The use or possession, or the right to the use or possession, of
any room or rooms in a hotel, motel room, or short-rental for any purpose, or
the right to the use or possession of the furnishings or to the services and
accommodations accompanying the use and possession of the rooms or short-term
rental.
   OPERATOR. Any person operating a hotel/motel/short-rental.
   PERMANENT RESIDENT. Any person who has occupied or has the right to occupy
any room or rooms in a hotel, motel or short-term rental for at least 30
consecutive days, pursuant to a written agreement between the operator and the
resident.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, partnership, association, joint stock
company, joint adventure, public or private corporation, or a receiver,
executor, trustee, guardian or other representative appointed by order of any
court.
   RENT or RENTAL. The consideration received for occupancy, valued in money,
whether received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits
and property or services of any kind or nature.
   ROOM, ROOMS or HOME. Any living quarters, sleeping or housekeeping
accommodations.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Shiloh, Illinois.
(Am. Ord. 2024-01-02B, passed 1-2-24)
§ 113.02 TAX IMPOSED.
   There is hereby levied and imposed a tax of 5% of the rent charged for the
privilege and use of renting a hotel, motel room, or short-term rental within
the village for each 24-hour period or any portion thereof for which a daily
room charge is made; provided, however, that, the tax shall not be levied and
imposed upon any permanent resident.
   (A)   Duties.
      (1)   The ultimate incidence of, and liability for, payment of the tax is
to be borne by the person who seeks the privilege of occupying the hotel, motel
room, or short-term rental, the person hereinafter referred to as “renter”.
      (2)   The tax herein levied shall be paid in addition to any and all
other taxes and charges. It shall be the duty of the operator of every hotel,
motel, or short-term rental to secure the tax from the renter of the hotel,
motel room, or short-term rental, and to payover to village staff or any
authorized representative of the village the tax under procedures prescribed by
village staff, or as otherwise provided in this chapter.
      (3)   Every person required to collect the tax levied by this chapter
shall secure the tax from the renter at the time he or she collects the rental
payment for the hotel, motel room, or short-term rental. Upon the invoice
receipt or other statement or memorandum of the rent given to the renter at the
time of payment, the amount due under the tax provided in this chapter shall be
stated separately on the document.
      (4)   Each operator shall register with village staff. This will be done
when operators apply for a business license. Every operator shall renew and
update the registration at the time of renewal or application for a business
license. Every application for a business license shall be reviewed by village
staff or authorized agent to determine whether the provisions of this chapter
shall apply.
   (B)   Books and records. Village staff may enter the premises of any hotel,
motel, or short-term rental for inspection and examination of records in order
to effectuate the proper administration of this chapter, and to assure the
enforcement of the collection of the tax imposed. It shall be unlawful for any
person to prevent, hinder or interfere with village staff or authorized
representative in the discharge of their duties in the enforcement of this
chapter. It shall be the duty of every operator to keep accurate and complete
books and records to which village staff shall at all times have full access,
which records shall include a daily sheet showing:
      (1)   The number of hotel, motel rooms, or short-term rental rented
during the 24-hour period, including multiple rentals of the same hotel, motel
rooms, or short-term rental where such shall occur;
      (2)   The actual hotel, motel room, or short-term rental receipts
collected for the date in question; and
      (3)   The actual hotel, motel room, or short-term rental receipts
attributable to permanent residents. Further, the accurate and complete records
shall include, but not be limited to, written agreements and other evidence
showing operator is properly claiming exemptions for permanent residents.
   (C)   Monthly returns filed.
      (1)   Every operator shall file monthly with village staff a return, with
payment of the taxes due for the period covered by the return. The return shall
be due on or before the last day of the calendar month succeeding the end of
the monthly filing period. A separate return shall be filed for each place of
business within the village.
      (2)   The operator of each hotel, motel room or short-term rental within
the village shall file tax returns, showing tax receipts for each hotel/motel
during each return period commencing on January 1, on forms prescribed by
village staff. The returns shall be due on or before the fifteenth day of the
calendar month succeeding the end of the monthly filing period.
      (3)   If, for any reason, any tax is not paid when due, a penalty of 1½%
per month or portion thereof from the date of delinquency, shall be added and
collected. In addition, a penalty of 10% of the tax and interest due shall be
assessed and collected against any hotel, motel, or short-term rental operator
who shall fail to collect and/or remit the tax imposed by this chapter.
      (4)   Each operator shall file a return with the following information
stated:
         (a)   Name of hotel, motel, or short-term rental;
         (b)   Name of operator;
         (c)   Address of hotel, motel, or short-term rental location;
         (d)   Receipts for the period covered by the return as a total for the
period and for each month covered by the period;
         (e)   Receipts attributable to permanent residents by month and as a
total for the period;
         (f)   The difference between divisions (C)(4)(d) and (e) above for
each month and as a total for the period;
         (g)   The tax collected for the period;
         (h)   The tax paid with the return for the period;
         (i)   A statement, under oath, by the operator, or its agent, that the
return is true and accurate and that the tax due and owing for the period is
correct as shown on the return; and
         (j)   Such other reasonable and related information as village staff
may require.
   (D)   Collection and enforcement. Whenever any operator fails to pay any
tax, interest or penalty as herein provided, village staff shall, upon request
of the Village Board, bring suit on behalf of the village in a court of
competent jurisdiction for the tax, interest, penalty and costs of collection,
including a reasonable attorney’s fee.
(Am. Ord. 2024-01-02B, passed 1-2-24)
§ 113.03 SHILOH TOURISM AND CONVENTION PROMOTION FUND.
   (A)   Any and all monies and/or taxes collected hereunder shall be placed in
the Shiloh Tourism and Convention Promotion Fund and may be disbursed only in
accordance with the Shiloh Tourism and Convention Promotion Fund ordinance.
   (B)   The Shiloh Tourism and Convention Promotion Fund is adopted pursuant
to the Illinois Municipal Code for the express and limited purpose of
distributing taxes and other monies collected pursuant to the Shiloh Municipal
Hotel/Motel/Short-term Rental Tax. The taxes and other monies collected from
the Shiloh Municipal Hotel/Motel/Short-term Rental Tax shall be expended solely
to promote tourism and conventions within the village or otherwise to attract
nonresident overnight visitors to the village. No funds shall be used to
advertise for, or otherwise promote, new competition in the hotel business.
   (C)   This chapter shall take effect and be in full force and effect
immediately on and after its passage and approval.
(Am. Ord. 2024-01-02B, passed 1-2-24)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Any operator or person found guilty of violating, disobeying, omitting,
neglecting or refusing to comply with or resisting or opposing the enforcement
of any provision of this chapter, in addition to any and all other penalties
provided herein, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine in
accordance with
Chapter 34. Each day the condition exists shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense punishable in the same manner. The purpose of imposing these
penalties is to ensure the integrity of the collection process established
herein.
(Am. Ord. 2024-01-02B, passed 1-2-24)
APPENDIX A: HOTEL/MOTEL TAX/SHORT-TERM RENTAL RETURN
   PERIOD COVERED                                                         
VILLAGE OF SHILOH
HOTEL/MOTEL/SHORT-TERM RENTAL TAX RETURN
 
   Name of hotel, motel, or short-term rental  a
   Name of operator  b
   Address of hotel, motel, or short-term rental location  c
   Receipts for the period covered by the return as a total for the period and for each month covered by the period
    d
   Receipts attributable to permanent residents by month and as a total for the period  e
   The difference between d and e above for each month and for the period  f
   The tax collected for the period  g
   The tax paid with the return for the period  h
********************************************************************
   I confirm that to the best of my knowledge this return is true and accurate and the tax due and owing for the period is
correct as shown on this return.
                                                                                                                               
                     Operator or Agent
                                                                     
                     Commission Expires:
 
CHAPTER 114: SPECIAL EVENTS
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Permit required; procedures; fee
   
114.03   Permit consideration
   
114.04   Restrictions and limitations of permitted sales
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARAGE SALES. A sale of new or used items of personal property conducted
upon a residential premises offered to the general public and referred to but
not limited to a “garage sale”, “yard sale”, “house sale”, “attic sale”, or
“rummage sale”.
   SPECIAL EVENT. Any outdoor or seasonal event such as a tent sale, warehouse
sale, sidewalk sale, craft fair, carnival, picnic, contest, game, sporting
event, rodeo, organized running, organized biking, organized jogging, produce
stand, tree sales lot, tropical snow or snow cone stand, food sales stand or
similar promotion event. A SPECIAL EVENT shall not exceed six months in
duration per calendar year (this does not include the set-up or dismantling,
neither of which shall exceed 30 days).
§ 114.02 PERMIT REQUIRED; PROCEDURES; FEE.
   (A)   Special events as defined in §
114.01 require a special events permit.
   (B)   An application for a special events permit must be filed with the
village and should be filed 90 days prior to your event to allow for processing
and coordination activities. In no event shall this be filed less than seven
days prior to the first day of the special event. Applicant is advised to
review the conditions under which a permit cannot be issued administratively
and time application accordingly (see §
114.03). Please check with staff on how permits are handled. Village will
coordinate review of the application with affected departments. The cost for
the application review is $50 for “for profit” applicants. There will be no
application review charge for nonprofit organizations. Proof shall be provided
of nonprofit status.
   (C)   With each special events permit application, the applicant must also
provide the following related information (if applicable), (note: if necessary,
conditional permits (liquor, health, raffle, fireworks, etc.) may be obtained
after village approval for event, but must be presented to the village prior to
event activities to validate village permit):
      (1)   Traffic and parking plan (parking area; street closing or one-way
restrictions; traffic control points where police assistance may be needed;
overflow parking areas); anticipated crowds; estimated attendance;
      (2)   Contingency plans for rain (relocation or rescheduling of events;
alternative parking areas; method of notifying the public of changes);
      (3)   Proof of liability insurance; and if the event is held on village
property, the, Village of Shiloh and its elected officials and staff shall be
named as an additional insured in the amount of $1,000,000. The only insurance
companies acceptable for this insurance shall be those authorized to transact
business in the State of Illinois and shall be in the Best’s Key Rating Guide
with a rating no lower than B+ provided the financial size category is VII or
larger;
      (4)   Damage bond or a letter of credit to protect village facilities
(this would be mainly for out-of-town sponsors). See above for acceptable
bonding companies;
      (5)   Health permits for all food concessions;
      (6)   Liquor license information for liquor sales (including hours of
sale);
      (7)   Plans for sanitary facilities;
      (8)   A list of for-profit vendors and sales tax numbers (to verify that
sales tax is collected and remitted) to be provided prior to event;
      (9)   A security plan;
      (10)   ADA compliance;
      (11)   The name, phone number and email for the person in charge of the
event and a secondary contact;
      (12)   Special consideration requests, (i.e., village-provided assistance
requested engineering, police, fire and EMS support), being as specific as
possible (fees shall be charged for these services);
      (13)   Signed lease from the property owner for the duration of the
requested permit time. Or property owner’s written permission, if no lease; and
      (14)   Consent for background check.
   (D)   Temporary signs for the special event shall be permitted as provided
for in the sign ordinance of the village. Further information may be found on
our web site at www.Shilohil.org. If you then look at the left side of the
page, click on ordinances, click on Title XV, click on
Chapter 151, then §
151.105.
   (E)   (1)   Electrical permits and inspections are required for all exterior
electrical connections. Electrical permit applications are available from the
Engineering Department. The village must be contacted a minimum of 48 hours
prior to schedule an inspection.
      (2)   Water/sewer/waste permits and inspections are required for all
exterior connections other than portable water. Water/sewer/waste permit
applications are available from the Engineering Department. The village must be
contacted a minimum of 48 hours prior to requiring an inspection.
   (F)   Village staff shall prepare an application review letter which will be
sent to the applicant. The review shall list any items in the application that
are not in compliance with the requirements or advise the next step in the
process.
(Am. Ord. 2017-02-06B, passed 2-2-2017)
§ 114.03 PERMIT CONSIDERATION.
   (A)   Administrative approval. The Village Administration may approve
certain special events provided the applicant has completed the application
process and also meets the following requirements:
      (1)   The event is requested by an existing licensed business within the
village and is located on its business property or is held on village property
and does not require the closure of public streets;
      (2)   The duration of the event will not exceed four days;
      (3)   Outside party at restaurant - on business property;
      (4)   A special event has not or will not be held more than four previous
times during any calendar year at the same location;
      (5)   The applicant has paid the associated permit fee; and
      (6)   The applicant has no outstanding accounts due to the village.
      (7)   There will not be a permit fee for non-profit organizations. Proof
of status shall be filed with the Village Clerk.
(Am. Ord. 2017-02-06B, passed 2-2-2017)
§ 114.04 RESTRICTIONS AND LIMITATIONS OF PERMITTED SALES.
   An owner or occupant of residential premises within the limits of the
village may conduct a garage sale on his or her premises, subject to the
following restrictions:
   (A)   Only two sales are permitted during a calendar year. Residents are
also permitted to participate in their organized subdivision wide yard sales
twice a year;
   (B)   No sale conducted pursuant to this section shall exceed three
consecutive days in length;
   (C)   All sales shall be conducted between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00
p.m.;
   (D)   No sales shall be conducted on public property or right-of-way, unless
authorized by the Village Board;
   (E)   As a safety consideration, no advertising for said sale shall be
placed in a location blocking the view of traffic, including village utility
poles and street signs;
   (F)   Signs used to advertise shall not exceed nine square feet in size.
Signs must be removed immediately at the close of the sale;
   (G)   No items shall be sold at such sale, which are restricted by law.
CHAPTER 115: BUSINESS LICENSES
Section
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   Registration required
   
115.03   (Reserved)
   
115.04   Applications
   
115.05   Fee
   
115.06   Period valid
 
   
115.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   For short-term rental business licenses, see §§
150.50 et seq.
§ 115.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Any occupation, profession, establishment, or enterprise conducted
for profit at a fixed location except those occupations or professions licensed
exclusively by the State of Illinois or instrumentally thereof.
   LICENSE. An authorization to conduct or operate a business or occupation
within the village.
§ 115.02 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   No business, person, firm or corporation shall conduct, engage in,
maintain, operate, carry on or manage any business, occupation, activity or
establishment, either by himself or itself, or through an agent or employee,
for which a license is required by this chapter, without first having obtained
a license for such business, occupation, activity or establishment.
   (B)   The obtaining of a business license pursuant to this chapter in no way
precludes the responsibility for obtaining other licenses as required by the
Municipal Code of the Village of Shiloh.
   (C)   Whenever a license is required for the maintenance, operation or
conduct of any business or establishment, or for doing business or engaging in
any activity or occupation, any person, firm or corporation shall be subject to
the requirement.
   (D)   In addition, where two or more separate businesses, by the above
definition, separately owned or operated, share floor space in the same
building or on the same parcel of ground and the floor space is subdivided,
then each shall be deemed a separate business and shall be required to obtain a
separate business license.
§ 115.03 (RESERVED).
§ 115.04 APPLICATIONS.
   Applications for all licenses and permits shall be made in writing on a form
provided for that purpose except as otherwise provided.
§ 115.05 FEE.
   The fee for a business license is set forth in §
34.01.
§ 115.06 PERIOD VALID.
   All licenses are valid for one year from May 1 to April 30.
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined in
accordance with
Chapter 34 of this Code. Each day's violation shall constitute a separate
offense.
   (B)   In addition, violators face suspension or revocation of their business
licenses.
CHAPTER 116: MUNICIPAL CANNABIS RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX
Section
   
116.01   Tax imposed; rate
   
116.02   Collection of tax by retailers
   
116.03   Effective date
§ 116.01 TAX IMPOSED; RATE.
   (A)   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
selling cannabis, other than cannabis purchased under the Compassionate Use of
Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act (ILCS Ch. 410, Act 130), at retail in the
village at the rate of 3% of the gross receipts from these sales made in the
course of that business.
   (B)   The imposition of this tax is in accordance with the provisions of §
8-11-22, of the Illinois Municipal Code (ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-22).
(Ord. 2019-12-02B, passed 12-2-2019)
§ 116.02 COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILERS.
   (A)   The tax imposed by this chapter shall be remitted by such retailer to
the Illinois Department of Revenue (“Department”). Any tax required to be
collected pursuant to or as authorized by this chapter, and any such tax
collected by such retailer and required to be remitted to the Department, shall
constitute a debt owed by the retailer to the state. Retailers may reimburse
themselves for their sellers’ tax liability hereunder by separately stating
that tax as an additional charge, which charge may be stated in combination, in
a single amount, with any state tax that sellers are required to collect.
   (B)   The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be assessed
as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the Department. The
Department shall have full power to administer and enforce the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 2019-12-02B, passed 12-2-2019)
§ 116.03 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage
and approval and publication as required by law, provided, however, that the
tax provided for herein shall take effect for all sales on or after January 1,
2020, or as soon thereafter as the Illinois Department of Revenue shall begin
administering the Municipal Cannabis Retailers’ Occupation Tax Law (ILCS Ch.
65, Act 5, § 8-11-22). Copies of Ordinance 2019-12-02B shall be certified and
sent to the Illinois Department of Revenue prior to April 1, 2020, or as soon
thereafter as shall be accepted by the Illinois Department of Revenue.
(Ord. 2019-12-02B, passed 12-2-2019)
CHAPTER 117: CABLE AND VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDERS
Section
   
117.01   Cable and video service provider fee
   
117.02   Regulations applicable to holders of state-issued authorizations;
local franchisees
   
117.03   Cable and Video Customer Protection Law
§ 117.01 CABLE AND VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE.
   (A)   This section shall apply to providers of cable and video services
operating pursuant to a state-issued authorization.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CABLE SERVICE. That term as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(6).
      COMMISSION. The Illinois Commerce Commission.
      GROSS REVENUES. All consideration of any kind or nature, including,
without limitation, cash, credits, property, and in-kind contributions received
by the holder for the operation of a cable or video system to provide cable
service or video service within the holder's cable service or video service
area within the village.
         (a)   GROSS REVENUES shall include the following:
            1.   Recurring charges for cable or video service;
            2.    Event-based charges for cable service or video service,
including, but not limited to, pay-per-view and video-on-demand charges;
            3.   Rental of set top boxes and other cable service or video
service equipment;
            4.   Service charges related to the provision of cable service or
video service, including but not limited to activation, installation, and
repair charges;
            5.    Administrative charges related to the provision of cable
service or video service, including but not limited to service order and
service termination charges;
            6.   Late payment fees or charges, insufficient funds check
charges, and other charges assessed to recover the costs of collecting
delinquent payments;
            7.   A pro rata portion of all revenue derived by the holder or its
affiliates pursuant to compensation arrangements for advertising or for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services derived from the operation
of the holder's network to provide cable service or video service within the
village. The allocation shall be based on the number of subscribers in the
village divided by the total number of subscribers in relation to the relevant
regional or national compensation arrangement;
            8.    Compensation received by the holder that is derived from the
operation of the holder's network to provide cable service or video service
with respect to commissions that are received by the holder as compensation for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services on the holder's network,
such as a "home shopping" or similar channel, subject to division 9. below;
            9.   In the case of a cable service or video service that is
bundled or integrated functionally with other services, capabilities, or
applications, the portion of the holder's revenue attributable to the other
services, capabilities, or applications shall be included in the gross revenue
unless the holder can reasonably identify the division or exclusion of the
revenue from its books and records that are kept in the regular course of
business; and
            10.   The service provider fee permitted by ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, §
21-801(b).
         (b)   GROSS REVENUES shall not include any of the following:
            1.   Revenues not actually received, even if billed, such as bad
debt, subject to
ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-801(c)(1)(vi);
            2.   Refunds, discounts, or other price adjustments that reduce the
amount of gross revenues received by the holder of the state-issued
authorization to the extent the refund, rebate, credit, or discount is
attributable to cable service or video service;
            3.   Regardless of whether the services are bundled, packaged, or
functionally integrated with cable service or video service, any revenues
received from services not classified as cable service or video service,
including, without limitation, revenue received from telecommunication
services, information services, or the provision of directory or
internet advertising, including yellow pages, white pages, banner
advertisements, and electronic publishing or any other revenues attributed by
the holder to noncable service or nonvideo service in accordance with the
holder's books and records and records kept in the regular course of business
and any applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards, or orders;
            4.   The sale of cable services or video services for resale in
which the purchaser is required to collect the service provider fee from the
purchaser's subscribers to the extent the purchaser certifies in writing that
it will resell the service within the village and pay the fee permitted by ILCS
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-801(b) with respect to the service;
            5.   Any tax or fee of general applicability imposed upon the
subscribers or the transaction by a city, state, federal, or any other
governmental entity and collected by the holder of the state-issued
authorization and required to be remitted to the taxing entity, including sales
and use taxes;
            6.   Security deposits collected from subscribers; and
            7.   Amounts paid by subscribers to "home shopping" or similar
vendors for merchandise sold through any home shopping channel offered as part
of the cable service or video service.
         (c)   Revenue of an affiliate of a holder shall be included in the
calculation of GROSS REVENUES to the extent the treatment of the revenue as
revenue of the affiliate rather than the holder has the effect of evading the
payment of the fee permitted by ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-801(b) which would
otherwise be paid by the cable service or video service.
      HOLDER. A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or
provide cable or video service from the Commission pursuant to ILCS Ch. 220,
Act 5, § 21-401.
      SERVICE. The provision of "cable service" or "video service" to
subscribers and the interaction of subscribers with the person or entity that
has received authorization to offer or provide cable or video service from the
Commission pursuant to ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-401.
      SERVICE PROVIDER FEE. The amount paid under this chapter and ILCS Ch.
220, Act 5, § 21-801 by the holder to a village for the service areas within
its territorial jurisdiction.
      VIDEO SERVICE. Video programming and subscriber interaction, if any, that
is required for the selection or use of such video programming services, and
which is provided through wireline facilities located at least in part in the
public right-of-way without regard to delivery technology, including internet
protocol technology. This definition does not include any video programming
provided by a commercial mobile service provider defined in 47 U.S.C. § 332(d)
or any video programming provided solely as part of, and via, service that
enables users to access content, information, electronic mail, or other
services offered over the public internet.
   (C)   Cable/video service provider fee imposed.
      (1)   Fee imposed. A fee is hereby imposed on any holder providing cable
service or video service in the village.
      (2)   Amount of fee. The amount of the fee imposed hereby shall be 5% of
the holder's gross revenues. [Note: The fee can be no greater than the fee paid
to the village by an incumbent cable operator providing cable service.]
      (3)   Notice to the village. The holder shall notify the village at least
ten days prior to the date on which the holder begins to offer cable service or
video service in the village.
      (4)   Holder's liability. The holder shall be liable for and pay the
service provider fee to the village. The holder's liability for the fee shall
commence on the first day of the calendar month following 30 days after receipt
of the ordinance adopting this chapter by the holder. The ordinance adopting
this chapter shall be sent by mail, postage prepaid, to the address listed on
the holder's application notice sent pursuant to ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-401
(b)(6) to the village.
      (5)   Payment date. The payment of the service provider fee shall be due
on a quarterly basis, 45 days after the close of the calendar quarter. If
mailed, the fee is considered paid on the date it is postmarked. Each payment
shall include a statement explaining the basis for the calculation of the fee.
      (6)   Exemption. The fee hereby imposed does not apply to existing cable
service or video service providers that have an existing franchise agreement
with the village in which a fee is paid.
      (7)   Credit for other payments. An incumbent cable operator that elects
to terminate an existing agreement pursuant to ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-301(c)
with credit for prepaid franchise fees under that agreement may deduct the
amount of such credit from the fees that operator owes under division (C)(2).
   (D)   Applicable principles. All determinations and calculations under this
chapter shall be made pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles.
   (E)   No impact on other taxes due from holder. Nothing contained in this
chapter shall be construed to exempt a holder from any tax that is or may later
be imposed by the village, including any tax that is or may later be required
to be paid by or through the holder with respect to cable service or video
service. A state-issued authorization shall not affect any requirement of the
holder with respect to payment of the village's simplified municipal
telecommunications tax or any other tax as it applies to any telephone service
provided by the holder. A state-issued authorization shall not affect any
requirement of the holder with respect to payment of the local unit of
government's 911 or E911 fees, taxes or charges.
   (F)   Audits of cable/video service provider.
      (1)   Audit requirement. The village will notify the holder of the
requirements it imposes on other cable service or video service providers to
submit to an audit of its books and records. The holder shall comply with the
same requirements the village imposes on other cable service or video service
providers in its jurisdiction to audit the holder's books and records and to
recompute any amounts determined to be payable under the requirements of the
village. If all local franchises between the village and cable operator
terminate, the audit requirements shall be those adopted by the village
pursuant to the Local Government Taxpayers' Bill of Rights Act, ILCS Ch. 50,
Act 45, § 1 et seq. No acceptance of amounts remitted should be construed as an
accord that the amounts are correct.
      (2)   Additional payments. Any additional amount due after an audit shall
be paid within 30 days after the municipality's submission of an invoice for
the sum.
   (G)   Late fees/payments. All fees due and payments which are past due shall
be governed by ordinances adopted by this municipality pursuant to the Local
Government Taxpayers' Bill of Rights Act, ILCS Ch. 50, Act 45, § 1 et seq.
(Ord. 2008-02-04A, passed 2-4-2008; Am. Ord. 2021-02-01A, passed 2-1-2021)
§ 117.02 REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO HOLDERS OF STATE-ISSUED AUTHORIZATIONS;
LOCAL FRANCHISEES.
   (A)   All holders of a state-issued authorization to provide cable or video
services shall be subject to construction and technical standards and right-of-
way occupancy standards set forth in village ordinances and other village
ordinances relating to the use of public rights-of-way, pole attachments,
permit obligations, indemnification, performance bonds, penalties or liquidated
damages as may apply to a provider of cable or video services operating
pursuant to a franchise granted by the village under such ordinances.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of law, if the village is permitted by law
to require a holder of a state-issued authorization to seek a permit to
install, construct, operate, maintain or remove its cable service, video
service, or telecommunications network within a public right-of-way, those
permits shall be deemed granted within 45 days after being submitted, if not
otherwise acted upon by the village, provided the holder complies with the
requirements applicable to the holder imposed by the village.
   (B)   All holders of a state-issued authorization to provide cable or video
service that provide such services within the village shall be subject to the
additional provisions set forth in ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-1001, as amended.
   (C)   In addition to the above requirements, all holders of a state-issued
authorization to provide cable or video services shall be subject to the
following general requirements regarding placement and location of such a
holder's facilities:
      (1)   No interference with village facilities. No facilities shall be
placed in any location if village staff determine that the proposed location
will require the relocation or displacement of any of the village's utility
facilities or will otherwise interfere with the operation or maintenance of any
of the village's utility facilities.
      (2)   Minimum interference and impact. The proposed location shall cause
only the minimum possible interference with the use of the rights-of-way and
shall cause only the minimum possible impact upon and interference with the
rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin said rights-of-
way.
      (3)   No interference with travel. No facility shall be placed in any
location that interferes with the usual travel on such rights-of-way.
      (4)   No limitations on visibility. No utility facility shall be placed
in any location so as to limit visibility of or by users of the rights-of-way.
      (5)   Size of utility facilities. The proposed installation of facilities
shall use the smallest suitable vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures, power
pedestals, and/or cabinets then in use by the facility owner, regardless of
location, for the particular application.
      (6)   Location and screening. A holder of a state-issued authorization
shall comply with the village's reasonable requests to place equipment on
public property where possible, and promptly comply with the village's
direction with respect to the location and screening of equipment and
facilities.
   (D)   Insurance. All holders of a state-issued authorization to provide
cable or video services shall provide the village evidence of self-insurance.
   (E)   Enforcement. The requirements of the Cable and Video Competition Law
of 2007 (codified at 220 ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, Art. XXI) shall apply to all
holders of a state-issued authorization to provide cable and video services
under the terms thereof and, to the extent provided by law, the village may
enforce such provisions as a condition of this chapter, consistent with ILCS
Ch. 220 Act 5, § 21-1301(a).
   (F)   Emergency alert system. A provider of cable or video services, whether
providing such services pursuant to a state-issued authorization or a local
franchise ("provider"), shall comply with 47 U.S.C. § 544(g) and all
regulations issued pursuant thereto in addition to the supplementary
requirements herein. In addition, consistent with the provisions of ILCS Ch.
220, Act 5, § 21-701, a provider shall on request of the village provide an
override capability so that village may access the provider's system with an
audio and visual message on all channels in the event of an emergency or
disaster. A provider will provide the necessary electronic equipment for such
emergency override system. Further, a provider will maintain said equipment and
provide for regularly scheduled testing by the village to insure that the
equipment is functioning properly. Except as may be otherwise agreed or
required by law, the required telephone or other connection to the emergency
alert system shall be the responsibility of a provider.
   (G)   Application to local franchisees. The requirements of this chapter
shall also apply to providers of cable service or video service providing such
services pursuant to a local franchise or other authority from the village to
the extent permitted by applicable law; provided such application does not
violate the terms of such local franchise or authority.
(Ord. 2008-02-04A, passed 2-4-2008)
§ 117.03 CABLE AND VIDEO CUSTOMER PROTECTION LAW.
   (A)   Customer service and privacy protection.
      (1)   Adoption. The regulations of ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 70-501 ("the
Cable and Video Customer Protection Law") are hereby adopted by reference and
made applicable to all cable or video providers offering services within the
village's boundaries. As such regulations are deemed necessary to the village's
exercise of the police power, the ordinance adopting this chapter and the
regulations contained in ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 70-501 will supersede any
customer service and privacy protection standards contained in a franchise
granted by the village to a provider of cable or video services.
      (2)   Amendments. Any amendment to the Cable and Video Customer
Protection Law that becomes effective after the effective date of this chapter
shall be incorporated into this section by reference and shall be applicable to
cable or video providers offering services within the village's boundaries.
However, any amendment that makes its provisions optional for adoption by
municipalities shall not be incorporated into this section by reference without
formal action by the corporate authorities of the village.
   (B)   Enforcement. The village does hereby pursuant to law declare its
intent to enforce all of the customer service and privacy protection standards
of the Cable and Video Customer Protection Law with respect to complaints
received from residents within the village.
   (C)   Penalties. The village, pursuant to ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 70-501(r)
(1), does hereby provide for a schedule of penalties for any material breach of
the Cable and Video Customer Protection Law by cable or video providers in
addition to the penalties provided in the law. The monetary penalties shall
apply on a competitively neutral basis and shall not exceed $750 for each day
of the material breach, and shall not exceed $25,000 for each occurrence of a
material breach per customer.
      (1)   Material breach means any substantial failure of a cable or video
provider to comply with service quality and other standards specified in any
provision of the Cable and Video Customer Protection Law.
      (2)   The village shall give the cable or video provider written notice
of any alleged material breaches of the Cable and Video Customer Protection Law
and allow such provider at least 30 days from the receipt of the notice to
remedy the specified material breach.
      (3)   A material breach, for the purposes of assessing penalties, shall
be deemed to occur for each day that a material breach has not been remedied by
the cable or video service provider after the notice in division (2).
   (D)   Customer credits. The village hereby adopts a schedule of customer
credits that shall be paid directly to customers by the cable or video provider
for violations of the requirements adopted by this section. The schedule of
credits shall be the maximum amount as provided for in the provisions of ILCS
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 70-50l(s) and applied on the statement issued to the customer
for the next billing cycle following the violation or following the discovery
of the violation. The cable or video provider is responsible for providing the
credits and the customer is under no obligation to request the credit.
   (E)   PEG access required. Holders of a state-issued authorization to
provide cable or video services that are providing such services within the
village shall provide public, education and government ("PEG") access in the
manner provided in ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-601. Receipt of the ordinance
enacting this division by a state-authorized provider of cable and video
services shall be considered a request by the village to provide such PEG
Access.
(Ord. 2008-02-04A, passed 2-4-2008)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      Chapter
         
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
         
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC SAFETY
         
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
         
134.   OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
         
135.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
         
136.   ALCOHOL, DRUGS AND TOBACCO
         
137.   FIREARMS, WEAPONS AND EXPLOSIVES
         
138.   FIREWORKS
         
139.   PUBLIC CAMPING
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   Definitions
   
130.02   Reserved
   
130.03   Delinquency; encouraging
   
130.04   Escape; aiding in
   
130.05   False pretenses
   
130.06   Impersonation of officer
   
130.07   Aid to offense
   
130.08   Resisting or obstructing officer
   
130.09   Parental responsibility for damages
   
130.10   Public urination
 
   
130.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances; Health and Sanitation, see
Chapter 90
§ 130.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this title, the words and phrases of the Illinois
Compiled Statutes, as approved, adopted and amended, are hereby adopted by the
village, as fully as if set out herein.
§ 130.02 RESERVED.
§ 130.03 DELINQUENCY; ENCOURAGING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, by an act or neglect, to
encourage, aid or cause delinquency in a child.
   (B)   It shall likewise be unlawful for any person, after notice that a
driver's license of any child has been suspended or revoked, to permit the
child to operate a motor vehicle during the period that the driver's license is
suspended.
   (C)   It shall likewise be unlawful for any person to knowingly permit any
child to operate a motor vehicle without a license.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 ESCAPE; AIDING IN.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to rescue or shall abet or encourage the rescue
or escape of any person from the custody of any officer or other person legally
having him or her in charge, or shall molest or interfere with any officer or
other person so legally having him or her in charge, or shall in any manner
aid, abet or encourage the rescue or the attempt to escape from any person
legally committed thereto, or shall supply or attempt to supply any such person
with any weapon or with any implement or means whereby an escape might be
affected, or with any intoxicating liquors, drugs or other article without the
consent of the officer in charge.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person convicted of any offense or in
lawful custody to escape or attempt to escape from custody.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 FALSE PRETENSES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obtain any food, drink, goods, wares
or merchandise under false pretenses, or to enter any public place and call for
refreshments or other articles and receive and refuse to pay for same, or
depart without paying for or satisfying the person from whom he or she received
the food, goods, wares or merchandise.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06 IMPERSONATION OF OFFICER.
   No person in the village shall falsely represent himself or herself to be an
officer of the village, or shall, without being duly authorized by the village,
exercise or attempt to exercise any of the duties, functions or powers of a
village officer, or hinder, obstruct, resist or otherwise interfere with any
village officer in the discharge of the duties of his or her officer, or
attempt to prevent any such officer from arresting any person, either by force
or by giving notice to the person, or attempt to rescue from such officer any
person in his or her custody, or impersonate any of the members of the police
force of the village, or maliciously or with the intention of deceiving any
person, wear the uniform of, or a uniform similar to that worn by the members
of the Police Department or use any of the signs, signals or devices adopted
and used by the Police Department.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.07 AID TO OFFENSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, in any way, to aid, abet, counsel,
advise or encourage any other person in the commission of any of the acts
mentioned herein or in any manner encourage the commission of such offense
hereby defined.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.08 RESISTING OR OBSTRUCTING OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere wilfully with, resist,
delay, obstruct, molest or threaten to molest any officer of the municipality
in the exercise of his or her official duties.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.09 PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY FOR DAMAGES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      LEGAL GUARDIAN. Any person appointed guardian or given custody of an
unemancipated minor by a Circuit Court of the state or of any state of the
United States, but does not include a person appointed guardian or given
custody of, an unemancipated minor under the Illinois Juvenile Court Act, being
ILCS Ch. 705, Act 405, §§ 1-1 et seq.
      PARENT. The lawful mother or father of an unemancipated minor, whether by
adoption or birth.
      PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
company or organization of any kind.
      PROPERTY. Any real estate including improvements thereon and tangible
personalty.
      UNEMANCIPATED MINOR. A person who has attained 11 years of age but who
has not yet reached 19 years of age and who resides with his or her parent or
legal guardian, and whose prime support is provided by his or her parent or
legal guardian, but resides in another place with the permission of his or her
parent or legal guardian.
   (B)   Agreement. Upon establishment of the guilt of an unemancipated minor
for willful or malicious acts which cause injury to a person or property, the
unemancipated minor shall obtain from his or her parent or legal guardian an
agreement that restitution shall be made by the parent or legal guardian to the
person injured or the owner of the property damaged and shall also obtain a
payment schedule for the payments; provided that:
      (1)   Restitution has not already been made by the unemancipated minor,
his or her parent or legal guardian or any other person, voluntarily or under
the provisions of the Illinois Parental Responsibility Law (Illinois Compiled
Statutes); and
      (2)   The parent or legal guardian was made a party defendant in all
proceedings against the unemancipated minor and has been served with all
citations, summons, complaints, notices and other documents required to be
served upon the unemancipated minor defendant, with service made upon the
parent or legal guardian, in the same manner service was made upon the
unemancipated minor defendant.
   (C)   Limitation on recovery. No restitution under this title may exceed
$1,000 actual damages for each person or property owner for each occurrence of
willful or malicious acts by the unemancipated minor which causes injury. In
determining the damages to be allowed in a restitution for personal injury,
only medical, dental and hospital expenses may be considered. This title shall
not effect the recovery of damages in any other cause of action where the
liability of the parent or legal guardian is predicated on a common law basis.
§ 130.10 PUBLIC URINATION.
   (A)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any place where the conduct may reasonably be expected to
be viewed by others.
      URINATION OR DEFECATION. Any act which constitutes the initiation, action
or completion of urinating or defecating, including, but not limited to,
exposing the genital area.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to perform any act of urination or defecation in
a public place within the village.
   (C)   Penalty. Violation of this section by any person shall secure a
penalty not to exceed $500 for each offense.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2012)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this title for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   In the event that restitution is not made according to the payment
schedule obtained in compliance with §
130.09(B)(2), the parent or legal guardian shall be presumed to have failed to
exercise proper parental responsibility, shall be charged with that offense,
and upon conviction, shall be fined an amount in accordance with
Chapter 34 for each offense under the Illinois Compiled Statutes.
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
Section
   
131.01   Obscenity
   
131.02   Massage parlors
   
131.03   Admission fees; fraudulently avoiding payment
   
131.04   Assembly
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 OBSCENITY.
   (A)   A thing shall be deemed to be OBSCENE if:
      (1)   The average person, applying the contemporary community standards
prevailing in the village, would find that the work taken as a whole appealed
to the prurient interest;
      (2)   The work depicts or describes in a patently offensive way,
representations or description of nude persons, ultimate sexual acts, normal or
perverted sexual conduct, whether actual or simulated, or patently offensive
representations or descriptions of masturbation, excretory functions or lewd
exhibition of the human genitals; and
      (3)   The work, taken as a whole, lacks literary, artistic, political or
scientific value.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, deliver, offer for sale,
distribute, publish, print, exhibit or possess with intent to distribute, with
knowledge of the nature or content thereof, or recklessly or content thereof,
any obscene thing as defined in division (A) above or to present or to direct
an obscene play or other performance or to perform an obscene act or otherwise
present an obscene exhibition or to advertise or otherwise promote obscene
material.
   (C)   It shall be an affirmative defense to any charge alleging the
violation of this section that the dissemination, publication or exhibition:
      (1)   Was not for gain, and was made to personal associates other than
children under 18 years of age; and/or
      (2)   Was to institutions or individuals having scientific or other
special justification for possession, receipt or observation of the material,
exhibition or presentation.
Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02 MASSAGE PARLORS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MASSAGE. Any method of pressure on or friction against or stroking,
kneading, rubbing, tapping, pounding, vibrating or stimulating of the external
soft parts of the body with the hands or with the aid of any mechanical or
electrical apparatus or appliance with or without supplementary aids as rubbing
alcohol, liniments, antiseptics, oils, powder, lotions, creams, ointments or
other similar preparations used in this practice.
      MASSAGE PARLOR. Any public or private establishment wherein massages are
performed.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful to perform massages in the village for
other than purely therapeutic purposes unless the person performing the
massages is a physical therapist licensed by the state, and has filed a
certificate of good standing or other proof of his or her license with the
village.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to own or operate a massage parlor in the
village wherein massages are performed for the sexual gratification of the
recipient of the massage.
   (C)   (1)   Division (B) above shall not apply to a physician, surgeon,
chiropractor or osteopath duly licensed by the state, or to a licensed nurse
acting under the direct prescription and direction of any such physician,
surgeon, chiropractor or osteopath.
      (2)   Further, division (B) above shall not apply to barber shops or
beauty parlors in which massages are given only to the scalp, the face, the
neck or the shoulders.
Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03 ADMISSION FEES; FRAUDULENTLY AVOIDING PAYMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person fraudulently to enter, without payment
of the proper admission fee, any theater, ballroom, lecture, concert or other
place where admission fees are charged; provided, however, that, nothing herein
contained shall be deemed to prohibit or restrict the free admission of police
officers engaged in the performance of police duties to any place of public
entertainment or amusement.
Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.04 ASSEMBLY.
   Permits must be obtained from the village.
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person violating any provision of §
131.01 shall be fined in accordance with
Chapter 34, on his, her, or its first violation thereof. The second and
subsequent conviction shall carry a fine in accordance with
Chapter 34.
      (2)   The “Nuisance Ordinance”, as addressed in §
131.01, is understood to be any or all articles enumerated in
Chapter 90 of this Code.
   (C)   (1)   Any individual partnership or firm convicted of a violation of §
131.02(B) shall be fined in accordance with
Chapter 34 for the first conviction.
      (2)   Any individual, partnership or firm convicted of a second or
subsequent violation of §
131.02(B) shall be fined in accordance with
Chapter 34.
      (3)   Violation of §
131.02(B) on separate days shall constitute separate offenses.
   (D)   Any person violating any provision of §
131.05 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and or his or her or its first
conviction thereof shall be fined in accordance with
Chapter 34.
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC SAFETY
Section
   
132.01   Barbed wire; electric fences
   
132.02   Discarded refrigerators
   
132.03   Curfew
   
132.04   Truancy
 
   
132.99   Penalty
§ 132.01 BARBED WIRE; ELECTRIC FENCES.
   No barbed wire or other such sharp pointed fence below eight feet in height
and no electrically-charged fence shall be erected or maintained except in
nonurban districts.
Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 132.02 DISCARDED REFRIGERATORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to leave or permit
to remain outside of any dwelling, building or other structure or within any
unoccupied or abandoned building, dwelling or other structure under his or her
or its control, any abandoned, unattended or discarded ice box, refrigerator or
other container which has an air-tight door or lid, snap lock or other locking
device which may not be released from the inside without first removing the
door or lid, snap lock or other device from the ice box, or refrigerator or
container.
Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 132.03 CURFEW.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a person less than 17 years of age to be
present at or upon any public assembly, building, place, street, highway, or
other public place or way at the following times:
      (1)   For persons less than 13 years of age, between 9:00 p.m. and 6:00
a.m. the following day on any day of the week.
      (2)   For persons at least 13 years of age, but not yet 17 years of age:
         a.   Between 11:00 p.m. on Sunday to Thursday, inclusive, and 6:00
a.m. on the following day.
         b.   Between 12:01 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. Saturday and Sunday.
   (B)   It is a defense to a violation under this chapter that the child
engaged in the prohibited conduct while:
      (1)   Accompanied by the child's parent, legal guardian, custodian,
sibling, stepbrother, or stepsister at least 18 years of age;
      (2)   Accompanied by an adult at least 21 years of age approved by the
child's parent, guardian, or custodian.
      (3)   Participating in, going to, or returning from:
         a.   Employment which the laws of this state authorize a person less
than 17 years of age to perform;
         b.   A school recreational activity;
         c.   A religious event;
         d.   An emergency involving the protection of a person or property
from an imminent threat of serious bodily injury or substantial damage;
         e.   An activity involving the exercise of the child's rights
protected under the First Amendment to the United States Constitution or
Article 1, Sections 3, 4, and 5 of the Constitution of the State of Illinois,
or both;
         f.   An activity conducted by a non-profit or governmental entity that
provides recreation, education, training, or other care under the supervision
of one or more adult.
   A citation for violation of division (A) of this section may be issued by a
police officer only if he or she reasonably believes that a violation has
occurred and none of the defenses enumerated in division (B) apply.
   (C)   It is unlawful for a parent, legal guardian, custodian, or other
person to knowingly permit a person in his or her custody or control to violate
provisions of division (A) of this section. It shall be a rebuttable
presumption that a person has violated this section if someone under 17 years
of age of whom such person has custody or control is present upon any public
assembly, building, business, street or highway, or other public place or
public way in violation of division (A) of this section, and none of the
defenses enumerated in division (B) hereof apply.
   (D)   Any person convicted of a violation of division (C) of this section
shall be fined $50 for the first violation in any 12-month period; $75 for a
second violation in any 12-month period; and $200 for a third or subsequent
violation in any 12-month period.
Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.04 TRUANCY.
   (A)   Compulsory attendance. Any child between the ages of seven years and
16 years, residing within the limits of the village, must be enrolled in and
attending an institute of education, whether parochial or private, or otherwise
continuing education in accordance with, and following the provisions and
exceptions outlined in ILCS Ch. 105, Act 5, § 26.
   (B)   Absences.
      (1)   No child between the ages of seven years and 16 years shall fail to
attend any classes or activity outlined in division (A) above without being
excused through the school, institution or instructor designated, with the
permission of a parent or guardian.
      (2)   No parent or guardian of any child subject to compulsory attendance
as outlined in division (A) above shall knowingly or intentionally allow a
child to become truant.
      (3)   No parent or guardian, through action or negligence, shall cause or
allow any child, subject to compulsory attendance as outline in division (A)
above to become truant for 10% or more of the previous 180 regular attendance
days.
      (4)   No person shall induce, cause or contribute to the truancy of, or
harbor or assist any minor who is truant.
      (5)   No minor, absent from compulsory attendance, in this district or
any other, whether truant or excused, shall be present in or on any public
place or private place open to the public within the limits of the village,
without the direct supervision of a parent, guardian or other mature adult (18
years of age or above) designated by a parent or guardian.
Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any parent or person having custody or control of a child who shall
violate §
132.02(C) shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in accordance with
Chapter 34.
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
Section
   
133.01   Public gatherings
   
133.02   Loitering
   
133.03   Disorderly conduct
   
133.04   False alarms
 
   
133.99   Penalty
§ 133.01 PUBLIC GATHERINGS.
   No person shall, with intent to incite violence or disturb the peace,
congregate with others on a public street or sidewalk in any public place and
refuse to move on when ordered by the police.
Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.02 LOITERING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition applies
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LOITER. To remain in an area for no obvious reason or to stand around or
move slowly about, also, to stand idly around or to linger or spend time idly.
LOITERING shall also include the act of delaying an activity with aimless idle
stops and pauses.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter in a place, at a time or
in a manner not usual for law-abiding individuals, under circumstances that
warrant a justifiable and reasonable alarm or immediate concern for the safety
of persons or property in the vicinity.
   (C)   Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining whether
such alarm or immediate concern is warranted are:
      (1)   Whether the person takes flight upon appearance of a law
enforcement officer;
      (2)   Whether the person refuses to identify himself or herself; and
      (3)   Whether the person attempts to conceal himself or herself or any
object.
   (D)   Unless flight by the person or other circumstances makes it
impracticable, a law-enforcement officer shall, prior to any arrest for an
offense under this title, afford the person an opportunity to dispel any alarm
or immediate concern which would otherwise be warranted by requesting him or
her to identify himself or herself and explain his or her presence and conduct.
Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.03 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   A person commits disorderly conduct when he or she knowingly:
      (1)   Does any act in such unreasonable manner as to alarm or disturb
another and to provoke a breach of the peace;
      (2)   With intent to annoy another, makes a telephone call, whether or
not conversation thereby ensues;
      (3)   Transmits in any manner to the Fire Department of the village, or
fire protection district, a false alarm of fire, knowing at the time of such
transmission there is no reasonable ground for believing that the fire exists;
      (4)   Transmits in any manner to another a false alarm to the effect that
a bomb or other explosive of any nature is concealed in the place that its
explosion would endanger human life, knowing at the time of the transmission
that there is no reasonable ground for believing that the bomb or explosive is
concealed in the place;
      (5)   Transmits in any manner to any peace officer, public officer or
public employee a report to the effect that an offense has been committed,
knowing at the time of the transmission that there is no reasonable ground for
believing that the offense has been committed; and/or
      (6)   Enters upon the property of another and for a lewd or unlawful
purpose deliberately looks into a dwelling on the property through any window
or other opening in it.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to commit disorderly conduct.
Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.04 FALSE ALARMS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, business or corporation residing
or doing business in the village, and having on its premises a burglar alarm,
to permit or allow the transmission of a false alarm if the burglar alarm in
question has transmitted three or more false alarms in preceding calendar month
or seven or more times in a period of 30 days or less.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BURGLAR ALARM. Any alarm system designed to detect and signal the
presence of a burglar, thief, interloper or person breaching the  peace which
terminates in any manner at St. Clair County Central Communications Center or
emits an audible sound at the physical premises on which the alarm is
installed.
      FALSE ALARM. Any and all detonations of burglar alarms (when in fact, no
burglar, thief, interloper or person breaching the peace on the premises) if
the detonation was caused by human error or equipment malfunction at the
physical premises on which the alarm is installed, but not if the detonation
was caused by a malfunction in telephone lines or equipment not located at the
physical premises on which the alarm is installed.
Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
133.01 shall be fined in accordance with
Chapter 34 for each such violation.
   (C)   Any person who violates §
133.02 shall be fined in accordance with
Chapter 34, for each such violation.
   (D)   Any person, business or corporation violating any provision of §
133.04 shall be fined in accordance with
Chapter 34 and a separate offense shall be deemed committed each and every time
police officers of the village respond to a false alarm made unlawful by §
133.04.
CHAPTER 134: OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
Section
   
134.01   Assault
   
134.02   Battery
   
134.03   Petty theft
   
134.04   Retail theft
 
   
134.99   Penalty
§ 134.01 ASSAULT.
   (A)   A person commits an assault when, without lawful authority, he or she
engages in conduct which places another in reasonable apprehension of receiving
a battery.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to commit an assault.
Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.02 BATTERY.
   (A)   A person commits battery if he or she intentionally or knowingly
without legal justifications and by any means:
      (1)   Causes bodily harm to an individual; or
      (2)   Makes physical contact of an insulting or provoking nature with an
individual.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to commit battery.
Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.03 PETTY THEFT.
   (A)   A person commits a petty theft when the value of the property is under
$300 and he or she knowingly:
      (1)   Obtains or exerts unauthorized control over property of the owner;
      (2)   Obtains by deception, control over property of the owner;
      (3)   Obtains by threat control over property of the owner; or
      (4)   Obtains control over stolen property knowing the property to have
been stolen by another or under such circumstances as would reasonably induce
him or her to believe that the property was stolen, and:
         (a)   Intends to deprive the owner permanently of the use or benefit
of the property; and/or
         (b)   Knowingly uses, conceals or abandons the property in such a
manner as to deprive the owner permanently of the use or benefit.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to commit a petty theft.
Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.04 RETAIL THEFT.
   A person commits the offense of retail theft under $150 when he or she
knowingly:
   (A)   Takes possession of, carries away, transfers or causes to be carried
away or transferred, any merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for
sale in a retail mercantile establishment with the intention of retaining such
merchandise or the intention of depriving the merchant permanently of the
possession, use or benefit of the merchandise without paying the full retail
value of the merchandise, having a value of less than $150;
   (B)   Alters, transfers or removes any label, price tag, marking, indicia of
value or any other marking which aid in determining the value affixed to
merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for sale in a retail mercantile
establishment and attempts to purchase the merchandise personally or in consort
with another at less than the full retail value with the intention of depriving
the merchant of the full retail value of the merchandise, having a value of
less than $150;
   (C)   Removes a shopping cart from the premises of a retail mercantile
establishment without the consent of the merchant given at the time of removal
with the intention of depriving the merchant permanently of the possession, use
or benefit of the cart, having a value of less than $150; or
   (D)   Uses or possesses any theft detection shielding device or theft
detection device remover with the intention of using the device to deprive the
merchant permanently of the possession, use or benefit of any merchandise
displayed, held, stored or offered for sale in a retail mercantile
establishment without paying the full retail value of the merchandise, having a
value of less than $150.
Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
134.04 shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in accordance with
Chapter 34.
CHAPTER 135: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
135.01   Destruction of public property
   
135.02   Destruction of private property
   
135.03   Renting premises for unlawful purposes
   
135.04   Posting bills
   
135.05   Numbering structures
   
135.06   Utility wires and poles; injury
   
135.07   Trespassing
   
135.08   Fire hydrants; equipment; criminal damage
 
   
135.99   Penalty
§ 135.01 DESTRUCTION OF PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   No person shall deface, destroy or, in any way, injure any public property
or any other apparatus of the village.
Penalty, see §
135.99
§ 135.02 DESTRUCTION OF PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No person shall deface, destroy or, in any way, injure any vehicle or
property that is not owned by the person.
Penalty, see §
135.99
§ 135.03 RENTING PREMISES FOR UNLAWFUL PURPOSES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to rent, use or allow to be used any
building or property owned by him or her, for any purpose whereby riotous or
disorderly persons are gathered.
Penalty, see §
135.99
§ 135.04 POSTING BILLS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to paste, paint, print or nail any
handbill, sign, poster, advertisement or notice of any kind on any curbstone,
flagstone or any other portion or part of any sidewalk, or upon any tree,
lamppost, utility pole, hydrant or upon any private wall, door or gate, without
the consent in writing of the owner of the curbstone, flagstone, sidewalk,
tree, lamppost, utility pole, hydrant, private wall, door or gate; provided,
however, that, this section shall not prevent posting by proper village and
county officials of election signs, polling place signs, and other signs or
placards necessary under the law to the conduct of elections, except they may
not be attached to a tree.
Penalty, see §
135.99
§ 135.05 NUMBERING STRUCTURES.
   All buildings, residential or commercial, within the village shall be
numbered. It shall be the duty of the owner and occupant of every building in
the village to have placed upon the portion of the building that is visible
from the street, figures at least three inches high showing the number of the
structure.
Penalty, see §
135.99
§ 135.06 UTILITY WIRES AND POLES; INJURY.
   It shall be unlawful to wilfully, maliciously or negligently break, deface,
injure or destroy any telegraph or telephone pole, post or wire, or any
electric light pole or electric conductor, wire or lamp or any other thing
connected with the same or belonging thereto, or any water main, gas main, pipe
or hydrant or lamp or lamppost, or anything belonging to or connected
therewith, or with any of them.
Penalty, see §
135.99
§ 135.07 TRESPASSING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to knowingly and without authority to enter any
vehicle, aircraft or watercraft or any part thereof of another without his or
her consent.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to enter upon the land or any part thereof of
another, after receiving, immediately prior to the entry, notice from the owner
or occupant that the entry is forbidden, or to remain upon the land of another
after receiving notice from the owner or occupant to depart.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to enter upon land, or any building owned or
occupied by the village, after receiving, immediately prior to the entry,
notice from the village or its representative that the entry is forbidden, or
to remain upon the land or in the building after receiving notice from the
village or its representatives to depart, and thereby interfere with another
person's lawful use or enjoyment of the building or land.
   (D)   A person has received notice within the meaning of divisions (B) and
(C) above if he or she has been notified personally, either orally or in
writing, or if a printed or written notice forbidding the entry to him or her
or a group of which he or she is a part, has been conspicuously posted or
exhibited at the main entrance to the land or building or the forbidden part
thereof.
   (E)   This section does not apply to any person, whether a migrant worker or
otherwise living on the land with permission of the owner or of his or her
agent having apparent authority to hire workers on the land and assign them
living quarters or a place of accommodations for living thereon, nor to anyone
living on the land at the request of, or by occupancy, leasing or other
agreement or arrangement with the owner or his or her agent, not to anyone
invited by the migrant worker or other person so living on the land to visit
him or her at the place he or she is so living upon the land.
Penalty, see §
135.99
§ 135.08 FIRE HYDRANTS; EQUIPMENT; CRIMINAL DAMAGE.
   No person shall wilfully and maliciously cut, injure, damage, tamper with or
destroy or deface any fire hydrant or any fire hose or any fire engine, or
other public or private fire-fighting equipment, or any apparatus appertaining
to the equipment, or intentionally open any fire hydrant without proper
authorization.
Penalty, see §
135.99
§ 135.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any of the rules of §
135.05, after due notification by the village shall be subjected to a fine in
accordance with
Chapter 34. Each day that the violation continues shall be deemed a separate
offense.
CHAPTER 136: ALCOHOL, DRUGS AND TOBACCO
Section
Alcohol
   
136.01   Definitions
   
136.02   Intoxication in public; illegal premises for consumption or possession
   
136.03   Delivery to minor
   
136.04   Possession or consumption by minor
   
136.05   Unlawfully permitting minor to become intoxicated
   
136.06   Fraudulent identification; possession
Tobacco
   
136.20   Sale to minors
   
136.21   Fraudulent identification; possession
   
136.22   Possession by a minor prohibited
Illegal Drugs and Paraphernalia
   
136.35   Cannabis; possession
   
136.36   Drug paraphernalia
   
136.37   Inhalants; possession
Regulation of the Use of Cannabis
   
136.50   Definitions
   
136.51   Registration
   
136.52   Regulations and restrictions
 
   
136.99   Penalty
ALCOHOL
§ 136.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL.
      (1)   The product of distillation of any fermented liquid, whether
rectified or diluted, whatever may be the origin thereof and includes synthetic
ethyl alcohol.
      (2)   It does not include denatured alcohol or wood alcohol.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Alcohol, spirits, wine and beer, and every liquid or
solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer, and capable
of being consumed as a beverage by a human being which contains more than one-
half of 1% of alcohol by volume.
   BEER. A beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
concoction of barley, or other grain, malt and hops in water, and includes,
among other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter and the like.
   PUBLIC PLACES. All public property which is open to and frequented by the
public or to which public access can be reasonably expected or anticipated
including, but not limited to, streets, alleys, parks, sidewalks and parking
lots.
   SPIRITS. Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by distillation, mixed
with water or other substance in solution, and includes brandy, rum, whiskey,
gin or other spiritous liquors, and such liquors when rectified, blended or
otherwise mixed with alcohol or other substances.
   WINE. Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
contents of fruits, or vegetables containing sugar, including the beverages
when fortified by the addition of alcohol or spirits, as above defined.
§ 136.02 INTOXICATION IN PUBLIC; ILLEGAL PREMISES FOR CONSUMPTION OR
POSSESSION.
   (A)   No person shall, in the village, be found in a state of intoxication,
or drunk, in any street, or other public place, or shall be found drunk lying
or roving about streets, alleys or sidewalks of the village, or the private
grounds of any of the inhabitants thereof or being drunk as aforesaid, shall
disturb the peace, order and quiet of the village, or the peace and quiet of
the citizens thereof, by loud and unusual noises, disorderly conduct, indecent
language or behavior, or in any other manner.
   (B)   No person shall consume an alcoholic beverage, or have in his or her
possession an open container containing an alcoholic beverage in any public
place unless the place holds a current license authorizing it to sell alcoholic
liquor at retail.
   (C)   (1)   This section shall not apply to any public fair, picnic or
special event conducted by an educational, fraternal, political, civic,
religious or nonprofit organization if approved by the local Liquor Control
Commissioner.
      (2)   The alcoholic beverages shall be dispensed and consumed in
containers other than glass or metal and adequate waste receptacles shall be
provided by the sponsoring organization for the resulting refuse.
Penalty, see §
136.99
§ 136.03 DELIVERY TO MINOR.
   No person shall knowingly deliver to a person under the age of 21 years, any
alcoholic liquor.
Penalty, see §
136.99
§ 136.04 POSSESSION OR CONSUMPTION BY MINOR.
   No person under the age of 21 years shall intentionally consume or have in
his or her possession, physically or within a motor vehicle under his or her
control, any alcoholic liquor, unless making a delivery of an alcoholic liquor
in pursuance of the order of his or her parent or the pursuance of his or her
employment.
Penalty, see §
136.99
§ 136.05 UNLAWFULLY PERMITTING MINOR TO BECOME INTOXICATED.
   No person shall permit a gathering of two or more persons whereby a minor,
who is under the age of 21 years, was consuming or possessing alcoholic liquor
and the minor was allowed to leave the gathering in an intoxicated state.
Penalty, see §
136.99
§ 136.06 FRAUDULENT IDENTIFICATION; POSSESSION.
   No person under the age of 21 years shall knowingly possess or present, for
the purpose of obtaining liquor, any type of identification which falsely shows
or implies his or her age to be 21 years or older.
Penalty, see §
136.99
TOBACCO
§ 136.20 SALE TO MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, buy for or furnish any cigar,
or cigarette or tobacco in any of its forms to any minor under 21 years of age.
(Am. Ord. 2019-07-01A, passed 7-1-2019)  Penalty, see §
136.99
§ 136.21 FRAUDULENT IDENTIFICATION; POSSESSION.
   No person under the age of 21 years shall knowingly possess or present, for
the purpose of obtaining tobacco, any type of identification which falsely
shows or implies his or her age to be 21 years or older.
(Am. Ord. 2019-07-01A, passed 7-1-2019) Penalty,  see §
136.99
§ 136.22 POSSESSION BY A MINOR PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for a person under the age of 21 years to possess
tobacco, chewing tobacco, or other similar products, whose purchase is limited
to persons aged 21 years or older.
(Am. Ord. 2019-07-01A, passed 7-1-2019) Penalty, see §
136.99
ILLEGAL DRUGS AND PARAPHERNALIA
§ 136.35 CANNABIS; POSSESSION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to have in their possession not
more than ten grams of a substance containing cannabis, other than authorized
in the Cannabis Control Act, being ILCS Ch. 720, Act 550, §§ 1 et seq.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to have in their possession more
than ten grams, but not more than 30 grams, of a substance containing cannabis,
other than authorized in the Cannabis Control Act.
Penalty, see §
136.99
§ 136.36 PARAPHERNALIA.
   (A)   Definitions.
      (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         DRUG PARAPHERNALIA. all equipment, products and materials of any kind
which are used, intended for use, or marketed for use with illegal cannabis or
dugs, as defined by the Illinois Compiled Statutes, or designed for use in
planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing,
packaging, repackaging, storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting,
inhaling or otherwise introducing into the human body a controlled substance in
violation of the Illinois Controlled Substances Act, being ILCS Ch. 720, Act
550, §§ 1 et seq., Illinois Compiled Statutes, DRUG PARAPHERNALIA includes, but
is not limited to:
            1.   Kits used, intended for use or designed for use in the
planting, propagating, cultivating, growing or harvesting of any species of
plant which is a controlled substance or from which a controlled substance can
be derived;
            2.   Kits used, intended for use or designed for use in
manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing or preparing
controlled substances;
            3.   Isomerization devices used, intended for use or designed for
use in increasing the potency of any species of plant which is a controlled
substance;
            4.   Testing equipment, used, intended for use or designed for use
in identifying or analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of controlled
substances;
            5.   Scales and balances used, intended for use or designed for use
in weighing or measuring controlled substances;
            6.   Diluents and adulterants, such as quinine hydrochloride,
mannitol, marmite, dextrose and lactose, used, intended for use or designed for
use in cutting controlled substances;
            7.   Separation gins and sifters used, intended for use or designed
for use in removing twigs and seeds from, or in otherwise cleaning or refining
marijuana;
            8.   Blenders, bowls, containers, spoons and mixing devices used,
intended for use, or designed for use in compounding controlled substances;
            9.   Capsules, balloons, envelopes and other containers used,
intended for use or designed for use in packaging small quantities of
controlled substances;
            10.   Containers and other objects used, intended for use or
designed for use in storing or concealing controlled substances;
            11.   Hypodermic syringes, needles and other objects used, intended
for use or designed for use in parenterally injecting controlled substances
into the human body, unless one has a doctor's order to possess these items;
and
            12.   Objects used, intended for use or designed for use in
ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing marijuana, cocaine, hashish or
hashish oil into the human body, such as:
               a.   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic or ceramic
pipes, with or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads or punctured
metal bowls;
               b.   Water pipes;
               c.   Carburetion tubes and devices;
               d.   Smoking and carburetion masks;
               e.   Roach clips or other objects used to hold burning materials
such as a marijuana cigarette which has become too small or short to be held in
the hand;
               f.   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
               g.   Chamber pipes;
               h.   Carburetor pipes;
               i.   Electric pipes;
               j.   Air-driven pipes;
               k.   Chilums;
               l.   Bongs; and
               m.   Ice pipes or chillers.
      (2)   In determining whether an object is DRUG PARAPHERNALIA, a court or
other authority should consider, in addition to all other relevant factors the
following:
         (a)   Statements by an owner or anyone in control of the object
concerning its use;
         (b)   Prior convictions, if any, of an owner or anyone in control of
the object, under any state or federal law relating to any controlled
substances;
         (c)   The proximity of the object, in time and place, to a direct
violation of this section;
         (d)   The proximity of the object to controlled substances;
         (e)   The existence of any residue of controlled substances on the
object;
         (f)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of an owner or
anyone in control of the object to deliver it to persons whom he or she knows,
or should reasonably know, intend to use object to facilitate a violation of
this section, shall not prevent a finding that the object is intended or
designed for use as DRUG PARAPHERNALIA;
         (g)   Instructions, oral or written, provided with the object
concerning its use;
         (h)   Descriptive materials accompanying the object which explain or
depict its use;
         (i)   National and local advertising concerning the object's use;
         (j)   The manner in which the object is displayed for sale;
         (k)   Whether the owner or anyone in control of the object is a
legitimate supplier of like or related items to the community, such as a
licensed distributor or dealer of tobacco products;
         (l)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of sales of the
object(s) to the total sales of the business enterprise in question;
         (m)   The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in the
community; and
         (n)   Expert testimony concerning the object's use.
   (B)   Forfeiture of property.
      (1)   All articles defined in division (A) above shall be subject to
forfeiture.
      (2)   Property subject to forfeiture under this section may be seized by
any peace officer upon process issued by any court having jurisdiction over the
property. Seizure by any police officer without process may be made:
         (a)   If the property subject to seizure has been the subject of a
prior judgment in favor of the village in an ordinance violation proceeding;
and
         (b)   If there is probable cause to believe that the property is
either directly or indirectly dangerous to health or safety.
      (3)   In the event of seizure pursuant to division (B)(2) above,
proceedings under division (B)(4) below shall be promptly instituted.
      (4)   Property taken or detained under this section shall not be subject
to replevin but is deemed to be in the custody of the Chief of Police, subject
only to the orders of the court have jurisdiction over the forfeiture
proceedings. When property is seized under this section, the Chief of Police
may:
         (a)   Place the property under seal;
         (b)   Remove the property to a place designated by him or her; or
         (c)   Take custody of the property and remove it to an appropriate
location for destruction.
Penalty, see §
136.99
§ 136.37 INHALANTS; POSSESSION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to have in his or her possession any
type of chemical or nonchemical product that is used expressly for the purpose
of "huffing" or inhaling in order to obtain euphoria or any other drug like
effect.
Penalty, see §
136.99
REGULATION OF USE OF CANNABIS
§ 136.50 DEFINITIONS.
   Whenever reference is made in this subchapter to the “Illinois Cannabis Act”
or the “Cannabis Act” it shall mean the Cannabis Regulations and Tax Act of
Illinois (ILCS Ch. 410, Act 705), approved June 25, 2019, in force January 1,
2020. All other words and phrases used herein shall have the same meaning as
the same or similar words or phrases defined by and used in said Cannabis
Regulations and Tax Act, including the following.
   ACT. The Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act of Illinois approved June 25, 2019,
as Public Act 101-0027.
   ADVERTISE. To engage in promotional activities including, but not limited
to: newspaper, radio, Internet and electronic media, and television
advertising; the distribution of fliers and circulars; and the display of
window and interior signs.
   CANNABIS. Marijuana, hashish and other substances that are identified as
including any parts of the plant Cannabis sativa, and including derivatives or
subspecies, such as indica of all strains of cannabis, whether growing or not;
the seeds thereof, the resin extracted from any part of the plant; and any
compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or preparation of the plant,
its seeds or resin, including tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and all other
naturally produced cannabinol derivatives, whether produced directly or
indirectly by extraction. However, CANNABIS does not include the mature stalks
of the plant, fiber produced from the stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds
of the plant, any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or
preparation of the mature stalks (except the resin extracted from them), fiber,
oil or cake, or the sterilized seed of the plant this incapable of germination.
CANNABIS does not include industrial hemp as defined and authorized under the
Industrial Hemp Act (ILCS Ch. 505, Act 89). CANNABIS also means concentrate and
cannabis-infused products.
   CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT. A cultivation center, craft grower,
processing organization, infusion organization, dispensing organization, or
transporting organization.
   CANNABIS CONTAINER. A sealed, traceable container or package used for the
purpose of containment of cannabis or cannabis-infused product during
transportation.
   DISPENSARY. A facility operated by a dispensing organization at which
activities licensed by the Act may occur.
   DISPENSING ORGANIZATION. A facility operated by an organization or business
that is licensed by the Department of Financial and Professional Regulation to
acquire cannabis from a cultivation center, craft grower, processing
organization, or another dispensary for the purpose of selling or dispensing
cannabis, cannabis-infused products, cannabis seeds, paraphernalia or related
supplies under this Act to purchasers or to qualified registered medical
cannabis patients and caregivers.
   OWNERSHIP AND CONTROL. Ownership of at least 51% of the business, including
corporate stock if a corporation, and control over the management and day-to-
day operations of the business, and an interest in the capital, assets, profits
and losses of the business proportionate to the percentage of ownership.
   PERSON. A natural individual, firm, partnership, association, joint stock
company, joint venture, public or private corporation, limited liability
company, or a receiver, executor, trustee, guardian or other representative
appointed by order of any court.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place where a person could reasonably be expected to be
observed by others. PUBLIC PLACE includes all parts of buildings owned, in
whole or in part, or leased by the state or the village. PUBLIC PLACE includes
all areas in a park, recreation area, wildlife area or playground owned, in
whole or in part, leased or managed by the state or the village. PUBLIC PLACE
does not include a private residence unless it is used to provide licensed
child care, foster care or other similar social service care on the premises.
(Ord. 2019-12-02A, passed 12-2-2019)
§ 136.51 REGISTRATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a cannabis business
establishment within the boundaries of the village without having first
registered with the Village Clerk, and submitting the following information:
   (A)   The name and address of all persons owning 50% or more of the
dispensing organization;
   (B)   The location of operation;
   (C)   The hours of operation;
   (D)   A copy of the license issued by the Illinois Department of Financial
and Professional Registration or the Illinois Department of Agriculture to the
cannabis business establishment;
   (E)   Copies of all licenses for employees or agents of the cannabis
business establishment issued by the Illinois Department of Financial and
Professional Registration or the Illinois Department of Agriculture.
(Ord. 2019-12-02A, passed 12-2-2019)
§ 136.52 REGULATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to locate a dispensary within 1,500 feet of
another dispensary.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to operate a dispensary between the hours of 10:
00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to consume or use cannabis on the premises of a
cannabis business establishment.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to operate any form of cannabis lounge or similar
type establishment, or for a retail tobacco store to allow on-premises
consumption of cannabis.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful to advertise cannabis or a cannabis-infused
product in any form or through any medium:
      (1)   Within 1,000 feet of the perimeter of school grounds, a playground,
a recreation center or facility, a child care center, a public park or public
library, or a game arcade where admission is not restricted to persons 21 years
of age or older;
      (2)   In or on a public transit vehicle or public transit shelter; or
      (3)   On publicly owned or publicly operated property.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful to undertake any task under the influence of
cannabis when doing so would constitute negligence, professional malpractice or
professional misconduct;
   (G)   It shall be unlawful to operate, navigate or be in actual physical
control of any motor vehicle, aircraft or motorboat while using or under the
influence of cannabis;
   (H)   It shall be unlawful to possess or use cannabis on a school bus or
grounds of a preschool, primary or secondary school, unless used by a
qualifying patient or caregiver pursuant to the Compassionate Use of Medical
Cannabis Pilot Program Act (ILCS Ch. 410, Act 130);
   (I)   It shall be unlawful to possess or use cannabis in a private residence
used at any time to provide licensed childcare or other similar social service
care on the premises;
   (J)   It shall be unlawful to use cannabis in any motor vehicle, in any
public place or in any place where smoking is prohibited under the Smoke Free
Illinois Act (ILCS Ch. 410, Act 82);
   (K)   It shall be unlawful to facilitate the use of cannabis by a person not
allowed to use cannabis under the Act;
   (L)   It shall be unlawful to knowingly use cannabis in close proximity
(within 15 feet) to anyone under the age of 21 who is not a registered medical
cannabis patient under the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program
Act;
   (M)   It shall be unlawful to grow cannabis unless authorized by the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act;
   (N)   It shall be unlawful for a person who is 21 years or older and a
resident of Illinois to possess more than:
      (1)   Thirty grams of cannabis flower;
      (2)   Five hundred milligrams of THC contained in a cannabis-infused
product; or
      (3)   Five grams of cannabis concentrate.
   (O)   It shall be unlawful for a non-resident of Illinois to possess more
than:
      (1)   Fifteen grams of cannabis flower;
      (2)   Two hundred fifty grams of THC contained in a cannabis-infused
product; or
      (3)   Two and one-half grams of cannabis concentrate.
   (P)   It shall be unlawful for a parent or guardian to knowingly permit his
or her residence or any other private property under his or her control, or any
vehicle under his or her control, to permit the
consumption of cannabis by a person under the age of 21.
   (Q)   Nothing herein shall prevent a private business from restricting or
prohibiting the use or possession of cannabis on its property, including areas
where motor vehicles are parked.
   (R)   Nothing herein shall require an individual or business entity to
violate the provisions of federal law.
(Ord. 2019-12-02A, passed 12-2-2019)
§ 136.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
136.02 shall be fined in accordance with
Chapter 34, for each violation.
   (C)   (1)   Possession of drug paraphernalia. It is unlawful for any person
to use, or possess with the intent to use, drug paraphernalia to plant,
propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture, compound, convert, produce,
process, prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack, store, contain, conceal, inject,
ingest, inhale or otherwise introduce into the human body a controlled
substance in violation of the Illinois Controlled Substance Act, Illinois
Compiled Statutes. Any person violating this section is guilty of a crime and,
upon conviction, shall be fined in accordance with
Chapter 34.
      (2)   Manufacture or delivery of drug paraphernalia. It is unlawful for
any person to deliver, to sell, to possess with the intent to deliver or sell,
drug paraphernalia, knowing or under circumstances where one reasonably should
know, that it will be used to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest,
manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack,
repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale or otherwise introduce
into the human body a controlled substance in violation of the Illinois
Compiled Statutes. Any person violating this section is guilty of a crime, and
upon conviction, shall be fined in accordance with
Chapter 34 
      (3)   Delivery of drug paraphernalia to a minor. Any person 18 years of
age or older who violates §
136.36(B) by delivering, selling or giving drug paraphernalia to a juvenile is
guilty of an additional offense and, upon conviction, shall be fined in
accordance with
Chapter 34 .
      (4)   Advertisement of drug paraphernalia. It is unlawful for any person
to place in any newspaper, magazine, handbill or other publication any
advertisement, knowing or under circumstances where one reasonable should know
that the purpose of the advertisement, in whole or in part, is to promote the
sale of objects designed or intended for use as drug paraphernalia. Any person
violating this section is guilty of a crime and, upon conviction, shall be
fined in accordance with
Chapter 34.
CHAPTER 137: FIREARMS, WEAPONS AND EXPLOSIVES
Section
   
137.01   Firearms; discharging
   
137.02   BB gun or pellet gun; unlawful possession
   
137.03   Blasting
   
137.04   Storage of explosives
§ 137.01 FIREARMS; DISCHARGING.
   (A)   It is prohibited to discharge any firearms, B-B gun, pellet gun,
compound bow, cross-bow or similar instruments or devices within 200 yards of
any building.
   (B)   (1)   No person except authorized law enforcement personnel, shall,
within the village, fire or discharge any firearm or airgun without written
permission from the Mayor first obtained, which permission shall prescribe the
limits within which the firing may be done, and may be revoked at any time
after it has been granted.
      (2)   A registered gun club shall be excluded from the provisions of this
section, but limited to the club grounds, or an organized, approved shoot,
i.e.; turkey, ham or other fund raising event.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 137.02 BB GUN OR PELLET GUN; UNLAWFUL POSSESSION.
   No person under the age of 17 years old shall have in his or her possession
any gun or pistol capable of launching BBs or pellets while on any property
other than their own and without being under the direct supervision of a person
who is his or her parent/legal guardian.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 137.03 BLASTING.
   No person shall by himself or herself or his or her agent or employee, fire
off any blast, unless the blast is authorized and is properly guarded so as to
prevent an accident to personal property, or open any stone quarry within the
village, without permission from village staff.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 137.04 STORAGE OF EXPLOSIVES.
   (A)   Nitroglycerine, dynamite and the like. No person shall have, keep,
possess or store, at or in any place within the village, any nitroglycerine,
dynamite or giant powder, or any form or combination of any of them.
   (B)   Blasting powder and the like. No person shall keep, possess or store
any blasting powder, or explosive cotton, at or in any one place in the village
in any quantity exceeding five pounds, except a dealer thereof, or quarryman of
rock or miner who may keep 25 pounds at any one time.
   (C)   Smokeless gun powder. No person shall have, keep, possess or store at
or in any one place in the village in any quantity exceeding 15 pounds, except
a licensed approved dealer thereof who may keep 500 pounds.
   (D)   Black powder. No person shall have, keep, possess or store at or in
any one place in the village in any quantity exceeding two pounds, except a
licensed approved dealer thereof, who may keep 50 pounds.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 138: FIREWORKS
Section
   
138.01   Definition
   
138.02   Prohibition
   
138.03   Permits
   
138.04   Applications
   
138.05   Display
   
138.06   Fee
 
   
138.99   Penalty
§ 138.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIREWORKS. Any explosive composition, or any substance or combination of
substances, or article prepared for the purpose of producing a visible or
audible effect of a temporary exhibitional nature by explosion, combustion,
deflagration or detonation and shall include blank cartridges, and toy cannons,
in which explosives are used; the type of balloons which require fire
underneath to propel the same; firecrackers, torpedoes, sky rockets, Roman
candles, sparklers, bombs or other fireworks of like construction and any
tablets or other device containing combustible substances producing visible
effects; provided, however, that, the term FIREWORKS shall not include toy
pistols, toy canes, toy guns or other devices in which paper or plastic caps
containing twenty-five hundredths grains or less of explosive compound are
used, providing they are so constructed that the hand cannot come in contact
with the cap when in place for the explosion, and the toy pistol, paper or
plastic caps which contain less than twenty-five hundredths grains of explosive
mixture, excluding recoverable model rockets sold for the express use of
modelers and/or exhibitions of rocketry, the sale and use of which shall be
permitted at all times.
§ 138.02 PROHIBITION.
   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful for any person, firm,
co-partnership or corporation to offer for sale, expose for sale, sell at
retail or use or explode any fireworks within the village limits, except as
provided by state law. (ILCS Ch. 425, Act 35, §§ 0.01 et seq.)
(Am. Ord. 2013-07-01I, passed 7-1-2013) Penalty, see §
138.99
§ 138.03 PERMITS.
   (A)   The Village Board shall authorize the village staff to grant permits
for the supervised public display of fireworks.
   (B)   No permit shall be transferable. Permits may be granted hereunder to
any group of three or more adult individuals applying therefor. No permit shall
be required for supervised public displays by state or county fair
associations.
§ 138.04 APPLICATIONS.
   Applications for permits shall be made in writing at least 30 days in
advance of the date of the display and action shall be taken on the application
at the next committee at large meeting of the Village Board after the
application is made.
§ 138.05 DISPLAY.
   Every such display shall be handled by a competent individual designated by
the village staff and shall be of such character and so located, discharged or
fired, as not to be hazardous to property or endanger any person or persons.
§ 138.06 FEE.
   See §
34.01 for the permit fee.
§ 138.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, co-partnership or corporation violating the provisions of
this chapter and, upon the conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine in
accordance with
Chapter 34.
CHAPTER 139: PUBIC CAMPING
Section
   
139.01   Public camping as a nuisance
   
139.02   Regulation of public camping necessary to promote public health
   
139.03   Public camping not an intended use of public property
   
139.04   Definition
   
139.05   Public camping prohibited
   
139.06   Exceptions to prohibition
   
139.07   Removal of campsite
   
139.08   Disposition and release of personal property
 
   
139.99   Penalty
§ 139.01 PUBLIC CAMPING AS A NUISANCE.
   Public camping, as the term is defined herein, is hereby declared to be a
nuisance within the village.
(Ord. 2024-05-06A, passed 5-6-2024)
§ 139.02 REGULATION OF PUBLIC CAMPING NECESSARY TO PROMOTE PUBLIC HEALTH.
   In an effort to address the public health concerns, the President and Board
of Trustees hereby declare it necessary or expedient for the promotion of
health or the suppression of diseases, to regulate public camping, as that term
is defined herein, within the village’s corporate limits.
(Ord. 2024-05-06A, passed 5-6-2024)
§ 139.03 PUBLIC CAMPING NOT AN INTENDED USE OF PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   Except for those parcels of property specifically designated by the village
in any subsequent ordinance, the village hereby declares that none of its
property is permitted or intended to be used for public camping, as the term is
defined herein.
(Ord. 2024-05-06A, passed 5-6-2024)
§ 139.04 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions apply to this chapter.
   BEDDING. A sleeping bag, or any other material, used for bedding purposes.
   CAMPSITE. Any physical space that is not within an established structure,
where bedding or any stove or fire is placed, established or maintained for the
purpose of maintaining a temporary place to live, whether or not it
incorporates the use of any tent, lean-to, shack or any other structure, or any
vehicle or part thereof.
   EXEMPT PERSONAL PROPERTY. Items that would otherwise constitute personal
property under the terms of this chapter, but that
      (1)   Has no apparent utility or monetary value;
      (2)   Is unsanitary to store or otherwise maintain;
      (3)    Is a weapon possessed illegally;
      (4)   Are drug paraphernalia;
      (5)   Appear to be stolen or evidence of a crime;
      (6)   Are items that the person cannot demonstrate the requisite lawful
authority to possess; and
      (7)   Are items of food that can reasonably be expected to spoil or
otherwise perish within the next 30 days.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Any item reasonably recognizable as belonging to a person
and having apparent utility or monetary value, except for exempt personal
property.
   PUBLIC CAMPING. To cause or participate in the establishment of, or the act
of remaining in or at, a campsite.
(Ord. 2024-05-06A, passed 5-6-2024)
§ 139.05 PUBLIC CAMPING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person may sleep, nor otherwise engage in public camping, on a
public sidewalk, street, alley, lane, other public right-of-way, park, bench,
or any other publicly-owned property, nor on or under any bridge or viaduct, at
any time.
   (B)   No person may sleep, nor otherwise engage in public camping, in any
pedestrian or vehicular entrance to public or private property abutting a
public right-of-way.
   (C)   No person may sleep, nor otherwise engage in public camping, on any
real property owned or otherwise maintained by the village.
   (D)   No person may park a vehicle overnight within the village for the
purpose of sleeping or otherwise engaging in public camping in the vehicle.
   (E)   For the purposes of this section, the act of parking or leaving a
vehicle parked for two consecutive hours, and/or remaining within a public
vehicle on any property under the jurisdiction of the village for the purpose
of public camping, for two consecutive hours without permission from the
President and Board of Trustees, between the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m.,
shall be considered a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2024-05-06A, passed 5-6-2024) Penalty, see § 139.99
§ 139.06 EXCEPTIONS TO PROHIBITION.
   (A)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, it shall not be a violation to engage
in public camping when done:
      (1)   In a manner specifically authorized by this Code;
      (2)   After a formal declaration of the village in emergency
circumstances; or
      (3)   Upon resolution of the President and Board of Trustees, the same
may exempt a special event from the prohibitions of this section, if the
President and Board of Trustees finds such exemption to be in the public
interest and consistent with the goals and objectives of the President and
Board of Trustees, and with such conditions imposed as the President and Board
of Trustees deem necessary.
   (B)   Any conditions imposed will include a condition requiring that the
applicant provide evidence of adequate insurance coverage and agree to
indemnify the village for any liability, damage or expense incurred by the
village as a result of the activities of the applicant.
   (C)   Any findings by the President and Board of Trustees shall specify the
exact dates and location covered by the exemption.
(Ord. 2024-05-06A, passed 5-6-2024)
§ 139.07 REMOVAL OF CAMPSITE.
   Removal of a campsite in violation of this chapter may occur under the
following circumstances.
   (A)   Prior to removing a campsite, the village shall post a notice, 24
hours in advance of the removal, unless immediate removal of the campsite is
deemed to be necessary for one of the reasons in division (B) below.
   (B)   If it is undertaken, the basis for causing the immediate removal of a
campsite should be adequately documented by the appropriate person(s).
      (1)   Immediate removal of the campsite is necessary to maintain access
to a property;
      (2)   Immediate removal of the campsite is necessary to maintain the
sanitary condition of a property;
      (3)   Immediate removal of the campsite is necessary because it is an
obstruction to any public right-of-way; or,
      (4)   Immediate removal of the campsite is necessary because it poses a
risk to the health and safety of the village and its residents.
   (C)   Upon any action pursuant to division (A) above, the person causing
such action to be taken shall inform an appropriate agency delivering social
services to homeless individuals in the village, of the location of the
campsite and the persons found to be in violation of this chapter, so that it
may determine whether or not it would be appropriate to offer its services to
those persons.
   (D)   If a 24-hour notice has been posted, and the 24-hour-notice period has
passed, then the campsite, as well as all personal property thereon, shall be
removed by the appropriate person(s) acting on behalf of the village.
   (E)   No portion of this section shall be construed to prohibit any person
found to be engaging in public camping from removing their personal property
from the campsite. However, such personal property that constitutes exempt
personal property and that a reasonably prudent law enforcement officer,
exercising the applicable constitutional standard, would conclude that the
exempt personal property constitutes items appearing to be stolen or otherwise
appearing to be evidence of a crime, and/or items that the person cannot
demonstrate the requisite lawful authority to possess, may be retained and
stored as evidence.
(Ord. 2024-05-06A, passed 5-6-2024)
§ 139.08 DISPOSITION AND RELEASE OF PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   All personal property removed from any campsite that is not exempt
personal property shall be stored by the appropriate law enforcement agency of
the village, for a minimum of 30 days, during which time it shall be reasonably
available for and released to an individual confirming ownership.
   (B)   All exempt personal property may be disposed of or retained as
evidence by the appropriate law enforcement agency of the village.
(Ord. 2024-05-06A, passed 5-6-2024)
§ 139.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The penalty for any person’s first violation of this chapter within a
rolling 24-month period shall be $75.
   (B)   The penalty for any person’s second violation of this chapter within a
rolling 24-month period shall be $150.
   (C)   The penalty for any person’s third violation of this chapter within a
rolling 24-month period shall be $350.
   (D)   The penalty for any person’s fourth violation of this chapter within a
rolling 24-month period shall be $500.
   (E)   The penalty for any person’s fifth violation of this chapter within a
rolling 24-month period shall be $750.
   (F)   The penalty for any person’s sixth or subsequent violation of this
chapter within a rolling 24-month period may be a monetary penalty of $750 or
incarceration for a period not exceeding the maximum time allowed pursuant to
Section 1-2-9 of the Illinois Municipal Code (ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-9).
   (G)   As a substitute for any monetary penalty assessed pursuant to
divisions (A) through (F) above, and if consented to by the village, the
penalty assessed to any person found in violation of this chapter may be that
the person must engage in public service by cleaning the rights-of-way and
other public facilities of the village for an amount of time that, if the
person found to have violated this chapter was being paid the minimum wage
under state law, the amount paid for that person’s labors would have been equal
to the monetary penalty assessed under this chapter.
   (H)   The village is hereby empowered to exercise all powers afforded to it,
at law or in equity, to collect any fines assessed against a person pursuant to
this chapter, including, but not limited to, seeking incarceration of that
person for a period of time that conforms with Section 1-2-9 of the Illinois
Municipal Code (ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-9).
   (I)   In the imposition of any penalty pursuant to this section, the penalty
shall be mitigated by whether or not the person immediately removed all
personal property and litter, including, but not limited to, bottles, cans, and
garbage, from the campsite after the person was informed that the person was in
violation of this chapter.
   (J)   A separate offense of this chapter shall be deemed committed on each
day on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (K)   In addition to any other remedy provided by law or this chapter, any
person found in violation of this section may be immediately removed from the
premises where the campsite is located.
(Ord. 2024-05-06A, passed 5-6-2024)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      Chapter
         
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
         
151.   DEVELOPMENT CODE
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
Property Maintenance Code
   
150.01   Intent
   
150.02   Adoption
   
150.03   Insertions
   
150.04   Applications for permit of occupancy and certificate of occupancy
   
150.05   Rejection of application
   
150.06   Reserved
   
150.07   Duty of public utilities
   
150.08   Temporary permit to owner or agent
   
150.09   Revocation of permit
   
150.10   Suspension of permit
   
150.11   Saving clause
   
150.12   Date of effect
Short-term Rentals
   
150.50   Definitions
   
150.51   License required and regulations
   
150.52   Fee
   
150.53   Revocation; suspension; procedures
   
150.54   Penalties
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
§ 150.01 INTENT.
   This code shall establish the minimum regulations governing the conditions
and maintenance of all property, buildings and structures by providing the
standards for supplied utilities and facilities and other physical things and
conditions essential to insure that structures are safe, sanitary and fit for
occupation and use; and the condemnation of buildings and structures unfit for
human occupancy and use and the demolition of the structures; known as the
"Property Maintenance Code".
§ 150.02 ADOPTION.
   The 2018 International Property Maintenance Code be and is hereby adopted as
the Property Maintenance Code of the village; for the control of buildings and
structures as herein provided; and each and all of the regulations, provisions,
penalties, conditions and terms of the 2018 International Property Maintenance
Code are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof, as if fully set
out in this Code, with the insertions, prescribed in §
150.03.
(Am. Ord. 2021-10-04A, passed 10-4-2021)
§ 150.03 INSERTIONS.
   The following sections are hereby revised as follows:
   (A)   Section 101.1:
      Insert: Village of Shiloh
   (B)   Section 103.5
      Insert: See Chapter 34 Fees
   (C)   Section 112.4:
      Insert: ($25.00) Twenty-Five Dollars in first [amount] location and
($500.00) Five-Hundred Dollars in second [amount] location
   (D)   Section 302.4:
      Insert ten (10) inches
   (E)   Section 304.14:
      Insert:   April 1st in first [date] location and November 1st in second
[date] location
   (F)   Section 602.3:
      Insert: September 1st in first [date] location and June 1st in second
[date] location
   (G)   Section 602.4:
      Insert: September 1st in first [date] location and June 1st in second
[date] location
(Am. Ord. 2021-10-04A, passed 10-4-2021)
§ 150.04 APPLICATIONS FOR PERMIT OF OCCUPANCY AND CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   (1)   The application for a “permit of occupancy” shall be completed
by the owner or manager of the property. Inspection fees must be paid at the
time of the inspection. The property owner/agent is responsible for making
payment and scheduling the required inspection.
      (2)   An inspection shall be valid for one year from the date of the
occupancy permit. Even if the occupancy changes, the dwelling unit does not
have to be re-inspected during that period.
   (B)   (1)   Re-inspection, “permit of occupancy,” is required if the
property does not pass the original inspection. The owner/agent has 30 days to
schedule the re-inspection. It will be considered a new inspection if it is not
scheduled in 30 days. If the re-inspection fails another time, the owner/agent
has 14 days to schedule the re-inspection until the work is completed.
      (2)   Failed inspection results will be emailed or mailed to the owner/
agent.
   (C)   (1)   The application for a “certificate of occupancy” shall be
completed by the tenant/occupant. New owners/tenants can apply for their
certificate 24 hours after the permit of occupancy has been issued. The
certificate must be secured before the unit can legally be occupied. Area
schools also require this certificate for the enrollment of students.
      (2)   The following information will be required before issuance of the
certificate of occupancy:
         (a)   A current copy of the permit of occupancy. See § 105.04 (A).
         (b)   A list of the names and ages of all tenants/occupants.
         (c)   A photo ID of the person filling out the certificate.
Note: To change a certificate of occupancy, the village requires a photo ID and
approval from the owner/landlord/property manager.
   (D)   The applications shall be furnished by village staff.
   (E)   The fee shall be as established by
Chapter 34 of the Village Code and paid before any permit is issued. (occupancy
inspection $50.00; reinspection $35.00 per re-inspection; certificate of
occupancy $10.00)
(Ord. 2022-11-07C, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 150.05 REJECTION OF APPLICATION.
   If the applications do not comply with the requirements of all pertinent
laws, village staff shall reject the applications in writing, stating the
reasons therefor. Furthermore, village staff shall reject any application or
deny occupancy in such case when an applicant, person applying for a permit of
occupancy or certificate of occupancy or the owner of the property failed to
pay in full village liens, village issued utility bills, or any other fees
which are due to the village.
(Ord. 2022-11-07C, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 150.06 RESERVED.
§ 150.07 DUTY OF PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   (A)   Every person or persons, firm or corporation or other business entity,
whether public or private, that sells or supplies utility services within the
village limits of the village, including, but not limited to, water,
electricity or gas, but excepting telephone service, shall neither commence the
service nor initiate providing the service to any dwelling, or to any portion
thereof, to any person or party unless the person or party intending to occupy
same, has presented to the utility supplier or provider an occupancy permit or
temporary permit to owner/agent wherein the signature of the appropriate
village official is affixed thereto and his or her seal is imprinted thereon.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to any occupancy wherein the occupant is
seeking restoration of utility service subsequent to a discontinuance or
disconnection of same or where the occupant is seeking additional services at
the same dwelling.
§ 150.08 TEMPORARY PERMIT TO OWNER OR AGENT.
   (A)   (1)   If an owner or agent has not entered into a separate agreement
with the public utility referred to in §
150.07, a temporary permit may be issued to an owner or agent to allow the
owner/agent to start or continue utility service to any single- or multi-family
unit for the purpose of protecting an occupied unit from the elements or to
allow the owner/agent to show the premises after the previous occupant has
moved out.
      (2)   In addition, the owner/agent who is issued a temporary permit may
perform cleaning, repairing and maintenance services to the premises.
   (B)   The temporary permit shall require the owner/agent to place all
utilities in the owner/agent's name and assume financial responsibility for all
such utilities. The temporary permit shall not authorize any person to occupy
the premises.
   (C)   A temporary permit may be revoked as provided in §
150.09 and applications for temporary permits may be rejected by village staff
as set forth in §
150.05.
   (D)   A temporary permit shall expire upon the issuance of a certificate of
occupancy for the premises.
   (E)   Village staff responsible for enforcement of permits of occupancy may
promulgate such rules, regulations and procedures as he or she deems necessary
to implement this section.
§ 150.09 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Village staff shall revoke a permit in any case of false statement or
misrepresentation of facts in the application on which a permit was based, or
in the event a structure or part thereof is condemned pursuant to this Code.
   (B)   Additionally, village staff shall revoke a permit if the village-
issued utility bills are not paid in full for a 60-day period.
§ 150.10 SUSPENSION OF PERMIT.
   Any permit issued shall become invalid if the occupancy is not commenced
within six months after issuance of the permit or if the occupant load is
increased above the amount indicated on the permit or if occupants change one
year or more after the permit issuance date.
§ 150.11 SAVING CLAUSE.
   Nothing in the Property Maintenance Code hereby adopted shall be construed
to affect any suit or proceeding impending in any court, or any rights
acquired, or liability incurred, or any cause or causes of action acquired or
existing, nor shall any just or legal right or remedy of any character be lost,
impaired or affected by this Code.
§ 150.12 DATE OF EFFECT.
   Village staff shall certify to the adoption of this Code and cause the same
to be published as required by law; and this Code shall take effect and be in
force from and after its approval as required by law.
SHORT-TERM RENTALS
§ 150.50 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OWNER/OPERATOR.  A person holding title or co-title of a residence that they
may lease as a short-term rental, but only in accordance with the terms of this
subchapter.
   GUEST.  A person who rents or occupies a short-term rental.
   HOST. An owner or owners engaged in providing short-term rentals.
   HOSTING PLATFORM.  A marketplace entity, in whatever form or format that
facilitates short-term rentals through advertising, matchmaking or other means,
uses any facilitation medium, or from which the operator of the hosting
platform derives revenue, including booking fees or advertising revenues from
providing or maintaining the marketplace information.
   SHORT-TERM RENTAL. A rental of a single-family dwelling, as defined in §
151.010, including townhomes, duplexes, condominiums, and rooming house
dwelling units that are either primarily owner-occupied, in whole, to any
persons for exclusive, transient use for 29 consecutive days or less.
(Ord. 2021-12-06C, passed 12-6-2021; Am. Ord. 2024-07-01B, passed 7-1-2024)
§ 150.51 LICENSE REQUIRED AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Short-term rentals require an annual business license. The license
must be renewed annually, with proof of annual property inspection and
liability insurance. No person shall conduct, keep, manage or operate, or cause
to be conducted, kept, managed or operated, a short-term rental without a
license as provided in this subchapter. A license shall be obtained for each
short-term rental and shall not be transferable. All licenses must be renewed
annually, subject to the same conditions as the original license. The village
shall issue a license upon payment of the $50.00 annual fee provided in
Chapter 34, accompanied by the license application.
   (B)   An application for a short-term rental business license must be filed
with the village yearly in April. Compliance with § 150.51(C) will be verified
before an initial license or annual re-issuance of the license.
   (C)   Each short-term rental property must also comply with the following
regulations.
      (1)   Property located within a subdivision with a homeowners'
association must have a letter verifying that the use is permitted in its
restrictive covenants.
      (2)   The owner/operator must have the building/property inspected
annually to ensure compliance with building codes and to protect tenants’
health, safety and welfare. The agent/owner is responsible for scheduling the
inspection by contacting the village.
      (3)   Proof of liability insurance ($100,000 minimum coverage) will be
provided to the village, along with a copy of the safety procedures and
emergency phone numbers required to be posted at the property.
      (4)   Short-term rentals will be allowed in single-family homes.
      (5)   Short-term rentals with a private shared driveway must have a
signed agreement by the other homeowners.
      (6)   A short-term rental must provide paved off-street parking, and
renters must be notified to use it.
      (7)   The number of people (related and unrelated) that can occupy the
property must comply with the current code.
      (8)   All owners/operators must use a hosting platform to market a short-
term rental. The hosting platform is responsible for determining the guest’s
identification information and its accuracy.
      (9)   No owner/operator shall rent any short-term rental for any period
shorter than 24 consecutive hours.
      (10)   Evidence of short-term rental use from the exterior is prohibited.
However, the owner/operator shall post, inside the front entrance to every
short-term rental dwelling unit, a short-term rental license issued by the
village, stating the owner’s name, a 24-hour telephone number to reach the
owner/operator, and the maximum occupancy of the dwelling unit.
      (11)   Any police call about criminal activity or disturbances (such as
complaints of loud music, parties, fighting, and the like) to the residence may
result in the revocation and/or denial of renewal of the property license.
      (12)   The owner/operator will provide the village with quarterly reports
on the number and length of stays.
(Ord. 2021-12-06C, passed 12-6-2021; Am. Ord. 2024-07-01B, passed 7-1-2024)
§ 150.52 FEE.
   Short-term rental business licenses must be renewed annually, with proof of
annual occupancy inspection and liability insurance.
(Ord. 2021-12-06C, passed 12-6-2021; Am. Ord. 2024-07-01B, passed 7-1-2024)
Cross-reference:
   For the short-term rental business license fee, see §
34.01, Fee Schedule.
§ 150.53 REVOCATION; SUSPENSION; PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Revocation. Any license granted under this subchapter may be revoked
by the Village Staff after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
150.53(B). Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds for the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. This notice shall be mailed to the licensee, at his or her last known
address, at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
   (B)   Standards for revocation. The Village Staff may revoke or suspend a
license issued pursuant to the terms of this subchapter for any of the
following reasons:
      (1)   If the owner of the relevant short-term/vacation rental or his/her
agent violates any of the terms of this subchapter;
      (2)   If the owner of the short-term/vacation rental or his/her agent is
deemed to have maintained a nuisance premises therein, in violation of the
Village Code;
      (3)   If the Village Staff deems the short-term/vacation rental, or the
premises wherein it is located, to be a vacant building, as defined therein;
and/or
      (4)   If the village or other governmental agency condemns the short-
term/vacation rental or the premises wherein it is located.
   (C)   Suspension. If the Village Staff has reason to believe that immediate
suspension of the license is necessary to prevent the threat of immediate harm
to the village or the neighborhood, the village administration may, upon the
issuance of a written order stating the reason for such conclusion, and without
notice or hearing, order the license suspended for not more than seven days.
The Village Staff may extend the suspension during the pendency of a hearing,
upon a written determination that doing so is necessary to prevent the
previously mentioned harm to the village or the neighborhood.
   (D)   Appeal procedure.
      (1)   Any licensee aggrieved by a decision under this section shall have
the right to appeal to the Board of Trustees. The appeal shall be taken by
filing with the Board of Trustees, within 14 days after notice of the decision
has been mailed to the person’s last known address, a written statement setting
forth the grounds for appeal. The Board of Trustees shall set the time and
place for a hearing. Notice for the hearing shall be given to the person in the
same manner as provided in §
150.53(A).
      (2)   The order of the Board of Trustees after the hearing shall be
final.
      (3)   Within ten business days after the close of the hearing, the
Village Staff shall issue a written decision that shall constitute a final
determination for purposes of judicial review pursuant to the Illinois
Administrative Review Law, ILCS Ch. 735, Act 5, §§ 3-101 et seq., as amended.
   (D)   Re-application. A licensee whose license has been revoked shall not be
eligible to reapply for a new license for one year.
(Ord. 2024-07-01B, passed 7-1-2024)
§ 150.54 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any owner/operator, guest, or other person who shall be found to have
violated any of the provisions of §§
150.50 through
150.52 shall be guilty of an offense punishable as follows:
      (l)   The fine for a first violation is $200.00;
      (2)   The fine for a second violation is $500.00; and
      (3)   The fine for a third or subsequent violation is $750.00.
   (B)   Each day a provision of §§
150.50 through
150.52 is found to have been violated constitutes a separate violation, subject
to the fine schedule outlined in this section.
   (C)   Any fines shall be debts due and owing to the village that the village
may collect by any means allowed by law, including, but not limited to, filing
a lien against the subject property.
   (D)   The fines provided herein shall not be construed as limiting the power
of a court of competent jurisdiction to impose other penalties and/or remedies
as provided by law. In addition, an owner found to have violated any provision
of §§
150.50 through
150.52 may be subject to a license’s revocation, suspension, or non-renewal.
(Ord. 2024-07-01B, passed 7-1-2024)
CHAPTER 151: DEVELOPMENT CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Title
   
151.002   Intent
   
151.003   Purpose
   
151.004   Interpretation
   
151.005   Disclaimer of liability
   
151.006   Separability
   
151.007   Repealer
   
151.008   Effective date
   
151.009   Construction of terms
   
151.010   Selected definitions
General Zoning Regulations
   
151.025   Establishment of zoning districts
   
151.026   Zoning map and district boundaries
   
151.027   Determining territory of districts with precision
   
151.028   Annexed territory
   
151.029   General prohibition
   
151.030   Unlisted uses prohibited
   
151.031   Special events
   
151.032   Meeting minimum requirements
   
151.033   Access required
   
151.034   Front setbacks on multiple frontage lots
   
151.035   Front setbacks in certain built-up areas
   
151.036   Intrusions into yards
   
151.037   Exception to height limits
   
151.038   Sanitary disposal of sewage
   
151.039   Accessory uses (including pets, wild animals, horses)
   
151.040   Illumination
   
151.041   Odorous matter
   
151.042   Screening
   
151.043   Trash disposal facilities
   
151.044   Toxic or noxious matter, air pollution
   
151.045   Appearance standards
   
151.046   Schedule A: Permitted and Special Uses
   
151.047   Schedule B: Area and Bulk Regulations
Specific Zoning District Regulations
   
151.060   Generally
   
151.061   "B-1" Neighborhood Business District
   
151.062   "B-2" Office Business District
   
151.063   "B-3" Highway Business District
   
151.064   "B-4" General Business District
   
151.065   "PB" Planned Business District
   
151.066   "I-1" Light Industrial District
Scott Airport Overlay Zone
   
151.067   MetroLink Corridor and Station Overlay Zone established
   
151.068   Conservation Overlay Zone established
Airport Overlay (AO) District
Division 1: Establishment and Purpose
   
151.070   Airport Overlay (AO) District established
   
151.071   Purpose
Division 2: Definitions
   
151.072   Interpretation
   
151.073   Definitions
   
151.074   Acronyms
Division 3: Boundaries and Maps
   
151.075   Airport Overlay District
   
151.076   Interpretation of district boundaries
   
151.077   Subareas; overlap
   
151.078   Maps
Division 4: General Provisions
   
151.079   General use restrictions
   
151.080   Administration and enforcement
   
151.081   State Airport hazard zoning regulations
   
151.082   Development application consultation procedures
   
151.083   Regional Advisory Board
Division 5: AO-1: Primary Planning Influence Area
   
151.084   Purpose and generally
   
151.085   Consultation
   
151.086   Avigation easements
   
151.087   Lighting
Division 6: AO-2: Safety Zones Area
   
151.088   Purpose and generally
   
151.089   Procedures and design regulations in safety zones
   
151.090   Use regulations in safety zones
Division 7: AO-3: Height Restriction Area
   
151.091   Purpose and generally
   
151.092   Procedures and design regulations in the height restriction areas
   
151.093   Area regulations
   
151.094   Height exceptions and limitations
Division 8: AO-4: Noise Zones Area
   
151.095   Purpose and generally
   
151.096   Procedures and design regulations in noise zones
   
151.097   Use regulations in noise zones
   
151.098   Attenuation
Division 9: Supplemental Procedures
   
151.099   Generally
   
151.100   Board of Appeals
   
151.101   Appeals
   
151.102   Variances
   
151.103   Non-conformities
   
151.104   Airport Hazard Marking
Sign Regulations
   
151.105   Generally
   
151.106   Applicability; effect
   
151.107   Computations
   
151.108   Signs allowed on private property with and without permits
   
151.109   Design, construction and maintenance
   
151.110   Master or common signage plan
   
151.111   Signs in the public right-of-way
   
151.112   Other signs forfeited
   
151.113   Signs exempt from regulation under this code
   
151.114   Signs prohibited under this code
   
151.115   General permit procedures
   
151.116   Permits to construct or modify signs
   
151.117   Temporary sign permits (private property)
   
151.118   Time of compliance; nonconforming signs and signs without permits
   
151.119   Violations
Off-Street Parking and Loading Regulations
   
151.130   Purpose and intent
   
151.131   General provisions
   
151.132   Parking area design standards
   
151.133   Requirements for parking spaces
   
151.134   Requirements for parking lot aisles
   
151.135   Requirements for access
   
151.136   Requirements for construction
   
151.137   Lighting
   
151.138   Landscaping
   
151.139   Location of required parking
   
151.140   Loading area design standards
   
151.141   Requirements for loading spaces
   
151.142   Requirements for access
   
151.143   Requirements for construction
   
151.144   Requirements for buffer strips
   
151.145   Location of required loading spaces
   
151.146   Computation of required spaces
   
151.147   Table of parking spaces by classification
   
151.148   Table of loading spaces by classification
Supplementary Regulations for Specific Uses
   
151.164   Applicability of subchapter
   
151.165   Small wireless facilities
   
151.166   Commercial communication towers
   
151.167   Fences, walls and natural barriers
   
151.168   Greenhouses; nurseries
   
151.169   Home occupations/residential
   
151.170   Hospitals, nursing homes
   
151.171   Junk/salvage/material yards
   
151.172   Kennels
   
151.173   Manufactured homes
   
151.174   Mobile homes
   
151.175   Mobile home parks
   
151.176   Mobile homes on private lots
   
151.177   Open spaces
   
151.178   Reserved
   
151.179   Service stations
   
151.180   Subdivision construction office and storage trailers
   
151.181   Subdivision sales offices
   
151.182   Swimming pools
   
151.183   Adult uses, performance standards
   
151.184   Outside telephones
   
151.185   Restrictions for a uniplex
   
151.186   Motor vehicle oriented business regulations
   
151.187   Metal sided buildings
   
151.188   Logo type buildings
   
151.189   Exterior insulation and finish systems (EIFS)
   
151.190   Cannabis business establishment location restrictions
   
151.191   Commercial solar energy systems
Nonconformities
   
151.200   Nonconforming lots
   
151.201   Lots in common ownership
   
151.202   Nonconforming structures
   
151.203   Nonconforming uses occupying a structure
   
151.204   Nonconforming uses of the land
   
151.205   Nonconformities under permit authority
Subdivision Design and Improvement Standards
   
151.220   Applicability of subdivision regulations
   
151.221   Suitability for subdivision generally
   
151.222   Lot requirements
   
151.223   Reference monuments
Subdivision Street Design Standards
   
151.245   Generally
   
151.246   Topographical consideration
   
151.247   Through traffic discouraged
   
151.248   Limited access to arterials
   
151.249   Dead-end streets
   
151.250   Intersections
   
151.251   Curves
   
151.252   Existing streets
   
151.253   Dedication/reservation of right-of-way
   
151.254   Private streets
Subdivision Street Improvements; Curb and Curb and Gutter Standards
   
151.270   Generally
   
151.271   Curb and/or curb and gutter
   
151.272   Pavement
   
151.273   Pavement structure
   
151.274   Maintenance responsibility
Subdivision Regulations Generally
   
151.290   Block standards
   
151.291   Sidewalks/pedestrian/bikeways
   
151.292   Street names and street name signs
   
151.293   Easements
   
151.294   Utilities
   
151.295   Water facilities
   
151.296   Fire hydrants
   
151.297   Sanitary sewers
   
151.298   Drainage and storm sewers
   
151.299   Storm water runoff
   
151.300   Grading and clearing
   
151.301   Erosion and sedimentation control
   
151.302   Green space and/or reservations for public use
   
151.303   Wetlands
General Provisions; Codes Adopted
   
151.320   Building Code adoption
   
151.321   Plumbing Code adoption
   
151.322   Electrical Code adoption
   
151.323   Mechanical Code adoption
   
151.324   Fire Prevention Code adoption
   
151.325   Building construction inspection process
   
151.326   Wildland-Urban Interface Code adoption
Procedures
   
151.340   Submittal procedures
   
151.341   Initial certificate of zoning compliance (building permit)
   
151.342   Corrective action order
   
151.343   Written complaints
   
151.344   Final certificate of zoning compliance (occupancy permit)
   
151.345   Special use permit
   
151.346   Reserved
   
151.347   Amendment/re-zoning
   
151.348   Appeal
   
151.349   Maintenance of improvements
   
151.350   Vacation of plats
   
151.351   Subdivision variance
Zoning Variations (Variances)
   
151.365   Generally
   
151.366   Public hearing; notice
   
151.367   Recommendation, findings of fact
   
151.368   Imposition of conditions and restrictions
   
151.369   Terms of relief, finding of fact
Preliminary Plat
   
151.380   Generally
   
151.381   Information required
   
151.382   Village Planning Commission action
   
151.383   Board of Trustees' action
Improvement/Construction Plans
   
151.395   Generally
   
151.396   Information required
   
151.397   Inspections required
   
151.398   Filing "as-built" records
Required Improvements; Assurance of Completion
   
151.410   Generally
   
151.411   Forms of assurance
   
151.412   Amount of assurance
   
151.413   Term of assurance; extension
   
151.414   Release of assurance
   
151.415   Failure to complete improvements
Final Plat
   
151.430   Generally
   
151.431   Filing, time limits
   
151.432   Information required
   
151.433   Certificates required
   
151.434   Administrative review, advisory report
   
151.435   Action by Board of Trustees
   
151.436   Approved final plats
Planned Unit Development (PUD)
   
151.450   Intent and purpose
   
151.451   Minimum size and developments permitted
   
151.452   Planned residential development (PRD)
   
151.453   Planned commercial development (PCD)
   
151.454   Planned industrial development (PID)
   
151.455   Procedures; approval of planned unit developments
   
151.456   "PB" Planned Business District
   
151.457   Time limitations
   
151.458   Amendments to the development plan/submission in phases
   
151.459   Errors and omissions insurance
   
151.460   Guaranty of improvements
   
151.461   Withdrawal of application
Flood Plain Areas
   
151.475   Purpose
   
151.476   Definitions
   
151.477   Base flood elevation
   
151.478   Duties of the village staff
   
151.479   Development permit
   
151.480   Preventing increased flood heights and resulting damages
   
151.481   Protecting buildings
   
151.482   Subdivision requirements
   
151.483   Public health and other standards
   
151.484   Variances
   
151.485   Disclaimer of liability
   
151.486   Penalty
   
151.487   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
151.488   Separability
   
151.489   Effective date
Applications, Forms and the Like
   
151.500   Application for demolition
   
151.501   Subdivision approval process
   
151.502   Preliminary subdivision plat review
   
151.503   Preliminary plat checklist
   
151.504   Construction plans and specification review application
   
151.505   Construction plans and specifications checklist
   
151.506   Final subdivision plat review application
   
151.507   Final plat checklist
   
151.508   Occupancy inspection checklist
Appendices
   
Appendix A   Selected Illustrations
      A-1   Reserved
      A-2   Reverse Curves
      A-3   Curb and Curb and Gutter Details
      A-3A   Decorative Landscape Curb Details
      A-4   Corner Restrictions
      A-5   Reserved
      A-6   Standard Drawings for Street Signs
      A-7   Street Sign Specifications
   
Appendix B   Standard Drawings for Sanitary Sewer and Storm Drainage
      B-1   Standard Catch Basin
      B-2   Type 1 Storm Sewer Manhole
      B-3   Type 2 Storm Sewer Manhole
      B-4   Standard Gutter Outlets
   
Appendix C   Reserved for Future Use
   
Appendix D   Specifications for Portland Cement Concrete Pavements
      D-1   Sub-grade
      D-1   Forms
      D-1   Equipment
      D-1   Sub-grade Preparation
      D-1   Placement & Finishing
      D-1   Curing
      D-1   Joint Sealing
      D-1   Portland Cement Concrete
      D-1   Plastic Mixture Requirements
      D-1   Admixtures
   
Appendix E   Portland Cement Concrete Specifications
      E-1   Mix Proportions
      E-1   Construction Methods
   
Appendix F
      Section 1   Appendix F of Chapter 151 - Requirements for Demolition
      Section 2   Demolition
   Appendix G   Process Chart for the Regional Advisory Board Review
   Appendix H   Airport imaginary surfaces
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be properly cited as the "Development
Code for the Village of Shiloh, Illinois", or, more simply, the "Development
Code".
§ 151.002 INTENT.
   In the Development Code, a wide spectrum of land use and development
controls commonly imposed in separate ordinances are incorporated into a single
legal instrument. This format is intended to increase the code user's
convenience and, more importantly, to clarify the interrelationship of the
regulations included.
§ 151.003 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The overriding purpose of the Development Code is the protection and
promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, morals and welfare.
   (B)   More specifically, the various provisions of this Code will enable the
village to insure that:
      (1)   Land uses and structures within the community are properly situated
in relation to one another;
      (2)   All structures are constructed, plumbed and wired in accordance
with recognized national or state standards;
      (3)   Consideration is given to the special problems associated with
mobile homes, signs and parking/loading spaces;
      (4)   Land development projects within the community are properly
designed, platted and improved;
      (5)   The reduction and elimination, where feasible, of the special
problems associated with adult uses which include lowering of adjacent property
values, increased criminal acts and the cumulative negative impact to the
community associated with concentrations of adult and related uses to include,
cabarets with topless type entertainment, pawn shops, adult book stores, adult
theaters and similar uses;
      (6)   Regulations set forth in this Code are efficiently administered and
fairly enforced; and
      (7)   Public recourse to the provisions of this Code is clearly and
concisely explained.
§ 151.004 INTERPRETATION.
   Provisions of the Development Code shall be construed liberally in favor of
the village and requirements imposed in this Code shall be deemed the minimum
requirement for the promotion of public health, safety and welfare. Whenever
the requirements of this Code differ from the requirements of any other
lawfully adopted ordinance, regulation, deed restriction or covenant, the more
stringent requirements shall prevail.
§ 151.005 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   Except as may be provided otherwise by statute or ordinance, no person
elected, appointed or employed by the village shall render himself or herself
personally liable for any damage that may accrue to persons or property as a
result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of his or her duties
under the Development Code. Any suit brought against the persons as a result of
the actions shall be defended by village staff until the final determination of
the legal proceedings.
   (B)   (1)   The village does not accept responsibility for the project
design and/or construction of a development nor any other design consideration
or standard utilized in the project. The developer and any design professionals
are reminded that they are responsible for meeting or exceeding all pertinent
federal, state or local codes or standards both on and off the site. The
village's codes and regulations establish only a minimum. The developer should
therefore rely upon the advice of a design professional as to whether a more
stringent standard should be used for this project.
      (2)   Review of plans by the village does not constitute approval of
method, approach or sufficiency of the design.
§ 151.006 SEPARABILITY.
   If any provision of the Development Code is declared unconstitutional or
invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, that decision shall not affect
the validity of the remainder of this Code.
§ 151.007 REPEALER.
   All ordinances or parts thereof that conflict with the provisions of the
Development Code are hereby repealed.
§ 151.008 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The Development Code shall take effect immediately after its legal adoption.
§ 151.009 CONSTRUCTION OF TERMS.
   In constructing the intended meaning of terminology used in the Development
Code, the following rules shall be observed.
   (A)   Words and phrases shall have the meaning ascribed to them in §
151.010 unless the context clearly indicates otherwise; terms not defined in §
151.010 shall have their standard English meanings.
   (B)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders.
   (C)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future tense.
   (D)   Words used in the singular number shall include the plural number and
the plural the singular.
   (E)   The term "shall" is mandatory; the term "may" is discretionary.
   (F)   The term "village" shall mean the Village of Shiloh, Illinois; the
term "community" shall mean Shiloh and the surrounding territory within the
jurisdictional boundaries of the village.
   (G)   Captions (i.e., titles of articles, sections and the like) are
intended merely to facilitate general reference and in no way limit the
substantive application of the provisions set forth thereunder.
   (H)   Reference to sections shall be deemed to include all items within that
section; but a reference to a particular division designates only that
division.
   (I)   A general term that follows or is followed by enumerations of specific
terms shall not be limited to the enumerated class unless expressly stated.
§ 151.010 SELECTED DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABUTTING. Having a common lot line, district line or boundary line;
synonymous terms shall include ADJOINING, CONTIGUOUS and DIRECTLY ADJACENT.
   ACCESS. A way or means of vehicular movement to and from property.
   ACCESSORY USE. Any structure or use that is:
      (1)   Substantially subordinate in size and purpose to the principal
structure or use which it serves. “Substantially subordinate in size” means
that the accessory use is no larger than 35% of the footprint of the principal
structure;
      (2)   Necessary or contributing to the comfort and convenience of the
occupants of the principal structure or use served; and
      (3)   Located on the same lot as the principal structure or use served.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The official appointed by the President of Shiloh with the
advice and consent of  the Village Board of Trustees to administer this
Development Code, or his or her representative.
   ADULT BOOK STORE. Any premises from which minors are excluded and in which
the retail sale of books, magazines, newspapers, movie films, videos, devices,
slides or other electronic, photographic or written reproductions, is conducted
as a principal use of the premises; or as an adjunct to some other business
activity, but which constitutes the primary or a major attraction to the
premises.
   ADULT CABARET. Any premises from which minors are excluded which features
dancers, strippers, male or female impersonators or similar entertainers on a
regular basis or as an adjunct to some other business activity conducted on the
premises, but which constitutes a primary attraction to the premises.
   ADULT MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER. Any premises from which minors are
excluded with a  capacity of less than 50 persons used for presenting movies,
videos or similar photographic or electronic reproductions on a regular basis
or as an adjunct to some other business activity conducted on the premises, but
which constitutes the primary and a major attraction to the premises.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATERS. Any premises from which minors are excluded
with a capacity of 50 or more persons used for presenting movies, videos or
similar photographic or electronic  reproductions on a regular basis or as an
adjunct to some other business activity conducted on the premises, but which
constitutes the primary or a major attraction to the premises.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT. A cultivation center, craft
grower, processing organization, infusion organization, dispensing
organization, or transporting organization.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER. A facility operated by an organization or
business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
cultivate, dry, cure and package cannabis and perform other necessary
activities to provide cannabis and cannabis-infused products to licensed
cannabis business establishments, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, as
it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER. A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to cultivate, process, transport and perform other necessary
activities to make cannabis available for sale at a dispensing organization or
use at a processing organization, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, as
it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION. A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Department of Financial and
Professional Regulation to acquire cannabis from a licensed cannabis business
establishments for the purpose of selling or dispensing cannabis, cannabis-
infused products, cannabis seeds, paraphernalia, or related supplies to
purchasers or to qualified registered medical cannabis patients and caregivers,
per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, as it may be amended from time-to-
time, and regulations thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS INFUSER ORGANIZATION OR INFUSER. A facility operated by
an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to directly incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis-infused product, per the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act, as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations
thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS PROCESSING ORGANIZATION OR PROCESSOR. A facility operated
by an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to either extract constituent chemicals or compounds to produce
cannabis concentrate or incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis product, per the Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act, as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations
thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS TRANSPORTING ORGANIZATION OR TRANSPORTER. A facility
operated by an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois
Department of Agriculture to transport cannabis on behalf of a cannabis
business establishment or a community college licensed under the Community
College Cannabis Vocational Training Pilot Program, per the Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act, as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations
thereunder.
   ADULT USES. Characterized by the exclusion of minors from the use activity
and includes adult book stores, adult motion picture theaters, adult mini-
motion picture theaters, adult cabarets and similar uses.
   AGRICULTURE. The production and care of plants and animals for one's
livelihood; the term shall  encompass structures and uses customarily
incidental to such activities.
   AIRCRAFT NOISE ZONE. Any one of the zones identified on the maps attached
hereto, made a part hereof.
   AISLE. A vehicular traffic way within an off-street parking area, used as a
means of access from parking spaces that are not used to access dwelling units.
(See LOCAL STREET and LOCAL COLLECTOR STREET.)
   ALLEY. A minor way used primarily for vehicular service access to the rear
or the side of properties or otherwise abutting on a street.
   ALTER. To change the size, shape or use of a structure.
   AMENDMENT. A legal change in the provisions of the Development Code
(including those portions incorporated by reference) to include the text,
schedules and maps; amendments may be made to the zoning and subdivision
regulations alike.
   ANCHOR. Any approved device used to keep a mobile home firmly attached to
the stand on which it is placed.
   ANIMAL, DOMESTIC. Any of various animals including farm animals domesticated
by humans so as to live and breed in a tame condition.
   ANIMAL, FARM. The species of fowl, ovine, caprine, bovine, porcine and
equine, that have been  domesticated for agricultural purposes.
   ANIMAL, HOUSEHOLD PET. Domestic animals which have extensively and
historically been kept for personal pleasure, companionship and protection.
   ANIMAL, WILD. Any of the various animals that have not been domesticated to
live and breed in a tame condition.
   ANIMAL SHELTER/CARE FACILITY. Any building or portion thereof designed or
used for the care, observation or treatment of animals.
   ANIMATED SIGN. Any sign that uses movement or change of lighting to depict
action or create a special effect or scene.
   APPEAL. A legal request of a person aggrieved by a decision or order to
change the interpretation or enforcement of the provisions of the Development
Code or a request of a person aggrieved by the issuance of a citation. APPEALS
may be made in regard to the zoning and subdivision regulations alike.
   ARTERIAL STREET. A street designed or utilized primarily for high vehicular
speeds or for heavy volumes of traffic on a continuous route with intersections
at grade and on which traffic control devices are used to expedite the safe
movement of through traffic.
   ASSISTED LIVING. An assisted living center is a non-residential structure
with certain care services allowed by the appropriate state regulatory agencies
that distinguish it from a nursing home.
   ATTACHED. As applied to buildings, the term means having a common wall and/
or a common roof.
   BANNER. Any sign of lightweight fabric or similar material that is
permanently mounted to a pole or a building by a permanent frame at one or more
edges. National flags, state or municipal flags or the official flag of any
institution or business shall not be considered BANNERS.
   BEACON. Any light with one or more beams directed into the atmosphere or
directed at one or more points not on the same zone lot as the light source;
also, any light with one or more beams that rotate or move.
   BERM. A smaller dike-like earth or paved embankment to divert the flow of
runoff water, provide screening or create a landscape feature.
   BIKEWAY/TRAIL. A paved travelway for bicycles that allows linkages to other
bikeway/trails, provides an alternate mode of transportation, connects
residential housing developments and/or creates a linkage to other
transportation systems and services.
   BLOCK. An area of land entirely bounded by streets, highways or barriers
(except alleys, pedestrian ways or exterior boundaries of a subdivision unless
such boundary is a street or highway) or a combination of streets, public
parks, cemeteries, railroad right-of-way, shorelines or waterways or corporate
boundary lines.
   BUILDING. Any covered structure permanently affixed to land and designed or
used to shelter persons or chattels.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the average grade at
the front wall of a building to the highest point of the coping of a flat roof
or to the deck line of mansard roof, or to the mean height level between eaves
and ridge for gable, hip or gambrel roofs. Chimneys, towers, cooling towers and
similar projections (other than signs) shall not be included in calculating
building height.
   BUILDING LINE. The line nearest the front of and across a lot, delineating
the minimum yard space  required between the front of a structure and the
street right-of-way. (Corner lots have two front building lines.)
   BUILDING MARKER. Any sign indicating the name of a building and date and
incidental information about its construction, which sign is cut into a masonry
surface or made of bronze or other permanent material.
   BUILDING SIGN. Any sign attached to any part of a building, as contrasted to
a free-standing sign.
   BULK. Any one or any combination of the following structural or site design
characteristics:
      (1)   Size or height of structure;
      (2)   Location of exterior walls at all levels in relation to lot lines,
streets or other structures;
      (3)   Lot area; and
      (4)   Yards or setbacks.
   CANOPY SIGN. Any sign that is a part of or attached to an awning, canopy or
other fabric, plastic or structural protective cover over a door, entrance,
window or outdoor service area. A "marquee" is not a CANOPY.
   CATCH BASIN. A receptacle, located where a street gutter opens into a sewer,
and designed to retain matter that would not readily pass through the sewer.
   CENTERLINE.
      (1)   The centerline of any right-of-way having a uniform width;
      (2)   The original centerline, where a right-of-way has been widened
irregularly; and
      (3)   The new centerline, whenever a road has been relocated.
   CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN. A sign or portion thereof with characters, letters or
illustrations that can be changed or rearranged without altering the face or
the surface of the sign. A sign on which the message changes more than eight
times per day shall be considered an animated sign and not a CHANGEABLE COPY
SIGN for purposes of this Code. A sign on which the only copy that changes is
an electronic or mechanical indication of time or temperature shall be
considered a "time and temperature" portion of a sign and not a CHANGEABLE COPY
SIGN for purposes of this Code.
   COLLECTOR STREET. A street which carries or is expected to have an average
daily traffic of more  than 3,200 vehicles. It may carry some non-local
traffic.
   COMMERCIAL MESSAGE. Any sign wording, logo or other representation that,
directly or indirectly, names, advertises or calls attention to a business,
product, service or other commercial activity.
   COMMERCIAL USE/ESTABLISHMENT. Any use or establishment wherein goods are
purchased or sold, whether to the consuming public (retail) or to other
businesses (wholesale).
   COMMON OPEN SPACE. A parcel or parcels of land in a planned development
designed and intended for the use of all residents or occupants thereof. COMMON
OPEN SPACE unoccupied by principal or accessory buildings, however, may contain
complementary recreational structures and improvements designed and intended
for the benefit and enjoyment of residents of the planned development.
   CORNER LOT. A lot having at least two adjacent sides that abut for their
full length upon streets; both the lot lines shall be deemed front lot lines.
(See §
151.167 for fence provisions.)
   CORRECTIVE ACTION ORDER. A legal order issued in accordance with the
procedures set forth herein to effect compliance with the Development Code.
   CROSS SLOPE. The degree of inclination measured across a right-of-way rather
than in the direction that traffic moves on the right-of-way.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A short local street having only one outlet for vehicular
traffic and having the other end permanently terminated by a turn-around for
vehicles; the term may also be used to refer solely to the turn-around.
   CURB AND GUTTER, INTEGRAL. The rim forming the edge of a street plus the
channel for leading off surface water, constructed of poured concrete as a
single facility.
   DAY CARE CENTER, CHILDREN. An establishment for profit of the part-time care
and/or instruction at any time of day of four or more children not permanently
residing at the establishment.
   DAY CARE CENTER, ADULT. An establishment providing care and supervision to
two or less frail adults for a portion of the day.
   DECIBEL (dBA). A unit of sound pressure level weighted by use of the A-
metering characteristics and weighing as specified in American National
Standards  Institute Specification for Sound Level Meters (ANSI S1.4 - 1983),
which is hereby incorporated by reference. dBA is also referred to as an A-
WEIGHTED DECIBEL.
   DEDICATION. The transfer of ownership and/or maintenance responsibility for
a street or other facility to the village or other public entity by the
landowner on whose property the facility is located.
   DEVELOP. To erect any structure or to install any improvements on a tract of
land, or to undertake any activity (such as grading or clearing) in preparation
therefor.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate
including, but not limited to, construction of or substantial improvements to
buildings or other structures, the placement of mobile homes, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, clearing, paving, excavation or drilling operations.
   DIMENSIONS. Measurements of depth, length, width and height.
   DISTRICT, ZONING. A portion of the territory of the village wherein certain
uniform requirements or various combinations thereof apply to structures, lots
and uses under the terms of this Code.
   DRIVEWAY. A minor way commonly providing vehicular access to a garage or an
off-street parking space in the zoning districts of NU, R-1, R-2 and R-3.
   DUPLEX. A multi-family dwelling containing two dwelling units.
   DWELLING. A building or portion thereof designed, or used primarily as
living quarters for one or more families, but not including commercial
facilities designed to accommodate the transient public with lodging.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building or portion thereof containing two or
more dwelling units.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached dwelling containing one dwelling unit
and intended for the occupancy of one family.
   DWELLING UNIT. A unit designed or used as living quarters by one family;
such a unit shall include  complete kitchen and sanitary facilities.
   EASEMENT. A right to use another person's real property for certain limited
purposes.
   ENLARGE. To increase the size (floor area, height and the like) of an
existing principal structure or accessory use, or to devote more land to an
existing use.
   ERECT. To build or construct.
   ESCROW DEPOSIT. A deposit in cash or other approved securities by a
developer to assure the completion of subdivision improvements required by the
Development Code.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Either of the following:
      (1)   An institutional, business, commercial or industrial activity that
is the sole occupant of one or more buildings or premises on a zone lot; or
      (2)   An institutional, business, commercial or industrial activity that
occupies a portion of a building or premises on a zone lot such that:
         (a)   The activity is a logical and separate entity from the other
activities within the building or premises and not a department of the whole;
and
         (b)   The activity has either a separate entrance from the exterior of
the building or a separate entrance from a common and clearly defined entryway
that has direct access to the exterior of the building.
   EXISTING. Actually constructed or in operation on the effective date of this
Code.
   FACTORY BUILT HOUSING.
      (1)   There are two categories of factory built housing distinguished
primarily by the building code that regulates their construction. One category
is built to local or state building codes and includes, but is not limited to,
modular, panelized and structural insulated panels. The second category is
manufactured housing (mobile homes).
      (2)   The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development regulates the
construction of this housing type under the Manufactured Home Construction and
Safety Standards (the HUD Code).
      (3)   The HUD Code preempts local or state codes that may exclude
manufactured homes solely on the basis that the housing is not built to local
codes.
   FACTORY BUILT HOUSING, MOBILE HOMES and DOUBLEWIDES (MANUFACTURED HOUSING).
      (1)   FACTORY BUILT HOUSING, MODULAR.
         (a)   Panelized, structural insulated panels and similar systems; a
building assembly or system of building sub-assemblies, designed for habitation
as a dwelling for one or more persons, including the necessary electrical,
plumbing, heating, ventilating and other service systems, which is of closed or
open construction and which is made or assembled by a manufacturer, on or off
the building site, for installation, or assembly and installation, on the
building site, with a permanent foundation.
            1.   CLOSED CONSTRUCTION. Any building, component, assembly or
system manufactured in such a manner that all portions cannot readily be
inspected at the installation site without disassembly, damage to or
destruction thereof.
            2.   OPEN CONSTRUCTION. Any building, component, assembly or system
manufactured in such a manner that all portions can be readily inspected at the
installation site without disassembly, damage to or destruction thereof.
         (b)   FACTORY BUILT HOUSING meeting the requirements of this
definition in the state will contain a yellow seal in the shape of the state on
the electrical panel of each unit.
      (2)   MOBILE HOME.
         (a)   A movable or portable unit, which is not less than 900 square
feet in size, and constructed to be towed on its own chassis (comprised of
frame and wheels) from the place of construction to the location or subsequent
locations, subject to the provisions of Chapter 15 of the Illinois Vehicle
Code, and designed to be connected to utilities for year round occupancy with
or without a permanent foundation. The term shall include:
            1.   Units containing parts that may be folded, collapsed or
telescoped when being towed and that may be expanded to provide additional
cubic capacity; and
            2.   Units composed of two or more separately towable components
designed to be joined into one integral unit capable of being separated again
into the components for repeated towing. The term shall include units designed
to be used for residential, commercial, educational or industrial purposes,
excluding, however, recreational vehicles.
         (b)   A red label must be located on the exterior end of the mobile
home near floor level at the end opposite the towing hitch, containing the
following statement: "As evidenced by this Label No.             , the
manufacturer certifies to the best of the manufacturer's knowledge and belief
that this manufactured home has been inspected in accordance with the
requirements of the Department of Housing and Urban Development and is
constructed in conformance with the federal manufactured home construction and
safety standards in effect on the date of manufacture. See data plate."
         (c)   Where (doublewides) units of two or more separately towable
components are designed to be joined in one integral unit the integrated unit
must have a minimum living area of not less than 900 square feet, minimum
three-twelvths roof pitch, 12-inch minimum roof overhang and residential style
roofing and siding.
   FAMILY. Two or more persons related by blood, marriage, legal adoption,
guardianship and not more than one unrelated person, maintaining a common
household in a dwelling unit.
   FINAL CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE (OCCUPANCY PERMIT). A permit issued
indicating that the completed structural or other work required to develop
land, establish or erect a new use or structure, or enlarge, extend, alter,
relocate or reconstruct an existing use or structure, appears to comply with
all pertinent requirements of the Development Code and the structure or use
may, therefore, be occupied or used. Note: This is not intended to take the
place of a whole house inspector.
   FINAL PLAT. The final engineering survey maps, drawings and supporting
material indicating the subdivision plan which, if accepted, shall be filed
with the St. Clair County Recorder of Deeds. Note: For required submittal
information, see other sections of this Code.
   FLAG. Any fabric, banner or bunting containing distinctive colors, patterns
or symbols, used as a symbol of a government, political subdivision or other
entity.
   FLOOD ELEVATION, REGULATORY. See §
151.476.
   FLOOR AREA, GROSS (FOR THE PURPOSE OF DETERMINING FLOOR AREA RATIO). The sum
of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors of a building or structure
from the exterior face of exterior walls, or from the centerline of a wall
separating two buildings, but excluding any space where the floor-to-ceiling
height is less than six feet.
   FLOOR AREA, NET. The total of all floor areas of a building, excluding
stairwells and elevator shafts, equipment rooms, interior vehicular parking or
loading, and all floors below the first or ground floor, except when used or
intended to be used for human habitation or service to the public.
   FLOOR AREA RATIO (F.A.R). The gross floor area, in square feet, of all
buildings on a lot divided by the total lot area, also in square feet.
   FREE-STANDING SIGN. Any sign supported by structures or supports that are
placed on, or anchored in, the ground and that are independent from any
building or other structure.
   FRONT LOT LINE. The lot boundary abutting the street. Corner lots have two
front lot lines. (See §
151.167 for fence provisions.)
   FRONT YARD. The side of a lot that abuts a street. Corner lots have two
front yards. (See §
151.167 for fence provisions.)
   FRONTAGE. The lineal extent of a lot fronting a street.
   FRONTAGE ROAD. A street fronting on an arterial street or highway (usually a
limited access highway), used for access to abutting lots.
   GRADE. The degree of inclination of the site or right-of-way slope.
   GRANDFATHERING. A process whereby a nonconforming lot, structure or use that
exists immediately prior to the effective date of this Code may be allowed to
continue subject to review and approval of the Village Board of Trustees.
   GREENHOUSE. See NURSERY.
   GROUP HOME FOR THE DISABLED. A dwelling shared by four or more disabled
persons, including resident staff, who live together as a single housekeeping
unit and in a long-term, family-like environment in which staff persons provide
care, education and participation in community activities for the residents
with the primary goal of enabling the resident to live as independently as
possible in order to reach their maximum potential.
   HARDSHIP. As used in the provisions of this Code pertaining to variances,
unreasonable difficulty in complying with Code requirements due to the
condition or topography of the land, location of the structure or similar
factors. HARDSHIP does not mean personal, family problems, financial problems,
size of fenced yard for dogs or similar matters.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any business conducted for monetary gain within a dwelling
or on the immediate premises which is in conformity with the applicable
provisions of the Development Code. May include service or sales on or off
site.
   INCIDENTAL SIGN. A sign, generally informational, that has a purpose
secondary to the use of the zone lot on which it is located, such as "no
parking", "entrance", "loading only", "telephone" and other similar directives.
No sign with a commercial message legible from a position off the zone lot on
which the sign is located shall be considered incidental.
   IMPROVEMENTS. Any street, curb and gutter, sidewalk, drainage ditch, sewer,
catch basins, tree, off-street parking area or other facility necessary for the
general use of property owners in a development.
   IMPROVEMENTS PLANS. The engineering plans showing types of materials and
construction details for the structures and facilities to be installed in, or
in conjunction with, a development.
   INITIAL CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE. A permit issued indicating that the
proposed structural or other work required to develop land, establish or erect
a new use or structure, or enlarge, extend, alter, relocate or reconstruct an
existing use or structure, appears to comply with all pertinent requirements of
the Development Code and may, therefore, proceed.
   INTERSECTION. The point at which two or more public rights-of-way (usually
streets) meet.
   JUNK YARD. A tract of land, including any accessory structures thereon, used
for handling and storage of waste or scrap materials. The term JUNK YARD  shall
include any lot on which two or more inoperable vehicles are parked for longer
than seven days in a 30-day period.
   JURISDICTIONAL BOUNDARIES. The territorial limits of the village in
enforcing the Development Code as defined by state statute relating to zoning
and subdivision regulations.
   KENNEL. Any structure or premises or portion thereof on which more than
three dogs, cats or other household domestic pets over four months of age are
bred, trained or boarded for commercial purposes (other than medical services).
   LDN. The day/night average level, or the 24-hour equivalent continuous sound
level (time averaged A-weighted sound level) from midnight to midnight,
obtained after the addition of ten dBA to sound levels measured from 10:00 p.m.
to 7:00 a.m.
   LEQ. The equivalent continuous sound level which over the period of one hour
has the same A-weighted sound energy as the time varying sound.
   LOADING SPACE. An off-street space used for the temporary parking of a
commercial motor vehicle while loading or unloading merchandise or materials.
   LOCAL COLLECTOR STREET.
      (1)   A street, public or private, which carries or is expected to carry
intermediate volumes of traffic from local residential or marginal access
streets to major collector or arterial streets which would serve more than 25
dwelling units.
      (2)   A LOCAL COLLECTOR STREET may also be commercial or industrial in
character and on which parking may be permitted as determined by the Village
Board.
   LOCAL STREET. A street, public or private, giving access to individual
dwelling units or multiple  dwelling units and serves less than 25 dwelling
units.
   LOGO TYPE BUILDING. A structure of a type and with architectural features
making it readily recognizable as a franchise or a chain building style.
   LOT. A tract or parcel of land intended as a unit for the purpose (whether
immediate or future) of ownership transfer or development; the term is not
synonymous with "lot of record".
   LOT, CORNER. A lot having at least two adjacent sides that abut for their
full length upon streets. Both side lines shall be deemed front lot lines. (See
§
151.167 for fence provisions.)
   LOT, THROUGH. A lot having a pair of approximately parallel lot lines that
abut two approximately parallel streets. Both lot lines shall be deemed front
lot lines. (See §
151.167 for fence provisions.)
   LOT AREA. Lot area of a horizontal plane bounded by the front, side and rear
lines of a lot.
   LOT DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between the front line and rear line
of a lot.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The lot boundary abutting the street (corner lots have two
front lot lines). (See §
151.167 for fence provisions.)
   LOT LINE, REAR. An interior lot line which is most distant from and most
nearly parallel to the front lot line (corner lots have two rear lot lines.)
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any boundary of a lot which is not a front lot line or a
rear lot line.
   LOT WIDTH. The mean horizontal distance between the side lines of a lot.
   MANUFACTURED HOUSING. See FACTORY BUILT HOUSING.
   MARQUEE. Any permanent roof-like structure projecting beyond a building or
extending along and projecting beyond the wall of a building, generally
designed and constructed to provide protection from the weather.
   MARQUEE SIGN. Any sign attached to, in any manner, or made a part of a
marquee.
   MATERIALLY. Significantly, substantially.
   MINOR SUBDIVISION. A division of land into at least two, but not more than
four, lots, all of which front upon an existing street, and not involving any
new streets or other rights-of-way, easements, improvements or other provisions
for public areas and facilities.
   MOBILE HOME. See FACTORY BUILT HOUSING.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A parcel of land developed for the purpose of providing a
location and  accommodations for mobile homes in accordance with the
Development Code and applicable state statutes.
   MODULAR HOUSING. See FACTORY BUILT HOUSING.
   NOISE LEVEL REDUCTION (NLR). The difference between the exterior and
interior sound level, expressed in dBA, which is achieved by the intervening
structure.
   NONCONFORMING. A lot, structure or use legally existing on the adoption date
of the Development Code, but not in compliance with the applicable provisions
thereof.
   NONCONFORMING SIGN. Any sign that does not conform to the requirements of
this Code.
   NURSERY. A tract of land on which trees, shrubs and other plants are raised
for transplanting and sale, and including any structure in which the activities
are conducted.
   NURSING HOME.
      (1)   A building used as a medical care facility for persons who need
long-term nursing care and medical service, but do not require intensive
hospital care.
      (2)   An establishment serving three or more frail adults for a portion
of the day falls under the NURSING HOME definition.
   OCCUPANCY PERMIT. See FINAL CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE.
   OFFICIAL ZONING MAP. The map and any amendments thereto designating zoning
districts, and incorporated into the Development Code by reference.
   PARKING AREA/LOT, OFF-STREET.
      (1)   Land that is improved in accordance with this Code and used for the
storage of passenger motor vehicles, free of charge or for compensation.
      (2)   An OFF-STREET PARKING AREA, depending on the circumstances of its
use, may be either a principal use or an accessory use.
   PARKING SPACE, OFF-STREET.
      (1)   An off-street space used for the temporary parking of a passenger
motor vehicle.
      (2)   The area to be at least 20 feet long and ten feet wide within an
off-street parking area or garage, used for the storage of one passenger motor
vehicle. (See §§
151.130 through
151.148 for further information.)
   PAVEMENT WIDTH. The mean horizontal distance between the edges of a street;
in the case of a curbed and guttered street, the curb-rise shall be considered
as the edge of the street.
   PERMANENT FOUNDATION. A closed perimeter formation consisting of materials
such as concrete, mortared concrete block or mortared brick extending into the
ground below the frost line, excluding the use of piers.
   PERMITTED USE. Any structure or use which is or may be lawfully erected or
established in a particular zoning district, provided it conforms with the
requirements of the Development Code.
   PENNANT. Any lightweight plastic, fabric or other material, whether or not
containing a message of any kind, suspended from a rope, wire or string,
usually in series, designed to move in the wind.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, firm, association, organization or
corporate body.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD). An area of minimum contiguous size, as
specified by this  Code to be planned, developed, operated and maintained as a
unified development and containing one or more residential clusters or planned
unit residential developments or one or more public, quasi-public, commercial
or industrial areas in such ranges or ratios of differing uses as specified in
this Code.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the village.
   PLANTING STRIP BUFFER. A landscaped area of land used to protect a structure
or use from the harmful effects of an adjacent structure or use (also see
BERM.)
   POLE BARN. A structure with timber posts for a foundation and a system of
wooden posts and girts that comprise the wall framing system.
   PORTABLE SIGN. Any sign not permanently attached to the ground or other
permanent structure, or a sign designed to be transported, including, but not
limited to, signs designed to be transported by means of wheels; signs
converted to A- or T-frames; menu and sandwich board signs, balloons used as
signs; umbrellas used for advertising; and signs attached to or painted on
vehicles parked and visible from the public right-of-way, unless the vehicle is
used in the normal day-to-day operations of the business.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT. The preliminary engineering survey maps, drawings and
supporting material indicating the proposed layout of a subdivision. (See
requirements in this Code required for submittal.)
   PREMISES. A lot and all the structures and uses thereon.
   PRINCIPAL BUILDING. The building in which is conducted the principal use of
the zone lot on which it is located. Zone lots with multiple principal uses may
have multiple principal buildings, but storage buildings, garages and other
clearly accessory uses shall not be considered principal buildings.
   PRINCIPAL USE. The primary structure or use erected or established on a lot,
as distinguished from a subordinate structure or use defined as "accessory
use".
   PROJECTING SIGN. Any sign affixed to a building, not including the roof, or
wall in such a manner that its leading edge extends more than six inches beyond
the surface of the building or wall.
   PUBLIC. As applied to utilities, either government-owned or owned by an
established firm serving a wide geographical area and/or a substantial number
of persons.
   REAR LOT LINE. An interior lot line which is most distant from and most
nearly parallel to the front lot line.
   RECOGNIZED ACOUSTICAL SPECIALIST.
      (1)   A person qualified by education and experience to conduct sound
analysis of buildings.
      (2)   The approved individual shall have at least three years of
experience in the field of sound control; a degree from a recognized institute
of higher learning in acoustics or a closely related discipline; and
demonstrated expertise in the process of sound analysis of buildings.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A term encompassing any type of vehicle used for
recreational, avocational or competitive purposes on land, sea or air pleasure
such as travel trailers, motor homes, boats, snowmobiles and the like.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLES to include, but not be  limited to, camping trailers,
travel trailers, motor homes, mini-motor homes, van camper, camper shells,
boats, snowmobiles and the like.
   RELOCATE. To move to another portion of a lot or to a different lot.
   RESIDENTIAL SIGN. Any sign located in a district zoned for residential uses
that contains no commercial message except advertising for goods or services
legally offered on the premises where the sign is located, if offering the
service at such location conforms with all requirements of this Code.
   RETAIL. The sale of goods or services directly to the consumer rather than
to another business.
   REVERSE CURVE. A curve in a street heading in approximately the opposite
direction from the curve immediately preceding it so as to form an S-shape.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY/R.O.W. A strip of land acquired for use for a public road,
railroad and the like; and abbreviation for RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   ROOF SIGN. Any sign erected or constructed as an integral or essentially
integral part of a normal roof structure of any design, such that no part of
the sign extends vertically above the highest portion of the roof and such that
no part of the sign is separated from the rest of the roof by a space of more
than six inches.
   SELF STORAGE BUILDINGS. Storage buildings typically used to store household
or personal items that are not for distribution to wholesalers or retailers.
   SERVICE STATION.
      (1)   A building and premises or portion thereof designed and used for
the retail sale of gasoline or other automotive fuel, oil and automotive parts,
supplies and accessories.
      (2)   A STATION may include facilities for washing vehicles and making
minor automotive repairs.
   SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between a street line and:
      (1)   The nearest wall of a building or side of a structure facing the
street line; or
      (2)   The edge of the area of operation of a principal use involving no
building or structure.
   SETBACK LINE. See BUILDING LINE.
   SIDE LOT LINE. Any boundary of a lot which is not a front lot line or a rear
lot line.
   SIDEWALK. A pedestrian way, constructed in compliance with the standards of
this Code, that customarily abut or is near the curb line of the street.
   SIGN. Any object, device, display or structure, or part thereof, used to
advertise, identify, display or attract attention to a person, establishment,
product, service or event by any means including words, letters, figures,
designs, symbols, fixtures, colors, illumination and the like. The term SIGN
includes, but is not limited to, every projecting sign; free-standing sign;
window sign; awning, canopy, marquee sign; changeable copy sign; illuminated
sign; moving sign; temporary sign; portable sign; pennants; banners, streamers
or any other attention-getting device; or other display whether affixed to a
building or erected elsewhere on the premises.
   SIGN AREA. See §§
151.105 through
151.119 and
Chapter 34 of this Code.
   SKIRTING. The covering affixed to the bottom of the exterior walls of a
mobile home to prevent wind uplift and to conceal the underside thereof.
   SOUND. Energy that is transmitted by pressure waves in the air or in other
materials and is the objective cause of the sensation of hearing. It is
commonly called NOISE if it is unwanted.
   SOUND ATTENUATION. The reduction in sound level which occurs between the
source and the receiver.
   SOUND LEAK. An opening in a structure through which sound can pass. SOUND
LEAKS are often extremely small holes or cracks. In general, an AIR LEAK is a
SOUND LEAK.
   SOUND LEVEL.
      (1)   The level of sound pressure measured with a sound level meter and
one of its weighing (frequency) networks.
      (2)   When A-weighing is used, the SOUND LEVEL is expressed as DBA.
   SOUND TRANSMISSION CLASS (STC). A single number rating for describing the
degree of sound transmission loss specified for a wall, window, partition or
other building element. The higher the STC, the more attenuation the building
element will afford.
   SPECIAL USE.
      (1)   A structure or use that has unusual characteristics which
distinguish it from the permitted uses of a zoning district, but which can be
made compatible with the intended overall development within the district.
      (2)   SPECIAL USES commonly must meet special standards not necessarily
applicable to permitted uses in the district and are allowed only by permit.
   SPECIAL USE PERMIT. A permit issued in accordance with the provisions of the
Development Code to allow the erection or establishment of special uses.
   STICK-BUILT. A term used to describe any type of dwelling other than factory
built housing.
   STOP ORDER. A type of corrective action order used to halt work in progress
that is in violation of the plans and/or Development Code.
   STREET. A paved public or private vehicular travel way; the term shall not
include aisles or the existing alley. (See also LOCAL STREET and LOCAL
COLLECTOR STREET.)
   STREET FRONTAGE. The distance for which a lot line of a zone lot adjoins a
private or public street, from one lot line intersecting the street to the
furthest distant lot line intersecting the same surface.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected on the ground or attached to
something having a fixed location on the ground. All buildings are structures,
but not all structures are buildings.
   STUB STREET. A street that is temporarily terminated, but that is planned
for future continuation.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, estate
or other group or combination acting as a unit, dividing or proposing to divide
land in a manner that constitutes a development, as herein defined.
   SUBDIVISION. Any division of land into two or more lots, except as set forth
in the Illinois Plats Act, being ILCS Ch. 765, Act 205. (See also MINOR
SUBDIVISION.)
   SUBDIVISION, VARIANCE. A relaxation in the strict application of the
subdivision design and improvements standards.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any improvement to a structure at a cost which
equals or exceeds 50% of the structure's market value prior to the start of the
project, or if the structure has been damaged, before the damage occurred; the
term shall not include life essential improvements required by existing state
or local regulations, nor restoration work done to a structure listed on the
National or State Register of Historic Places.
   SUSPENDED SIGN. A sign that is suspended from the underside of a horizontal
plane surface and is supported by the surface.
   TEMPORARY. Generally existing for not more than one year.
   TEMPORARY SIGN. Any sign that is used only temporarily and is not
permanently mounted.
   TEMPORARY USE.
      (1)   A structure or use that is erected or established for a very
limited amount of time.
      (2)   TEMPORARY USES are allowed only by permit.
   TEMPORARY USE PERMIT. A permit issued in accordance with the provisions of
the Development Code to allow the erection or establishment of temporary uses.
   THROUGH LOT. A lot having a pair of approximately parallel lot lines that
abut a pair of approximately parallel streets; both lot lines shall be deemed
front lot lines.
   TOPOGRAPHY. The relief features or surface configuration of an area of land.
   TRAVEL TRAILER. A mobile structure designed for temporary occupancy.
   UNIPLEX. A dwelling which accommodates two or more families, divided by a
common or party wall in which each family area is separately owned (only
allowed per §
151.185 of this chapter).
   USE. The purpose or activity for which land or a structure thereon is
designed, arranged, intended, occupied or maintained.
   UTILITY SUBSTATION. A secondary utility facility such as an electrical
substation, gas regulator  station, telephone exchange facility, sewage
treatment plant and the like.
   VACATE. To terminate the legal existence of a right-of-way or subdivision
and noted on the final plat recorded with the St. Clair County Recorder of
Deeds.
   VARIANCE.
      (1)   A relaxation of the strict application of the requirements of the
Development Code.
      (2)   VARIANCES may be granted for zoning and subdivision regulations
alike.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Shiloh, Illinois.
   VILLAGE STAFF. For allocation of job responsibility, see
Chapter 31 of this Code.
   WALL SIGN. Any sign attached parallel to, but within six inches of, a wall,
painted on the wall surface, or erected and confined within the limits of an
outside wall of any building or structure, which is supported by the wall or
building and which displays only one sign surface.
   WAREHOUSE. A building where wares or goods are stored before distribution to
wholesalers or
retailers.
   WATERWAY. The area necessary to accommodate the movement of storm water in
the 100-year storm event. (The 100-year storm event is defined elsewhere in
this Code.)
   WHOLESALE. The sale of goods in large amounts to retailers or jobbers rather
than to consumers directly.
   WINDOW SIGN. Any sign, pictures, symbol or combination thereof, designed to
communicate information about an activity, business, commodity, event, sale or
service, that is placed inside a window or upon the window panes or glass and
is visible from the exterior of the window.
   YARD SPACE. Open space located on the same lot as the principal use and
unobstructed except as specifically permitted in the Development Code.
   ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS. An appellate, interpretive and advisory body
designated to assist in the administration of this Code.
   ZONING DISTRICT. A portion of the territory within the jurisdictional
boundaries of the village wherein certain uniform zoning requirements or
various combinations thereof apply to structures, lots and uses under the terms
of the Development Code.
(Am. Ord. 2020-03-02B, passed 3-2-2020; Am. Ord. 2022-05-02A, passed 5-2-2022)
GENERAL ZONING REGULATIONS
§ 151.025 ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   In order to implement the provisions of the Development Code which
pertain to zoning and to achieve the objectives enumerated in §
151.003, all land within the jurisdictional boundaries of the village is hereby
divided into the following zoning districts.
District Designation Minimum Area/Acres
District                             Designation Minimum Area/Acres
Non-Urban                            NU          None
Country Estates                      CE          10
Residential                          R-1         10
Residential                          R-2         10
Residential                          R-3         10
Multi-Family Residential             MR          5
Mobile Home Residential              MH          10
Neighborhood Business                B-1         2
Office/Business                      B-2         2
Highway Business                     B-3         5
General Business                     B-4         5
Light Industrial                     I-1         5
                                     Overlay District (§§
Flood Plain                          151.475 through
                                     151.489)
Planned Business District            PB          5
Scott Airport Overlay Zone           Overlay District (See §§ 151.067, 151.068)
Conservation                         Overlay District (See Comprehensive Plan)
Metro Link Corridor and Station Area Overlay District (See report on file with
                                     village staff)
 
   (B)   (1)   The "minimum area" requirement is intended to prevent "spot
zoning" and refers to the smallest total area of contiguous parcels that can
properly be given the particular district classification.
      (2)   This requirement is not satisfied merely because the acreage of
noncontiguous parcels, when aggregated, happen to equal or exceed the minimum
area indicated above.
§ 151.026 ZONING MAP AND DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   The boundaries of the listed zoning districts are hereby established
as shown on the official zoning map of the village.
   (B)   This map, including all notations and other information thereon, is
hereby made a part of the Development Code by reference, and shall be kept on
file in the Village Hall.
   (C)   In accordance with state law, if any changes are made in the zoning
districts or regulations during a calendar year, the village staff shall
publish the official zoning map of the village no later than March 31 of the
following year.
§ 151.027 DETERMINING TERRITORY OF DISTRICTS WITH PRECISION.
   In determining what territory is actually included within any district on
the zoning map, the following rules shall apply.
   (A)   Where a district boundary approximately follows any of the features
listed below on the left, the corresponding feature on the right shall be
deemed the district boundary:
 
Left                               Right
Right-of-way of any roadway        The line
Lot line                           The line
Railroad tracks                    Right-of-way line
Stream                             Center of stream
Section, fractional or survey line The line
 
   (B)   Whenever any roadway is legally vacated, the district adjoining each
side of the vacated roadway shall automatically extend to the center of the
roadway and all territory included in the vacated roadway shall thereafter be
subject to all regulations of the extended district.
   (C)   All territory (including bodies of water) that lies within the
jurisdictional boundaries of the village, but which is not shown on the zoning
map as being located within any district, shall comply with the zoning
regulations of the Land Use and Major Streets Plan as a guide.
§ 151.028 ANNEXED TERRITORY.
   Whenever any territory is annexed to the village, it shall comply with the
Land Use and Major Streets Plan as a guide; and after a public hearing, the
Board of Trustees may zone newly-annexed territory as appropriate.
§ 151.029 GENERAL PROHIBITION.
   (A)   No lot or part thereof shall be used, occupied or developed except in
conformity with the provisions of the Development Code. Likewise, no structure
or part thereof shall be erected, used, occupied, enlarged, altered, relocated
or reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions of this Code.
   (B)   Suits pending or rights existing immediately prior to the effective
date of this Code shall not be affected nor impaired except for those rights
relating to nonconformities which are dealt with elsewhere in this Code. Zoning
or other related development issues that are a part of an annexation agreement
made prior to the adoption or revision of the Development Code shall be
grandfathered. Grandfathering of Development Code requirements is also
permitted on property platted prior to the adoption of this chapter with
permission of the Village Board.
§ 151.030 UNLISTED USES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Whenever any use is not specifically listed as a permitted or special
use within a particular district, the use shall be deemed prohibited in that
district.
   (B)   However, if the President and the Board of Trustees, following
consultation with the Planning Commission, find that the unlisted use is
similar to and compatible with the listed uses, they may allow the use by a
zoning amendment.
   (C)   The decision shall become a permanent public record and any unlisted
use that is approved shall thereafter have the same status as listed uses. (See
also §
151.029.)
§ 151.031 SPECIAL EVENTS.
   (A)   No land shall be used for any temporary enterprise, whether for profit
or not, and no temporary structure shall be used or occupied for any purpose,
unless a special events permit has been obtained.
   (B)   No special event permit shall be valid for more than.
Cross-reference:
   Generally, see
Chapter 114
   Fees, see
Chapter 34
§ 151.032 MEETING MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   Except as specifically provided otherwise in the Development Code, every lot
must independently meet the minimum area, dimension and setback requirements of
the district in which it is located, and in the case of dwellings, lots shall
be limited to one principal structure.
§ 151.033 ACCESS REQUIRED.
   No structure shall be erected on any lot unless the lot abuts, or has
permanent easement of access to a public street or a private street that
conforms to the provisions of the land subdivision regulations in the
Development Code.
§ 151.034 FRONT SETBACKS ON MULTIPLE FRONTAGE LOTS.
   Every lot with multiple frontages, such as through lots, shall meet the
front setback requirements of the district in which it is located for each end
of the lot.
§ 151.035 FRONT SETBACKS IN CERTAIN BUILT-UP AREAS.
   In all Residential and Commercial Zoning Districts, where lots having 50% or
more of the total frontage on one side of a street between intersections (that
is, in one "block") are developed with buildings and the front setback of those
lots do not differ by more than ten feet, the minimum required front setback on
that block shall be the average of the existing front setbacks. However, in any
such built-up area, no front setback of less than 15 feet shall be permitted,
nor shall any front setback of greater than 50 feet be required.
§ 151.036 INTRUSIONS INTO YARDS.
   To the extent indicated below, the following features of principal buildings
may intrude into required yards without thereby violating the minimum setback
requirements. However, they cannot extend into any platted easements.
 
Features                                              Maximum Intrusion
Cornices, chimneys, planters or similar architectural 2 feet
features
Fire escapes                                          4 feet
Patios                                                10 feet
Deck, if unenclosed and without a roof                6 feet
Balconies                                             4 feet
Canopies and roof overhangs                           4 feet
 
§ 151.037 EXCEPTION TO HEIGHT LIMITS.
   The following items shall be noted as exceptions to height limits provided
in the Development Code with recommendation of the Zoning Board and approval of
the Village Board of Trustees.
   (A)   Necessary appurtenances commonly constructed above the roof line, such
as chimneys, church spires, parapet walls, cooling towers, elevator bulkheads,
fire towers and antennas, shall be permitted to exceed the maximum height
limitations of the district in which they are located if they comply with all
other pertinent ordinances.
   (B)   On corner and through lots, in the triangular portion of land bounded
by intersecting street lines and a line joining those street lines at points 30
feet from the point of intersection, no natural or human-made obstruction shall
intrude into the air space that is between two and ten feet above the level of
the adjacent street.
   (C)   The main worship area of a church or place of worship may exceed the
maximum height restrictions of §
151.047. However, the maximum height of the main worship area shall not exceed
65 feet.
   (D)   In B-4, PB and Industrial Zones, the Board may consider higher
buildings following an application submittal conforming to §
151.345.
§ 151.038 SANITARY DISPOSAL OF SEWAGE.
   (A)   In all districts, property owners of new buildings and places where
people live, work or assemble shall provide for the sanitary disposal of all
sewage in accordance with the following requirements.
      (1)   Whenever the sewer system is reasonably available, all sewage shall
be discharged into the system, whether or not a private sewer system already
exists or is more convenient. For the purpose of this provision, the reasonable
distance shall be that listed in
Chapter 50 of this Code.
      (2)   Whenever the sewer system is not reasonably available, but where
plans for the installation of the system have been approved by the Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency or a service plan has been adopted by the
Village Board, the developer shall provide sanitary sewers in accordance with
the plans and temporarily cap them. To serve the development until the time
when connection to the public system becomes available, an approved private
central sewage disposal system shall be installed or individual sewage disposal
systems may be used.
   (B)   The village staff shall not issue an initial certificate of zoning
compliance unless, following consultation with the appropriate village staff
member and St. Clair County Health Department, it is determined these
requirements will be met.
§ 151.039 ACCESSORY USES (INCLUDING PETS, WILD ANIMALS, HORSES).
   (A)   Any accessory use shall be deemed permitted in a particular zoning
district if the use:
      (1)   Meets the definition of "accessory use" found in §
151.010;
      (2)   Is accessory to a principal structure or use that is allowed in a
particular zoning district as a permitted or special use; and
      (3)   Is in compliance with the restrictions set forth in §§
151.046 and
151.047.
   (B)   Use of any accessory structure as a dwelling is strictly prohibited
throughout the zoning jurisdiction of the village. Should an accessory
structure be attached to a principal structure, it shall be considered part of
the structure.
   (C)   Domestic household pets are limited to a maximum of three per
principal structure.
   (D)   The keeping of wild animals, birds, reptiles or similar species is
prohibited.
   (E)   Horses, limited to one animal per one and one-half acres, is a
permitted accessory use in a "CE" (Country Estates) District.
Cross-reference:
   Animals, see
Chapter 93
   Kennels, see §
151.172
§ 151.040 ILLUMINATION.
   In all zoning districts, illumination of buildings and structures shall be
controlled so as to preclude the spillage of light onto adjoining residential
uses or lots.
§ 151.041 ODOROUS MATTER.
   The emission of any odorous matter from any property in any zoning district
in concentrations which are readily detectible at any point along the
boundaries of the zoning lot or in concentrations which create a public
nuisance or hazard beyond the boundaries of the zoning lot is prohibited.
§ 151.042 SCREENING.
   In all circumstances where a zoning lot in a "B" (Business) or "I"
(Industrial) Zoning District adjoins or abuts a residential or non-urban use or
a residential or non-urban zoned parcel, screening shall be provided between
the "B" (Business) or "I" (Industrial) zoning lot and such other lot. The
screening shall be subject to approval by the Village Board and shall be
adequate to provide a visual and sound barrier between the lots so as to ensure
that uses upon the "B" (Business) or "I" (Industrial) lot do not adversely
impact the residential or non-urban parcel.
§ 151.043 TRASH DISPOSAL FACILITIES.
   All outdoor trash or disposal facilities in an "MR" (Multi-Family), "B"
(Business) or "I" (Industrial) District, and any dumpster in any district,
shall be located in the rear of the zoning lot and the building located on the
lot or as approved. All such facilities shall be appropriately screened in the
opinion of the Village Board from adjoining properties and in a manner which is
compatible with the building site design for the zoning lot. School recycle
bins are exempt from the screening provision of this chapter. Any such outdoor
trash or disposal system must be maintained to avoid the existence of litter or
the dispersal of trash outside the screened enclosure. The accumulation of
litter or trash is not permitted.
§ 151.044 TOXIC OR NOXIOUS MATTER, AIR POLLUTION.
   No use on any property shall discharge toxic or noxious matter or create air
pollution across the boundaries or the zoning lot in concentrations which are
readily detectible or in such concentrations as to be detrimental or to
endanger the public health, safety, comfort or welfare, or cause injury or
damage to other property or business beyond the boundaries of the zoning lot.
§ 151.045 APPEARANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Purposes. The following are the purposes of the architectural
appearance standards set forth in this section:
      (1)   To create an architectural identity and to avoid monotonous
similarity or inappropriateness in exterior design and appearance of property;
      (2)   To promote the orderly and harmonious growth of the village and to
protect and enhance land values, investments and the general welfare of the
citizens of the village;
      (3)   To protect and to stabilize the general appearance of buildings and
structures, throughout the village;
      (4)   To insure adequate light, air and privacy for property throughout
the village;
      (5)   To encourage and promote acceptability attractiveness, cohesiveness
and compatibility of new development so as to maintain and improve the
established standards of property values throughout the village; and
      (6)   To aid prospective contractors, architects, designers and
developers in preparing their project plans for review by the village.
   (B)   Applicability. The design standards shall apply to single-family
residential developments of seven units or more and to all other types of
developments, including privately- and publicly-owned properties.
   (C)   Administration.
      (1)   An applicant for a building permit or development approval shall
submit a site plan, exterior elevations and such other data deemed necessary by
the village staff to evaluate a proposed architectural appearance.
      (2)   Final elevations shall be drawn to scale and shall indicate the
nature and extent of the work proposed.
      (3)   The review of architecture appearance provided for in this section
is intended to be only a part of the whole review procedure laid out in these
regulations. Approval of architectural appearance does not in any way signify
final approval of any portion of any project.
   (D)   Pre-application conference. An applicant for architectural appearance
approval may request in writing that the village staff hold an informal pre-
application conference to review the preliminary architectural appearance of a
proposed project. This pre-application conference may be conducted concurrently
with the pre-application conference provided for elsewhere in this Code.
   (E)   Review. The village staff shall review the information submitted for
appearance standards. Recommendations of the village staff shall be based upon
the criteria set forth in divisions (F) through (I) below.
   (F)   Building and structure design.
      (1)   Buildings and structures shall be consistent with the established
neighborhood character and with any adjacent residential property.
      (2)   Building materials shall be selected for suitability to the type of
buildings and the design in which they are used. Buildings shall use the same
materials, or those which are architecturally harmonious, for all building
walls and other exterior building components that are wholly or partially
visible from public ways.
      (3)   Building materials shall be of durable quality. Inappropriate
materials or building methods, and those which will produce inconsistency with
the structure and architecture of the building, shall be avoided.
      (4)   Except as indicates in division (5) below, brick or other masonry
materials approved by the Village Board shall be used for front, back and all
sides of all building structures, except accessory uses supporting single
family residential dwelling units, and shall be installed per Building Code
specifications. Brick shall, at a minimum, extend from ground level to tops of
windows, with minor accents allowed in place of brick subject to meeting
building codes. Brick shall not be painted.
         (a)   For the purposes of this section masonry products shall be
either stucco, EIFS, full brick and mortar, full stone and mortar, cultured
stone and mortar or tilt up concrete panels with integral architectural
features and coloring. Regular concrete block or similar product, HARDIE type
siding and nail or screw on brick or stone type panels shall not be considered
as masonry in this section.
      (5)   All single family and/or duplex residential dwelling units shall
contain face brick, stone or masonry on not less than 100% of any exterior
walls, on any side facing a street from the ground level to the top of the
first floor wall line. This does not include the area of windows or doors. All
materials for the remaining ground level wall surfaces shall be approved by the
Village Board. All materials used shall be compatible as a group and with the
surrounding structures. Under certain conditions when a special use is allowed
by the Village Board for a factory built housing, modular single family
structure in a Non Urban (NU) Zone District, the Board may consider materials
other than masonry on the front of the home facing a street.
         (a)   For the purposes of this section masonry products shall be
either stucco, EIFS, full brick and mortar, full stone and mortar, cultured
stone and mortar or tilt up concrete panels with integral architectural
features and coloring. Regular concrete block or similar product, HARDIE type
siding and nail or screw on brick or stone type panels shall not be considered
as masonry in this section.
      (6)   Building materials should be selected with special attention to
energy conservation. Materials and colors that reduce the consumption of gas
and electricity should be used wherever possible.
      (7)   Building components, such as windows, doors, eaves and parapets,
shall have good proportions and relationship to one another.
      (8)   While it is recognized that color is a very subjective matter and
that creativity should not be stifled, colors should nonetheless be used
harmoniously and with some restraint. Color schemes should consider and respect
the character and quality of structures in the area. Excessively bright or
brilliant colors should be used only for accent. Materials and colors should
withstand the weather well over a 25-year period.
      (9)   Architectural style should be appropriate to the area and
evaluation of a project shall be based on the quality of design and its
relationship to surroundings. The design of structures should display a
sensitivity to the best aspects of the character, quality and scale of those
structures already existing in the area of a proposed project.
      (10)   Monotony of design shall be avoided, however styles should be
complementary and should relate to indigenous architecture. In residential
districts no two detached single-family dwellings of substantially similar or
identical front elevation or facade shall be constructed or located on adjacent
lots. The changes may be major or minor changes.
         (a)   Major changes. One major change and color change shall
constitute a substantial change:
            1.   Roof treatment: Hip, gable, 25% or greater change in slope;
            2.   Location of garage entry: Side and front;
            3.   Type of brick treatment: Extended porticos and the like;
            4.   Material treatment: Full brick vs. half-and-half;
            5.   Overall facade: Mediterranean vs. Colonial, for example;
            6.   Brick arches;
            7.   Brick bay projections; and
            8.   Balconies.
         (b)   Minor changes. Three minor changes constitute a substantial
change:
            1.   Vertical or horizontal siding;
            2.   Colors of materials;
            3.   Door treatment, garage and entry;
            4.   Window styles, casements, bows and double hung;
            5.   Shutter treatment;
            6.   Ornamental treatment, lighting fixture location or posts and
fascia;
            7.   Reversing plan;
            8.   Garage door design; and
            9.   Brick wing arms.
      (11)   On commercial buildings, facades greater than 100 feet in length
must incorporate recesses and projections along at least 20% of the length of
the facade. Windows, awnings and arcades must total at least 60% of the facade
length abutting a public street.
      (12)   Color, texture and material module elements should be repeated
horizontally and/or vertically on commercial buildings.
      (13)   Each commercial building must have a clearly defined, highly
visible customer entrance with features such as canopies or porticos, arcades,
arches, wing walls and integral planters.
      (14)   Commercial and industrial buildings shall vary architectural
design elements in roof-lines and include brick/masonry up to the tops of the
windows.
   (G)   Relationship of buildings to site.
      (1)   The height and scale of each building shall be compatible with its
site and adjoining buildings and neighboring development. In residential
districts, the height shall not vary by more than 14 feet from adjacent
structures.
      (2)   The site shall be planned to accomplish a desirable transition with
the streetscape and to provide for adequate planting, pedestrian movement and
parking areas.
   (H)   Relationship of building and site to adjoining area.
      (1)   Adjacent buildings of different architectural styles shall be made
compatible by such means as screens, site breaks and materials.
      (2)   Attractive landscape transition to adjoining properties shall be
provided.
      (3)   Harmony in texture, lines and masses shall be required.
      (4)   Buildings shall have similar scale to those in the surrounding
area.
   (I)   Screening.
      (1)   Screening of service yards, utility meters and hardware, overhead
doors, mechanical equipment, refuse areas and/or other potentially unattractive
places from public view shall be accomplished by the use of walls, fencing,
planting or combinations of all of the measures that follow. Screening shall be
equally effective in the winter and the summer seasons. For rooftop equipment,
parapet walls are required along street frontages and bordering residential
areas that parapet walls must be at least three feet in height and constructed
of matching building materials to the principal structure:
         (a)   Adjusting the architectural or landscape profile to screen those
elements from view;
         (b)   Placing those elements on service courts or other locations not
usable by the general public; or
         (c)   Integrating those elements into the architecture or landscaping
of the site.
      (2)   The degree of visibility and screening of service yards, utility
meters and hardware, mechanical equipment, refuse areas and/or other
potentially unattractive places shall be evaluated using the following
criteria:
         (a)   The degree of visibility from all adjacent public ways;
         (b)   The architectural compatibility of the design and color of the
yards, meters and equipment of the building;
         (c)   Possible visibility from future buildings and public ways; and
         (d)   Internal overall appearance in relation to the site. (See also §
151.303.)
§ 151.046 SCHEDULE A: PERMITTED AND SPECIAL USES.
Zoning Districts Permitted Special Uses
Zoning       Permitted                                                                          Special Uses
Districts
             •   Agriculture, but not including commercial feed lots or processing plants  •   Agriculture-related businesses
             •   Farmsteads                                                                •   Animal shelter/care facilities
             •   Single-family dwellings                                                   •   Cemeteries
             •   Accessory uses, in accordance with §                                     •   Commercial and private park and recreation areas and facilities
             151.039
                                                                                                •   Day-care centers and nursery schools government uses
                                                                                                •   Patient care facilities
                                                                                                •   Schools
                                                                                                •   Transportation, communications and utility substations
"NU" Non-                                                                                       •   Pole barns, not to exceed 5,000 square feet
Urban                                                                                           •   Churches and places of worship
                                                                                                •   Telecommunications tower and facilities, where the property is owned by the
                                                                                                village or a public school or public school district and where the tower and
                                                                                                facilities will qualify as a disguised support structure
                                                                                                •   Factory built modular single-family home if all of the following conditions
                                                                                                are met: not visible from a public street, at least a 60-foot tree perimeter
                                                                                                buffer, not visible from adjoining properties from the first floor window and
                                                                                                conforming to the factory built housing, modular definition found within this
                                                                                                code.
                                                                                                •   Adult-use cannabis craft grower/cultivation center
             •   Single-family dwelling                                                    •   Churches and places of worship
             •   Accessory uses, in accordance with §                                     •   Day-care centers and nursery schools
"CE" Country 151.039
Estates                                                                                         •   Government uses
                                                                                                •   Planned residential development
                                                                                                •   Pole barns, subordinate to main structure, no greater than 50% of the square
                                                                                                footage of the main floor of the single-family dwelling
             •   Single-family dwelling                                                    •   Churches and places of worship
             •   Accessory uses, in accordance with §                                     •   Community centers
             151.039, not to exceed a 24 x 24 two-car garage
"R-1" and                                                                                       •   Day-care centers and nursery schools
"R-2"                                                                                           •   Government uses
Residential                                                                                     •   Libraries
                                                                                                •   Public and semi-public park and recreation areas and facilities
                                                                                                •   Schools
                                                                                                •   Planned residential development
             •   Single-family dwelling                                                    •   Same as "R-l" special uses
             •   Accessory uses, in accordance with §                                     •   Cemeteries
"R-3"        151.039, not to exceed a 24 x 24 two-car garage
Residential                                                                                     •   Civic and social organizations
                                                                                                •   Day-care centers and nursery schools
                                                                                                •   Nursing homes and convalescent centers
                                                                                                •   Transportation, communication and utility substations
             •   Duplexes                                                                  •   Multi-family dwellings of seven or more units
             •   Multi-family dwellings of three to six units                              •   Planned residential development
             •   Group home for the handicapped
"MR"         •   Factory-built housing, modular
Multiple-    •   Single-family dwellings
Family       •   Uniplex, in accordance with §
Residential  151.185
             •   Accessory uses, in accordance with §
             151.039, not to exceed a 24 x 24 two-car garage
             •   Class “G” liquor licenses for 55+ apartments, in accordance with §
             110.07(H)
             •   Mobile homes and doublewides                                              •   Same as "R-3" special uses
"MH" Mobile  •   Factory built housing, modular                                            •   Mobile home parks
Home         •   Accessory uses, in accordance with §                                     •   Planned residential development
Residential  151.039, not to exceed a 24 x 24 two-car garage
                                                                                                •   Recreational vehicle parks
             •   Retail trade and personal service businesses establishments intended to se•   Churches and places of worship
             the immediate neighborhood and community within the vicinity of the business use
             •   Modular commercial structures                                             •   Schools and educational institutions, public and private
"B-1"        •   Professional and business offices                                         •   Day care
Neighborhood •   Government uses                                                           •   Residential health care
Business                                                                                        •   Restaurants
                                                                                                •   Other special uses consistent with the purpose and intent of the "B-1"
                                                                                                District
                                                                                                •   Planned commercial development
                                                                                                •   Adult-use cannabis business establishment
             •   Professional offices including doctors, lawyers, dentists, accountants,   •   Permitted uses in the "B-1" Districts
             financial services and similar uses
             •   Travel agencies                                                           •   Churches and places of worship
             •   Office parks                                                              •   Residential health care
             •   Corporate offices                                                         •   Day care
             •   Insurance offices                                                         •   Restaurants
"B-2" Office •   Real estate offices                                                       •   Utility substations
Business     •   Photography                                                               •   Schools, educational institutions
             •   Governmental offices                                                      •   Other special uses consistent with the purpose and intent of the "B-2"
                                                                                                District
             •   Chiropractic offices                                                      •   Planned commercial development
             •   Hospitals                                                                 •   Adult-use cannabis business establishment
             •   Modular commercial structures                                             •   Commercial solar energy systems
             •   Service oriented business
             •   Convenience stores
             •   Permitted uses in the "B-2" Districts                                     •   Permitted uses in the "B-1" Districts
             •   Banks, financial and insurance services                                   •   Churches and places of worship
             •   Retail trade                                                              •   Educational institutions and services
             •   Restaurants, including drive through                                      •   Civic and social institutions
             •   Offices, service and professional                                         •   Taverns and package liquor stores
"B-3"        •   Convenience stores with gasoline sales                                    •   Residential health care
Highway      •   Grocery stores                                                            •   Restaurants with liquor licenses
Business     •   Government uses                                                           •   Other special uses consistent with the purpose and intent of the "B-3"
                                                                                                District
             •   Modular commercial structures                                             •   Planned commercial development
             •   Single-family dwellings built prior to 1999                               •   Day care
                                                                                                •   Adult-use cannabis business establishment
                                                                                                •   Commercial solar energy systems
             •   Permitted uses in the "B-3" Districts, except permitted uses in the "B-2" •   Permitted uses in the "B-1" and "B-2" Districts
             Districts
             •   Shopping malls                                                            •   Any commercial use requiring outdoor storage and/or sales
             •   Restaurants with liquor licenses                                          •   Planned commercial development
             •   Automobile sales and repair                                               •   Taverns
             •   Marine (boat) sales                                                       •   Package liquor
"B-4"        •   Service establishments to include banks, brokerages, insurance            •   Other special uses consistent with the purpose and intent of the "B-4"
General                                                                                         District
Business     •   Health services to include emergency clinics                              •   Planned commercial development
             •   Grocery stores                                                            •   Day care
             •   Hotels, motels                                                            •   Adult-use cannabis business establishment
             •   Tire service stores                                                       •   Commercial solar energy systems
             •   Discount stores
             •   Gas stations
             •   Drive through facilities
                                                                                                •   Subject to the requirement that no lot be less than five acres nor have
             •   Agriculture, single-family housing units and government units (on lots of frontage to a public street of less than 200 feet nor depth from the street
             less than three acres)                                                             frontage of less than 200 feet, all uses permitted in the "B-1", "B-2", "B-3" or
                                                                                                "B-4" Districts and the following additional uses
             •   Churches and places of worship                                            •   Schools and educational institutions (public and private)
             •   Public or private recreation facilities (without enclosed buildings except for
             concession or restroom facilities, utility substations (but not utility operations
             facilities) (all government uses shall meet the parking space requirements         •   Civic and social institutions
"PB" Planned consistent with Class 8 of §§
Business     151.147)
                                                                                                •   Retail establishments in which package liquor sales are incidental to other
                                                                                                goods sold.
                                                                                                •   Residential health care facilities
                                                                                                •   Day-care facilities
                                                                                                •   Planned commercial development (i.e. multi-building and/or multi-tenant
                                                                                                building developments intended to accommodate more than one user, but subject to
                                                                                                the permitted and special uses of a planned business zone
                                                                                                •   Adult-use cannabis business establishment
                                                                                                •   Commercial solar energy systems
             •   Assembly and fabrication                                                  •   Adult uses
             •   Any commercial use outdoor storage and/or sales                           •   Manufacturing (other than tool and die)
             •   Outdoor storage including construction yards, cement products, lumber yards,
             machine and equipment rental, welding supplies, but not including petroleum and    •   Food processing
             gas wholesale and/or distribution facilities
             •   Wholesaling/warehousing                                                   •   Planned industrial development
"LI" Light   •   Industrial and construction supply                                        •   Recreational vehicle parks
Industrial   •   Tool and die manufacturing                                                •   Junk yards
             •   Cold storage                                                              •   Salvage yards
             •   Carpenter shops, furniture refinishing                                    •   Other special uses consistent with the purpose and intent of the "I-1"
                                                                                                District
             •   Publishing and printing                                                   •   Self storage buildings, subject to architectural appearance approval of the
                                                                                                Village Board
             •   Modular industrial structures                                             •   Adult-use cannabis business establishment
                                                                                                •   Commercial solar energy systems
 
(Am. Ord. 2020-03-02B, passed 3-2-2020; Am. Ord. 2021-12-06D, passed 12-6-2021;
Am. Ord. 2024-11-04C, passed 11-4-2024)
§ 151.047 SCHEDULE B: AREA AND BULK REGULATIONS.
Click_here_to_view_the_tables_in_a_PDF_document.
 
Key to tables:
a Parking lots are not included in the calculations.
  Minimum residential building size to be 900 square feet of occupied space on
b one floor. Occupied space shall not include garage or other spaces not
  eligible as occupied space per the most current code at the time of plan
  view.
c Also see §
  151.186.
d For minimum lot sizes for special uses, see §
  151.148.
e See §
  151.185 for specifics on uniplex structures.
 
   (A)   Miscellaneous.
         Principal               Maximum     Maximum   Maximum
Zoning   Buildings Minimum       Coverage in Height of Height of Maximum Floor
District Per Lot   District Size Percent of  Principal Accessory Area Ratio
                                 Lot         Structure Building
                                        Maximum  Maximum   Maximum
                     Principal Minimum  Coverage Height of Height of Maximum
Zoning District      Buildings District in       Principal Accessory Floor Area
                     Per Lot   Size     Percent  Structure Building  Ratio
                                        of Lot
"NU" Non-Urban       1         None     10%      35 feet   35 feet   NA
"CE" Country Estates 1         10 acres 15%      35 feet   25 feet   NA
"R-1" Single-Family  1         10 acres 20%      35 feet   20 feet   NA
Residential
"R-2" Single-Family  1         10 acres 30%      35 feet   20 feet   NA
Residential
"R-3" Single-Family  1         10 acres 30%      35 feet   20 feet   NA
Residential
"MR" Multi-Family    1         5 acres  40%      35 feet   20 feet   NA
Residentialb,e
"MH" Mobile Home     1         10 acres 40%      35 feet   20 feet   NA
Residential
“B-1" Neighborhood 1         2 acres  40%      35 feet   20 feet   NA
Commerciala
“B-2" Office/      1         2 acres  30%      35 feet   20 feet   0.75:1
Businessa,c
“B-3" Highway      1         5 acres  40%      35 feet   20 feet   1.5:1
Businessa,c
“B-4" General      1         5 acres  50%      35 feet   36 feet   1.5:1
Businessa,c
“PB” Planned     NA        5 acres  40%      35 feet   20 feet   1.5:1
Businessa,c,d
"LI" Light           NA        5 acres  60%      35 feet   35 feet   1.5:1
Industrial
 
   (B)   Minimum lot size.
Zoning District Area in Square Feet Width at Building Line Mean Depth in Lineal
                or Acres                                   Feet
Zoning District      Area in Square Feet Width at Building Mean Depth in Lineal
                     or Acres            Line              Feet
"NU" Non-Urban       3 acres             250 feet          250 feet
"CE" Country Estates 43,560 square feet  150 feet          150 feet
"R-1" Single-Family  22,500 square feet  125 feet          125 feet
Residential
"R-2" Single-Family  15,000 square feet  100 feet          100 feet
Residential
"R-3" Single-Family  12,500 square feet  90 feet           100 feet
Residential
"MR" Multi-Family    25,000 square feet  125 feet          125 feet
Residentialb,e
"MH" Mobile Home     6,000 square feet   50 feet           100 feet
Residential
"B-1" Neighborhood   12,500 square feet  90 feet           100 feet
Commercial
"B-2" Office/        12,500 square feet  90 feet           100 feet
Businessc
"B-3" Highway        12,500 square feet  90 feet           100 feet
Businessc
"B-4" General        12,500 square feet  90 feet           100 feet
Businessc
"PB" Planned         43,560 square feetd 200 feet          200 feet
Businessc,d
"LI" Light           1 acre              150 feet          150 feet
Industrial
 
   (C)   Minimum yard dimensions.
                                                    Distance to
Zoning   Depth of Front Depth of Yard Depth of Side Nearest      Depth of Rear
District Yard           Abutting a    Yard Abutting Principal    Yard
                        Street        a Street      Building on
                                                    Adjacent Lot
                          Depth of                 Distance to
Zoning         Depth of   Yard       Depth of Side Nearest      Depth of Rear
District       Front Yard Abutting a Yard Abutting Principal    Yard
                          Street     a Street      Building on
                                                   Adjacent Lot
"NU" Non-Urban 50 feet    50 feet    25 feet       50 feet      50 feet
"CE" Country   35 feet    35 feet    20 feet       40 feet      35 feet
Estates
"R-1" Single-
Family         30 feet    30 feet    15 feet       30 feet      35 feet
Residential
"R-2" Single-
Family         30 feet    30 feet    15 feet       30 feet      30 feet
Residential
"R-3" Single-
Family         25 feet    25 feet    10 feet       20 feet      20 feet
Residential
"MR" Multi-
Family         25 feet    25 feet    10 feet       20 feet      20 feet
Residentialb,e
"MH" Mobile
Home           25 feet    25 feet    10 feet       20 feet      20 feet
Residential
"B-1"
Neighborhood   20 feet    20 feet    10 feet       20 feet      10 feet
Commercial
"B-2" Office/  25 feet    25 feet    10 feet       10 feet      20 feet
Businessc
"B-3" Highway  20 feet    20 feet    10 feet       20 feet      10 feet
Businessc
"B-4" General  20 feet    20 feet    10 feet       20 feet      10 feet
Businessc
"PB" Planned   20 feet    20 feet    10 feet       20 feet      10 feet
Businessc,d
"LI" Light     25 feet    25 feet    25 feet       50 feet      25 feet
Industrial
 
   (D)   Accessory structure; minimum distance.
Zoning   Principal                Side Lot Line
District Building  Front Lot Line Adjacent to a Side Lot Line Rear Lot Line
                                  Street
Zoning         Principal Front Lot Side Lot Line
District       Building  Line      Adjacent to a Side Lot Line Rear Lot Line
                                   Street
"NU" Non-Urban 20 feet   50 feet   50 feet       25 feet       50 feet
"CE" Country   15 feet   35 feet   25 feet       10 feet       10 feet
Estates
"R-1" Single-                                    5 feet
Family         10 feet   30 feet   25 feet       6 feet pool   5 feet
Residential
"R-2" Single-                                    5 feet
Family         10 feet   30 feet   25 feet       6 feet pool   5 feet
Residential
"R-3" Single-                                    5 feet
Family         10 feet   25 feet   25 feet       6 feet pool   5 feet
Residential
"MR" Multi-
Family         10 feet   25 feet   25 feet       5 feet        5 feet
Residentialb,e
"MH" Mobile
Home           10 feet   25 feet   25 feet       5 feet        5 feet
Residential
"B-1"
Neighborhood   10 feet   20 feet   20 feet       10 feet       10 feet
Commercial
"B-2" Office/  10 feet   25 feet   25 feet       10 feet       10 feet
Businessc
"B-3" Highway  10 feet   20 feet   20 feet       10 feet       10 feet
Businessc
"B-4" General  None      20 feet   10 feet       10 feet       10 feet
Businessc
"PB" Planned   10 feet   20 feet   20 feet       10 feet       10 feet
Businessc,d
"LI" Light     None      25 feet   25 feet       25 feet       25 feet
Industrial
 
SPECIFIC ZONING DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 151.060 GENERALLY.
   (A)   In order to facilitate public understanding of the zoning regulations
within the Development Code and for efficient administration and convenience of
use thereof, area and bulk requirements for each zoning district established in
§
151.025 are set forth in
Schedule B, and permitted and special uses are set forth in
Schedule A. The schedules are in §§
151.046 and
151.047 and shall be amended in the same manner as any other regulation within
this Code.
   (B)   In accordance with §
151.025, all land within the jurisdictional boundaries of the village is
divided into specific zoning districts. Each district is described as follows:
      (1)   Non-Urban "NU" District. This district classification encompasses
undeveloped or sparsely developed land which, for the most part, is presently
used for agriculture and rural homesites. The District may also contain, and be
compatible with, public and semi-public and conservation areas as described in
the Comprehensive Plan; and
      (2)   Residential "CE", "R-1", "R-2", "R-3", "MR" and "MH" Districts.
These district classifications encompass developable or developed land which is
or should be used for dwellings.
§ 151.061 "B-1" NEIGHBORHOOD BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   (1)   The "B-1" Business District is primarily intended to accommodate
low intensity retail, office and personal service uses adjacent to residential
areas within the village. The District is established to provide convenient
locations for businesses which generally serve the needs of surrounding
residents and the immediate community without disrupting the character of the
neighborhood in which the use is located. It is not intended to accommodate
retail uses which primarily attract passing motorists.
      (2)   Compatibility with nearby residences is paramount and should be
reflected in the design and site layout of buildings and structures within the
district.
   (B)   The use in the "B-1" District should constitute an integral part of
the neighborhood in which it is located and should be a low impact usage.
§ 151.062 "B-2" OFFICE BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   The "B-2" Office Zoning District is intended to provide for compatible
transitional land uses in areas of both residential and limited business use
and to provide suitable areas for concentrations of executive office parks and
professional and service offices.
§ 151.063 "B-3" HIGHWAY BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   The "B-3" Zoning District is primarily intended to accommodate a wide
range of retail, service and office uses, but with a lesser intensity than the
"B-4" General Business District.
   (B)   Typically, this district would be located along main thoroughfares and
at the intersections of collector streets and arterial streets within the
village.
   (C)   Establishments located in the "B-3" Zoning District would generally
serve the local community and the surrounding area.
§ 151.064 "B-4" GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   The "B-4" Zoning District is intended to accommodate a wide range of
retail, service, office and other business uses in more intense and larger
scale activities than the "B-3" Highway Business District.
   (B)   The District is established to provide locations for uses and
establishments which serve both the community and the larger region and also
require a fairly high degree of visibility with good access.
   (C)   The District would also accommodate multiple retail/service
developments such as shopping centers, malls, motels, hotels, office parks and
similar higher intensity uses.
§ 151.065 "PB" PLANNED BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   The "PB" District is intended to provide for maximum commercial site
design and utilization in areas favorable for commercial growth.
   (B)   It is the purpose of these regulations to facilitate the establishment
of developments and uses in locations appropriate under approved site plans.
   (C)   This allows the village to create a more attractive community,
maximize economic value and to reduce capital expenditures for public
improvements.
   (D)   See §
151.456 for special procedures for this classification.
§ 151.066 "I-1" LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   The "I-1" Light Industrial Zoning District is intended to provide
suitable areas for industrial and commercial areas that are engaged in
assembly, fabrication or that may require outdoor storage and generally require
larger lots and acreage.
   (B)   This district is also suitable for warehousing, wholesaling and
similar activities.
SCOTT AIRPORT OVERLAY ZONE
§ 151.067 METROLINK CORRIDOR AND STATION OVERLAY ZONE ESTABLISHED.
   The MetroLink Corridor and Station Overlay Zone is hereby established and
shall include those lands as indicated on the Phase I and Phase II Reports as
adopted by St. Clair County. May also be known as the TOD Overlay Zone.
§ 151.068 CONSERVATION OVERLAY ZONE ESTABLISHED.
   The Conservation Overlay Zone is hereby established and shall include lands
as described in the Comprehensive Plan (page 22 of 26).
AIRPORT OVERLAY (AO) DISTRICT
Division 1: Establishment and Purpose
§ 151.070 AIRPORT OVERLAY (AO) DISTRICT ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a zoning district entitled Airport Overlay (AO)
District, including subarea districts, with the expressed intent to provide for
uses and unique design requirements for lands adjacent to and within runway
protection zones, accident potential zones, airspace zones, and noise zones for
the environs of Scott Air Force Base and the MidAmerica St. Louis Airport.
§ 151.071 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Airport Overlay (AO) District is to establish land use
controls that promote and protect the public health, safety, comfort and
general welfare, and including:
   (A)   To provide for and protect the long term mission, operation, and
viability of Scott Air Force Base (AFB) and MidAmerica St. Louis Airport from
hazardous, injurious, and/or other conditions that could adversely affect
airport operations and safety and/or that would be incompatible with airport
operations and functions;
   (B)   To protect the use, enjoyment, and values of land and development in
the airport environs from injurious and hazardous conditions and
incompatibility of uses;
   (C)   To promote proper land use arrangement and development, public and
private services and facilities, and a desirable environment to achieve and
sustain physical, social, and economic activities, which are compatible with
Scott AFB and MidAmerica St. Louis Airport;
   (D)   To provide standards for new or redeveloped buildings within the noise
attenuation zone to be constructed with materials and in such manner that
aircraft noise be reduced by the structure to an interior level that has no
adverse impact on the health, safety, and general welfare of the residents;
   (E)   To maintain an open process of regional coordination, negotiation, and
interpretation of airport influence districts and cooperation with other
affected local governments to achieve these goals.
   (F)   To inform citizens in the vicinity of Scott AFB and MidAmerica St.
Louis Airport of the potential impacts of airport influence districts on the
use of their properties; and
   (G)   To preserve the economic development potential that Scott AFB and
MidAmerica St. Louis Airport brings to the area.
Division 2: Definitions
§ 151.072 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Words and phrases shall be construed according to the common and
approved usage of the language; but technical words and phrases and such others
as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be
construed and understood according to such meaning. Except as otherwise
specifically defined below for purposes of these airport overlay regulations,
definitions generally applicable within the Development Code shall apply
herein.
   (B)   Nothing contained within these airport overlay regulations shall be
construed as or applied to be substantially inconsistent with an airport
approach plan adopted by IDOT Division of Aeronautics, pursuant to ILCS Ch.
620, Act 25, § 12.
§ 151.073 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCIDENT POTENTIAL ZONES (APZ). As applied to military airfields, those
areas which are identified as being significantly impacted by accident
potential from aircraft. APZ-1 is an area normally beyond the clear zone that
possesses a significant potential for accidents. APZ-2 is an area normally
beyond APZ-1 that has a measurable potential for accidents. Both the APZ-1 and
APZ-2 are the same width as the clear zone. APZ-1 extends from the clear zone
an additional 5,000 feet. APZ-2 extends from APZ-1 an additional 7,000 feet.
   AIR FORCE. The United States Air Force as represented by the Base Community
Planner for Scott Air Force Base or such other designee.
   AIR INSTALLATION COMPATIBLE USE ZONE (AICUZ). A study conducted by the Air
Force to evaluate the effect on noise and accident potential on surrounding
property and to promote compatible land use that reduces the risks to public
health and safety.
   AIRPORT. Any area of land or water that is designed and set aside for the
landing and taking off of aircraft and related use associated with Scott Air
Force Base or MidAmerica St. Louis Airport and utilized or to be utilized in
the interest of the public for such purposes.
   AIRPORT ENVIRONS. The geographic area that is affected by the airport air
traffic operations and defined on the basis of those areas immediately affected
by noise exposure, clear zones, runway protection zones, APZ-1 and APZ-2 areas,
height hazard zones, and areas of airport influence property. These areas
constitute the Airport Overlay (AO) District established in these airport
overlay regulations.
   AIRPORT HAZARD. Any structure or object of natural growth or use of land
within the airport environs that obstructs the air space required for the
flight of taking off, maneuvering or landing at an airport or which is
otherwise hazardous to such landing or taking off of aircraft.
   AIRPORT HAZARD AREA. Any area of land or water, or both, upon which an
airport hazard might be established if not prevented by these airport overlay
regulations.
   AIRPORT OVERLAY REGULATIONS.  Sections
151.070 through
151.104 of the Development Code for the Village of Shiloh.
   CLEAR ZONE (CZ). A defined area extending outward from the end of each
runway of Scott Air Force Base. The CLEAR ZONES are considered an area of high
accident potential. The CLEAR ZONE starts at the end of the runway and extends
outward 3,000 feet at a width of 3,000 feet.
   DECIBEL (DB). A unit for measuring the relative loudness of sound or sound
pressure equal approximately to the smallest degree of difference of loudness
or sound pressure ordinarily detectable by the human ear, the range of which
includes about 130 decibels on a scale beginning with one for the faintest
audible sound.
   DECIBEL A-WEIGHTED SCALE (DBA). The unit of noise level measured in
accordance with the “A-weighted scale” which replicates the response
characteristics of the ear. This scale is a quantity, in decibels, read from a
standard sound-level meter with A weighting circuitry. The A-space weighting
discriminates against lower frequencies according to a relationship
approximating, and more accurately reflecting the auditory sensitivity and
response of the human ear. The A-scale sound level measures approximately the
relative “noisiness” or “annoyance” of common sounds.
   DEVELOPMENT APPLICATION. Any request to the local governing body for
rezoning, subdivision  (major or minor), zoning variance, permit for a non-
conformity, final site plan approval, special use permits, sign permits for
freestanding or illuminated signs, mobile home permits, or in the case of
building permits, permits to increase the existing square footage by 50% or
more or over 35 feet in height, or permits otherwise determined by the Director
to have any potential impact within the District intended to be addressed by
these Airport Overlay Regulations. A request to approve a change to the future
land use map of the approved Comprehensive Plan shall also be considered a
development application within this section.
   DEVELOPMENT CODE. The Development Code for the Village of Shiloh, as
amended, including these airport overlay regulations.
   DIRECTOR. The Village Engineer, or other designee, as the staff person
assigned to administer, interpret, and implement the standards, criteria, and
procedures of this Development Code for their respective elected bodies.
   DNL. Day Night Level. See LEVEL, DAY NIGHT SOUND LEVEL (LDN). Acoustical
industry standards often use the abbreviations DNL and LDN interchangeably.
   ELECTRONIC DISPLAY SIGNS. Signs that show changeable copy, graphic displays
or video displays.
   FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (FAA). The federal agency responsible for
the safety of civil aviation and the regulation of U.S. commercial space
transportation.
   HEIGHT, AIRPORT. In the airport environs, for purpose of determining the
height of any structure, tree, or other object, including communication towers,
the height is the elevation above mean sea level (MSL). For calculation
purposes, this is the sum of the elevation of the site and the height of the
structure, including any appurtenances.
   LEVEL, DAY NIGHT SOUND LEVEL (LDN). A basic measure for quantifying noise
exposure. The day/night average level, or the 24 hour equivalent continuous
sound level (time averaged A-weighted sound level) from midnight to midnight,
obtained after the addition of ten dBA to sound levels measured from 10:00 p.m.
to 7:00 a.m.
   NIT. A unit of visible-light intensity, commonly used to specify the
brightness of a cathode ray tube or liquid crystal display computer display.
One NIT is equivalent to one candela per square meter.
   NOISE CONTOUR. A line on the AO-4 map linking together a series of points of
equal cumulative noise exposure based on the day/night average level (LDN)
measurement. Such contours are developed based on aircraft flight patterns,
number of daily aircraft operations by type of aircraft, and time of day noise
characteristics of each aircraft and typical runway usage patterns.
   NOISE LEVEL REDUCTION (NLR). Amount of noise reduction required through
construction and incorporation of sound attenuation material to reduce interior
noise level. The difference between the exterior and interior sound level,
expressed in decibels.
   OWNER. Any person, group of persons, firm or firms, corporation or
corporations, commanding officer of any local military base, or any other legal
entity having legal or equitable title to or sufficient proprietary interest in
or to any property subject to this Development Code.
   PARTICIPATING LOCAL GOVERNMENTS. The coordinating local governments in St.
Clair County, Illinois participating in the RAB and adopting an airport overlay
code substantially in the form of or consistent with these airport overlay
regulations.
   PRIMARY SURFACE. A ground surface longitudinally centered on the runway. The
dimensions and limits of the PRIMARY SURFACE  shall be those prescribed in
Department of Defense (DoD) height and obstruction criteria for Scott AFB and
in Federal Aviation Regulation (FAR) Part 77 for MidAmerica St. Louis Airport.
   RUNWAY. A defined area on an airport or airfield prepared for landing and
takeoff of aircraft along its length. For purposes of these airport overlay
regulations and compliance with other applicable laws, the runways of Scott Air
Force Base or MidAmerica St. Louis Airport shall be considered precision
instrument runways unless otherwise hereinafter designated.
   RUNWAY PROTECTION ZONE (RPZ). An area off the runway end of a civilian
airport designated by the FAA to enhance the protection of people and property
on the ground.
   SLUCM. The Standard Land Use Coding Manual, which provides a general numeric
coding scheme that uses two, three, four, or more digits to identify land use
activities and allow for the flexible categorization of new land uses.
   SOUND ATTENUATION. The reduction in sound level which occurs between the
source and the receiver.
   SOUND LEVEL. The level of sound pressure measured with a sound level meter
and one of its weighing (frequency) networks. When A-weighing is used, the
sound level is expressed as dBA.
   SOUND TRANSMISSION CLASS (STC). An integer rating of how well a building
partition attenuates airborne sound. In the USA, it is widely used to rate
interior partitions, ceilings/floors, doors, windows and exterior wall
configurations.
   STRUCTURE. Any object whether permanent or temporary, including, but not
limited to a building, tower, crane, smokestack, earth formation, overhead
transmission line, or flagpole; to also include mobile and tethered objects.
§ 151.074 ACRONYMS.
   AFB      Air Force Base
   AICUZ   Air Installation Compatible Use Zone
   APZ      Accident Potential Zone
   CZ      Clear Zone
   dB      Decibels
   dBA      Weighted decibels
   DoD      Department of Defense
   FAA      Federal Aviation Administration
   IDOT      Illinois Department of Transportation
   LDN      Day-night sound level
   NLR      Noise Level Reduction
   RAB      Regional Advisory Board
   RPZ      Runway Protection Zone
   SLUCM   Standard Land Use Coding Manual
   STC      Sound Transmission Class
Division 3: Boundaries and Maps
§ 151.075 AIRPORT OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   Certain airport environs are identified and established by these airport
overlay regulations for property within and around Scott Air Force Base (AFB)
and MidAmerica St. Louis Airport (MidAmerica) within St. Clair County,
Illinois. These environs have been identified through Federal Aviation
Regulations Part 77 and data provided to St. Clair County by the United States
Air Force as part of the 2008 Joint Land Use Study and the 2009 Air
Installation Compatible Use Zone (AICUZ) report. Areas within the airport
environs are subject to regulation beyond the other requirements of the
Development Code. These additional restrictions, designated as the Airport
Overlay (AO) District, provide an enhanced level of protection in support of
the continued operations of Scott AFB and MidAmerica St. Louis Airport.
§ 151.076 INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   Establishment and interpretation of district boundaries. The
boundaries of the Airport Overlay (AO) District and subarea districts are
hereby enacted and established as set forth on the series of four maps
incorporated in §
151.078 of these airport overlay regulations (District Maps), with precise
boundaries being determined by scaling distances and features shown on these
maps. Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the boundaries
of the airport districts, as shown on the Airport Overlay (AO) District maps,
the Director shall make the necessary determination of the boundary based on
the purposes of these airport overlay regulations and underlying mapping data.
Any property owner contesting the location of a district boundary affecting his
or her property shall be given a reasonable opportunity to present their case
in accordance with the appeal procedures established in the Development Code
and in §§
151.099 through
151.104 of these airport overlay regulations. The adopted district maps may
include areas outside the territorial boundaries of the village in order to
promote coordination with other participating local governments. The
regulations of this Airport Overlay District shall not be deemed to extend to
any property outside such territorial boundaries to which the village lacks
jurisdiction to impose such regulation.
   (B)   Split parcels. For purposes of regulation of parcels that appear split
by the district boundary lines, only that portion of a parcel that falls within
the district shall be subject to the provisions and standards of these airport
overlay regulations.
   (C)   Boundary changes. The boundaries of the Airport Overlay (AO) District
may be subject to change reflecting new military mission activity and/or
aviation operations at Scott AFB and MidAmerica Airport. Scott AFB and
MidAmerica Airport shall communicate the results of updated analyses of noise
and air safety zones, including AICUZ reports and FAA studies, to affected
local governments. The Director shall notify the Air Force, MidAmerica Airport
and other local governments that have adopted airport zoning regulations in the
environs of Scott Air Force Base and MidAmerica Airport of changes to the
district boundary lines as shown in the maps in §
151.078 to promote the coordinated and consistent application of airport
overlay regulations. Other coordinating local governments may adopt more
stringent regulations than the minimum requirements in these airport overlay
regulations. Boundary changes to the AO District or subarea districts shall be
adopted pursuant to the procedures applicable to amendments to the Development
Code.
§ 151.077 SUBAREAS; OVERLAP.
   To carry out the purpose of this district, the Airport Overlay (AO) District
is composed of four overlapping subarea districts that establish different
levels of restrictions based on airport boundary areas of influence, safety
areas based on hazard zones and structure height regulations, and noise
contours as follows. Properties or portions of properties located within
multiple subareas shall comply with the standards established for each of those
subareas in which the property is located.
   (A)   AO-1 Primary Planning Influence Area. The Primary Planning Influence
Area designates the subarea that primarily includes standards for avigation
easements and lighting as described in §§
151.084 through
151.087.
   (B)   AO-2 Safety Zones Area. The Safety Zones Area designates the subarea
that primarily includes standards for land use, density, and design as
designated in §§
151.088 through
151.090. The boundary of this area is determined by FAA and DoD imaginary
surfaces definitions for military and civilian airfields (clear zone, runway
protection zone, accident potential zone 1 and accident potential zone 2) in
effect on the effective date of these airport overlay regulations in
conjunction with any other relevant safety area data obtained by the Director.
   (C)   AO-3 Height Restriction Area. The Height Restriction Area designates
the subarea that primarily includes standards for controlling height as
described in §§
151.091 through
151.094. The boundary of this area is determined by a combination of
measurements including a 1,500 foot buffer around Scott Air Force Base and
imaginary surfaces definitions for military and civilian airfields in effect on
the effective date of these airport overlay regulations, in conjunction with
any other relevant height restriction data obtained by the Director.
   (D)   AO-4 Noise Zones Area. The Noise Zones Area designates the subarea
that primarily includes standards for the attenuation of noise and residential
land use controls as specified in §§
151.095 through
151.098. This boundary is determined by applying the noise contours published
by the DoD for Scott Air Force Base in conjunction with any other relevant
noise data obtained by the Director.
§ 151.078 MAPS.
   The following four maps, Figures 3.1 - 3.4, are incorporated as an integral
part of the Development Code. These maps are hereby adopted and incorporated as
an amendment to the official zoning map whether maintained separately or
integrated within a single document:
   (A)   AO-1 Primary Planning Influence Area.
   (B)   AO-2 Safety Zones Area.
   (C)   AO-3 Height Restriction Area.
   (D)   AO-4 Noise Zones Area.
Figure 3.1 AO-1, Planning Influence Area.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d14942e4c4f8cb463017d7393a947477e3bbd522/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1702.jpg]
 
Figure 3.2 AO-2, Safety Zones Area.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d14942e4c4f8cb463017d7393a947477e3bbd522/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1704.jpg]
 
Figure 3.3 AO-3, Height Restriction Areas.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d14942e4c4f8cb463017d7393a947477e3bbd522/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1706.jpg]
 
Figure 3.4 AO-4, Noise Zones Area.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d14942e4c4f8cb463017d7393a947477e3bbd522/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1708.jpg]
 
Division 4: General Provisions
§ 151.079 GENERAL USE RESTRICTIONS.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Development Code, no use whether
permitted in the underlying zoning district, or by planned use, special use
permit, or otherwise, may be made of land or water within the Airport Overlay
(AO) District so as to:
   (A)   Create electrical interference with navigational signals, radar, or
radio communications between Scott Air Force Base and MidAmerica St. Louis
Airport and the aircraft;
   (B)   Cause confusion or otherwise make it difficult for pilots to
distinguish between airport lights and other lights;
   (C)   Result in glare in the eyes of the pilots using the airport;
   (D)   Impair visibility of the airport;
   (E)   Emit or discharge smoke (e.g., exhaust from a smoke stack), that
interferes with the health and safety of pilots and the public in the use of
the airport, or that is otherwise detrimental or injurious to the health,
safety and general welfare of the public in the use of the airport;
   (F)   Emit thermal discharge (e.g., steam from a power plant), that
interferes with the pilot’s vision in the use of the airport;
   (G)   Cause significant air turbulence (e.g., exhaust from a peaker plant)
where aircraft limit loads may be exceeded;
   (H)   Cause any other kind of emission that may cause a safety of flight
issue;
   (I)   Create a bird or wildlife strike hazard that in any way endangers or
interferes with the landing, takeoff, or maneuvering of aircraft using or
intending to use the airport;
   (J)   Create a vertical obstruction that physically intrudes on protected
airspaces around the airport; or
   (K)   Concentrate people within zones to unduly expose them to noise or
aircraft accident risk.
§ 151.080 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Director is hereby granted the authority to issue clarification
and interpretation of these airport overlay regulations and the items and uses
set forth in the attached land use compatibility tables consistent with the
intent and language of these airport overlay regulations.
   (B)   Notification. The Director shall make reasonable efforts to provide
notice to all persons filing a development application in the AO District that
the respective property is located either partially or wholly within the AO
District, and may be subject to aircraft over-flight and the standards and
requirements of these airport overlay regulations.
   (C)   Field testing. When field inspection indicates that the construction
is not in accordance with the approved plans, the Director may order such
corrective action as may be necessary to meet the height and noise attenuation
requirements, including but not limited to stop work orders until such
corrections are made.
   (D)   Inspections of height and of noise attenuation work shall be performed
during the required building construction inspection process.
   (E)   Any person who violates this act or any orders, regulations, or
rulings promulgated or made pursuant to these airport overlay regulations shall
be subject to the penalties and enforcement procedures established in the
Development Code.
§ 151.081 STATE AIRPORT HAZARD ZONING REGULATIONS.
   In the event of conflict between any airport hazard zoning regulations
promulgated by IDOT Division of Aeronautics pursuant to ILCS Ch. 620, Act 25, §
17 and contained at Title 92, Part 16 of the Illinois Administrative Code and
any airport zoning regulation set forth in these airport overlay regulations or
any other applicable regulations provided in the Development Code, pursuant to
ILCS Ch. 620, Act 25, § 18, the more stringent limitation or requirement shall
govern and prevail.
§ 151.082 DEVELOPMENT APPLICATION CONSULTATION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Director shall submit to the Air Force a copy of development
applications for properties within the AO District as graphically shown on
Appendix G (“Process Chart”) and implemented as follows.
      (1)   AO-2 District. If the application or impact is on property within
the AO-2 District, all development applications relating thereto, shall be sent
to Scott AFB for review.
      (2)   AO-1, AO-3, and AO-4 Districts. If the application or impact is in
an AO District subarea other than the AO-2 District, development applications
that meet one of the following criteria shall be sent to Scott AFB for review:
         (a)   Increase of an existing structure or construction of a new
structure whose height is 100 feet or higher above the ground level of the
runway. Towers, antennae, lighting, silos, or any similar structures that are
100 feet above the ground level of the runway or higher shall be subject to
review;
         (b)   Request for any outdoor lighting applications, temporary
lighting, obstruction marking or lighting, and illuminated signs that do not
meet the lighting standards established within the AO-1 District Lighting, §
151.087;
         (c)   Application for a human-made use that could attract high levels
of birds or wildlife, such as retention ponds, roosting habitats on buildings,
landscaping, putrescible-waste disposal operations, wastewater treatment
plants, and surface mining;
         (d)   Application for a use or permit that could create electrical
interference with navigational signals or radio communications between Scott
AFB and MidAmerica St. Louis Airport and aircraft, including emergency and
public safety communications systems, power lines, transformers, television
broadcast and radio transmitters, and telecommunication towers; and/or
         (e)   Applications for a use or permit that could create air-borne
emissions or materials limiting visibility such as smoke, steam, dust, gases or
projectiles of any type.
   (B)   The Director shall send all appropriate development applications, as
determined in the above section, to the Air Force for review. Applications can
be mailed to:
      Base Community Planner
      375 CES/CEAO
      702 Hangar Road, Bldg. 56
      Scott AFB IL 62225-5035
      618-256-4270
   (C)   Optional consultation with MidAmerica St. Louis Airport. For any
development application within the Height Restriction Zone, Airport Overlay
(AO-3) District or the Noise Zones, Airport Overlay (AO-4) District, the
Director may choose to mail and/or email notice to the MidAmerica St. Louis
Airport at:
      Director, Engineering & Planning
      MidAmerica St. Louis Airport
      9768 Airport Boulevard, Box 3
      Mascoutah, IL 62258
      618-566-5325
      tom.goode@flymidamerica.com
§ 151.083 REGIONAL ADVISORY BOARD.
   The State of Illinois allows for the use of eminent domain authority to
resolve incompatible land uses in the environs of Scott Air Force Base and
MidAmerica St. Louis Airport pursuant to ILCS Ch. 620, Act 25, § 33. To reduce
the need for the use of eminent domain and to better coordinate airport zoning
and planning, a Regional Advisory Board (RAB) is established. The purpose of
the RAB is to review potentially incompatible development applications within a
specific geography around Scott AFB and MidAmerica St. Louis Airport and
provide comment to the applicable local government receiving the application.
   (A)   Established. The Regional Advisory Board (RAB) is hereby authorized
and established as an advisory intergovernmental body to coordinate and review
land use decisions in the AO-2 District. The RAB shall be deemed to exist
immediately and shall include all qualified members similarly authorizing such
establishment.
   (B)   Membership.
      (1)   The RAB shall consist of one representative from each of the
following five entities, appointed by local governing authorities
(“participating local governments”).
         (a)   St. Clair County.
         (b)   The City of Lebanon.
         (c)   The City of Mascoutah.
         (d)   The City of O’Fallon.
         (e)   The Village of Shiloh.
      (2)   In addition, one Air Force representative and one representative of
MidAmerica St. Louis Airport shall serve on the RAB as non-voting, ex-officio
members.
      (3)   The RAB shall designate a chairperson among the five participating
local government representatives to conduct meetings and coordinate with the
Air Force on administrative support and the distribution of background
materials. The RAB Chair shall rotate among the participating local government
representatives every two years. In the event that any member fails to adopt
authority for the RAB or subsequently withdraws from participation, the
membership shall continue with the remaining authorized members.
   (C)   Meetings.
      (1)   The RAB shall meet if the Air Force renders an opinion that a
development application subject to review under §
151.082 is incompatible.
      (2)   The RAB may also establish and publish a regular meeting schedule.
Meetings shall be public. Special meetings may be called by the Chairperson.
   (D)   Rules.
      (1)   The RAB shall adopt operating procedures for the conduct of
meetings and business of the RAB.
      (2)   The RAB shall adhere to the provisions of these airport overlay
regulations with regard to the review and approval of site development plans.
      (3)   The RAB shall keep a record of its transactions, findings, and
determinations, which record shall be a public record.
   (E)   Duties.
      (1)   The RAB shall review development applications and present an
advisory finding to the local jurisdiction responsible for approval of
applications in the geographic areas designated as AO-2 District.
      (2)   Any time the FAA, DoD, or IDOT Division of Aeronautics, amends,
deletes, or creates regulations affecting the standards set forth in these
airport overlay regulations, the RAB shall review such amended, deleted, or new
regulations and advise the participating local governments as to necessary or
appropriate changes to these airport overlay regulations.
      (3)   The RAB shall act only as an advisory body.
   (F)   Procedures and responsibilities.
      (1)   Within the Airport Overlay (AO) District, the members shall consult
with the Air Force on those development applications that have potential
impacts on Scott AFB based on criteria established in §
151.082.
      (2)   The Air Force shall review these actions within a 30 calendar day
period and render an advisory opinion of compatible/incompatible for those
actions inside the AO-2 District. The Air Force may recommend conditions of
approval to mitigate any negative impacts of those actions within the AO-
1 District.
      (3)   The Air Force shall evaluate the compatibility of the development
application based on consistency with land use guidance established in the
Joint Land Use Study and Air Installation Compatible Use Zone program.
      (4)   If no response is rendered from the Air Force within 30 days, the
local government may consider the Air Force recommendation as being compatible.
      (5)   If the Air Force finds an application within the AO-2 District to
be incompatible, the RAB shall meet within a 30 calendar day period following
an incompatible finding. The Air Force shall provide administrative support for
the scheduling of the RAB meeting and the distribution of necessary background
materials.
      (6)   The RAB shall render a recommendation, which the village shall
consider.
      (7)   The village shall not make a final decision without a
recommendation from the RAB; provided that if the RAB does not provide its
recommendation within 30 days of receipt of the application, a final decision
may proceed without such recommendation.
Division 5: AO-1: Primary Planning Influence Area
§ 151.084 PURPOSE AND GENERALLY.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to require that new or redeveloped
facilities within the Primary Planning Influence Area, Airport Overlay (AO-1)
District, be constructed in such a manner to mitigate impacts on aircraft
operators and therefore protect the health, safety and general welfare of the
residents.
   (B)   The AO-1 District designates the area that primarily includes
standards for consultation with the Air Force, avigation easements, and
lighting.
   (C)   Establishment of Primary Planning Influence Area. Buildings,
structures, or land shall be occupied or used only in conformity with all of
the regulations set forth herein for the district or districts in which they
are located. The boundaries of the AO-1 District are shown on the map in §
151.078.
§ 151.085 CONSULTATION.
   Development applications on properties within the AO-1 District shall
require consultation with the Air Force to the extent required per §
151.082.
§ 151.086 AVIGATION EASEMENTS.
   (A)   All applications for subdivision approval for any structure requiring
plan approval in the AO-1 District, to the extent consistent with applicable
requirements of law, shall include the dedication of an avigation easement to
the village. The dedicated avigation easement shall allow property owners to
develop land in accordance with the applicable zoning district and regulations,
and shall also convey a clear right to maintain flight operations in navigable
airspace over the property, consistent with federal statutes and regulations,
and shall submit the property to compliance with the regulations set forth in
these airport overlay regulations. The easement shall be recorded with the deed
to a property and shall run in perpetuity with the land.
   (B)   The applicant for all final subdivision plats within an AO District
shall place a reference to the applicability of AO District regulations to the
subdivision on the recorded plat.
   (C)   The village shall maintain publicly available maps of the airport
overlay district to facilitate the disclosure of potential airport environs
impacts as part of real estate transactions.
§ 151.087 LIGHTING.
   The following standards shall apply to all lands within the AO-1 District,
unless otherwise stated.
   (A)   Non-residential uses and multi-family residential.
      (1)   The light source of outdoor lighting fixtures shall be fully
shielded and downward facing so as not to allow any light above the horizontal,
as measured at the luminaire.
      (2)   Outdoor lighting fixtures shall be placed so as to not cause
excessive glare or light trespass.
      (3)   On-site parking areas shall be constructed of asphalt, dyed
concrete or other non-reflective paving surfaces.
      (4)   All light fixtures that are required to be shielded shall be
installed and maintained in such a manner that the shielding is effective.
      (5)   Canopy lighting shall be designed to conceal the illumination
source and the lighting fixture shall not extend below the canopy skirt.
      (6)   Exterior sign lights shall be shielded and oriented downward with
respect to the sign.
   (B)   Single-family and agricultural uses. Single-family residential and
agricultural uses are exempt from the standards contained in this §
151.087, provided that such uses do not affect the safety of the public or
persons utilizing Scott Air Force Base or MidAmerica St. Louis Airport.
   (C)   Electronic display signs. Electronic display signs shall be permitted
within the AO-1 District under the following conditions:
      (1)   The maximum brightness of electronic signs shall not exceed 5,000
nits (candelas per square meter) during daylight hours, or of 500 nits
(candelas per square meter) between dusk to dawn;
      (2)   Any image or message or portion thereof displayed on the sign shall
have a minimum duration of fifteen seconds and shall be of static display;
      (3)   Electronic signs are prohibited in the AO-2 District; and
      (4)   Electronic display signs shall comply with all other applicable
regulations set forth in the Development Code.
   (D)   Temporary lights. Special use permits shall be required for temporary
lights such as spot lights. A permit may be granted if, upon review, the
Director finds that the proposed lighting will not create excessive glare, sky
glow, or light trespass.
   (E)   Lighting plan. Within the AO-1 District, a lighting plan shall be
included as part of the required site plan submittal or subdivision
construction drawings which shall contain but not be limited to the following:
      (1)   The location of the site where the outdoor light fixtures will be
installed;
      (2)   Plans indicating the location on the premises of each outdoor light
fixture, both proposed and any already existing on the site; and
      (3)   A description of the outdoor light fixtures including but not
limited to manufacturer’s catalog cuts and drawings.
Division 6: AO-2: Safety Zones Area
§ 151.088 PURPOSE AND GENERALLY.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to require that land and structures
located within safety zones around the Scott AFB and MidAmerica St. Louis
Airfields are developed to protect the health, safety and general welfare of
the public and to mitigate hazards of potential aircraft mishaps.
   (B)   The Safety Zones Area, Airport Overlay (AO-2) District, designates the
area that primarily includes standards for land use, density and design, in
addition to those requirements established for all properties within the AO-
1 District.
   (C)   Establishment of safety zones.
      (1)   Buildings, structures, or land shall be occupied or used only in
conformity with all of the regulations set forth herein for the district in
which they are located.
      (2)   The boundaries of the military safety zones as determined by the
Air Installation Compatible Use Zone (AICUZ) program are shown on the map in §
151.078. There are three military safety zones:
         (a)   CZ: Clear Zone;
         (b)   APZ-1: Accident Potential Zone 1; and
         (c)   APZ-2: Accident Potential Zone 2.
      (3)   The Federal Aviation Administration designates a runway protection
zone (RPZ) for civilian airports as shown on the map in §
151.078. There is one civilian safety zone: RPZ: Runway Protection Zone.
§ 151.089 PROCEDURES AND DESIGN REGULATIONS IN SAFETY ZONES.
   (A)   Consultation. All development applications on properties within the
AO-2 District shall require consultation with the Air Force as per §
151.082.
   (B)   Design regulations. Properties within the AO-2 District shall also
comply with all the standards established per §§
151.084 through
151.087.
§ 151.090 USE REGULATIONS IN SAFETY ZONES.
   (A)   Use regulations in AO-2: CZ and RPZ. No uses or structures shall be
permitted in the CZ and RPZ except roadways, underground utilities, agriculture
and permanent passive open space. Bridges above the ground level of the runway,
timber activities and silvaculture shall not be permitted.
   (B)   Use and design regulations in AO-2: APZ-1.
      (1)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses are listed on Table 6.1, provided
that no uses shall be allowed where not permitted in the underlying zoning
district.
      (2)   Prohibited uses.
         (a)   Manufacturing or above-ground bulk storage of flammable liquids,
gases, or other explosive materials is prohibited.
         (b)   No use shall be permitted that emits smoke, steam, dust, gases
or projectiles of any type that may interfere with safe aircraft operation.
         (c)   No residential development of any type is permitted. This
includes short-and long-term hotels, lodgings, campsites, RV parks, mobile home
parks, group homes, dormitories, or any accommodations where over-night
residency is expected.
         (d)   Active parks with facilities intended to support organized
activity or concentrations of users, such as athletic fields, buildings or
structures for recreational activities, concessions, courts, or playgrounds are
prohibited.
         (e)   Places of large assemblies shall be prohibited to protect the
general public against the grave consequences of an aircraft mishap. Places
where the mobility-challenged and youth regularly assemble are also prohibited.
These include hospitals, in-patient clinics, nursing homes, child care centers,
schools, movie theaters and auditoriums, churches and places of worship or
meditation, sports arenas, restaurants and other places of assembly.
         (f)   Public transportation passenger terminals shall not be permitted
in the APZ-1.
         (g)   Regionally-significant above-ground utility lines or sub-
stations, such as high-tension power lines or public transportation
transmission wires, shall not be permitted in the APZ-1.
      (3)   Maximum public assembly. Maximum assembly shall be limited to 25
people per acre per hour over a 24-hour period, and shall not be more than 50
people per acre at any one time.
      (4)   Lot coverage.
         (a)   The maximum gross acreage for all buildings on any single lot is
10%. Use restrictions shall comply with Table 6.1 of these airport overlay
regulations. Height restrictions shall comply with §§
151.091 through
151.094.
         (b)   For industrial uses, in addition to all other limitations on
concentrations of people, a sliding scale of employment density per shift and
maximum acreage coverage shall be utilized as shown in Figure 6.A.
         (c)   A planned development approach is encouraged to maximize
flexibility in layout and guide buildings away from the cenlerline of the
runway.
   (C)   Use and design regulations in AO-2: APZ-2.
      (1)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Permitted uses are listed on Table 6.1, provided that no uses
shall be allowed where not permitted in the underlying zoning district.
         (b)   Single-family residential density shall be limited to one
dwelling unit per acre within the APZ-2.
      (2)   Prohibited uses.
         (a)   Manufacturing or above-ground bulk storage of flammable liquids,
gases, or other explosive materials is prohibited.
         (b)   No use shall be permitted that emits smoke, steam, dust, gases
or projectiles of any type that may interfere with safe aircraft operation.
         (c)   Higher density housing is prohibited. This includes multi-family
housing, attached single-family housing, short- and long-term hotels, lodgings,
campsites, RV parks, mobile home parks, group homes, or dormitories.
         (d)   Places of large assemblies shall be prohibited to protect the
general public against the grave consequences of an aircraft mishap. Places
where the mobility-challenged and youth regularly assemble are also prohibited.
These include hospitals, in-patient clinics, nursing homes, child care centers,
schools, movie theaters and auditoriums, churches and places of worship or
meditation, sports arenas, restaurants and other places of assembly.
      (3)   Lot coverage.
         (a)   The maximum gross acreage for all nonresidential buildings on
any single lot is 20%. Use restrictions shall comply with Table 6.1 of these
Airport Overlay Regulations. Height restrictions shall comply with §§
151.091 through
151.094.
         (b)   For industrial uses, in addition to all other limitations on
concentrations of people, a sliding scale of employment density per shift and
maximum acreage coverage shall be utilized as shown in Figure 6.B.
         (c)   A planned development approach is encouraged to maximize
flexibility in layout and guide buildings away from the centerline of the
runway.
Figure 6.A
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d14942e4c4f8cb463017d7393a947477e3bbd522/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1710.jpg]
 
Figure 6.B
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d14942e4c4f8cb463017d7393a947477e3bbd522/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1712.jpg]
 
Table 6.1
Land Use                          AO-2 District Safety Zones
SLUCM Name                        CZ/RPZ APZ 1 APZ 2
10    Residential
11    Household units
11.11 Single units; detached      N      N     PS
11.12 Single units; semi detached N      N     N
11.13 Single units; attached row  N      N     N
11.21 Two units; side-by-side     N      N     N
11.22 Two units; stacked          N      N     N
11.31 Apartments; walk up         N      N     N
11.32 Apartments; elevator        N      N     N
12    Group quarters              N      N     N
13    Residential hotels          N      N     N
 
Land Use                                             AO-2 District Safety Zones
SLUCM Name                                           CZ/RPZ APZ 1 APZ 2
14    Mobile home parks or courts                    N      N     N
15    Transient lodgings                             N      N     N
16    Other residential                              N      N     N
20    Manufacturing
21    of Food & kindred products                     N      PS    PS
22    of Textile mill products                       N      PS    PS
23    of Apparel and other finished products made    N      PS    PS
      from fabrics, leather, and similar materials
24    of Lumber and wood products (except furniture) N      PS    PS
25    of Furniture and fixtures                      N      PS    PS
26    of Paper & allied products                     N      PS    PS
27    of Printing, publishing, and allied industries N      PS    PS
28    of Chemicals and allied products               N      PS    PS
29    of Petroleum refining & related industries     N      PS    PS
30    Manufacturing
31    Rubber and miscellaneous plastic products      N      PS    PS
32    Stone, clay and glass products                 N      PS    PS
33    Primary metal industries                       N      PS    PS
34    Fabricated metal products                      N      PS    PS
35    Professional and scientific instruments        N      PS    PS
39    Miscellaneous manufacturing                    N      PS    PS
40    Transportation, communications and utilities
41    Railroad, rapid rail transit and street        N      PS    Y
      railroad transportation
42    Motor vehicle transportation                   N      PS    Y
43    Aircraft transportation                        N      PS    Y
44    Marine craft transportation                    N      PS    Y
45    Highway & street right-way                     PS     Y     Y
46    Automobile parking                             N      PS    Y
 
Land Use                                             AO-2 District Safety Zones
SLUCM Name                                           CZ/RPZ APZ 1 APZ 2
47    Communications                                 N      PS    Y
48    Utilities                                      N      PS    Y
48.23 Natural or manufactured gas storage and        N      N     N
      distribution points
49    Other transportation communications and        N      PS    Y
      utilities
50    Trade
51    Wholesale trade                                N      PS    Y
52    Retail trade -building materials, hardware and N      PS    PS
      farm equipment
53    Retail trade - general merchandise             N      PS    PS
54    Retail trade - food                            N      PS    PS
55    Retail trade - automotive, marine craft,       N      PS    PS
      aircraft and
      accessories
55.3  Gasoline service stations                      N      N     N
56    Retail trade - apparel and accessories         N      PS    PS
57    Retail trade - furniture, home furnishings and N      PS    PS
      equipment
58    Retail trade - eating and drinking             N      N     PS
      establishments
59    Other retail trade                             N      PS    PS
60    Services
61    Finance, insurance and real estate services    N      N     PS
62    Personal services                              N      N     PS
62.4  Cemeteries                                     N      PS    PS
63    Business services                              N      PS    PS
63.7  Warehousing and storage services               N      PS    PS
64    Repair services                                N      PS    PS
65    Professional services                          N      N     PS
65.1  Hospitals, nursing homes                       N      N     N
65.1  Other medical facilities                       N      N     N
65.11 Physician services                             N      N     N
 
Land Use                                             AO-2 District Safety Zones
SLUCM Name                                           CZ/RPZ APZ 1 APZ 2
65.12 Dental services                                N      N     N
66    Contract construction services                 N      PS    PS
67    Governmental services                          N      N     PS
68    Educational services                           N      N     N
69    Miscellaneous services                         N      PS    PS
70    Cultural, entertainment and recreational
71    Cultural activities (including churches)       N      N     PS
71.2  Nature exhibits                                N      PS    Y
72    Public assembly                                N      N     N
72.1  Auditoriums, concert halls                     N      N     N
72.11 Outdoor music shell, amphitheaters             N      N     N
72.2  Outdoor sport arenas, spectator sports         N      N     N
73    Amusements                                     N      N     N
74    Recreational activities (including golf course N      PS    Y
      & riding stables)
75    Resorts and group camps                        N      N     N
76    Parks                                          N      PS    PS
76.1  Parks - General recreational (active)          N      N     PS
76.2  Parks - leisure and ornamental (passive)       N      PS    PS
79    Other cultural, entertainment and recreation   N      PS    PS
80    Resources production and extraction
81    Agriculture (except livestock)                 PS     Y     Y
81    Livestock farming and animal breeding          N      Y     Y
82    Agricultural related activities                N      PS    Y
83    Forestry activities and related services       N      Y     Y
84    Fishing activities and related services        N      PS    Y
85    Mining activities and related services         N      PS    Y
89    Other resources production and extraction      N      PS    Y
 
Division 7: AO-3: Height Restriction Area
§ 151.091 PURPOSE AND GENERALLY.
   (A)   The purpose of this division is to require that new or redeveloped
buildings within the Height Restriction Area, Airport Overlay (AO-3) District,
be constructed to prevent interference with safe aircraft operation and to
maintain a visually permeable and physically secure buffer that lowers the
vulnerability of personnel on the base to outside attacks.
   (B)   The AO-3 District designates the areas that primarily include
standards for controlling height. Except as otherwise provided herein for this
district, no structure shall be erected, altered, or maintained in the AO-
3 District to a height in excess of the applicable height limitations
established in this Division 7 or those established and enforced by the FAA,
DoD, or IDOT Division of Aeronautics.
   (C)   Establishment of height restriction areas. Buildings, structures, or
land shall be occupied or used only in conformity with all of the regulations
set forth herein for the district in which they are located. The boundaries of
the AO-3 installation buffer and height hazard restriction areas are shown on
the map in §
151.078. There are two height restriction areas within the AO-3 District:
      (1)   Height hazard area. A height hazard area as shown on the map
depicted in Figure 3.3 encompassing all of the AO-3 District and defined by the
airport imaginary surfaces described in §§ 16.50 through 16.110 of the State
Airport Hazard Zoning Regulations, Title 92, Part 16 of the Illinois
Administrative Code; and
      (2)   Installation buffer. A subarea of the AO-3 District being a buffer
extending 1,500 feet from the boundaries of Scott Air Force Base, as shown on
map depicted in Figure 3.3 and establishing supplemental height restrictions in
the AO-3 District.
§ 151.092 PROCEDURES AND DESIGN REGULATIONS IN THE HEIGHT RESTRICTION AREA.
   (A)   Consultation. Development applications on properties within the AO-
3 District established by reference to Scott Air Force Base shall require
consultation with the Air Force to the extent required by §
151.082.
   (B)   Design regulations. Properties within the AO-3 District shall also
comply with all the standards established per §§
151.084 through
151.087.
§ 151.093 AREA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   AO-3: Installation Buffer Area. 
      (1)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   All uses are permitted as defined by the underlying zoning
district, except for those listed as a Prohibited use below.
         (b)   Single-family residential density shall be limited to two
dwelling units per acre within installation buffer.
      (2)   Prohibited uses.
         (a)   Manufactured housing shall not be permitted within the
installation buffer.
         (b)   Multi-family housing shall not be permitted within the
installation buffer.
         (c)   Group homes, dormitories, or hotels and overnight lodging sites
shall not be permitted within the installation buffer.
      (3)   Maximum height. The maximum height of Any structure within the
installation buffer for shall be 35 feet.
   (B)   AO-3: Height Hazard Area; maximum height.
      (1)   The maximum height of any structure or object of natural growth in
the AO-3 subarea shall be determined by the limits of the airport imaginary
surfaces described in §§ 16.50 through 16.110 of the State Airport Hazard
Zoning Regulations, Title 92, Part 16 of the Illinois Administrative Code.
      (2)   The airport imaginary surfaces are based on the imaginary surfaces
in 14 C.F.R. Part 77, effective October 1, 2002, and are visually represented
on the airport airspace sheet of the airport layout plan for MidAmerica St.
Louis Airport dated January 7, 2009 and adopted by the Illinois Department of
Transportation, Division of Aeronautics. Sample graphic depictions of the
airport imaginary surfaces are contained in Appendix H. The drawings in
Appendix H are for illustrative purposes only.
      (3)   No structures are permitted within the clear zone/runway protection
zone as defined by §
151.090(A).
§ 151.094 HEIGHT EXCEPTIONS AND LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The building height limitations stipulated in the AO-3 District, shall
apply to all structures within this district, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Air conditioning units;
      (2)   Antennae;
      (3)   Chimneys;
      (4)   Church steeples;
      (5)   Communication towers;
      (6)   Elevator towers;
      (7)   Flag poles;
      (8)   Parapet walls;
      (9)   Silos;
      (10)   Utility transmission towers;
      (11)   Windmills;
      (12)   Similar structures; and
      (13)   Landscaping.
   (B)   No structure shall be erected to a height that would encroach into or
through any established public or private airport approach plan, prepared in
accordance with the criteria established by the Department of Defense and/or
the Federal Aviation Administration.
Division 8: AO-4: Noise Zones Area
§ 151.095 PURPOSE AND GENERALLY.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to require that new or redeveloped
buildings within the Noise Zones Area, Airport Overlay (AO-4) District, be
constructed with materials and in such manner that aircraft noise is reduced by
the structure to an interior level which has no adverse impact on the health,
safety and general welfare of the residents.
   (B)   The AO-4 District designates the area that primarily includes
standards for the attenuation of noise.
   (C)   Establishment of Noise Zones.
      (1)   Buildings, structures, or land shall be occupied or used only in
conformity with all of the regulations set forth herein for the district in
which they are located. The boundaries of the noise contour zones are shown on
the map in §
151.078. There are four applicable noise zones:
         (a)   NZ 1: Area within the noise zone where the DNL is between 65 and
69 dB;
         (b)   NZ 2: Area within the noise zone where the DNL is between 70 and
74 dB;
         (c)   NZ 3: Area within the noise zone where the DNL is between 75 and
79 dB; and
         (d)   NZ 4: Area within the noise zone where the DNL is greater than
80 dB.
      (2)   Other industry-standard noise zones exist around the airfields.
However, all land uses are considered compatible with noise levels below 65 dB.
Noise Zone 4 is only located on federally controlled land.
§ 151.096 PROCEDURES AND DESIGN REGULATIONS IN NOISE ZONES.
   (A)   Consultation. Development applications on properties within the AO-
4 District shall require consultation with the Air Force to the extent required
by §
151.082.
   (B)   Design regulations. Properties within the AO-4 District shall also
comply with all the standards established per §
151.084 through
151.087.
§ 151.097 USE REGULATIONS IN NOISE ZONES.
   (A)   Use and design regulations in AO-4: NZ 1.
      (1)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Permitted uses are listed on Table 8.1, provided that no uses
shall be allowed where not permitted in the underlying zoning district. When
regulations within the Airport Overlay District overlap, the more stringent
standard shall apply.
         (b)   Single-family residential density shall be limited to one
dwelling unit per acre within the NZ-1.
      (2)   Prohibited uses.
         (a)   Manufactured housing shall not be permitted within the NZ-1.
         (b)   Outdoor amphitheaters shall not be permitted within the NZ-1.
      (3)   Sound attenuation.
         (a)   To the extent permitted by law, sound attenuation standards to
achieve an NRL of at least 25 dB is required for all new or expanded hospitals,
clinics, nursing homes, child care centers, schools, movie theaters,
auditoriums, churches, and places of worship and meditation. The requirements
of this section shall apply only to the area of expansion. Expansion shall
include any such work that results in an increase of the cubic content of the
building or the floor or ground area devoted to the noise sensitive use or in
any way increases or creates a site-related non-conformity.
         (b)   Sound attenuation standards to achieve an NRL of at least 25 dB
are required for all new residential construction within the NZ-1.
   (B)   Use and design regulations in AO-4: NZ 2.
      (1)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses are listed on Table 8.1, provided
that no uses shall be allowed where not permitted in the underlying zoning
district. When regulations within the Airport Overlay District overlap, the
more stringent standard shall apply.
      (2)   Prohibited uses.
         (a)   Manufactured housing shall not be permitted within the NZ-2.
         (b)   Outdoor amphitheaters shall not be permitted within the NZ-2.
         (c)   All residential uses, including hotels and overnight lodging
sites, shall be prohibited within the NZ-2.
      (3)   Sound attenuation.
         (a)   To the extent permitted by law, sound attenuation standards to
achieve an NRL of at least 30 dB is required for all new or expanded hospitals,
clinics, nursing homes, child care centers, schools, movie theaters,
auditoriums, churches and places of worship and meditation.
         (b)   Sound attenuation standards to achieve an NRL of at least 25 dB
is required for all new or expanded structures containing office, business,
retail and wholesale trade uses. Within new or expanded industrial structures,
those portions of the building where the public is received, offices are
located, and other places where low noise levels are normally expected shall
utilize sound attenuation standards to achieve an NRL of at least 25 dB.
   (C)   Use and design regulations in AO-4: NZ 3.
      (1)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses are listed on Table 8.1, provided
that no uses shall be allowed where not permitted in the underlying zoning
district. When regulations within the Airport Overlay District overlap, the
more stringent standard shall apply.
      (2)   Prohibited uses.
         (a)   Manufactured housing shall not be permitted within the NZ-3.
         (b)   Outdoor amphitheaters shall not be permitted within the NZ-3.
         (c)   All residential uses, including hotels and overnight lodging
sites, shall be prohibited within the NZ-3.
         (d)   All hospitals, clinics, nursing homes, child care centers,
schools, movie theaters, auditoriums, churches and places of worship and
meditation are prohibited.
      (3)   Sound attenuation. Sound attenuation standards to achieve an NRL of
at least 30 dB is required for all new or expanded structures containing
office, business, retail and wholesale trade uses. Within new or expanded
industrial structures, those portions of the building where the public is
received, offices are located, and other places where low noise levels are
normally expected shall utilize sound attenuation standards to achieve an NRL
of at least 30 dB.
   (D)   Use and design regulations in AO-4: NZ 4.
      (1)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses are listed on Table 8.1, provided
that no uses shall be allowed where not permitted in the underlying zoning
district. When regulations within the Airport Overlay District overlap, the
more stringent standard shall apply.
      (2)   Prohibited uses.
         (a)   Manufactured housing shall not be permitted within the NZ-4.
         (b)   Outdoor amphitheaters shall not be permitted within the NZ-4.
         (c)   All residential uses, including hotels and overnight lodging
sites, shall be prohibited within the NZ-4.
         (d)   All hospitals, clinics, nursing homes, child care centers,
schools, movie theaters, auditoriums, churches and places of worship and
meditation are prohibited within the NZ-4.
      (3)   Sound attenuation. Sound attenuation standards to achieve an NRL of
at least 30 dB is required for all new or expanded structures containing
office, business, retail and wholesale trade uses. Within new or expanded
industrial structures, those portions of the building where the public is
received, offices are located, and other places where low noise levels are
normally expected shall utilize sound attenuation standards to achieve an NRL
of at least 30 dB.
   (E)   Permitted land uses in AO-4: Noise Zones.
      (1)   Table 8.1 describes those uses that are permissible within the
areas designated as noise zones. Within Table 8.1, the designation with the
letter “Y” indicates that the land use is permissible, subject to compliance
with the standards of the Development Code and these airport overlay
regulations.
      (2)   The designation “PS 25" indicates that the land use is permissible,
subject to compliance with the standards of the Development Code and
demonstrating noise reduction materials have been incorporated into the design
and construction of proposed development in a manner that achieves a noise
level reduction of 25 dB.
      (3)   The designation “PS 30" indicates that the land use is permissible,
subject to compliance with the standards of the Development Code and
demonstrating noise reduction materials have been incorporated into the design
and construction of proposed development in a manner that achieves a noise
level reduction of 30 dB.
      (4)   The designation with the letter “N” indicates the land use is
prohibited.
      (5)   The recommendations for permitted and prohibited types of
facilities or land uses by noise level reduction are based on the U.S.
Department of Transportation and Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) charts
for aircraft noise avoidance.
Table 8.1
Land Use   Airport Overlay AO-4
           Noise Zones (dB)
SLUCM Name NZ 1 65-69 NZ 2 70-74 NZ 3 75-79 NZ 4
                                            80+
Land Use                          Airport Overlay AO-4
                                  Noise Zones (dB)
SLUCM Name                        NZ 1 65-69 NZ 2 70-74 NZ 3 75-79 NZ 4
                                                                   80+
10    Residential
11    Household units
11.11 Single units; detached      PS 25      N          N          N
11.12 Single units; semi detached N          N          N          N
11.13 Single units; attached row  N          N          N          N
11.21 Two units; side-by-side     N          N          N          N
11.22 Two units; stacked          N          N          N          N
11.31 Apartments; walk up         N          N          N          N
11.32 Apartments: elevator        N          N          N          N
12    Group quarters              N          N          N          N
13    Residential hotels          N          N          N          N
 
Land Use   Airport Overlay AO-4
           Noise Zones (dB)
SLUCM Name NZ 1 65-69 NZ 2 70-74 NZ 3 75-79 NZ 4
                                            80+
Land Use                               Airport Overlay AO-4
                                       Noise Zones (dB)
SLUCM Name                             NZ 1 65-69 NZ 2 70-74 NZ 3 75-79 NZ 4
                                                                        80+
14    Mobile home parks or courts      N          N          N          N
15    Transient lodgings               N          N          N          N
16    Other residential                N          N          N          N
20    Manufacturing
21    of Food & kindred products       Y          PS 25      PS 30      PS 30
22    of Textile mill products         Y          PS 25      PS 30      PS 30
      of Apparel and other finished
23    products made from fabrics,      Y          PS 25      PS 30      PS 30
      leather, and similar materials
24    of Lumber and wood products      Y          PS 25      PS 30      PS 30
      (except furniture)
25    of Furniture and fixtures        Y          PS 25      PS 30      PS 30
26    of Paper & allied products       Y          PS 25      PS 30      PS 30
27    of Printing, publishing, and     Y          PS 25      PS 30      PS 30
      allied industries
28    of Chemicals and allied products Y          PS 25      PS 30      PS 30
29    of Petroleum refining & related  Y          PS 25      PS 30      PS 30
      industries
30    Manufacturing
31    Rubber and miscellaneous plastic Y          PS 25      PS 30      PS 30
      products
32    Stone, clay and glass products   Y          PS 25      PS 30      PS 30
33    Primary metal industries         Y          PS 25      PS 30      PS 30
34    Fabricated metal products        Y          PS 25      PS 30      PS 30
35    Professional and scientific      Y          PS 25      PS 30      N
      instruments
39    Miscellaneous manufacturing      Y          PS 25      PS 30      PS 30
40    Transportation, communications and utilities
41    Railroad, rapid rail transit and Y          PS 25      PS 25      PS 25
      street railroad transportation
42    Motor vehicle transportation     Y          PS 25      PS 25      PS 25
43    Aircraft transportation          Y          PS 25      PS 25      PS 25
44    Marine craft transportation      Y          PS 25      PS 25      PS 25
 
Land Use   Airport Overlay AO-4
           Noise Zones (dB)
SLUCM Name NZ 1 65-69 NZ 2 70-74 NZ 3 75-79 NZ 4
                                            80+
Land Use                                 Airport Overlay AO-4
                                         Noise Zones (dB)
SLUCM Name                               NZ 1 65-69 NZ 2 70-74 NZ 3 75-79 NZ 4
                                                                          80+
45    Highway & street right-way         Y          PS 25      PS 25      PS 25
46    Automobile parking                 Y          Y          Y          Y
47    Communications                     Y          PS 25      PS 25      N
48    Utilities                          Y          Y          Y          Y
49    Other transportation               Y          PS 25      PS 25      N
      communications and utilities
50    Trade
51    Wholesale trade                    Y          PS 25      PS 30      PS 30
52    Retail trade-building materials,   Y          PS 25      PS 30      PS 30
      hardware and farm equipment
53    Retail trade- general merchandise  Y          PS 25      PS 30      N
54    Retail trade- food                 Y          PS 25      PS 30      N
55    Retail trade- automotive, marine   Y          PS 25      PS 30      N
      craft, aircraft and accessories
56    Retail trade- apparel and          Y          PS 25      PS 30      N
      accessories
57    Retail trade- furniture, home      Y          PS 25      PS 30      N
      furnishings and equipment
58    Retail trade- eating and drinking  Y          PS 25      PS 30      N
      establishments
59    Other retail trade                 Y          PS 25      PS 30      N
60    Services
61    Finance, insurance and real estate Y          PS 25      PS 30      N
      services
62    Personal services                  Y          PS 25      PS 30      N
62.4  Cemeteries                         Y          PS 25      PS 30      N
63    Business services                  Y          PS 25      PS 30      N
64    Repair services                    Y          PS 25      PS 30      PS 30
65    Professional services              Y          PS 25      PS 30      PS 30
65.1  Hospitals, nursing homes           PS 25      PS 30      N          N
65.1  Other medical facilities           PS 25      PS 30      PS 30      N
66    Contract construction services     Y          PS 25      PS 30      N
67    Governmental services              Y          PS 25      PS 30      N
 
Land Use   Airport Overlay AO-4
           Noise Zones (dB)
SLUCM Name NZ 1 65-69 NZ 2 70-74 NZ 3 75-79 NZ 4
                                            80+
Land Use                                  Airport Overlay AO-4
                                          Noise Zones (dB)
SLUCM     Name                            NZ 1 65-69 NZ 2 70-74 NZ 3 75-79 NZ 4
                                                                           80+
68        Educational services            PS 25      PS 30      N          N
69        Miscellaneous services          Y          PS 25      PS 30      N
70        Cultural, entertainment and recreational
71        Cultural activities (including  PS 25      PS 30      N          N
          churches)
71.2      Nature exhibits                 Y          N          N          N
72        Public assembly                 Y          N          N          N
72.1      Auditoriums, concert halls      PS 25      PS 30      N          N
72.11     Outdoor music shell,            N          N          N          N
          amphitheaters
72.2      Outdoor sport arenas, spectator Y          Y          N          N
          sports
73        Amusements                      Y          Y          N          N
          Recreational activities
74        (including golf courses, riding Y          PS 25      PS 30      N
          stables, water recreation)
75        Resorts and group camps         Y          Y          N          N
76        Parks                           Y          Y          N          N
79        Other cultural, entertainment   Y          Y          N          N
          and recreation
80        Resources production and extraction
81        Agriculture (except livestock)  Y          Y          Y          N
81.5-81.7 Livestock farming and animal    Y          Y          Y          N
          breeding
82        Agricultural related activities Y          Y          Y          N
83        Forestry activities and related Y          Y          Y          N
          services
84        Fishing activities and related  Y          Y          Y          Y
          services
85        Mining activities and related   Y          Y          Y          Y
          services
89        Other resources production and  Y          Y          Y          Y
          extraction
 
§ 151.098 ATTENUATION.
   (A)   Minimum noise attenuation requirements and standards. Where a
particular structure contains different occupancy uses, the more stringent
requirements shall apply, except where it is architecturally possible to
achieve the appropriate noise level reduction for each different use and the
uses are acoustically separated by a wall or partition with a minimum STC of25.
   (B)   Compliance use above minimum. In any instance where noise level
reduction is required by these airport overlay regulations, all plans and
specifications are to be certified by a recognized acoustical specialist for
compliance.
   (C)   Noise reduction.
      (1)   Buildings, structures, and active outdoor recreation space shall be
located at the greatest distance from the noise source, taking maximum
advantage of existing topographical features to minimize noise impacts, and
within zoning district requirements such as required setbacks.
      (2)   Buildings and structures shall be oriented to minimize exposure to
the noise source and building openings, such as windows, shall be located away
from the noise source. The amount of passive outdoor recreational space where
individuals would be subject to noticeable or severe levels of noise should be
minimized. Landscaping materials should be used to deflect noise. Noise
attenuation shall be accomplished as follows:
         (a)   All mechanical ventilation systems shall provide the minimum air
circulation and fresh air supply requirements as provided in the building code
for the proposed occupancy without the need to open any exterior doors or
windows.
         (b)   The perimeter of all exterior windows and door frames shall be
sealed airtight to the exterior wall construction.
         (c)   Fireplaces shall be equipped with well-fitted chimney cap
devices.
         (d)   All ventilation ducts, except range hoods, connecting interior
space to outdoors shall be provided with a bend such that no direct line of
sight exists from exterior to interior through the vent duct.
         (e)   Doors and windows shall be constructed so they are close-
fitting. Weather-stripping seals shall be incorporated to eliminate all edge
gaps.
         (f)   All penetration through exterior walls by pipes, ducts, conduits
and the like shall be caulked airtight to the exterior construction.
   (D)   Existing residences. Any existing residence may be added to,
structurally altered, or repaired without conforming to the referenced
specifications provided the property owner signs a waiver indicating
notification of said specifications and provided that all generally-applicable
requirements of the building code are complied with.
Division 9: Supplemental Procedures
§ 151.099 GENERALLY.
   (A)   The purpose of this Division 9 is to provide mechanisms for obtaining
relief from the provisions of these airport overlay regulations. There are
several ways that potential relief from hardship is addressed, including
through nonconforming development, the grant of a variance, the grant of a
special use permit, or through appeal.
   (B)   All cases shall be administered in accordance with the appeal,
variance, nonconforming use, and special use permit procedures established in
the Development Code, provided that all such procedures shall comply with
applicable procedures set forth in the Airport Zoning Act, ILCS Ch. 620, Act
25, §§ 24, 27, 28, and 29.
   (C)   These airport overlay regulations provide supplemental requirements
beyond those required by applicable state or federal law. The failure of the
village to specifically or precisely conform to any notice, review, or other
procedural requirement herein shall not invalidate any action or approval of
the village unless such invalidation is required by law.
   (D)   Avigation easement. As a condition of approval of a Development
Application in an Airport Overlay (AO) District subarea, including the
application for a variance, rezoning or special use permit prior to receiving
final approval of the application, the applicant may be required to convey to
the appropriate authority an avigation easement consistent with the avigation
easement described in §
151.087.
§ 151.100 BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   The Village Board of Appeals is established and existing under §
31.06 of the Code of Ordinances of the Village of Shiloh, and is hereby
established as and shall serve as the Board of Appeals under these airport
overlay regulations and all such other appeals as referenced in the definition
of an appeal herein contained in the village ordinances. The Village Board of
Appeals shall exercise the following powers:
      (1)   To hear and decide appeals from any order, requirement, decision,
or determination made by the Director in the enforcement of the airport zoning
regulations of these airport overlay regulations; and
      (2)   To hear and decide specific variances under these airport overlay
regulations.
   (B)   All appeals and variances shall be administered in accordance with the
appeal and variance procedures established in the Development Code, provided
that:
      (1)   The vote of a majority of the members of the Board of Appeals shall
be sufficient for all purposes, including the reversal of any order,
requirement, decision, or determination of the Director, or a decision in favor
of the applicant on any matter upon which it is required to pass under the
airport zoning regulations, or to effect any variation in such regulations; and
      (2)   Meetings of the Board of Appeals shall be held at the call of the
Chairman of the Board of Appeals and at such other times as the Board may
determine. The Chairman, or in his absence the vice-chairman, may administer
oaths or affirmations and issue subpoenas to compel the attendance of
witnesses. All hearings of the Board of Appeals shall be public. The Board of
Appeals shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each member
upon each question, or, if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and
shall keep records of its examinations and other official actions, all of which
shall immediately be filed in the office of the Board of Appeals and shall be a
public record.
(Am. Ord. 2022-05-02A, passed 5-2-2022)
§ 151.101 APPEALS.
   (A)   Except as provided in this division, appeals shall be made in a manner
consistent with procedures for appeals established within the Development Code,
§
151.099, §
151.348 and all other applicable sections.
   (B)   All requests for appeals must be taken within the time provided in the
Development Code, by filing with the Director and with the Board of Appeal, a
notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The Director shall forthwith
transmit to the Board of Appeals all the papers constituting the record upon
which the action appealed from was taken.
   (C)   An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from, unless the Chairperson of the Village Board of Appeals certifies
to the Board of Appeals, after the notice of appeal has been filed with it,
that by reason of the facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in the
Chairperson’s opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property. In such cases,
proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by order of the Board of Appeals
on notice to the Director and on due cause shown.
   (D)   The Board of Appeals shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of
appeals, give public notice and due notice to the parties in interest, and
decide the same within a reasonable time, consistent with the times and
procedures for notice, hearing and decision of appeals provided in the
Development Code. Upon the hearing any party may appear in person or by agent
or by attorney.
   (E)   The Board of Appeals may, in conformity with the provisions of these
airport overlay regulations and the Airport Zoning Act, ILCS Ch. 620, Act 25,
§§ 1 et seq., reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or modify, the order,
requirement, decision, or determination appealed from and may make such order,
requirement, decision, or determination as ought to be made, and to that end
shall have all the powers of the Director from which the appeal is taken.
(Am. Ord. 2022-05-02A, passed 5-2-2022)
§ 151.102 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Except as provided in this division, variance applications shall be
made in a manner consistent with the procedures for variances established
within the Development Code, §§
151.365 through
151.369, provided that the Board of Appeals established herein shall perform
all functions of the Planning Commission described in §§
151.365 through
151.369.
   (B)   Any person seeking a variance from the height limitations of these
airport overlay regulations shall include as part of their variance application
a determination from the FAA as to whether the proposed construction or
alteration for which the variance is being sought would be a hazard to air
navigation, pursuant to the standards and procedures set forth in 14 C.F.R.
Part 77.
§ 151.103 NON-CONFORMITIES.
   (A)   Structures and uses existing on the effective date of these airport
overlay regulations shall not be required to change in order to comply with
these regulations, except where otherwise required by law or where a threat to
public safety warrants a determination that the ongoing use is a public
nuisance. The nonconforming use requirements of this section shall otherwise
apply to the future applicability of the standards and requirements contained
herein, provided that the requirements of this section shall be supplemented by
provisions of the Development Code governing non-conformities which do not
conflict with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Before any non-conforming structure or object of natural growth may be
replaced, substantially altered or repaired, rebuilt, allowed to grow higher,
or replanted, a permit must be secured from the Director, authorizing such
replacement, change or repair. No permit shall be granted that would allow the
establishment or creation of an airport hazard or permit a non-conforming
structure or tree or non-conforming use to be made or become higher or become a
greater hazard to air navigation than it was on the effective date of these
airport overlay regulations or than it is when the application for a permit is
made.
   (C)   Whenever the Director determines that a non-conforming use or non-
conforming structure or tree has been abandoned or more than 80% torn down,
destroyed, deteriorated, or decayed:
      (1)   No permit shall be granted that would allow such structure or tree
to exceed the applicable height limit or otherwise deviate from the zoning
regulations; and
      (2)   Whether application is made for a permit under this section or not,
the Director may by appropriate action compel the owner of the non-conforming
structure or tree, at his own expense, to lower, remove, reconstruct, or equip
such object as may be necessary to conform to the regulations.
   (D)   If the owner of the non-conforming structure or tree shall neglect or
refuse to comply with such order for ten days after notice thereof, the
Director may proceed to have the object so lowered, removed, reconstructed, or
equipped and shall have a lien, upon behalf of the village, upon the land
whereon it is or was located, in the amount of the cost and expense thereof.
Such lien may be enforced by the village by an action for the enforcement
thereof, as in the case of other liens.
§ 151.104 AIRPORT HAZARD MARKING.
   In granting any development application, the Director or Board of Appeals
may, if it deems such action advisable to effectuate the purposes of these
airport overlay regulations and the Airport Zoning Act, ILCS Ch. 620, Act 25,
§§ 1 et seq., and reasonable in the circumstances, so condition such grant,
consistent with ILCS Ch. 620, Act 25, § 25, as to require the owner of the
structure or tree in question to permit the state or the village, as the case
may be, at its own expense, to nstall, operate, and maintain thereon such
markers and lights as may be necessary to indicate to flyers the presence of an
airport hazard.
SIGN REGULATIONS
§ 151.105 GENERALLY.
   The purposes of these sign regulations are to encourage the effective use of
signs as a means of communication in the village; to maintain and enhance the
aesthetic environment and the village's ability to attract sources of economic
development and growth; to improve pedestrian and traffic safety; to minimize
the possible adverse effect of signs on nearby public and private property; and
to enable the fair and consistent enforcement of these sign restrictions.
§ 151.106 APPLICABILITY; EFFECT.
   (A)   A sign may be erected, placed, established, painted, created or
maintained in the village only in conformance with the standards, procedures,
exemptions and other requirements of this Code.
   (B)   The effect of these regulations, as more specifically set forth
herein, is:
      (1)   To establish a permit system to allow a variety of types of signs
in commercial and industrial zones and a limited variety of signs in other
zones;
      (2)   To allow certain signs that are small, unobtrusive and incidental
to the principal use of the respective lots on which they are located, subject
to the requirements of this Code, but without a requirement for permits;
      (3)   To provide for temporary signs without commercial messages in
limited circumstances in the public right-of-way; and
      (4)   To prohibit all signs not expressly permitted by this Code.
§ 151.107 COMPUTATIONS.
   The following principles shall control the computation of sign area and sign
height.
   (A)   Computation of area of individual signs. The area of a sign face
(which is also the sign area of a wall sign or other sign with only one face)
shall be computed by means of the smallest square, circle, rectangle, triangle
or combination thereof that will encompass the extreme limits of the writing,
representation, emblem or other display, together with any material or color
forming an integral part of the background of the display or used to
differentiate the sign from the backdrop or structure against which it is
placed, but not including any supporting framework, bracing or decorative fence
or wall when the fence or wall otherwise meets Code regulations and is clearly
incidental to the display itself.
   (B)   Computation of area of multi-faced signs.
      (1)   The sign area for a sign with more than one face shall be computed
by adding together the area of all sign faces visible from any one point.
      (2)   When two identical sign faces are placed back to back, so that both
faces cannot be viewed from any point at the same time, and when such sign
faces are part of the same sign structure and are not more than 42 inches
apart, the sign area shall be computed by the measurement of one of the faces.
   (C)   Computation of height.
      (1)   The height of a sign shall be computed as the distance from the
base of the sign at normal grade to the top of the highest attached component
of the sign.
      (2)   Normal grade shall be construed to be the lower of:
         (a)   Existing grade prior to construction; or
         (b)   The newly established grade after construction, exclusive of any
filling, berming, mounding or excavating solely for the purpose of locating the
sign.
      (3)   In cases in which the normal grade cannot reasonably be determined,
sign height shall be computed on the assumption that the elevation of the
normal grade at the base of the sign is equal to the elevation of the nearest
point of the crown of a public street or the grade of the land at the principal
entrance to the principal structure on the zone lot, whichever is lower.
   (D)   Computation of maximum total permitted sign area for a zone lot.
      (1)   The permitted sum of the area of all individual signs on a zone lot
shall be computed by applying the formula contained in
Table 1.5B, Maximum Total Sign Area, to the lot frontage, building frontage or
wall area, as appropriate, for the zoning district in which the lot is located.
      (2)   Lots fronting on two or more streets are allowed the permitted sign
area for each street frontage.
      (3)   However, the total sign area that is oriented toward a particular
street may not exceed the portion of the lot's total sign area allocated that
is derived from the lot, building or wall area frontage on that street.
   (E)   State permit.
      (1)   In addition to divisions (A) through (D) above, the state has
purview over all signs effecting its right-of-way. The state particularly
regulates signs on the interstate system.
      (2)   Applicant to provide either a copy of their state permit or a
letter from the state indicating one is not required.
§ 151.108 SIGNS ALLOWED ON PRIVATE PROPERTY WITH AND WITHOUT PERMITS.
   (A)   (1)   Signs shall be allowed on private property in the village in
accordance with, and only in accordance with,
Table 1.5A.
         (a)   If the letter "P" appears for a sign type in a column, the sign
is allowed without prior permit approval in the zoning districts represented by
that column.
         (b)   If the letter "S" appears for a sign type in a column, the sign
is allowed only with prior permit approval in the zoning districts represented
by that column. Special conditions may apply in some cases.
         (c)   If the letter "N" appears for a sign type in a column, such a
sign is not allowed in the zoning districts represented by that column under
any circumstances.
      (2)   Although permitted under the previous paragraph, a sign designated
by an "S" or "P" in
Table 1.5A shall be allowed if:
         (a)   The sum of the area of all building and freestanding signs on
the zone lot conforms with the maximum permitted sign area as determined by the
formula for the zoning district in which the lot is located as specified in
Table 1.5B;
         (b)   The size, location and number of signs on the lot conform with
the requirements of Tables
1.5C and
1.5D, which establish permitted signs dimensions by sign type, and with any
additional limitations listed in
Table 1.5A; and
         (c)   The characteristics of the sign conform with the limitations of
Table 1.5E, Permitted Sign Characteristics, and with any additional limitations
on characteristics listed in
Table 1.5A.
   (B)   (1)   A permit issued for a zoned lot under a common or master signage
plan shall cover all signs allowable under the signage plan, but each sign must
be listed separately on the permit and approved by the village staff prior to
construction of the sign.
      (2)   If a sign requiring a permit under the provision of this Code is to
be placed, constructed, erected or modified on a zone lot, the owner of the lot
shall secure a sign permit prior to the construction, placement, erection or
modification of such a sign in accordance with the requirements of §
151.115.
      (3)   No signs shall be erected in the public right-of-way except in
accordance with §
151.111 and the permit requirements of §
151.116.
      (4)   No sign permit of any kind shall be issued for an existing or
proposed sign unless the sign is consistent with the requirements of this Code
in every respect and with the Master Signage Plan or Common Signage Plan in
effect for the property.
      (5)   Signs not required to obtain permits are: real estate, garage sale,
political, construction, yard sale, charitable and temporary charitable fund
raising activities.
§ 151.109 DESIGN, CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE.
   All signs shall be designed, constructed and maintained in accordance with
the following standards.
   (A)   All signs shall comply with applicable provisions of the BOCA Building
Code and the Electrical Code of the village at all times.
   (B)   Except for banners, flags, temporary signs and window signs conforming
in all respects with the requirements of this Code, all signs shall be
constructed of permanent materials and shall be permanently attached to the
ground, a building or another structure by direct attachment to a rigid wall,
frame or structure.
   (C)   All signs shall be maintained in good structural condition, in
compliance with all building and electrical codes, and in conformance with this
Code, at all times.
Key to Tables
1.5A Through
1.5E
On the tables in this Code, which are organized by zoning district, the
headings have the following meanings:
R   All R-1, R-2, R-3, NU, CE District
MR  Residential, Multi-Family District
MH  Residential, Mobile Home District
INS Institutional Uses Permitted in NU, MR, MH, R and CE Zoning Districts
B-1 Neighborhood Business District
B-2 Office/Business District
B-3 Highway Business District
B-4 General Business District
I-1 Light Industrial District
 
Table 1.5A
Permitted Signs by Type and Zoning District
Sign Type All R, NU, CE All MR INSa MH B-1 B-2 B-3 B-4 I-1
Table 1.5A
Permitted Signs by Type and Zoning District
Sign Type        All R, NU, CE All MR INSa MH B-1 B-2 B-3 B-4 I-1
FREE-STANDING
Residentialb     N             P      N    P  N   N   N   N   N
Other            N             S      S    S  S   S   S   S   S
Incidentalc      N             Pd     Pd   Pd P   P   P   P   P
Real estate      P             P      P    P  P   P   P   P   P
Security         P             P      P    P  P   P   P   P   P
Subdivision      P             P      N    P  P   P   P   P   P
Entry monumentm  S             S      N    S  S   S   S   S   S
Construction     P             P      P    P  P   P   P   P   P
BUILDING
Bannerl          N             N      N    N  S   S   S   S   S
Building markere P             P      P    P  P   P   P   P   P
Canopy           N             N      N    N  S   S   S   S   S
Identificationd  P             P      P    P  P   P   P   P   P
Incidentalc      N             Pf     Pf   Pf Pf  P   P   P   P
Marqueeg         N             N      N    N  N   N   S   S   N
Projectingg      N             N      N    N  S   S   S   S   S
Residentialb     P             P      N    P  N   N   N   N   N
Roofk            N             N      N    N  N   N   N   S   N
Roof, integral   N             N      N    N  N   N   S   S   N
Suspendedg       N             N      P    N  N   N   N   P   N
Temporaryh       N             N      N    N  S   S   S   S   N
Wall             N             N      P    N  S   S   S   S   S
Window           N             N      N    N  S   S   S   S   N
MISCELLANEOUS
Bannerl          N             N      N    N  S   S   S   S   S
Flagi            P             P      P    P  P   P   P   P   P
Portable         N             N      N    N  N   N   Si  N   N
Garage sale      P             P      N    P  N   N   N   N   N
 
Notes to table:
P Allowed without sign permit.
S Allowed only with sign permit.
N Not allowed.
  This column does not represent a zoning district.
a It applies to institutional uses permitted hereunder in residential zoning
  districts. Such uses may include, but are not necessarily limited to,
  churches, schools, funeral homes and cemeteries.
b No commercial messages allowed on sign, except for a commercial message
  drawing attention to an activity legally offered on the premises.
c No commercial message of any kind allowed on sign if the message is legible
  from any location off the zone lot on which the sign is located.
  Only address and name of occupant allowed on sign. In B-4 Zoning Districts,
d it may also identify service as long as all other provisions of this Code are
  met.
  May include only building name, date of construction or historical data on
e historic site; must be cut or etched into masonry, bronze or similar
  material.
f No commercial message of any kind allowed on sign.
  If such a sign is suspended or projects above a public right-of-way, the
  issuance and continuation of a sign permit shall be conditional on the sign
g owner obtaining and maintaining in force liability insurance for such a sign
  in such form and such amount as the village staff may reasonably from time-
  to-time determine; provided that, the amount of the liability insurance shall
  be at least $500,000 per occurrence per sign.
h The conditions of §
  151.117 of this Code apply.
  Flags of the United States, the state, the village, foreign nations having
  diplomatic relations with the United States, and any other flag adopted or
  sanctioned by an elected legislative body of competent jurisdiction; provided
  that, such a flag shall not exceed 60 square feet in area and shall not be
  flown from a pole the top of which is more than 60 feet in height. These
  flags must be flown in accordance with protocol established by the Congress
i of the United States for the Stars and Stripes. Any flag not meeting any one
  or more of these conditions shall be considered a banner sign and shall be
  subject to regulation as such.
  Note: Any flag of the United States proposed at a height greater than 60 feet
  shall be reviewed and approved by the village's Board of Trustees. This
  approval shall only be considered in business and industrial zoned districts.
  Any flag other than those covered in this paragraph shall be defined as a
  banner.
j Permitted on the same terms as a temporary sign, in accordance with §
  151.117, except that it may be free-standing.
k Roof signs shall not project above the peak of the roof.
l Banners permitted for a maximum of 90 days.
  A permit shall not be issued for a subdivision monument sign unless
m subdivision covenants, homeowners association or bonding provisions
  acceptable to the village are in place for maintenance of the monument.
 
Click_here_to_view_the_above_table_in_a_PDF_document.
§ 151.110 MASTER OR COMMON SIGNAGE PLAN.
   No permit shall be issued for an individual sign requiring a permit unless
and until a master signage plan or a common signage plan for the zone lot on
which the sign will be erected has been submitted to the village staff and
approved by the village staff as conforming with this section.
   (A)   Master signage plan. For any zone lot on which the owner proposes to
erect one or more signs requiring a permit, unless the zone lot is included in
a common signage plan, the owner shall submit to the village staff a master
signage plan containing the following:
      (1)   An accurate plot plan of the zone lot, at a scale as the village
staff may reasonably require;
      (2)   Location of buildings, parking lots, driveways and landscaped areas
on the zone lot;
      (3)   Computation of the maximum total sign area, the maximum area for
individual signs, the height of signs and the number of free-standing signs
allowed on the zone lot(s) included in the plan under this Code; and
      (4)   An accurate indication on the plot plan of the proposed location of
each present and future sign of any type, whether requiring a permit or not,
except that incidental signs need not be shown.
   (B)   Common signage plan.
      (1)   If the owners of two or more contiguous (disregarding intervening
streets and alleys) zone lots or the owner of a single lot with more than one
building (not including any accessory building) file with the village staff for
the zone lots a common signage plan conforming with the provisions of this
section, a 25% increase in the maximum total sign area shall be allowed for
each included zone lot.
      (2)   This bonus shall be allocated within each zone lot as the owner(s)
elects.
   (C)   Provisions of common signage plan. The common signage plan shall
contain all of the information required for a master signage plan and shall
also specify standards for consistency among all signs on the zone lots
affected by the plan with regard to:
      (1)   Color scheme;
      (2)   Lettering or graphic style;
      (3)   Lighting;
      (4)   Location of each sign on the building;
      (5)   Material; and
      (6)   Sign proportions.
   (D)   Showing window signs on common or master signage plan. A common
signage plan or master signage plan including window signs may simply indicate
the areas of the windows to be covered by window signs and the general type of
the window signs (e.g., paper affixed to window, painted, etched on glass or
some other material hung inside window) and need not specify the exact
dimension or nature of every window sign.
   (E)   Limit on number of free-standing signs under common signage plan. The
common signage plan, for all zone lots with multiple uses or multiple users,
shall limit the number of free-standing signs to a total of one for each street
on which the zone lots included in the plan have frontage and shall provide for
shared or common usage of the signs.
   (F)   Other provisions of master or common signage plans. The master or
common signage plan may contain such other restrictions as the owners of the
zone lots may reasonably determine.
   (G)   Consent. The master of common signage plan shall be signed by all
owners or their authorized agents in such form as the village staff shall
require.
 
Table 1.5B
Maximum Total Sign Area per Zone Lot by Zoning District
                           All R, NU, CE All MR INSa MH     B-1 B-2 B-3 B-4 I-1
The maximum total area of all signs on a zone lot except incidental, building
marker and identification signs, and flagsb shall not exceed the lesser of the
following:
Maximum number of total    4d            100d   100  100c,d 100 200 300 700 400
square feet
Percentage of ground floor NA            NA     NA   NA     4%  2%  5%  10% 2%
area of principal building
Square feet of signage per
linear foot of street      NA            0.5    0.5  0.5    1.0 1.0 1.0 3.0 1.5
frontage
 
 
Notes to table:
  This column does not represent a zoning district. It applies to institutional
a uses permitted under the zoning ordinance in residential zoning districts.
  Such uses may include, but are not necessarily limited to, churches, schools,
  funeral homes and cemeteries.
  Flags of the United States, the state, the village, foreign nations having
  diplomatic relations with the United States, and any other flag adopted or
  sanctioned by an elected legislative body of competent jurisdiction. These
b flags must be flown in accordance with protocol established by the Congress
  of the United States for the Stars and Stripes. Any flag not meeting any one
  or more of these conditions shall be considered a banner sign and shall be
  subject to regulations as such.
c Mobile home parks only. "R" District sign size requirements apply to
  individual mobile homes.
d See
  Table 1.5C, footnote g.
  Interstate signage. For signs intended to advertise within 30 feet of the
e interstate highway system the area shall not exceed 400 square feet and
  require either a copy of their state permit or a letter from the state
  indicating that a permit is not necessary.
 
Table 1.5C
Number, Dimensions and Location of Individual Signs by Zoning District
Sign Type All R, NU, CE All MR INSa MH B-1 B-2x B-3 B-4 I-1
Table 1.5C
Number, Dimensions and Location of Individual Signs by Zoning District
Sign Type All R, All MR INSa MH    B-1   B-2x  B-3       B-4       I-1
          NU, CE
Individual signs shall not exceed the applicable maximum number of
dimensions or setbacks shown on this table and
Table 1.5D.
FREE-STANDING
Area
(square   4      12     40   12    40    40    40        160l      80
feet)g
Height    5      5      12   5     8b    16b   25b,l     35b,l     20b,l
(feet)
Setback   2      2      5    2     5b    10    10        2         10
(feet)d
Number
permitted 1      NA     1    NA    NA    NA    NA        NA        NA
per zone
lot
Per feet         1 per       1 per 1 per 1 per
of street NA     200    NA   200   100   200   1 per 200 1 per 100 1 per 200
frontage
BUILDING
Area
(max.     2      2      10   2     NA    NA    NA        NA        NA
square
feet)
Wall area NA     NA     NA   NA    10%   10%   10%       20%       5%
(percent)
 
Notes to table:
  This column does not represent a zoning district. It applies to institutional
a uses permitted under the zoning ordinance in residential NU and CE zoning
  districts. Such uses may include, but are not necessarily limited to,
  churches, schools, funeral homes and cemeteries.
  Maximum sign height and minimum setback are per Table 1.5C; however, in no
  case shall the actual sign height exceed the actual sip setback from any
b adjacent lot that is zoned and used for residential purposes. For example, if
  the sign is set back seven feet from such a lot, it may be no more than seven
  feet high.
  Maximum sign height is 24 feet, and minimum setback is five feet; however, in
c no case shall the actual sign height exceed the actual sign setback from any
  adjacent lot that is zoned and used for residential purposes. See example in
  Note b.
  In addition to the setback requirements on this table, signs shall he located
d such that there is at every street intersection a clear view between heights
  of three feet and ten feet in a triangle formed by the corner and points on
  the curb 30 feet from the intersection or entranceway.
  Lots fronting on two or more streets are allowed the permitted signage for
e each street frontage, but signage cannot be accumulated and used on one
  street in excess of that allowed for lots with only one street frontage.
  The percentage figure here shall mean the percentage of the area of the wall
f of which the sign is a part of or to which each such sign is most nearly
  parallel.
  Real estate signs on residential property, four square feet, 16 square feet
g on other property, subdivision signs 40 square feet, entry monuments 300
  square feet, construction signs 40 square feet. Entry monuments maximum
  height ten feet, no commercial message allowed on sign.
  Procedures. A master or common signage plan shall be included in any
h development plan, site plan, planned unit development plan or other official
  plan required by the village for a proposed development and shall be
  processed simultaneously with such other plan.
  Amendment. A master or common signage plan may be amended by filing a new
i master or common signage plan that conforms with all requirements of the Code
  then in effect.
  Existing signs not conforming to common signage plan. If any new or amended
  master or common signage plan is filed for a property on which existing signs
j are located, it shall include a schedule for bringing into conformance,
  within three years, all signs not conforming to the proposed amended plan or
  to the requirements of this Code in effect on the date of submission.
  Binding effect. After approval of a master or common signage plan, no sign
  shall be erected, placed, painted or maintained, except in conformance with
k the plan, and such plan may be enforced in the same way as any provision of
  this Code. In case of any conflict between the provisions of such a plan and
  any other provision of this Code, these sign regulations shall control.
  Interstate signage. For signs intended to advertise within 300 feet of the
l interstate highway system the height shall not exceed 50 feet. The
  freestanding area (square feet) shall not exceed 400 square feet
  Free standing signs advertising for firms supporting either Scott Air Force
x Base or MidAmerica St. Louis Airport will be allowed on the easterly side of
  Air Mobility Drive that is currently zoned B-2. The maximum area and height
  to be the same as permitted in a B-4 zone district.
 
(Am. Ord. 2012-09-04A, passed 9-4-2012)
 
Table 1.5D
Number and Dimensions of Certain Individual Signs by Sign Type
                                  Vertical Clearance
 Number Allowed Maximum Sign Area From Sidewalk or Private From Public Street
                                  Drive or Parking
Table 1.5D
Number and Dimensions of Certain Individual Signs by Sign Type
                                                  Vertical Clearance
                Number Allowed  Maximum Sign Area From Sidewalk or From Public
                                                  Private Drive or Street
                                                  Parking
No sign shall exceed any applicable maximum numbers or dimensions or encroach
any applicable minimum clearance on shown on this table.
FREE-STANDING
Residential,    See             See
other and       Table 1.5C      Table 1.5C        NA               NA
incidental
BUILDING
Banner          NA              NA                9 feet           14 feet
Building marker 1 per building  4 square feet     NA               NA
Canopy          1 per building  25% of vertical   9 feet           14 feet
                                surface of canopy
Identification  1 per buildingb NA                NA               NA
Incidental      NA              NA                NA               NA
Marquee         1 per building  NA                9 feet           14 feet
Projecting      1 per building  40 square feet    9 feet           14 feet
Residential     1 per zone lot  NA                NA               NA
Roof            1 per prin.     NA                NA               NA
                building
Roof, integral  2 per prin.     NA                NA               NA
                building
Suspended       1 per entrance  NA                9 feet           NA
Temporary       See §          NA                NA               NA
                151.117
Wall            NA              NA                NA               NA
Window          NA              25% of total      NA               NA
                                window area
                                4 square feet
Real estate     1 per lot       "R", CE, NU 16    NA               NA
                                square feet in
                                other dist.
Subdivision     1 per entry     40 square feet    NA               NA
Entry monument  1 per entry     300 square feet   NA               NA
Construction    1 per entry     40 square feet    NA               NA
Garage sale     2 per event     4 square feet     NA               NA
Security        1 per building  1 square feet     NA               NA
MISCELLANEOUS
Banner          NA              NA                9 feet           14 feet
Flag            NA              NA                9 feet           14 feet
Portable        NA              NA                NA               NA
 
 
Notes to table:
a Permitted on the same terms as a temporary sign, in accordance with §
  151.117, except that it may be free-standing.
  For buildings exceeding 6,500 square feet of front wall space, the number of
b signs shall be one per 6,500 square feet of wall space on the front of the
  building.
 
 
Table 1.5E
Permitted Sign Characteristics by Zoning District
                               All R, NU, CE All MR INSa MH B-1 B-2 B-3 B-4 I-1
Animatedc                      N             N      N    N  N   N   N   S   N
Changeable copy                N             N      Pb   N  N   N   S   S   N
Illumination, internal         N             N      Pb   N  Sb  S   S   S   S
Illumination, extenalb         N             P      P    P  S   S   S   S   S
Illumination, exposed bulbs or N             N      N    N  N   S   N   N   N
neond
 
Notes to table:
P Allowed without sign permit.
S Allowed only with sign permit.
N Not allowed.
  This column does not represent a zoning district. It applies to institutional
a uses permitted under the zoning ordinance in residential, NU and CE zoning
  districts. Such uses may include, but are not necessarily limited to,
  churches, schools, funeral homes and cemeteries.
b No direct light or significant glare from the sign shall be cast onto any
  adjacent zone lot that is zoned and used for residential purposes.
c Animated signs shall not change messages or image more than once each 60
  seconds.
d Note: Neon signage does not include accent striping or similar purely
  decorative uses.
 
Click_here_to_view_the_above_tables_in_a_PDF_document.
§ 151.111 SIGNS IN THE PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   No signs shall be allowed in the public right-of-way, except for the
following.
   (A)   Permanent signs. Only as listed below:
      (1)   Public signs erected by or on behalf of a governmental body to post
legal notices, identify public property, convey public information and direct
or regulate pedestrian or vehicular traffic;
      (2)   Bus stop signs erected by a public transit company; and
      (3)   Informational signs of a public utility regarding its poles, lines,
pipes or facilities; and
      (4)   Awning, projecting and suspended signs projecting over a public
right-of-way in conformity with the conditions of
Table 1.5A of this Code.
   (B)   Emergency signs. Emergency warning signs erected by a governmental
agency, a public utility company, or a contractor doing authorized or permitted
work within the public right-of-way.
§ 151.112 OTHER SIGNS FORFEITED.
   Any sign installed or placed on public property, except in conformance with
the requirements of this chapter, shall be forfeited to the public and subject
to confiscation. In addition to other remedies hereunder, the village shall
have the right to recover from the owner or person placing such a sign the full
costs of removal and disposal of the sign.
§ 151.113 SIGNS EXEMPT FROM REGULATION UNDER THIS CODE.
   The following signs shall be exempt from regulation under this Code:
   (A)   Any public notice or warning required by a valid and applicable
federal, state or local law, regulation or ordinance;
   (B)   Any sign inside a building, not attached to a window or door, that is
not legible from a distance of more than three feet beyond the lot line of the
zone lot or parcel on which the sign is located;
   (C)   Holiday lights and decorations with no commercial message; and
   (D)   Traffic control signs on private property, such as stop, yield and
similar signs, the face of which meet Department of Transportation standards
and which contain no commercial message of any sort.
§ 151.114 SIGNS PROHIBITED UNDER THIS CODE.
   (A)   All signs not expressly permitted under this Code, or exempt from
regulation hereunder, in accordance with the previous section are prohibited in
the village.
   (B)   The signs include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Beacons;
      (2)   Billboards;
      (3)   Pennants;
      (4)   Portable signs, illuminated or non-illuminated;
      (5)   Strings of lights not permanently mounted to a rigid background,
except those exempt under the previous section;
      (6)   Signs with flashing lights;
      (7)   Any person or persons with a commercial sign and/or dressed in a
commercially identified costume (e.g., mascot) that is intended to attract
attention to the use or business being conducted on another zone lot;
      (8)   All temporary signs advertising any commercial activity not on the
related zone lot on which the sign is located; and
      (9)   All permanent signs advertising any commercial activity not on the
related zone lot on which the sign is located unless a village sign permit is
secured for the sign.
§ 151.115 GENERAL PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   The following procedures shall govern the application for, and issuance of,
all sign permits under this Code, and the submission and review of Common
Signage Plans and Master Signage Plans.
   (A)   Applications. All applications for sign permits of any kind and for
approval of a Master or Common Signage Plan shall be submitted to the village
staff on an application form or in accordance with application specifications
published by the village staff.
   (B)   Fees. Each application for a sign permit or for approval of a Master
or Common Signage Plan shall be accompanied by the applicable fees, which shall
be established by the governing body of the village from time to time by
resolution.
   (C)   Completeness. Within 30 working days of receiving an application for a
sign permit or for a Common or Master Signage Plan, the village staff shall
review it for completeness. If the village staff finds that it is complete, the
application shall then be processed. If the village staff finds that it is
incomplete, the village staff shall, within the 30-day period, send to the
applicant a notice of the specific ways in which the application or Common or
Master Signage Plan is deficient, with appropriate references to the applicable
sections of this Code. A Common or Master Signage Plan must be approved prior
to the issuance of a sign permit. Both may be filed concurrently.
   (D)   Action on plan. On any application for approval of a Master Signage
Plan or Common Signage Plan, the village staff shall take action on the
applicable one of the following dates:
      (1)   Thirty days after the submission of a complete application if the
application is for signs for existing buildings;
      (2)   On the date of final action by the Village Board on any related
application for building permit, site plan or development plan for signs
involving new construction; or
      (3)   On or before the applicable date, the village staff shall either:
         (a)   Approve the proposed plan if the sign(s) as shown on the plan
and the plan itself conforms in every respect with the requirements of this
Code; or
         (b)   Reject the proposed plan if the sign(s) as shown on the plan or
the plan itself fails in any way to conform with the requirements of this Code.
In case of a rejection, the village staff shall specify in the rejection the
section or sections of the Code with which the plan is inconsistent.
   (E)   Action on sign permit. Within 30 working days of the submission of a
complete application for a sign permit, the village staff shall either:
      (1)   Issue the sign permit, if the sign(s) that is the subject of the
application conforms in every respect with the requirements of this Code and of
the applicable Master or Common Signage Plan; or
      (2)   Reject the sign permit if the sign(s) that is the subject of the
application fails in any way to conform with the requirements of this Code and
of the applicable Master or Common Signage Plan. In case of a rejection, the
village staff shall specify in the rejection the section or sections of the
ordinance or applicable plan with which the sign(s) is inconsistent.
§ 151.116 PERMITS TO CONSTRUCT OR MODIFY SIGNS.
   Signs identified as "P" or "S" on
Table 1.5A shall be erected, installed or created only in accordance with a
duly issued and valid sign construction permit from the village staff. The
permits shall be issued only in accordance with the following requirements and
procedures.
   (A)   Permit for new sign or for sign modification. An application for
construction, creation or installation of a new sign or for modification of an
existing sign shall be accompanied by detailed drawings to show the dimensions,
design, structure and location of each particular sign, to the extent that the
details are not contained on a Master Signage Plan or Common Signage Plan then
in effect for the zone lot. One application and permit may include multiple
signs on the same zone lot.
   (B)   Inspection.
      (1)   The village staff shall cause any inspection of the zone lot for
which each permit for a new sign or for modification of an existing sign is
issued during the sixth month after the issuance of the permit or at such
earlier date as the owner may request and village staff can schedule (48-hour
notice required).
      (2)   If the construction is not substantially complete at the time of
inspection, the permit shall lapse and become void. If the construction is
complete and in full compliance with this Code and with the building and
electrical codes, the village staff shall file the inspection report in the
address file and authorize use of the sign except as listed in division (C)
below.
      (3)   If the construction is substantially complete but not in full
compliance with this Code and applicable codes, the village staff shall give
the owner or applicant notice of the deficiencies and shall allow an additional
30 days from the date of inspection for the deficiencies to be corrected. If
the deficiencies are not corrected by the date, the permit shall lapse.
   (C)   Lapse of sign permit.
      (1)   A sign permit shall lapse automatically if the business license for
the premises lapses, is revoked or is not renewed.
      (2)   A sign permit shall also lapse if the business activity on the
premises is discontinued for a period of 180 days or more and is not renewed
within 30 days of a notice from the village to the last permittee, sent to the
premises, that the sign permit will lapse if the activity is not renewed.
   (D)   Assignment of sign permit.
      (1)   A current and valid sign permit shall be freely assignable to a
successor as owner of the property or holder of a business license for the same
premises, subject only to filling the application as the village staff may
require and paying any applicable fee.
      (2)   The assignment shall be accomplished by filing and shall not
require approval.
§ 151.117 TEMPORARY SIGN PERMITS (PRIVATE PROPERTY).
   Temporary signs on private property shall be allowed only upon the issuance
of a temporary sign permit, which shall be subject to the following
requirements.
   (A)   Term. A temporary sign permit shall allow the use of a temporary sign
for a specified two-week period.
   (B)   Number. Only one temporary sign permit shall be issued to the same
business license holder on the same zone lot in any calendar year.
   (C)   Other conditions. A temporary sign shall be allowed only in districts
with a letter "S" for "Temporary, Signs" on
Table 1.5A and subject to all of the requirements for temporary signs as noted
therein.
   (D)   In no case will more than one temporary sign be allowed per zone lot.
Such temporary sign shall not exceed 24 square feet if affixed to a building or
wall or six square feet if affixed to the ground.
§ 151.118 TIME OF COMPLIANCE; NONCONFORMING SIGNS AND SIGNS WITHOUT PERMITS.
   Except as otherwise provided herein, the owner of any zone lot or other
premises on which exists a sign that does not conform with the requirements of
this Code or for which there is no current and valid sign permit shall be
obligated to remove the sign or, in the case of a nonconforming sign, to bring
it into conformity with the requirements of this Code.
   (A)   Nonconforming existing signs, permits and terms. A sign that would be
permitted under this Code only with a sign permit, but which was in existence
on the date of adoption of this Code or on a later date when the property is
annexed to the village, and which was constructed in accordance with the Code
and other applicable laws in effect on the date of its construction, but which
by reason of its size, height, location, design or construction is not in
conformance with the requirements of this Code, shall be considered a
nonconforming sign. The above described nonconforming signs shall be allowed to
remain in place and be maintained provided that no action is taken which
increases the degree or extent of the nonconformity. A change in the
information on the face of an above described nonconforming sign is allowed.
However, any nonconforming sign shall either be eliminated or made to conform
with the requirements of this section when any proposed change, repair or
maintenance would constitute an expense of more than 25% of the lesser of the
original value or replacement value of the sign.
   (B)   Sign removal required. A sign that was constructed, painted, installed
or maintained in conformance with a permit under this Code, but for which the
permit has lapsed (per §
151.116(C) or modifications under division (A) above), shall be forthwith
removed without notice or action from the village.
§ 151.119 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any of the following shall be a violation of this Code and shall be
subject to the enforcement remedies and penalties provided by this Code:
      (1)   To install, create, erect or maintain any sign in a way that is
inconsistent with any plan or permit governing the sign or the zone lot on
which the sign is located;
      (2)   To install, create, erect or maintain any sign requiring a permit
without such a permit;
      (3)   To install, create, erect or maintain any sign in a way that is
inconsistent with any plan or permit governing the sign or the zone lot on
which sign is located;
      (4)   To fail to remove any sign that is installed, created, erected or
maintained in violation of this Code, or for which the sign permit has lapsed;
or
      (5)   To continue any such violation. Each such day of a continued
violation shall be considered a separate violation when applying the penalty
portions of this Code.
   (B)   Each sign installed, created, erected or maintained in violation of
this Code shall be considered a separate violation when applying the penalty
portions of this Code.
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING REGULATIONS
§ 151.130 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   In order to reduce congestion in public streets, off-street parking and
loading facilities shall be provided in accordance with this section for all
buildings, structures and uses erected or established after 9-3-1996.
§ 151.131 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to all zoning districts
and every parking or loading space shall be situated so that no part of any
vehicle overhangs the public right-of-way.
   (B)   The duty to provide and maintain off-street parking and loading
facilities shall be the joint and shared responsibility of the operator and the
owner of the use or uses for which the off-street parking is required.
   (C)   The parking spaces in any off-street parking or loading facility which
already existed on 9-3-1996 shall not be reduced below the requirements and
standards for use or uses for which the off-street parking is required.
   (D)   If the parking spaces in an off-street parking or loading facility
which already exists on the effective date of this section do not conform to
the requirements of this subchapter, the existing facilities shall not be
further reduced below the requirements and standards for the use or uses for
which the off-street parking is required.
   (E)   If an existing building, structure or use is damaged or destroyed and
subsequently repaired or rebuilt, off-street parking and loading facilities
equivalent to those maintained at the time of the damage or destruction, shall
be restored, but additional spaces need not be provided.
   (F)   If any building, structure or use is enlarged or expanded, the owner
of the use shall provide additional off-street parking and loading facilities,
as required by the provisions of this section; provided, however, that, if the
Village Board determines that the compliance is clearly not possible, the owner
shall be required to provide only the amount of additional parking the
enlargement or expansion would require as a separate use.
   (G)   If the existing use of a lot, building or structure is changed to a
different use, the owner of the use shall provide off-street parking and
loading facilities as required by the provisions of this section.
   (H)   All off-street parking and loading facilities, whether provided in
accordance with this section, or in accordance with the provisions of any
previous ordinance, shall be maintained as required by this section.
§ 151.132 PARKING AREA DESIGN STANDARDS.
   With the exception of parking spaces required for single-family and two-
family residences, every off-street parking lot hereafter established, shall be
designed in accordance with the standards listed herein.
§ 151.133 REQUIREMENTS FOR PARKING SPACES.
   Every parking space, designed for one vehicle, shall conform to the
requirements below and shall be designated by markings which clearly delineate
each space and which are laid and restored as often as necessary to maintain
the delineation.
   (A)   Minimum parking space width. The minimum parking space width and
length shall be measured from the edge of the parking lot pavement if there is
no perimeter curb. If there is a perimeter curb, the measurement shall be from
the face of the curb toward the parking space. All measurements not along the
perimeter shall be in between the striped line edges.
 
90-degree parking 10 feet*
60-degree parking 10 feet
45-degree parking 10 feet
Parallel parking  8 feet
Disabled parking  16 feet
Notes to table:
* Except for rapid transit, churches and places of worship parking which shall
be nine feet. The Board may consider nine-foot wide stalls for fraternal
organizations or municipal uses following an application submittal conforming
to §
151.345.
 
   (B)   Minimum parking space length.
 
90-degree parking   19 feet
60-degree parking   19 feet
45-degree parking   19 feet
Parallel parking    22 feet
Handicapped parking 19 feet
 
   (C)   Minimum parking space vertical clearance.
 
All types 7 feet
 
   (D)   Minimum number of accessible parking spaces.
      (1)   The minimum number of accessible parking spaces shall be in
accordance with the requirements of the state and federal regulations for
accessible parking spaces.
      (2)   Accessible parking spaces shall be located on the shortest
accessible route of travel to an accessible building entrance.
§ 151.134 REQUIREMENTS FOR PARKING LOT AISLES.
   (A)   The aisles of every parking lot hereafter established shall conform to
the requirements below:
 
90-degree parking 24 feet
60-degree parking 18 feet
45-degree parking 14 feet
Parallel parking  22 feet
 
   (B)   Aisles between two rows of 45-degree and 60-degree parking shall be
limited to one-way traffic.
   (C)   Aisles between other types of parking, or between rows of mixed types,
may allow two-way traffic, but shall conform to the more restrictive minimum
aisle width.
§ 151.135 REQUIREMENTS FOR ACCESS.
   (A)   Every accessway in any residential or non-urban zoning district, which
is less than 100 feet in length and serves a parking lot containing eight or
fewer parking spaces, shall be at least ten feet wide.
   (B)   Every accessway in any residential or non-urban zoning district, which
is more than 100 feet in length or serves a parking lot containing more than
eight parking spaces, shall be at least 20 feet wide; provided, however, that,
when separate drives, each one way, are designed for ingress and egress, the
minimum required width for each drive shall be reduced to ten feet.
   (C)   Every accessway for a parking lot located in any commercial or
industrial zoning district, shall be at least 24 feet wide; provided, however,
that, when separate drives, each one way, are designed for ingress and egress,
the minimum required width for each drive shall be reduced to 12 feet.
   (D)   Every parking lot shall be designed so that ingress to or egress from
any parking space is by way of an aisle or driveway and not directly from a
street or public right-of-way.
   (E)   (1)   No accessway to any parking lot shall be located within 30 feet
of any corner formed by the intersection of the right-of-way of two or more
streets.
      (2)   However, when an intersection is regulated by traffic control
devices or based upon daily hourly volume, the Village Board shall increase
this requirement in order to reduce traffic hazards.
   (F)   Every parking lot ingress and egress shall be aligned so that it
forms, as closely as is possible, a right angle with the intersecting street.
   (G)   (1)   Curb cuts for the purpose of providing ingress or egress are
subject to all relevant state, county and village requirements and approvals.
      (2)   For work on village right-of-way, a permit will be necessary from
the village staff.
   (H)   No driveway in any district zoned residential shall be within three
feet of a property line, except at the right-of-way where it adjoins the
street.
§ 151.136 REQUIREMENTS FOR CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Every off-street parking area, including accessways and aisles, shall
be graded and improved with a compacted gravel base at least four inches thick,
surfaced with at least two inches of asphalt or similar impermeable, all
weather, dustless surface, accessways and aisles which are to be used by
delivery vehicles shall be a minimum of a compacted gravel base of six inches
and four inches of bituminous surface.
   (B)   Entrance on right-of-way shall at least conform to the village's
minimum requirements for structural composition of subdivision pavements street
classification "Collector".
Cross-reference:
   More specific construction requirements, see §§
151.220 through
151.223
   Type of work involved, see I.D.O.T. standards
§ 151.137 LIGHTING.
   (A)   Every off-street parking lot regularly used during nighttime hours
shall be lighted to enable safe access to parked vehicles.
   (B)   Lighting used to illuminate any parking lot shall be arranged or
shielded so as to confine direct light rays, to the greatest extent
practicable, within the lot lines of the parking lot.
Cross-reference:
   Site lighting recommendations, see §
30.19
§ 151.138 LANDSCAPING.
   In order to reduce heat and glare and minimize the loss of natural
vegetation common to the construction of parking facilities, landscaping shall
be provided and maintained in accordance with the following provisions
contained within this Code.
Cross-reference:
   Landscape and streetscape recommendations, see §
30.18
§ 151.139 LOCATION OF REQUIRED PARKING.
   Every off-street parking lot shall be located in conformity with the
following requirements:
   (A)   Single-family and two-family dwellings. Parking spaces accessory to
any single-family or two-family dwelling shall be located on the same lot as
the dwelling, and with the exception of a driveway, shall not be in the front
yard.
   (B)   Multiple-family dwellings. Parking spaces accessory to a multiple-
family dwelling shall be located on the same lot as the dwelling, or on a
commonly-owned lot of the multiple-family buildings, the parking spaces are
accessory to, and constructed so that no vehicle shall be required to be moved
in order to allow another vehicle to enter or exit the parking area.
   (C)   Business and industrial uses.
      (1)   (a)   Every off-street parking space accessory to any business or
industrial use shall be located within 500 feet of the use served; provided,
however, that, no portion of any parking lot for a nonresidential use shall
extend into any residential or non-urban district except by permission of the
Village Board.
         (b)   Whenever a parking lot or a driveway to a parking lot is
hereafter established in other than a residence district so as to abut the side
or rear line of a lot in a residence district, a solid masonry wall, shrubbery
planting or a substantial sightly fence not less than five feet high and not
more than eight feet high shall be constructed and maintained along the side or
rear lot line up to, but not beyond the setback building line.
      (2)   In any business or industrial district, off-street parking
facilities for different buildings or uses may be provided collectively, if the
total number of spaces collected together is not less than the sum of the
separate requirements for each use, and if all other pertinent regulations are
observed.
§ 151.140 LOADING AREA DESIGN STANDARDS.
   Every off-street loading space hereafter established shall be designed in
accordance with the following standards.
§ 151.141 REQUIREMENTS FOR LOADING SPACES.
   Every loading space, designed for one vehicle, shall conform to the
requirements below, exclusive of any aisle or maneuvering area that may be
required, and shall be designated by markings which clearly delineate each
space, and which are laid and restored as often as necessary to maintain the
delineation.
 
Minimum loading space width  12 feet
Minimum loading space length 50 feet
Minimum vertical clearance   14 feet
 
§ 151.142 REQUIREMENTS FOR ACCESS.
   Every accessway between an off-street loading space and a street or alley,
shall be at least 12 feet wide.
§ 151.143 REQUIREMENTS FOR CONSTRUCTION.
   Every off-street loading area shall be graded and improved with a compacted
gravel base at least seven inches thick, surfaced with at least four inches of
asphalt or similar impermeable, all weather dustless surface.
Cross-reference:
   More specific construction requirements, see §§
151.220 through
151.223
   Type of work involved, see I.D.O.T. standards
§ 151.144 REQUIREMENTS FOR BUFFER STRIPS.
   No loading space designed for vehicles exceeding a two-ton cargo capacity
shall be developed closer than 50 feet from the lot line of any lot located in
a residential or non-urban district, unless the loading space is completely
enclosed by a wall, a solid fence or closely-planted shrubbery, at least ten
feet in height and of sufficient density to block the view from adjoining
property.
§ 151.145 LOCATION OF REQUIRED LOADING SPACES.
   Every off-street loading space shall be located on the same parcel of land
as the use served and not closer than 50 feet to the intersection of the
rights-of-way of two or more streets and not on required front yards.
§ 151.146 COMPUTATION OF REQUIRED SPACES.
   In computing the number of parking and loading spaces required by this
section, the village staff shall apply the following rules.
   (A)   In computing the parking spaces required for a building or structure
containing mixed uses, the village staff shall calculate the required number of
parking spaces for each use, and add the sums of those calculations in order to
determine the total number of spaces required for the building. For example, a
lodge with a dance hall would require parking spaces for each use.
   (B)   If, in computing the number of parking or loading spaces required by
this section, the calculation results in the requirement of a fractional space,
a fraction of less than one-half may be disregarded, while a fraction of one-
half or more shall be counted as one space.
   (C)   If, in computing the number of parking spaces required by this
section, the gross floor area for a specific use is less than that identified
in the calculation formula, the village staff shall divide the gross floor area
by the area indicated in the calculation formula and multiply the result by the
required number of spaces. For example, if a fast-food restaurant has a gross
floor area of 800 square feet, the village staff shall divide 800 by 1,000 and
multiply the resulting .80 by 30, thereby requiring 24 parking spaces for this
specific use.
   (D)   If, in reviewing the classifications below, a particular use is not
found, the village staff shall classify the use with other similar uses and
calculate parking space requirements according to the provisions for that
classification.
   (E)   If bus parking is provided for a hotel or motel, it shall count for 15
of the required parking spaces as calculated elsewhere herein.
§ 151.147 TABLE OF PARKING SPACES BY CLASSIFICATION.
   This section divides specific uses of property into classification groups.
The minimum number of off-street parking spaces required for each use of
specific parcel of property shall be determined by identifying the
classification group to which each use belongs, the performing the calculation
identified for that specific group.
   (A)   Class 1. The following uses shall be required to provide two parking
spaces per dwelling unit:
      (1)   Dwelling, single-family;
      (2)   Dwelling, two-family;
      (3)   Dwelling, multiple-family, two or more bedrooms; and
      (4)   Mobile and manufactured homes.
   (B)   Class 2. The following uses shall be required to provide one and one-
half parking spaces per dwelling unit:
      (1)   Dwelling, multiple-family, one bedroom; and
      (2)   Dwelling, multiple-family, efficiency units.
   (C)   Class 3. The following uses shall be required to provide one parking
space per dwelling unit, lodging room or room for rent:
      (1)   Hotels;
      (2)   Motels;
      (3)   Dormitories;
      (4)   Private clubs and lodges with sleeping facilities; and
      (5)   Apartments for the elderly.
   (D)   Class 4. The following uses shall be required to provide one parking
space per 1,000 square feet of gross floor area, as defined:
      (1)   Convalescent homes, nursing homes, homes for the aged, homes for
the ill or physically infirm, intermediate care facilities, sheltered care
facilities, skilled nursing homes and specialized living accommodations;
      (2)   Seminaries, monasteries, convents and retreat homes; and
      (3)   Rectories, parsonages and parish homes; and
      (4)   Kennels.
   (E)   Class 5. The following uses shall be required to provide two parking
spaces per 1,000 square feet of gross floor area:
      (1)   Day care centers, adult and children;
      (2)   Extermination services;
      (3)   Federal, state, county or municipal garages;
      (4)   Historic sites;
      (5)   Hospitals;
      (6)   Machinery sales and services;
      (7)   Mail order houses;
      (8)   Philanthropic and charitable institutions;
      (9)   Public libraries, art galleries and museums; and
      (10)   Radio and television stations.
   (F)   Class 6. The following uses shall be required to provide four parking
spaces per 1,000 square feet of gross floor area:
      (1)   Animal hospitals and clinics;
      (2)   Art galleries, commercial;
      (3)   Auto driving instruction, excluding storage of vehicles;
      (4)   Auto renting facilities, excluding storage of vehicles;
      (5)   Banks and savings and loans, without drive-in facilities;
      (6)   Business and office machine sales and services;
      (7)   Bus passenger stations;
      (8)   Catering establishments;
      (9)   Clothing and costume rental;
      (10)   Clubs and lodges, without sleeping facilities;
      (11)   Detective agencies;
      (12)   Dressmaking;
      (13)   Drug stores;
      (14)   Employment agencies;
      (15)   Governmental administration buildings, without garages;
      (16)   Gymnasiums, health clubs and spas;
      (17)   Indoor tennis or racquetball clubs;
      (18)   Laboratories; medical, dental or optical;
      (19)   Laboratories; research and testing;
      (20)   Lithographers;
      (21)   Locksmiths;
      (22)   Not-for-profit corporations, service organizations or fraternal
organizations;
      (23)   Painting and decorating businesses;
      (24)   Police and fire stations;
      (25)   Post offices;
      (26)   Recording or sound studios;
      (27)   Recreational and community centers;
      (28)   Repair shops; shoes and clothing;
      (29)   Sharpening and grinding businesses;
      (30)   Tailors;
      (31)   Taxicabs garages, excluding storage of vehicles;
      (32)   Telephone exchange and equipment buildings;
      (33)   Towing services, excluding storage of vehicles; and
      (34)   Transit or transportation facilities.
   (G)   Class 7. The following uses shall be required to provide five parking
spaces per 1,000 square feet of gross floor area:
      (1)   All professional, commercial organizational and government offices
not specifically listed herein;
      (2)   Auto service stations;
      (3)   Auto undercoating and rust-proofing services;
      (4)   Bowling alleys;
      (5)   Furniture stores;
      (6)   Leather goods and luggage stores;
      (7)   Loan companies;
      (8)   Medical and dental clinics;
      (9)   Photography, commercial studio; and
      (10)   Travel agencies.
   (H)   Class 8. The following uses shall be required to provide six parking
spaces per 1,000 square feet of gross floor area:
      (1)   Antique stores;
      (2)   Apparel stores;
      (3)   Appliance stores;
      (4)   Art and school supply stores;
      (5)   Auto accessory stores;
      (6)   Bakeries;
      (7)   Barber and hairstyling shops;
      (8)   Beauty parlors;
      (9)   Bicycle stores; sales, rental and repair;
      (10)   Book and stationary stores;
      (11)   Camera stores;
      (12)   Candy and confectionery stores;
      (13)   China and glassware stores;
      (14)   Department stores;
      (15)   Drapery stores;
      (16)   Dry cleaners and laundromats;
      (17)   Dry goods stores;
      (18)   Floor covering stores;
      (19)   Floral shops;
      (20)   Funeral parlors;
      (21)   Gift shops;
      (22)   Grocery stores;
      (23)   Hardware stores;
      (24)   Hobby shops;
      (25)   Home appliance stores;
      (26)   Ice cream stores;
      (27)   Jewelry stores;
      (28)   Meat markets;
      (29)   Music stores;
      (30)   Notions stores;
      (31)   Office supply and stationery stores;
      (32)   Package liquor stores;
      (33)   Paint and wallpaper stores;
      (34)   Pet shops;
      (35)   Radio, television and stereo sales;
      (36)   Record stores;
      (37)   Shoe stores;
      (38)   Sporting goods stores;
      (39)   Tobacco shops;
      (40)   Toy stores; and
      (41)   Variety stores.
   (I)   Class 9. The following uses shall be required to provide ten parking
spaces per 1,000 square feet of gross floor area:
      (1)   Auction rooms or barns;
      (2)   Arcades or amusement halls;
      (3)   Billiards and pool halls;
      (4)   Bars, taverns and lounges;
      (5)   Convention and exhibition halls;
      (6)   Dance halls;
      (7)   Meeting halls;
      (8)   Restaurants, excluding fast-food or drive-in; and
      (9)   Indoor skating rinks.
   (J)   Class 10. The following uses shall be required to provide nine parking
spaces per 1,000 square feet or one for each two seats plus two for every three
employees, whichever is greater, plus eight car holding spaces for every drive-
in bay: Fast-food or drive-in restaurants.
   (K)   Class 11. The following uses shall be required to provide one parking
space per 1,000 square feet of gross floor area, plus one parking space per
every 2,000 square feet of occupied land area:
      (1)   Agricultural implements; sales and service;
      (2)   Archery ranges;
      (3)   Golf driving ranges; and
      (4)   Nurseries and greenhouses.
   (L)   Class 12. The following uses shall be required to provide three
parking spaces per 1,000 square feet of gross floor area, plus one parking
space per every 3,000 square feet of occupied land area:
      (1)   Amusement establishments;
      (2)   Boat sales;
      (3)   Camper sales;
      (4)   Equipment rental and leasing services;
      (5)   Kiddie parks;
      (6)   Miniature golf courses;
      (7)   Mobile and manufactured home sales;
      (8)   Model homes and garage displays;
      (9)   Monument sales;
      (10)   Motor vehicles repair and servicing facilities;
      (11)   Motorcycle sales;
      (12)   New or used car dealers;
      (13)   Recreational vehicle sales;
      (14)   Shooting ranges; and
      (15)   Tire, battery and other motor vehicle accessory services.
   (M)   Class 13. The following uses shall be required to provide one parking
space per 5,000 square feet of occupied land area:
      (1)   Athletic fields;
      (2)   Arboretums or botanical gardens;
      (3)   Forest preserves;
      (4)   Grounds of non-commercial recreational clubs;
      (5)   Public parks and playgrounds;
      (6)   Swimming pool; provided, however, that, when a swimming pool is an
isolated use, parking shall be computed at a rate of one space per 75 square
feet of water area; and
      (7)   Tennis clubs and courts, outdoors.
   (N)   Class 14. The following uses shall be required to provide five parking
spaces per every washing bay: Auto laundries and car-washing facilities.
   (O)   Class 15. The following uses shall be required to provide four car
handling spaces per every drive-up teller window, plus four parking spaces per
every 1,000 square feet of gross floor area: Drive-in banks, savings and loans
and financial services.
   (P)   Class 16. The following uses shall be required to provide one parking
space per every five students based on design capacity: Elementary and junior
high schools.
   (Q)   Class 17. The following uses shall be required to provide one parking
space per every three students based on design capacity:
      (1)   Colleges, junior colleges and universities;
      (2)   Business, art, dance or commercial schools;
      (3)   High schools; and
      (4)   Vocational schools.
   (R)   Class 18. The following uses shall be required to provide one parking
space per every four seats provided:
      (1)   Churches, chapels, temples and synagogues;
      (2)   Fairgrounds and exhibition grounds;
      (3)   Racetracks; and
      (4)   Stadiums and auditoriums.
   (S)   Class 19. The following uses shall be required to provide one parking
space per every two and one-half seats provided: Indoor movie theaters.
   (T)   Class 20. The following uses shall be required to provide two parking
spaces per every one employee:
      (1)   Building materials and products; sales and service;
      (2)   Building trades showrooms and shops;
      (3)   Concrete mixing plants;
      (4)   Contractor or construction yards;
      (5)   Landscaping services; and
      (6)   Microwave and radar tower installations.
   (U)   Class 21. The following uses shall be required to provide two parking
spaces per every three employees:
      (1)   All industrial uses not specifically mentioned otherwise;
      (2)   All essential services and public services not specifically
mentioned otherwise; and
      (3)   Warehousing and wholesaling establishments.
   (V)   Class 22. The following uses shall be required to provide 100 parking
spaces per nine holes: Golf courses; public and private.
   (W)   Class 23. The following uses shall be required to provide three spaces
per service bay, plus one space per fueling position, plus four spaces per
1,000 square feet of retail space: Service station, gas station, convenience
store.
   (X)   Class 24. The following uses shall be required to provide three car
holding spaces for each drive in bay: Any retail sales or service use, not
specifically listed herein under drive in bay car holding requirements.
(Ord. 2015-06-01F, passed 6-1-2015)
§ 151.148 TABLE OF LOADING SPACES BY CLASSIFICATION.
   The minimum number of off-street loading spaces required for each use of a
specific parcel of property, shall be determined by reviewing the table below,
identifying the classification group to which each use belongs and performing
the calculation identified for that specific group.
   (A)   Class 1. The following uses shall be required to provide one loading
space for every building containing between 10,000 and 100,000 square feet of
gross floor area, plus one additional loading space per each additional 100,000
square feet of gross floor area or fraction thereof:
      (1)   Amusement and recreational facilities;
      (2)   Banks and other financial institutions;
      (3)   Business and other professional offices;
      (4)   Convention and exhibition halls;
      (5)   Health and medical institutions;
      (6)   Hotels and motels containing retail shops, business or professional
offices, convention or exhibition halls or auditoriums;
      (7)   Public and administrative buildings;
      (8)   Radio and television studios;
      (9)   Recording studios;
      (10)   Theaters, indoor; and
      (11)   Funeral parlors and mortuaries.
   (B)   Class 2. The following uses shall be required to provide one loading
space for every building containing between 10,000 and 20,000 square feet of
gross floor area, plus one additional loading space per each additional 200,000
square feet of gross floor area or fraction thereof:
      (1)   Apartment hotels;
      (2)   Auditoriums;
      (3)   Charitable institutions;
      (4)   Clubs and lodges;
      (5)   Hotels and motels containing no retail shops, business or
professional offices, convention or exhibition halls or auditoriums;
      (6)   Meeting halls;
      (7)   Religious institutions;
      (8)   Multiple-family dwellings;
      (9)   Research and testing institutions; and
      (10)   Schools and educational facilities.
   (C)   Class 3. The following uses shall be required to provide one loading
space for every building containing between 5,000 and 40,000 square feet of
gross floor area, and two loading spaces for every building containing between
40,000 square feet and 100,000 square feet of gross floor area, plus one
additional loading space per each additional 100,000 square feet of gross floor
area or fraction thereof:
      (1)   Assembly, manufacturing and fabricating establishments;
      (2)   Cartage, express and motor freight facilities;
      (3)   Cleaning, repairing, servicing and testing facilities;
      (4)   Laundries and dry cleaning facilities;
      (5)   Mail order businesses; and
      (6)   Printing and publishing establishments.
   (D)   Class 4. For all other uses, including, but not limited to, retail
stores and restaurants and other establishments handling the sale or
consumption of food or beverages on the premises, loading spaces shall be
provided in accordance with the gross floor area:
 
5,000 - 20,000 square feet                                  1 space
20,000 - 60,000 square feet                                 2 spaces
60,000 - 100,000 square feet                                3 spaces
For very additional 100,000 square feet or fraction thereof 1 space
 
SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS FOR SPECIFIC USES
§ 151.164 APPLICABILITY OF SUBCHAPTER.
   This subchapter establishes lot and structure requirements, design standards
and use limitations for specific, potentially troublesome, structures and uses.
These regulations apply in every zoning district where the specific structure
or use is permitted or allowed by special use permit; but if more stringent
regulations are applicable in any particular district, the regulations shall
prevail.
§ 151.165 SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES.
   (A)   Purpose and scope.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish regulations,
standards and procedures for the siting and collocation of small wireless
facilities on rights-of-way within the village's jurisdiction, or outside the
rights-of-way on property zoned by the village exclusively for commercial or
industrial use, in a manner that is consistent with the Small Wireless
Facilities Deployment Act of 2018 (the "Act").
      (2)   Conflicts with other ordinances. This section supersedes all
ordinances or parts of ordinances adopted prior hereto that are in conflict
herewith, to the extent of such conflict.
      (3)   Conflicts with state and federal laws. In the event that applicable
federal or state laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
section, the wireless provider shall comply with the requirements of this
section to the maximum extent possible without violating federal or state laws
or regulations.
   (B)   Definitions. For purposes of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ANTENNA. Communications equipment that transmits or receives
electromagnetic radio frequency signals used in the provision of wireless
services.
      APPLICABLE CODES. Uniform building, fire, electrical, plumbing, or
mechanical codes adopted by a recognized national code organization or local
amendments to those codes, including the National Electric Safety Code.
      APPLICANT. Any person who submits an application and is a wireless
provider.
      APPLICATION. A request submitted by an applicant to the village for a
permit to collocate small wireless facilities, and a request that includes the
installation of a new utility pole for such collocation, as well as any
applicable fee for the review of such application.
      COLLOCATE or COLLOCATION.  To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate,
or replace wireless facilities on or adjacent to a wireless support structure
or utility pole.
      COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. Cable service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 522(6), as
amended; information service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(24),  as amended;
telecommunications service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(53), as amended; mobile
service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(53), as amended; or wireless service other
than mobile service.
      COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER. A cable operator, as defined in 47
U.S.C. 522(5), as amended; a provider of information service, as defined in 47
U.S.C. 153(24), as amended; a telecommunications carrier, as defined in 47
U.S.C. 153(51), as amended; or a wireless provider.
      FCC. The Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
      FEE. A one-time charge.
      HISTORIC DISTRICT or HISTORIC LANDMARK. A building, property, or site, or
group of buildings, properties, or sites that are either:
         (a)   Listed in the National Register of Historic Places or formally
determined eligible for listing by the Keeper of the National Register, the
individual who has been delegated the authority by the federal agency to list
properties and determine their eligibility for the National Register, in
accordance with Section VI.D.1.a.i through Section VI.D.1.a.v of the Nationwide
Programmatic Agreement codified at 47 CFR Part 1, Appendix C; or
         (b)   Designated as a locally landmarked building, property, site, or
historic district by an ordinance adopted by the village pursuant to a
preservation program that meets the requirements of the Certified Local
Government Program of the Illinois State Historic Preservation Office or where
such certification of the preservation program by the Illinois State Historic
Preservation Office is pending.
      LAW. A federal or state statute, common law, code, rule, regulation,
order, or local ordinance or resolution.
      MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY. A small wireless facility that is not larger in
dimension than 24  inches in length, 15 inches in width, and 12 inches in
height and that has an exterior antenna, if any, no longer than 11 inches.
      MUNICIPAL UTILITY POLE. A utility pole owned or operated by the village
in public rights-of-way.
      PERMIT.  A written authorization required by the village to perform an
action or initiate, continue, or complete a project.
      PERSON. An individual, corporation, limited liability company,
partnership, association, trust, or other entity or organization.
      PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY. The functional division of the federal government,
the state, a unit of local government, or a special purpose district located in
whole or in part within this state, that provides or has authority to provide
firefighting, police, ambulance, medical, or other emergency services to
respond to and manage emergency incidents.
      RATE. A recurring charge.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway,
street, public sidewalk, alley, or utility easement dedicated for compatible
use. RIGHT-OF-WAY does not include village-owned aerial lines.
      SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY. A wireless facility that meets both of the
following qualifications:
         (a)   Each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than six
cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed elements,
the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within an imaginary
enclosure of no more than six cubic feet; and
         (b)   All other wireless equipment attached directly to a utility pole
associated with the facility is cumulatively no more than 25 cubic feet in
volume. The following types of associated ancillary equipment are not included
in the calculation of equipment volume: electric meter, concealment elements,
telecommunications demarcation box, ground-based enclosures, grounding
equipment, power transfer switch, cut-off switch, and vertical cable runs for
the connection of power and other services.
      UTILITY POLE. A pole or similar structure that is used in whole or in
part by a communications service provider or for electric distribution,
lighting, traffic control, or a similar function.
      WIRELESS FACILITY.
         (a)   Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless
communications between user equipment and a communications network, including:
            1.   Equipment associated with wireless communications; and
            2.   Radio transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable,
regular and backup power supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of
technological configuration.
         (b)   WIRELESS FACILITY includes small wireless facilities.
         (c)   WIRELESS FACILITY does not include:
            1.   The structure or improvements on, under, or within which the
equipment is collocated; or
            2.   Wireline backhaul facilities, coaxial or fiber optic cable
that is between wireless support structures or utility poles or coaxial, or
fiber optic cable that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to or directly
associated with an antenna.
      WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER. Any person authorized to provide
telecommunications service in the state that builds or installs wireless
communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities, wireless support
structures, or utility poles and that is not a wireless services provider but
is acting as an agent or a contractor for a wireless services provider for the
application submitted to the village.
      WIRELESS PROVIDER. A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless
services provider.
      WIRELESS SERVICES. Any services provided to the general public, including
a particular class of customers, and made available on a nondiscriminatory
basis using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, whether at a fixed location or
mobile, provided using wireless facilities.
      WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER.  A person who provides wireless services.
      WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A freestanding structure, such as a monopole;
tower, either guyed or self-supporting; billboard; or other existing or
proposed structure designed to support or capable of supporting wireless
facilities. WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE does not include a utility pole.
   (C)   Regulation of small wireless facility.
      (1)   Permitted use. Small wireless facilities shall be classified as
permitted uses and subject to administrative review, except as provided in
division (C)(3)(h) below, but not subject to zoning review or approval if they
are collocated:
         (a)   In rights-of-way in any zoning district; or
         (b)   Outside rights-of-way in property zoned exclusively for
commercial or industrial use.
      (2)   Permit required. An applicant shall obtain one or more permits from
the village to collocate a small wireless facility. An application shall be
received and processed, and permits issued shall be subject to the following
conditions and requirements.
         (a)   Application requirements. Applicant shall complete the village's
Small Cell Facilities Permit Application, which shall be in a form approved by
the Village Administrator and the Village Attorney. A wireless provider shall
provide the following information to the village, together with the village's
Small Cell Facilities Permit Application, as a condition of any permit
application to collocate small wireless facilities on a utility pole or
wireless support structure:
            1.   Site specific structural integrity and, for a municipal
utility pole, make-ready analysis prepared by a structural engineer, as that
term is defined in Section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of
1989;
            2.   The location where each proposed small wireless facility or
utility pole would be installed and photographs of the location and its
immediate surroundings depicting the utility poles or structures on which each
proposed small wireless facility would be mounted or location where utility
poles or structures would be installed. This should include a depiction of the
completed facility;
            3.    Specifications and drawings prepared by a structural
engineer, as that term is defined in Section 4 of the Structural Engineering
Practice Act of 1989, for each proposed small wireless facility covered by the
application as it is proposed to be installed;
            4.   The equipment type and model numbers for the antennas and all
other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility;
            5.   A proposed schedule for the installation and completion of
each small wireless facility covered by the application, if approved; and
            6.    Certification that the collocation complies with the
collocation requirements and conditions contained herein, to the best of the
applicant's knowledge.
            7.   In the event that the proposed small wireless facility is to
be attached to an existing pole owned by an entity other than the village, the
wireless provider shall provide legally competent evidence of the consent of
the owner of such pole to the proposed collocation.
         (b)   Application process. The village shall process applications as
follows:
            1.   The first completed application shall have priority over
applications received by different applicants for collocation on the same
utility pole or wireless support structure.
            2.   a.   An application to collocate a small wireless facility on
an existing utility pole or wireless support structure, or replacement of an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and may be deemed approved if the village fails to
approve or deny the application within 90 days after the submission of a
completed application.
               b.    However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the
permitted activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the
village in writing of its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no
sooner than 75 days after the submission of a completed application.
               c.   The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the
ninetieth day after submission of the complete application or the tenth day
after the receipt of the deemed approved notice by the village. The receipt of
the deemed approved notice shall not preclude the village's denial of the
permit request within the time limits as provided under this section.
            3.   a.   An application to collocate a small wireless facility
that includes the installation of a new utility pole shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and may be deemed approved if the village fails to
approve or deny the application within 120 days after the submission of a
completed application.
               b.    However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the
permitted activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the
village in writing of its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no
sooner than 105 days after the submission of a completed application.
               c.   The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the
one hundred twentieth day after submission of the complete application or the
tenth day after the receipt of the deemed approved notice by the village. The
receipt of the deemed approved notice shall not preclude the village's denial
of the permit request within the time limits as provided under this section.
               d.   If the wireless service provider submits an application for
a new utility pole, the village proposes an alternate placement on an existing
utility pole or existing wireless support structure within 100 feet of the
proposed collocation, and the wireless service provider fails to provide,
within 15 days, the written certification describing why the proposed location
does not satisfy the criteria in the collocation requirements and conditions
set forth in division (C)(3) below, the village may deem the application
incomplete or deny the application.
            4.   The village shall deny an application which does not meet the
requirements of this section.
               a.   If the village determines that applicable codes, ordinances
or regulations that concern public safety, or the collocation requirements and
conditions contained herein require that the utility pole or wireless support
structure be replaced before the requested collocation, approval shall be
conditioned on the replacement of the utility pole or wireless support
structure at the cost of the provider.
               b.   If the application is denied by the village, the village
shall document the basis for a denial, including the specific code provisions
or application conditions on which the denial is based, and send the
documentation to the applicant on or before the day the village denies an
application.
               c.   The applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by the
village and resubmit the revised application once within 30 days after notice
of denial is sent to the applicant without paying an additional application
fee. The village shall approve or deny the revised application within 30 days
after the applicant resubmits the application or it is deemed approved. Failure
to resubmit the revised application within 30 days of denial shall require the
application to submit a new application with applicable fees, and
recommencement of the village's review period.
               d.   The applicant must notify the village in writing of its
intention to proceed with the permitted activity on a deemed approved basis,
which may be submitted with the revised application.
               e.   Any review of a revised application shall be limited to the
deficiencies cited in the denial. However, this revised application does not
apply if the cure requires the review of a new location, new or different
structure to be collocated upon, new antennas, or other wireless equipment
associated with the small wireless facility.
            5.   Pole attachment agreement. Within 30 days after an approved
permit to collocate a small wireless facility on a municipal utility pole, the
village and the applicant shall enter into a Master Pole Attachment Agreement,
provided by the village for the initial collocation on a municipal utility pole
by the application. For subsequent approved permits to collocate on a small
wireless facility on a municipal utility pole, the village and the applicant
shall enter into a License Supplement of the Master Pole Attachment Agreement.
The Master Pole Attachment Agreement and any License Supplement shall be in a
form approved by the Village Administrator and the Village Attorney.
         (c)   Completeness of application. 
            1.   Within 30 days after receiving an application, the village
shall determine whether the application is complete and notify the applicant.
If an application is incomplete, the village must specifically identify the
missing information. An application shall be deemed complete if the village
fails to provide notification to the applicant within 30 days after all
documents, information and fees specifically enumerated in the village's permit
application form are submitted by the applicant to the village.
            2.   Processing deadlines are tolled from the time the village
sends the notice of incompleteness to the time the applicant provides the
missing information, or from the time that the village sends the notice
proposing an alternate placement on an existing utility pole or existing
wireless support structure within 100 feet of the proposed collocation.
         (d)   Tolling. The time period for applications may be further tolled
by:
            1.   An express written agreement by both the applicant and the
village; or
            2.   A local, state or federal disaster declaration or similar
emergency that causes the delay.
         (e)   Consolidated applications.
            1.   An applicant seeking to collocate small wireless facilities
within the jurisdiction of the village shall be allowed, at the applicant's
discretion, to file a consolidated application and receive a single permit for
the collocation of up to 25 small wireless facilities if the collocations each
involve substantially the same type of small wireless facility and
substantially the same type of structure.
            2.   If an application includes multiple small wireless facilities,
the village may remove small wireless facility collocations from the
application and treat separately small wireless facility collocations for which
incomplete information has been provided or that do not qualify for
consolidated treatment or that are denied. The village may issue separate
permits for each collocation that is approved in a consolidated application.
         (f)   Duration of permits.
            1.   The duration of a permit shall be for a period of five years,
and the permit shall be renewed for equivalent durations unless the village
makes a finding that the small wireless facilities or the new or modified
utility pole do not comply with the applicable village codes or any provision,
condition or requirement contained in this section.
            2.   If the Act is repealed, renewals of permits shall be subject
to the applicable Village Code provisions or regulations in effect at the time
of renewal; provided, however, that the permits shall not automatically renew.
         (g)   Means of submitting applications. Applicants shall submit
applications, supporting information and notices to the Village Clerk by
personal delivery at the village's designated place of business, by regular
mail, or certified mail, postmarked on the date due or by electronic mail. Any
application submitted will not be considered submitted until the required
application fee is received by the Village Clerk.
      (3)   Collocation requirements and conditions.
         (a)   Public safety space reservation. The village may reserve space
on municipal utility poles for future public safety uses, for the village's
electric utility uses, or both, but a reservation of space may not preclude the
collocation of a small wireless facility unless the village reasonably
determines that the municipal utility pole cannot accommodate both uses.
         (b)   Installation and maintenance. The wireless provider shall
install, maintain, repair and modify its small wireless facilities in safe
condition and good repair and in compliance with the requirements and
conditions of this section. The wireless provider shall ensure that its
employees, agents or contractors that perform work in connection with its small
wireless facilities are adequately trained and skilled in accordance with all
applicable industry and governmental standards and regulations.
         (c)   No interference with public safety communication frequencies.
            1.   The wireless provider's operation of the small wireless
facilities shall not interfere with the frequencies used by a public safety
agency for public safety communications.
            2.   A wireless provider shall install small wireless facilities of
the type and frequency that will not cause unacceptable interference with a
public safety agency's communications equipment.
            3.    Unacceptable interference will be determined by and measured
in accordance with industry standards and the FCC's regulations addressing
unacceptable interference to public safety spectrum or any other spectrum
licensed by a public safety agency.
            4.   If a small wireless facility causes such interference, and the
wireless provider has been given written notice of the interference by the
public safety agency, the wireless provider, at its own expense, shall remedy
the interference in a manner consistent with the abatement and resolution
procedures for interference with public safety spectrum established by the FCC
including 47 CFR 22.970 through 47 CFR 22.973 and 47 CFR 90.672 through 47 CFR
90.675.
            5.   The village may terminate a permit for a small wireless
facility based on such interference if the wireless provider is not in
compliance with the Code of Federal Regulations cited in the previous division.
Failure to remedy the interference as required herein shall constitute a public
nuisance.
         (d)   1.   The wireless provider shall not collocate small wireless
facilities on village utility poles that are part of an electric distribution
or transmission system within the communication worker safety zone of the pole
or the electric supply zone of the pole. However, the antenna and support
equipment of the small wireless facility may be located in the communications
space on the village utility pole and on the top of the pole, if not otherwise
unavailable, if the wireless provider complies with applicable codes for work
involving the top of the pole.
            2.   For purposes of this division, the terms COMMUNICATIONS SPACE,
COMMUNICATION WORKER SAFETY ZONE, and ELECTRIC SUPPLY ZONE have the meanings
given to those terms in the National Electric Safety Code as published by the
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
         (e)   The wireless provider shall comply with all applicable codes and
local code provisions or regulations that concern public safety.
         (f)   The wireless provider shall comply with any and all written
design standards that are in effect, or may in the future be in effect, for
decorative utility poles, or reasonable stealth, concealment and aesthetic
requirements that are set forth in a village ordinance, written policy adopted
by the village, a comprehensive plan or other written design plan that applies
to other occupiers of the rights-of-way, including on a historic landmark or in
a historic district.
         (g)   Alternate placements.
            1.   Except as provided in this division (C), a wireless provider
shall not be required to collocate small wireless facilities on any specific
utility pole, or category of utility poles, or be required to collocate
multiple antenna systems on a single utility pole. However, with respect to an
application for the collocation of a small wireless facility associated with a
new utility pole, the village may propose that the small wireless facility be
collocated on an existing utility pole or existing wireless support structure
within 100 feet of the proposed collocation, which the applicant shall accept
if it has the right to use the alternate structure on reasonable terms and
conditions, and the alternate location and structure does not impose technical
limits or additional material costs as determined by the applicant.
            2.   If the applicant refuses a collocation proposed by the
village, the applicant shall, within 15 days, provide written certification
describing the property rights, technical limits or material cost reasons the
alternate location does not satisfy the criteria in this division.
         (h)   Height limitations.
            1.   The maximum height of a small wireless facility shall be no
more than 10 feet above the utility pole or wireless support structure on which
the small wireless facility is collocated.
            2.   New or replacement utility poles or wireless support
structures on which small wireless facilities are collocated may not exceed the
higher of:
               a.   Ten feet in height above the tallest existing utility pole,
other than a utility pole supporting only wireless facilities, that is in place
on the date the application is submitted to the village, that is located within
300 feet of the new or replacement utility pole or wireless support structure
and that is in the same right-of-way within the jurisdictional boundary of the
village, provided the village may designate which intersecting right-of-way
within 300 feet of the proposed utility pole or wireless support structures
shall control the height limitation for such facility; or
            3.   Forty-five feet above ground level.
         (i)   Contractual design requirements. The wireless provider shall
comply with requirements that are imposed by any contract between the village
and a private property owner that concerns design or construction standards
applicable to utility poles and ground-mounted equipment located in the right-
of-way.
         (j)   Ground-mounted equipment spacing. No ground-mounted equipment
desires to be installed by a wireless service provider shall be collocated
within 300 feet of any other ground-mounted equipment owned or operated by the
same wireless service provider. In addition, the wireless provider shall comply
with all spacing requirements in applicable codes and ordinances concerning the
location of ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way, which shall
include, but not be limited to the following:
            1.   No interference with village Facilities. No facilities shall
be placed in any location if the Village Engineer or village Public Works
Commissioner determines that the proposed location will require the relocation
or displacement of any of the village's utility facilities or will otherwise
interfere with the operation or maintenance of any of the village's utility
facilities.
            2.   Minimum interference and impact. The proposed collocation
shall cause only the minimum possible interference with the use of the right-
of-way and shall cause only the minimum possible impact upon, and interference
with the rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin said
right-of-way.
            3.   No interference with travel. No facility shall be placed in
any location that interferes with the usual travel on such right-of-way.
            4.   No limitations on visibility. No facility shall be placed in
any location so as to limit visibility of or by users of the right-of-way.
            5.   Size of utility facilities. Notwithstanding the maximum size
requirement contained in this section, the proposed installation or collocation
shall use the smallest suitable vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures, power
pedestals, and/or cabinets then in use by the wireless service provider,
regardless of location, for the particular application.
         (k)   Undergrounding regulations. No new utility poles, equipment,
and/or appurtenances may be installed, and no existing utility poles may be
modified, in a manner that results in such poles, equipment or appurtenances to
be installed above ground unless:
            1.   There exists other utility poles in the area that are located
above ground;
            2.   New underground installation is not technically feasible; and
            3.   The proposed installation will be made at a location, and will
employ suitable design and materials, to provide the greatest protection of
aesthetic qualities of the area being traversed without adversely affecting
safety.
         (l)   Variances of collocation requirements. If an applicant proposes
a height for a new or replacement pole in excess of the above height
limitations, the spacing requirements concerning the location of ground-mounted
equipment, or the undergrounding requirements that prohibit the installation of
new or the modification of existing utility poles, equipment or appurtenances
in a right-of-way, the applicant shall apply for a variance in conformance with
the procedures, terms and conditions set forth in §§
151.365 through
151.369, inclusive, of this Code of Ordinances.
         (m)   Collocation completion deadline. Collocation for which a permit
is granted shall be completed within 180 days after issuance of the permit,
unless the village and the wireless provider agree to extend this period or a
delay is caused by make-ready work for a municipal utility pole or by the lack
of commercial power or backhaul availability at the site, provided the wireless
provider has made a timely request within 60 days after the issuance of the
permit for commercial power or backhaul services, and the additional time to
complete installation does not exceed 360 days after issuance of the permit.
Otherwise, the permit shall be void unless the village grants an extension in
writing to the applicant.
      (4)   Application fees. Application fees are imposed as follows:
         (a)   Applicant shall pay an application fee of $650 for an
application to collocate a single small wireless facility on an existing
utility pole or wireless support structure, and $350 for each small wireless
facility addressed in a consolidated application to collocate more than one
small wireless facility on existing utility poles or wireless support
structures.
         (b)   Applicant shall pay an application fee of $1,000 for each small
wireless facility addressed in an application that includes the installation of
a new utility pole for such collocation.
         (c)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of state law or local
ordinance, applications pursuant to this section shall be accompanied by the
required application fee. Application fees shall be non-refundable.
         (d)   The village shall not require an application, approval or
permit, or require any fees or other charges, from a communications service
provider authorized to occupy the rights-of-way, for:
            1.   Routine maintenance;
            2.   The replacement of wireless facilities with wireless
facilities that are substantially similar, the same size, or smaller if the
wireless provider notifies the village at least ten days prior to the planned
replacement and includes equipment specifications for the replacement of
equipment consistent with application requirements under division (C)(2)(a)
above; or
            3.   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation or
replacement of micro wireless facilities suspended on cables that are strung
between existing utility poles in compliance with applicable safety codes.
         (e)   Wireless providers shall secure a permit from the village to
work within rights-of-way for activities that affect traffic patterns or
require lane closures.
      (5)   Exceptions to applicability. Nothing in this section authorizes a
person to collocate small wireless facilities on:
         (a)   Property owned by a private party or property owned or
controlled by the village or another unit of local government that is not
located within rights-of-way, or a privately owned utility pole or wireless
support structure without the consent of the property owner;
         (b)   Property owned, leased, or controlled by a park district, forest
preserve district, or conservation district for public park, recreation or
conservation purposes without the consent of the affected district, excluding
the placement of facilities on rights-of-way located in an affected district
that are under the jurisdiction and control of a different unit of local
government as provided by the Illinois Highway Code; or
         (c)   1.   Property owned by a rail carrier registered under Illinois
Vehicle Code, ILCS Ch. 625, Act 18C, § 7201, Metra Commuter Rail or any other
public commuter rail service, or an electric utility as defined in the Public
Utilities Act, ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 16-102, without the consent of the rail
carrier, public commuter rail service, or electric utility. The provisions of
this section do not apply to an electric or gas public utility or such
utility's wireless facilities if the facilities are being used, developed and
maintained consistent with the provisions of the Public Utilities Act,ILCS Ch.
220, Act 5, § 16- 108.5(i).
            2.   For the purposes of this subsection, PUBLIC UTILITY has the
meaning given to that term in the Public Utilities Act, ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, §
3-105. Nothing in this section shall be construed to relieve any person from
any requirement:
               a.   To obtain a franchise or a state-issued authorization to
offer cable service or video service; or
               b.   To obtain any required permission to install, place,
maintain, or operate communications facilities, other than small wireless
facilities subject to this section.
      (6)   Annual recurring rate.
         a.   A wireless provider shall pay to the village an annual recurring
rate to collocate a small wireless facility on a village utility pole located
in a right-of-way that equals the greater of:
            1.   $200 per year; or
            2.   The actual, direct and reasonable costs related to the
wireless provider's use of space on the village utility pole.
         b.   If the village has not billed the wireless provider actual and
direct costs, the fee shall be $200 payable on the first day after the first
annual anniversary of the issuance of the permit or notice of intent to
collocate, and on each annual anniversary date thereafter.
      (7)   Abandonment.
         a.   A small wireless facility that is not operated for a continuous
period of 12 months shall be considered abandoned. The village may send written
inquiry to the wireless service provider inquiring whether any small wireless
facility is in operation and, if it is not in operation, inquire of the last
date upon which the small wireless facility was in operation. If the wireless
service provider fails to respond to the village's written inquiry within 90
days from the receipt of the written inquiry, the village may deem that such
small wireless facility has not operated for a continuous period of 12 months.
The owner of the facility shall remove the small wireless facility within 90
days after receipt of written notice from the village notifying the wireless
provider of the abandonment.
         b.   Any notice shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return
receipt requested, by the village to the owner at the last known address of the
wireless provider. If the small wireless facility is not removed within 90 days
of such notice, the village may remove or cause the removal of such facility
pursuant to the terms of its pole attachment agreement for municipal utility
poles or through whatever actions are provided for abatement of nuisances or by
other law for removal and cost recovery.
         c.   A wireless provider shall provide written notice to the village
if it sells or transfers small wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of
the village. Such notice shall include the name and contact information of the
new wireless provider.
   (D)   Dispute resolution. The Circuit Court of St. Clair County, Illinois
shall have exclusive jurisdiction to resolve all disputes arising under this
section and the Act. Pending resolution of a dispute concerning rates for
collocation of small wireless facilities on municipal utility poles within the
right-of-way, the village shall allow the collocating person to collocate on
its poles at annual rates of no more than $200 per year per municipal utility
pole, with rates to be determined upon final resolution of the dispute.
   (E)   Indemnification. A wireless provider shall indemnify and hold the
village harmless against any and all liability or loss from personal injury or
property damage resulting from or arising out of, in whole or in part, the use
or occupancy of the village improvements or right-of-way associated with such
improvements by the wireless provider or its employees, agents, or contractors
arising out of the rights and privileges granted under this section and the
Act. A wireless provider has no obligation to indemnify or hold harmless
against any liabilities and losses as may be due to or caused by the sole
negligence of the village or its employees or agents. A wireless provider shall
further waive any claims that they may have against the village with respect to
consequential, incidental, or special damages, however caused, based on the
theory of liability.
   (F)   Insurance.
      (1)   The wireless provider shall carry, at the wireless provider's own
cost and expense, the following insurance:
         (a)   Property insurance for its property's replacement cost against
all risks;
         (b)   Workers' compensation insurance, as required by law; and
         (c)   Commercial general liability insurance, in amount not less than
$1,000,000 per occurrence and $2,000,000 in the aggregate, with respect to its
activities on the village improvements or rights-of-way to afford minimum
protection limits consistent with its requirements of other users of village
improvements or rights-of-way, including coverage for bodily injury and
property damage.
      (2)   The wireless provider shall include the village as an additional
insured on the commercial general liability policy and provide certification
and documentation of inclusion of the village in a commercial general liability
policy prior to the collocation of any wireless facility.
      (3)   A wireless provider may self-insure all or a portion of the
insurance coverage and limit requirement required by the village. A wireless
provider that self-insures is not required, to the extent of the self-
insurance, to comply with the requirement for the name of additional insureds
under this section. A wireless provider that elects to self-insure shall
provide to the village evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability
to self-insure the insurance coverage limits required by the village.
(Ord. 2018-07-23A, passed 7-23-2018)
§ 151.166 COMMERCIAL COMMUNICATION TOWERS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ANTENNA. Any device that transmits and/or receives radio waves for voice,
data or video communications purposes including, but not limited to,
television, AM/FM radio, microwave, cellular  telephone and similar forms of
communications. The term shall exclude satellite earth station antennas less
than two meters in diameter (mounted within 12 feet of the ground or building-
mounted) and any receive-only home television antennas.
      AGL, ABOVE GROUND LEVEL. Ground level shall be determined by the average
elevation of the natural ground level within a radius of 50 feet from the
center location of measurement.
      CABINET. A structure for the protection and security of communications
equipment associated with one or more antennas where direct access to equipment
is provided from the exterior and that has horizontal dimensions that do not
exceed four feet by six feet, and vertical height that does not exceed six
feet.
      DISGUISED SUPPORT STRUCTURE. Any free-standing, human-made structure
designed for the support of antennas, the presence of which is camouflaged or
concealed as an appropriately-placed architectural or natural feature.
Depending on the location and type of disguise used, the concealment may
require placement underground of the utilities leading to the structure. Such
structures may include, but are not limited to, clock towers, campaniles,
observation towers, light standards, flag poles and artificial trees.
      FAA. The Federal Aviation Administration.
      FCC. The Federal Communications Commission.
      HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the average grade of the base
of the structure at ground level to its highest point and including the main
structure and all attachments thereto.
      INCIDENTAL USE. Any use authorized herein that exists in addition to the
principal use of the property.
      MODIFICATION. Any addition, deletion or change, including the addition or
replacement of antennas, or any change to a structure requiring a building
permit or other governmental approval.
      SHELTER. A building for the protection and security of communications
equipment associated with one or more antennas and where access to equipment is
gained from the interior of the building. Human occupancy for office or other
uses or the storage of other materials and equipment not in direct support of
the connected antennas is prohibited.
      SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A tower or disguised support structure.
      TOWER. A structure designed for the support of one or more antennas and
including guyed towers, self-supporting (lattice) towers or monopoles but not
disguised support structures or buildings. The term shall also include any
support structure including attachments of 65 feet or less in height, owned and
operated solely for use by an amateur radio operator licensed by the Federal
Communication Commission.
   (B)   General requirements. The requirements set forth in this section shall
be applicable to all towers, antennas and other support structures installed,
built or modified after the effective date of this section to the full extent
permitted by law.
      (1)   Principal or incidental use. Antennas and support structures are
special uses in NU, I-1, B-3 and B-4 Zone Districts subject to any applicable
district requirement relating to yard or setback or 20% of tower height setback
whichever is greater.
      (2)   Building codes, safety standards and zoning compliance. To ensure
the structural integrity of antenna support structures, the owner shall see
that it is constructed and maintained in compliance with all standards
contained in applicable state and local building codes and the applicable
standards published by the Electronics Industries Association, as amended from
time to time. In addition to any other approvals required by this section, no
antenna, tower or support structure shall be erected prior to receipt of a
certificate of zoning compliance and the issuance of a building permit.
      (3)   Regulatory compliance. All antennas and support structures shall
meet or exceed current standards and regulations of the FAA, FCC and any other
state or federal agency with the authority to regulate communications antennas
and support structures. Should such standards or regulations be amended, then
the owner shall bring the devices and structure into compliance with the
revised standards or regulations within the time period mandated by the
controlling agency. No approval for any placement, construction or modification
of any antenna or structure permitted by this section shall be granted for any
applicant having an uncured violation of this section or any other governmental
regulatory requirement related to the antenna or structures within the village.
      (4)   Security. All antennas and support structures shall be protected
from unauthorized access by appropriate security measures. A description of
proposed security measures shall be provided as part of any application to
install, build or modify antennas or support structures. Additional measures
may be required as a condition of the issuance of a building permit or
administrative permit as deemed necessary by the village staff or by the Zoning
Board of Appeals in the case of a special use permit.
      (5)   Lighting. Antennas and support structures shall not be lighted
unless required by the FAA or other state or federal agency with authority to
regulate, in which case a description of the required lighting scheme will be
made a part of the application to install, build or modify the antennas or
support structure. Equipment cabinets and shelters may have lighting only as
approved by the Village Board.
      (6)   Advertising. Except for a disguised antenna support structure in
the form of an otherwise lawfully permitted pylon sign, the placement of
advertising on structure regulated by this section is prohibited.
      (7)   Design.
         (a)   Subject to the requirements of the FAA or any applicable state
or federal agency, towers shall be painted a color consistent with the natural
or built environment of the site.
         (b)   Equipment shelters or cabinets shall have an exterior finish
compatible with the natural or built environment of the site and shall also
comply with any design guidelines as may be applicable to the particular zoning
district in which the facility is located.
         (c)   Towers shall not exceed the height limitation of any airport
overlay zone as may be adopted by the village.
         (d)   Antennas attached to a building or disguised antennas support
structured shall be of a color identical to or closely compatible with the
surface to which they are mounted.
         (e)   All towers shall be surrounded by a minimum ten-foot high
security fence enclosure. For requirements of towers and equipment screening in
other than industrial zone districts, see division (D) hereof.
         (f)   An alternative means of screening may be approved by the Village
Board, upon demonstration by the applicant that an equivalent degree of visual
screening will be achieved.
         (g)   All towers, disguised support structures and related structures,
fences and walls shall be separated from the property zoned for a residential
use or public building at least a distance equal to one-third the height of the
tower.
         (h)   Vehicle or outdoor storage on any tower site is prohibited,
unless otherwise permitted by the zoning.
         (i)   On-site parking for periodic maintenance and service shall be
provided at all antenna or tower locations consistent with the underlying
zoning district.
         (j)   Shared use.
            1.   Existing towers. Prior to the issuance of any permit to alter
or modify any tower existing on the effective date of this chapter, the owner
shall provide to the village a written and notarized agreement committing to
make the tower available for use by others subject to reasonable technical
limitations and reasonable financial terms. The willful and knowing failure of
a tower owner to agree to shared use or to negotiate in good faith with
potential users shall be unlawful and shall, among other remedies of the
village, be cause for the withholding of future permits to the same owner to
install, build or modify antennas or towers within the village.
            2.   Tower inventories. Prior to the issuance of any permit to
install, build or modify any tower, the tower owner shall furnish the village
staff an inventory of all of the towers in or within one and one-half miles of
the village limits. The inventory shall include the tower's reference name or
number, the street location, latitude and longitude, structure type, height,
type and mounting height of existing antennas and an assessment of available
ground space for the placement of additional equipment shelters. Upon being
modified, any such tower shall be placed on the Multi-Use Interest Area Map for
required collocation.
            3.   Shared use rewired; new towers. Any new tower approved at a
height of 60 feet AGL (above ground level) or higher shall be designed and
constructed to accommodate at least one additional user unless a larger number
is indicated by the response to the notification provisions herein. A written
agreement committing to shared use as required shall be submitted by the tower
applicant. The willful and knowing failure of the owner of a tower built for
shared use to negotiate in good faith with potential users shall be unlawful
and shall be a violation of this section and, among other remedies of the
village, shall be cause for the withholding of future permits to the same owner
to install, build or modify antennas or towers within the village.
            4.   Notice of tower applications. Prior to any application for the
construction of a new tower or disguised support structure, a copy of the
application or a summary containing the height, design, location and type and
frequency of antennas shall be delivered by certified mail to all known
potential tower users as identified by a schedule maintained by the FCC. Proof
of the delivery shall be submitted with the application to the village. The
village staff may establish a form required to be used for the notifications.
Upon request, the village staff shall place on a list the name and address of
any user of towers or prospective users to receive notification of
applications. The village staff shall, before deciding on the application or
forwarding it to the Village Board for consideration, allow all persons
receiving notice at least ten business days to respond to the village applicant
that the party receiving notice be permitted to share the proposed tower or
locate within one mile of the area. The failure of the receiving party to use
this process or respond to any such notice shall be considered cause for
denying requests by the party for new towers or structures.
            5.   Appeal of shared use violations. Any party seeking shared use
of a tower subject to this provision shall after responding to notice of an
application, negotiate with the applicant for the use. The applicant may on a
legitimate and reasonable business basis choose between multiple requests for
shared use on the same tower or structure and may reject any request where
legitimate technical obstacles cannot be reasonably overcome or where the party
requesting shared use will not agree to reasonable financial terms. Any party
believing that the applicant has breached its duty to negotiate in good faith
for shared use shall immediately notify the applicant and the village staff in
writing. A notice of breach of duty shall explain the precise basis for the
claim and shall be accompanied by payment of an administrative review fee of
$500 to the village to offset the cost of review. After the applicant's receipt
of the notice, the applicant shall have ten calendar days to provide a written
submission to the village staff responding to the alleged violation of the
shared use requirement. If deemed necessary by the village staff, he or she may
engage, at the cost of the party alleging the violation, a neutral, qualified
technical consultant to provide an opinion on feasibility or cost of the shared
use request. If the village staff receives a notice alleging a violation of the
shared use requirement, the time for a decision on an administrative permit is
automatically extended for up to 30 days until the village staff has determined
that the applicant has complied. An application for special use permit shall
not be deemed complete for acceptance until a decision on compliance is
reached.
   (C)   Use. The placement of antenna and towers are special uses in NU, I-1,
B-3 and B-4 Districts only.
   (D)   Authorization by administrative permit. The placement of antenna and
towers are special use in the Zone Districts indicated in §
151.046, however, the following may be permitted without a special use with
Village Board approval.
      (1)   The attachment of additional antennas or shelters to any tower
existing on the effective date of this section or subsequently approved in
accordance with these regulations and requiring the enlargement of the existing
tower compound area as long as all other requirements of this section and the
underlying zoning district are met.
         (a)   The attachment of additional or replacement of antennas or
shelters to any tower existing on the effective date of this section or
subsequently approved in accordance with these regulations; provided that,
additional equipment shelters or cabinets are located within the existing tower
compound area;
         (b)   The mounting of antennas on any existing building or structure,
such as a water tower; provided that, the presence of the antennas is concealed
by architectural elements or fully camouflaged by painting a color identical
surface to which they are attached; and
         (c)   The installation of antennas or the construction of a tower or
support structure on buildings or land owned by the village following the
approval of a lease agreement by the Village Board.
      (2)   The one-time replacement of any tower existing on the effective
date of this section or subsequently approved in accordance with these
regulations so long as the purpose of the replacement is to accommodate shared
use of the site or to eliminate a safety hazard. The new tower shall be of the
same type as the original except that a guyed or self-supporting (lattice)
tower may be replaced by a monopole. If the guyed or lattice tower to be
replaced is 180 feet or less in height, it shall only be replaced with a
monopole. The height of the new tower may exceed that of the original by not
more than 20 feet with FAA approval. Subsequent replacements shall require the
approval of a special use permit and FAA approval.
      (3)   The construction of a disguised support structure provided that all
related equipment shall be placed underground or concealed within the structure
when the structure is located in any district other than a district authorizing
industrial uses. Equipment may be placed in a screened* cabinet if the
disguised support structure is incidental to an industrial, commercial,
institutional or other non-residential use. *Screening in this provision means
to be completely enclosed by a wall, a solid fence or closely-planted
shrubbery, at least ten feet in height and of sufficient density to block the
view.
      (4)   Towers erected and maintained for a period not to exceed 45 days
for the purpose of replacing an existing tower, testing an existing or proposed
network or special events requiring mobile towers.
   (E)   Special use permit required. All proposals to install, build or modify
an antenna or support structure not covered under division (D) hereof shall
require the approval of special use permit following a duly advertised public
hearing by the Village Board, subject to the forthcoming limitations.
      (1)   Applications for special use permits shall be filed and processed
subject to the requirements of and in the manner and time frame as herein
established. A decision by the Village Board shall be accompanied by
substantial evidence supporting the decision, which shall be made a part of the
written record of the meeting at which a final decision on the application is
rendered. Evidence shall be under oath and may be submitted with the
application or thereafter or presented during the public hearing by the
applicant or others. The applicant/petitioner must submit, with the special use
petition, the document issued by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)
indicating a "determination of no hazard to air navigation".
      (2)   No special use permit shall be issued unless the applicant has
clearly demonstrated by substantial evidence that placement of an antenna on an
existing support structure is not technologically or economically feasible. The
Village Board may consider current or emerging industry standards and
practices, among other information, in determining feasibility.
      (3)   In addition to the determinations or limitations specified herein,
the Village Board shall also base its decision upon, and shall make findings as
to, the existence of the following conditions:
         (a)   No existing towers, structures or buildings within the necessary
geographic area for the applicant's tower meet the applicant's necessary
engineering requirements considering:
            1.   Height;
            2.   Structural strength;
            3.   Resulting signal interference;
            4.   Feasibility of retrofitting;
            5.   Feasibility of redesigning the applicant's tower network; or
            6.   Other limiting conditions that render towers, structures or
buildings within the applicant's area unsuitable.
         (b)   The design of the tower or structure, including the antennas,
shelter and ground layout maximally reduces visual degradation and otherwise
complies with provisions and intent of this section. New towers shall be of a
monopole design, unless it is shown that an alternative design would equally or
better satisfy this provision.
         (c)   The proposal minimizes the number and/or size of towers or
structures that will be required in the area.
         (d)   The applicant has not previously failed to take advantage of
reasonably available shared use opportunities or procedures provided by this
chapter or otherwise.
         (e)   No land owned by any agency of the federal or state government,
or by any political subdivision of the state, is available for locating the
structure or tower. If any one, but not more than one, of the determinations is
not satisfied, approval may be granted only on a finding of unique
circumstances otherwise necessitating approval to satisfy the purposes of this
section.
      (4)   No tower shall be approved at a height exceeding 150 feet AGL
unless applicant clearly demonstrates that such height is required for the
proper function of the applicant's system or that of a public safety
communications system of a governmental entity sharing the tower. The showing
must also be supported by the opinion of a telecommunications consultant hired
by the village at the expense of the applicant. The opinion of the consultant
shall include a statement that no available alternatives exist to exceeding the
height limit or the reason why the alternatives are not viable and that the FAA
has approved the height requested.
   (F)   Obsolete non-complying tower structure. Any upper portion of a tower
which is not occupied by active antennas for a period of 12 months, and any
entire tower which is not so occupied for a period of six months, shall be
removed at the owner's expense. Removal of upper portions of a tower
manufactured as a single unit shall not be required. Failure to comply with
this provision shall constitute a nuisance that may be remedied by the village
at the tower or property owner's expense. Any applicant for a new tower or
disguised structure not built as disguised part of another existing or
permitted structure shall place a bond or other security with the village prior
to any final approval for the purpose of removing any tower or disguised
structure as required herein and to compensate the village for performing
proper maintenance of the towers or disguised structures to ensure the
structures do not become unsafe or otherwise fail to be maintained in
compliance with this chapter. The bond or security shall be in the form
approved by the village staff, and in the amount of $15,000, or such other
amount as is determined by the village staff to satisfy the requirements hereof
with regard to the specific tower or structure to which it would apply.
   (G)   Commercial operation of unlawful tower or antennas. Notwithstanding
any right that may exist for a governmental entity to operate or construct a
tower or structure, it shall be unlawful for any person to erect or operate for
any private purpose of any antenna, tower or disguised support structure in
violation of any provision of this chapter, regardless of whether the antenna
or structure is located on land owned by a governmental entity.
   (H)   Penalty. Any person violating this provision shall be subject to a
fine of not more than $500 or 90 days in jail or both. Each day the violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense.
   (I)   Applications for permits required by this section shall be made on the
appropriate forms to the village staff and accompanied by payment per §
151.166(J), or such other fee as may be established by the Board.
      (1)   A detailed site plan, based on a closed boundary survey of the host
parcel, shall be submitted indicating all existing and proposed improvements
including buildings, drives, walkway, parking areas and other structures,
public right-of-way, the zoning categories of the subject and adjoining
properties, the location of and distance to off-site residential structures,
required setbacks, required buffer and landscape areas, hydroponic features and
the coordinates and height AGL of the existing or proposed tower.
      (2)   The application shall be reviewed by the Zoning Administration to
determine compliance with the above standards and transmit the application for
review and comment by other departments and agencies as may be affected by the
proposed facility, and forwarded to the Village Board of Trustees.
   (J)   Application fee.
      (1)   Application review fee for permits covered by this section to be
per §
34.01.
      (2)   Applications requiring a special use permit shall also include the
associated fee per §
34.01.
§ 151.167 FENCES, WALLS AND NATURAL BARRIERS.
   Fences, walls or natural barriers used for any purpose shall, in all
districts, conform to the following.
   (A)   For the purpose of minimizing traffic hazards and or natural barriers
at street intersections by improving visibility for converging vehicles,
obstructions higher than two feet above the adjacent top of the curb or street
elevation, whichever is higher, shall not be permitted to remain or to be
planted, placed or erected on any corner lot within the triangular portion of
land designated as "restricted area" in Figure A-4.
   (B)   No barbed wire or other such sharp pointed fence below eight feet in
height and no electrically-charged fence shall be erected or maintained, except
in non-urban districts.
   (C)   (1)   No fence, fill, retaining wall or other structure shall be
constructed or erected within any public street, right-of-way or private
easement unless authorized by the village. Fences, retaining walls or other
structures erected within any public street, right-of-way or easement under
village authorization shall be constructed so that drainage shall not be
obstructed and the upstream water level is not raised in any storm event from
that existing before the proposed work.
      (2)   In the event of the maintenance, removal and/or replacement of the
fence, retaining wall or other structure, the owner of the fence, retaining
wall or other structure shall be responsible for the cost of the maintenance,
removal and/or replacement and any other costs incurred by the village as a
result of the construction.
   (D)   Fences, walls and natural barriers in any residential district, when
permitted, may be located along lot lines; provided, the following regulations
are met.
      (1)   Fences are not permitted in the front yard. For purposes of fence
installation only, a FRONT YARD is defined as the building set back line on the
side of a lot that abuts the street address of the primary structure. (This
shall not apply to decorative fences used as part of a landscaping display.
Decorative fences shall be defined as those that do not enclose any area and
are immediately adjacent to other landscaping features such as plants, trees or
flowers.)
      (2)   Fences located to the rear of the front yard setback area shall not
be greater than six feet in height.
   (E)   (1)   No fence, wall or structure shall be constructed or erected
within any public street, alley right-of-way, platted or recorded easement and
or platted or recorded outlot until a permit has been issued by the village
staff.
      (2)   Permit applications shall be submitted to the village staff for
review.
      (3)   Applications to be accompanied by a sketch and engineer's
calculations verifying compliance with the code.
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances generally, see §
90.01
   Front setbacks on multiple frontage lots, see §
151.034
   Lot requirements, see §
151.222
   Easements, see §
151.293
§ 151.168 GREENHOUSES; NURSERIES.
   (A)   No fertilizer, compost, manure or other odor or dust-producing
substance shall be stored closer than 100 feet to any lot line.
   (B)   Greenhouse heating plants shall be situated in an enclosed structure
and shall not be closer than 50 feet to any lot line.
§ 151.169 HOME OCCUPATIONS/ RESIDENTIAL.
   A RESIDENTIAL HOME OCCUPATION means any business, profession or occupation
for gain or support entirely within a residential building or on residential
premises. No home occupation shall be established except in conformity with the
following regulations.
   (A)   Employees. A home occupation shall have no unrelated employees on the
premises and is limited to two related individuals on the premises. One
individual must be a principal occupant of the home.
   (B)   Floor space. The total area used for a home occupation shall not
exceed 25% of the gross floor area of the dwelling or 300 square feet,
whichever is less.
   (C)   Dwelling alterations. In any residential district a principal
residential building shall not be altered, to accommodate a home occupation in
such a way as to materially change the residential character of the building.
   (D)   Outdoor storage. Outdoor (unenclosed) storage on the premises of
equipment or materials used in connection with a home occupation is prohibited.
   (E)   Nuisances. A home occupation shall not generate any offensive noise,
vibration, smoke, dust, odors, heat, glare or electrical interference
noticeable at or beyond the lot lines.
   (F)   Excessive traffic. There shall be no deliveries, pick-ups or
additional traffic in excess of that associated with the principal and
permitted use as a single-family residence.
   (G)   Signs. No home occupation sign is permitted.
§ 151.170 HOSPITALS, NURSING HOMES.
   (A)   The lot on which any hospital or sanitarium is situated shall have a
minimum width and depth of 200 feet, and a minimum area of five acres.
   (B)   The lot on which any nursing home is situated shall have a minimum
width and depth of 200 feet and a minimum area of two acres.
   (C)   The principal building of any hospital, sanitarium or nursing home
shall be located at least 25 feet from all lot lines.
§ 151.171 JUNK/SALVAGE/MATERIAL YARDS.
   Junk/salvage/material yards established or operated within the
jurisdictional boundaries of the village shall comply with the following:
   (A)   Be located farther than 500 feet to the boundary of any residential
district; and
   (B)   All material shall be stored within a completely enclosed structure or
within an area screened by an eight-foot solid fence or wall. No material to be
visible above the fence/wall height from the first floor windows of any
residential property or from a person standing on an adjoining lot or street.
§ 151.172 KENNELS.
   (A)   The lot on which any kennel is situated shall have a minimum area of
three acres.
   (B)   Every kennel shall be located at least 200 feet from the nearest
dwelling and at least 100 feetfrom front and rear lot lines and 40 feet from
side lot lines when there are no outside animal runs on the side.
   (C)   Fenced in animal runs to be no closer than 100 feet from front and
rear lot lines and 40 feet from side lot lines when there are no outside animal
runs on the side.
(Ord. 2015-06-01F, passed 6-1-2015)
Cross-reference:
   Animals, see
Chapter 93
   Accessory uses (including pets, wild animals, horses), see §
151.039
§ 151.173 MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   All manufactured housing units shall:
   (A)   Be occupied only as residential use;
   (B)   Be subject to all provisions of the Development Code applicable to
residential structures;
   (C)   Be attached to a permanent foundation system in compliance with all
applicable building regulations; the foundation system shall provide a solid
concrete or masonry foundation at the perimeter of the building(s);
   (D)   Contain a minimum of 900 square feet of occupied space on one floor
and exceed a minimum of 20 feet in width;
   (E)   Be covered with a nonreflective exterior material customarily used on
"stick-built" dwellings, such as board siding, plywood siding, brick and
stucco; exterior brick or stucco material shall extend to the ground; other
exterior covering material need not extend below the top of the foundation, but
shall not be closer than eight inches to the ground;
   (F)   Have a pitched roof which is covered with a nonflammable, nonmetallic
roof material used on "stick-built" dwellings; and
   (G)   Make any accessory building architecturally compatible with the main
structure.
§ 151.174 MOBILE HOMES.
   Mobile homes located in mobile home parks within the jurisdictional
boundaries of the village shall (at least):
   (A)   Have concrete pier foundations of pre-cast or poured pads or blocks
installed directly under the main frame or chassis of the mobile home on stable
soil with all grass and organic materials removed;
   (B)   Have open or closed cell concrete blocks placed above the foundation
(open cells shall be vertical) and capped with a pressure treated wood plate or
solid concrete block; interlock and, possibly, reinforced double blocked piers,
may be necessary if height exceeds normal setup procedures;
   (C)   Have over-the-top steel cable or strap tie-downs (with suitable
devices to prevent cutting) positioned at stud and rafter locations near each
end of the mobile home and fastened to ground anchors using turnbuckles or
other devices to draw the tie-downs tight; however, "doublewides" shall not
require over-the-top tie-downs;
   (D)   Have ground anchors aligned with edges of piers and situated
immediately below the outer wall to accommodate over-the-top as well as frame
ties;
   (E)   Have frame ties connecting the anchor and steel I-beam (or other
shape) main structural frame member which runs lengthwise under the mobile
home; and
   (F)   Have skirting, approved by the village staff, fastened around the
entire mobile home.
§ 151.175 MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   Mobile home parks established or operated within the jurisdictional
boundaries of the village shall:
   (A)   Have mobile homes set up in the manner described in §
151.174; and
   (B)   Comply with current state statutes and regulations regarding the
design, construction, operation and maintenance of mobile home parks.
Applicable provisions of the Development Code must also be met, including
street design and improvement standards (§§
151.245 through
151.254 and
151.270 through
151.274), and street names and signs (§
151.292).
§ 151.176 MOBILE HOMES ON PRIVATE LOTS.
   No person shall place any mobile home on an individual lot (as opposed to in
a mobile home park) except in conformity with the following regulations: The
mobile home must be attached to a permanent foundation system in compliance
with all applicable building regulations; the foundation system shall provide a
solid concrete or masonry foundation for the entire perimeter of the mobile
home; providing, it meets the appropriate zoning district requirements, §§
151.046 and
151.047.
§ 151.177 OPEN SPACES.
   (A)   No yard, court or other open space, already containing less area than
the minimum required under this Code shall be further divided or reduced.
   (B)   No lot already containing less area than the minimum required under
this Code shall be further divided or reduced, except that the parcels so
created be attached to adjacent platted lot or lots.
§ 151.178 RESERVED.
§ 151.179 SERVICE STATIONS.
   (A)   All gasoline pumps and other service facilities shall be located at
least 30 feet from any front lot line, side lot line or rear lot line. See also
§
151.186 for further conditions.
   (B)   Every accessway shall be located at least 200 feet from the principal
building of any fire station, school, public library, church, park and
playground and at least 30 feet from any intersection of public streets.
   (C)   Every device for dispensing or selling milk, ice, soft drinks, snacks
and similar products shall be located within or adjacent to the principal
building.
   (D)   All trash receptacles, except minor receptacles adjacent to the
gasoline pumps, shall be screened from view.
   (E)   Whenever the use of a service station has been discontinued for 12
consecutive months, or for 18 months during any three-year period, the village
staff shall order that all underground storage tanks be removed or filled with
material approved by the Office of the State Fire Marshal.
§ 151.180 SUBDIVISION CONSTRUCTION OFFICE AND STORAGE TRAILERS.
   (A)   Subdivision construction or maintenance offices shall not be permitted
in permanent structures.
   (B)   Construction or maintenance material storage shall not be in permanent
structure. However, materials used for that unit may only be stored in it.
   (C)   If construction or maintenance offices and storage units are used,
they shall be of the mobile type.
   (D)   In no case shall construction or maintenance trailers remain in front
of occupied units after 30 days of occupancy.
§ 151.181 SUBDIVISION SALES OFFICES.
   Subdivision sales offices are permitted in conjunction with the sale of new
residential development; provided that:
   (A)   Sales personnel activities in that office is limited to sales within
that development;
   (B)   The office space and function is limited solely to sales activity
resulting from that development; and
   (C)   The sales office is not used for the purpose of subdivision planning,
development, management or operation or any activity unrelated to subdivision
sales of that development.
§ 151.182 SWIMMING POOLS.
   (A)   No swimming pool, whether public or private, shall be located in any
front or side yard or closer than six feet to any side or rear lot line. This
distance shall supercede any smaller setbacks of §
151.047.
   (B)   Every person owning land on which there is situated a swimming pool,
which contains 24 inches (610 mm) or more of water in depth at any point, shall
erect and maintain thereon an adequate enclosure either surrounding the
property or pool area, sufficient to make the body of water inaccessible to
small children. The enclosure, including gates therein, shall be not less than
four feet (1,219 mm) above the underlying ground. Where the top of the pool
structure is above the underlying ground level, such as an above-ground pool,
the barrier shall be at finished ground level, such as the pool structure, or
shall be mounted on top of the pool structure. Where the barrier is mounted on
the pool structure, the opening between the top surface of the pool frame and
the bottom of the barrier shall not allow passage of a four-inch (102 mm)
diameter sphere. The barrier, if mounted on the pool structure, shall be at
least 48 inches above the pool structure. All gates shall be self-latching with
latches placed four feet (1,219 mm) above the underlying ground and otherwise
made inaccessible from the outside to small children.
   (C)   The above are in addition to the requirements of the current B.O.C.A.
Code.
§ 151.183 ADULT USES, PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   Adult uses listed as special uses in an I-1 Zone District, other than adult-
use cannabis business establishments, shall meet the following performance
standards.
   (A)   No adult use may be closer than 2,500 feet to any residentially-zoned
district or to another adult use.
   (B)   No adult use may be closer than 2,500 feet to a school, public or
private, public parks, churches, synagogue and other places of worship or
recreational uses or areas where minors congregate, such as, little league ball
fields.
   (C)   Entrance areas, including lobbies shall be designed to minimize
obstruction of sidewalks during operating hours.
   (D)   No sign or other structure shall be placed, erected or used on the
premises except in conformity with the approval of the village staff, nor shall
the building be painted or decorated in garish colors or such other fashion as
will effectuate the same purpose as a sign.
   (E)   Advertisements, displays or other promotional material shall not be
shown or exhibited so as to be visible to the public from pedestrian sidewalks
or walkways or from other areas public or semi-public.
   (F)   All building openings, entries and windows, for adult uses shall be
located, covered or screened in such a manner as to prevent a view into the
interior from any public or semi-public area; and for new construction, and
wherever else it is considered feasible by the village staff, the building
shall be oriented so as to minimize any possibility of viewing the interior
from public or semi-public areas.
   (G)   No loudspeakers or sound equipment shall be used for adult uses that
can be discerned by the public from public and/or semi-public areas.
   (H)   Off-street parking shall be provided as required by this Code and/or
by the village staff for a similar use if the adult use is not specifically
listed in the parking requirements of the Code.
   (I)   No alcoholic beverages shall be sold or consumed by anyone on adult
use premises.
(Am. Ord. 2020-03-02B, passed 3-2-2020)
§ 151.184 OUTSIDE TELEPHONES.
   Outside telephones are prohibited in B-1, B-2 and B-3 Business District.
§ 151.185 RESTRICTIONS FOR A UNIPLEX.
   (A)   (1)   This section only applies to buildings on lots platted on a
final plat recorded at the Recorder's Office of St. Clair County on or before
7-7-2003.
      (2)   The restrictions of this section, where different from other
sections of the Development Code, shall apply to all uniplex structures:
         (a)   Minimum lot size: Determined by existing platted lot;
         (b)   Minimum setbacks: From party wall lot line: None;
         (c)   Each side of uniplex shall have separate utility connections
including sanitary sewer;
         (d)   Parting wall between uniplex sides shall conform to all
structural and fire codes and be at least eight inches below earth grade in
crawl space; and
         (e)   As built survey and legal description required prior to
recording.
      (3)   A common wall maintenance agreement recorded at the Recorder's
Office of St. Clair County and then filed with the Village Clerk.
   (B)   (1)   This section only applies to buildings on lots platted on a
Final Plat recorded at the Recorder's Office of St. Clair County after 7-7-2003
that are in a Multi-Family Residential (MR) Zone District.
      (2)   Uniplexes are only permitted in a MR Zone District for lots
referenced above.
      (3)   The restrictions of this section where different from other
sections of the Development Code shall apply to all uniplex structures.
         (a)   Minimum lot size:
            1.   Lot area: 5,625 square feet;
            2.   Lot width: 45 feet; and
            3.   Lot depth: 125 feet.
         (b)   Minimum setbacks: From party wall lot line: None. All other
setbacks of the MR Zone are to apply.
         (c)   Each side of uniplex shall have separate utility connections
including sanitary sewer.
         (d)   Parting wall between uniplex sides shall conform to all
structural and fire codes and be at least eight inches below earth grade in
crawl space. Parting walls to be concrete block or poured concrete from eight
inches below grade to bottom of subfloor.
         (e)   As built survey and legal description required prior to
recording.
         (f)   A common wall maintenance agreement recorded at the Recorder's
Office of St. Clair County and then filed with the Village Clerk.
§ 151.186 MOTOR VEHICLE ORIENTED BUSINESS REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Where applicable. The provisions of this section shall apply only to
developments along Illinois State Route 158 (Air Mobility Drive), Illinois
State Route 161, Frank Scott Parkway, Green Mount Road, Hartman Lane, Thouvenot
Lane, Lebanon Avenue, Cross Street and Maple Street.
   (B)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
applies unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MOTOR VEHICLE ORIENTED BUSINESS (MVOB). Any commercial use which, by
design, type of operation, and nature of business, has as one of its functions,
the provisions of goods, merchandise or services to motorists or occupants of
motor vehicles in a short time span for each, or the provision of goods,
merchandise or services to the occupants of the motor vehicles while they
remain in the vehicle. The list of businesses which constitute motor vehicle
oriented businesses include convenience stores having a gross floor area of
more than 1,000 square feet, gasoline service stations having convenience store
facilities with a gross floor area of more than 1,000 square feet, drive-in
banks, drive-in or drive-through restaurants, drive in beverage sales and car
wash operations which are not accessory to an allowable use. This enumeration
is not intended as an inclusive list of the businesses.
   (C)   Where permitted. A motor vehicle oriented business may only be
permitted as a special use permit in the B-2, B-3 or B-4 districts or in the PB
districts. When approved as a special use permit, the MVOB must comply with all
applicable requirements of the Development Code, when approved in a PB
district, the MVOB must comply with all applicable regulations of §§
151.450 through
151.461.
   (D)   Locational requirements. All motor vehicle oriented businesses must be
a minimum of 100 feet from any other motor vehicle oriented business located on
the same side of any route or street listed in division (A) above.
      (1)   The distance shall be measured between the two closest property
lines.
      (2)   Where a motor vehicle oriented business is a part of a larger
development, the 100 feet shall be measured from the limits of the out parcel
(if so designated). If an out parcel is not designated, the distance shall be
measured from the boundary of an area which would normally be required for the
operation of the motor vehicle oriented business as approved by the Village
Board.
      (3)   Where a business is located in a tenant space that is part of the
principal structure(s) of a strip shopping center development, and would
otherwise be considered a motor vehicle oriented business, the provisions of
this section shall not apply so long as the proposed business shall not provide
drive-through window or drive-in service to persons while in their vehicles.
   (E)   Site design standards. The following site design standards shall be
met for all motor vehicle oriented businesses:
      (1)   Minimum lot area: 20,000 square feet;
      (2)   Minimum lot frontage: 150 feet (on corners, the frontage
requirements shall apply to both sides);
      (3)   Lot area per pump island for gasoline service stations: Gasoline
service stations constituting motor vehicle oriented businesses shall be
limited to two service islands and three gasoline pumps per island for the
minimum size lot. One service bay and three pumps may be added for each 1,000
square feet of site area exceeding the minimum; however, in no case shall more
than six service islands be allowed at any gasoline service station, nor more
than three pumps permitted on each island, and no more than three service bays
shall be allowed for each such station.
         (a)   For lot sizes from the minimum size of 20,000 square feet to
40,000 square feet, see above.
         (b)   For lot sizes exceeding 40,000 square feet a maximum of ten
service islands with two pumps per island and four service bays will be
allowed.
         (c)   A traffic study shall be required for all automotive service
stations or convenience stores. The cost of the study is to be borne by the
applicant. The traffic study shall address potential external and internal
traffic concerns and the development plan shall not be approved unless all
traffic concerns are adequately addressed to promote safety and reasonable
traffic flow.
      (4)   Setbacks: From public streets and property lines shall be as
follows:
         (a)   Front yard: There shall be a front yard having a depth of not
less than 30 feet. Where a lot is located at the intersection of two or more
streets, the front yard requirements shall apply to each street. No accessory
building, service islands and other service or pick-up facilities shall project
beyond the front building setback line;
         (b)   Side yard: There shall be a side yard on each side of the
building of not less than ten feet. Side yard requirements shall be 50 feet
where abutting any residential district; and
         (c)   Rear yard: There shall be a rear yard having a depth of not less
than 25 feet. Rear yard requirements shall be 50 feet where abutting any
residential district.
   (F)   Used oil storage. All used oils and other similar materials and
products shall be stored only in underground or inside areas.
   (G)   Vehicular areas.
      (1)   The entire area used by vehicles for parking, storage and service
and the like shall be paved with asphaltic concrete or concrete.
      (2)   A raised concrete curb shall be placed at the edge of all pavement.
This curb to be at least six inches above the pavement surface and be either
concrete curb and gutter or barrier curb per I.D.O.T. standards.
      (3)   All hydraulic hoists, pits, lubrication, washing, repair and
service not of an emergency nature or unusual short-term minor work shall be
conducted entirely within a building.
   (H)   Ingress and egress.
      (1)   The minimum width of driveways at the property line shall be 24
feet and the maximum shall be 36 feet.
      (2)   The minimum distance of any driveway to any side property line
shall be 24 feet. This distance shall be measured from the side property line
to the intersection of the street right-of-way and the edge of the driveway.
      (3)   Driveway openings shall be limited to one drive per 200 feet of lot
frontage. For parcels with frontage on more than one street, the number of
driveway openings shall be based on the frontage length on each street
individually. However, the number of entrances so allowed must be divided
equally on the fronting streets.
      (4)   The minimum distance of a driveway into the site from a street
intersection shall be 30 feet measured from the intersection of the street
right-of-way to the nearest end of the curb radius of the proposed driveway.
      (5)   The angle of driveway intersection with the street shall be based
upon reasonable criteria for safe traffic movements and shall be approved by
village staff.
      (6)   Motor vehicle oriented businesses adjacent to or integrated in a
shopping center or cluster of commercial facilities shall use the common access
with other business establishments in that center.
   (I)   Screening. All motor vehicle oriented businesses shall provide for
screening and buffer areas in a manner which conforms with the regulations set
forth in §
151.186, relative thereto, and all other applicable ordinances of the village.
   (J)   Landscaping and open space. The development of the site and building
shall comply with all standards and requirements of this section and §
151.186.
   (K)   Lighting. The development of the site and building(s) shall comply
with all standards and requirements of §
151.186.
   (L)   Parking. All motor vehicle oriented businesses shall provide for off
street parking in a manner which conforms with the regulations set forth in
this subchapter and all other applicable ordinances of the village.
   (M)   Signs. All signs on the site shall conform to the applicable
regulations.
   (N)   Storage of merchandise. All merchandise and material for sale and all
vending machines shall be displayed within an enclosed building, except for the
following: Oil for use in motor vehicles may be displayed or sold from an
appropriate rack or compartment at the gasoline station pump islands for the
convenience of the customer and station attendant.
   (O)   Storage of flammable materials. Flammable materials used in the
conduct of motor vehicle oriented businesses, when stored above grounds shall
be stored within the building setback lines. All storage of flammable materials
shall be subject to the approval of the Fire Marshal.
   (P)   Other conditions. The Planning Commission may recommend, and the
Village Board may require, provisions for other conditions that will tend to
eliminate or reduce public nuisances caused by noise, heat, odors, smoke, dust,
vibration, glare, flooding and traffic congestion and promote the purpose of
this section.
   (Q)   Building and structures compatibility. All proposed motor vehicle
oriented businesses' buildings and structures shall be designed and planned to
take advantage of and be compatible with natural features of the site and area,
and shall not be in conflict with the character of existing structures in areas
where a definite pattern or style has been established.
   (R)   Vacant motor vehicle oriented businesses' buildings. When a motor
vehicle oriented businesses' building becomes vacant for a period exceed one
year, the property owner shall be required to remove or treat in a safe manner
approved by the village staff all flammable materials, storage tanks or storage
areas.
   (S)   Termination of lapse of a special use permit.
      (1)   When a motor vehicle oriented businesses' special use permit is
authorized by the Village Board, the continuation of the use shall be dependent
upon the conditions established under the permit and this section; and, in the
event of a change of conditions or noncompliance with conditions, the Village
Board shall have the authority to revoke the special use permit after affording
the permittee the right to be heard.
      (2)   When a motor vehicle oriented businesses' building becomes vacant
and its special use permit not utilized for a period of one year, the permit
shall lapse.
   (T)   Nonconforming motor vehicle oriented businesses. Existing motor
vehicle oriented businesses which do not comply with the regulations and
conditions of this section shall be considered to be nonconforming and allowed
to continue; however, all nonconforming motor vehicle oriented businesses shall
comply with the following requirements within one year after written
notification by the village staff of items which must be corrected.
      (1)   Whenever a motor vehicle oriented business is located adjacent to a
residential district or residential use on the ground floor, appropriate
screening, as provided for herein shall be installed.
      (2)   All exterior lighting shall conform to the lighting requirements in
this section.
      (3)   All trash storage areas shall provide suitable storage of trash
with areas that are so designed and constructed as to allow no view of the
trash storage from the street, to prevent waste from blowing around the site or
onto adjacent properties or public rights-of-way, and to permit safe, easy
removal of trash by truck or hand.
      (4)   All storage of merchandise for sale, including vending machines,
shall be made to conform with the requirements of this section.
   (U)   Rental vehicles.
      (1)   When the rental of equipment, automobiles, trucks and trailers is
to be conducted on a motor vehicle oriented business site, additional land area
and paved area shall be provided in addition to the driveway.
      (2)   Parking area and landscape areas required by this section for a
normal motor vehicle oriented business operation.
      (3)   An additional 1,000 square feet of site area shall be provided for
each five rental units.
      (4)   No parking of rental units shall be permitted on landscaped areas
or driveways.
   (V)   Underground utilities. All utility lines on the site shall be
installed underground.
§ 151.187 METAL SIDED BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Metal siding on structures is not permitted in any zone district other
than NU (Non-Urban) and I (Industrial).
   (B)   However, in these districts, metal siding will only be permitted if
approved at the Village Board's architectural appearance meeting.
§ 151.188 LOGO TYPE BUILDINGS.
   Logo type buildings (definition in §§
151.009 and
151.010) will not be permitted unless approved by the Village Board.
§ 151.189 EXTERIOR INSULATION AND FINISH SYSTEMS (EIFS).
   (A)   Whenever an exterior insulation and finish system is proposed within
the village, it shall at least conform to this section.
   (B)   In addition to all relevant requirements of the Building Code, the
following shall be incorporated and shall supercede any conflicting portions of
the Building Code:
      (1)   All penetrations to be flashed;
      (2)   A water-resistant barrier to be installed over the building
substrate;
      (3)   A drainage spacer or mat system to be used to direct water that may
penetrate the system to the exterior;
      (4)   The foam board to be mechanically fastened. Adhesively fastened
will be acceptable on a village approved water managed system. As an example, a
system utilizing Dens Glass Gold as a substrate is an approved system. An equal
or better product may also be acceptable. The contractor is to provide the
village with technical submissions in sufficient detail for the village to
analyze any proposed alternate. The village shall be the final judge as to the
acceptability of the proposed substitution;
      (5)   All mechanical fasteners to be corrosion resistant screws;
      (6)   System to be caulked per the manufacture's recommendations;
      (7)   Control and expansion joints to be per plan, but not more than
system manufacturers's recommendations;
      (8)   Contractor to provide the village with copy of manufacturer's
recommended installation instructions and copy of certified installer
certificate;
      (9)   Contractor to schedule inspection with the village at least 48
hours before installing foam, before coating foam board and after base coat is
applied;
      (10)   E.I.F.S. applications over 10,000 square feet to have independent
inspection hired by the village and paid for by the contractor;
      (11)   Contractor to provide village with copy of installers
certification that work conformed to manufacturer's recommendations and Village
Code;
      (12)   Contractor to provide E.I.F.S. insurance coverage; and
      (13)   Designated village staff (see
Chapter 31) has authority to approve modifications to this criteria provided he
or she does not diminish its intent to provide a water managed system that
directs the water to the exterior.
§ 151.190 CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   No cannabis business establishment shall be located within 500 feet of any
of the following:
   (A)   School grounds;
   (B)   Playground;
   (C)   Church;
   (D)   Recreation center or facility;
   (E)   Day care facility;
   (F)   Public park;
   (G)   Publicly owned or publicly operated property; or
   (H)   Public library.
(Ord. 2020-03-02B, passed 3-2-2020)
§ 151.191 COMMERCIAL SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Purpose. This section regulates solar farms as a special use within
applicable zoning districts in the village. It aims to protect natural
resources, contribute positively to quality of life, maintain aesthetic
standards, and ensure public health, safety and welfare.
   (B)   Definitions.
      BUILDING-INTEGRATED SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A solar system integrated into a
structure, such as within roofing materials or windows.
      GROUND-MOUNTED SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A system mounted on racks or poles on
the ground, functioning as a principal or accessory use.
      SOLAR ARRAY. Several photovoltaic modules or panels connected to provide
a single electrical output.
      SOLAR COLLECTOR TOTAL HEIGHT. The height of a solar system from ground to
the highest point when operational.
      SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, LARGE-SCALE. A ground-mounted solar energy system
that occupies more than 40,000 square feet of surface area or equivalent, to a
rated nameplate capacity of about 250kW DC or greater.
      SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, MEDIUM-SCALE. A ground-mounted solar energy system
that occupies more than 2,000 but less than 40,000 square feet of surface area
or equivalent, to a rated nameplate capacity of about 12-250 kW DC.
      SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, SMALL-SCALE. A ground-mounted solar energy system
that occupies 2,000 square feet of surface area or less or equivalent, to a
rated nameplate capacity of about 12 kW DC or less.
      TRACKING SOLAR ARRAY. A solar array that follows the sun to optimize
energy absorption.
   (C)   Application requirements.
      (1)   Host agreement. Required for all solar farm special use
applications.
      (2)   Applicant information. Detailed applicant legal information,
including officers and property owner agreements, must be provided.
      (3)   Project description. General project details, including capacity,
type, number of panels, and dimensions.
      (4)   Site plan. Must include setbacks, utilities, drainage, ingress/
egress, and other construction-related information.
      (5)   Utility company notification. Written utility company response to
the proposed interconnection must be submitted.
      (6)   Decommission plan and cost estimate. See division (E) below.
      (7)   Application fee.
         (a)   Large-scale system (over 250kW DC): $1,000 per Mwac.
         (b)   Medium-scale system (12-250 kW DC): $550-$750 per Mwac.
         (c)   Small-scale (below 12 kW DC): $500 minimum.
   (D)   Design and installation requirements.
      (1)   Height. Solar collectors may not exceed 20 feet.
      (2)   Setbacks. Collectors must comply with zoning setbacks and be 150
feet from roads and high-water marks.
      (3)   Electrical components. All components must conform to local utility
standards and national codes, with underground wiring.
      (4)   Environmental and wildlife impact. Third-party analysis required.
      (5)   Military-base impact. The application must include an approval
letter if the property is located within five miles of Scott Air Force Base, or
if it lies within the base’s height restriction area or safety zone.
      (6)   Signage. Warning signs must be posted with emergency contact
information.
      (7)   Landscaping. Native low-profile species must be used, incorporating
pollinator-friendly principles.
      (8)   Federal and state compliance. Systems must meet federal and state
regulatory standards.
      (9)   Access roads. Minimized in width and number, and designed to avoid
terrain disruption.
      (10)   Drainage. All drainage systems affected must be repaired to their
original condition.
      (11)   Engineer certification. All components must meet applicable codes
and be signed off by a licensed engineer.
      (12)   Fencing. A six- to ten-foot perimeter fence, with warning signage,
must be installed.
      (13)   Lot area. Minimum five acres required.
      (14)   Vegetation control. A plan to control weeds and prevent habitat
issues must be provided.
      (15)   Cleaning supplies. Only biodegradable, low-VOC products are
allowed.
      (16)   Reflection angles. Solar collectors must not direct glare toward
adjacent properties.
   (E)   Decommission plan and financial assurance.
      (1)   Decommissioning timeline. Within nine months of the system becoming
nonoperational, decommissioning must begin.
      (2)   Site restoration. Removal of all solar components and restoration
to four feet below ground level.
      (3)   Hazardous materials. Must be disposed of per federal and state law.
      (4)   Cost estimate. A professional engineer must provide a
decommissioning cost estimate. Before construction begins, the cost must be
secured via cash, surety bond, or irrevocable letter of credit, with the
village named as the beneficiary.
      (5)   Five-year cost review. The decommissioning cost must be reviewed
and updated every five years to account for inflation, with any cost increases
secured through updated financial instruments.
   (F)   Liability insurance. The owner/operator must maintain general
liability insurance, with coverage of at least $2,000,000 per occurrence and
$5,000,000 in aggregate, with the village named as a certificate holder and an
additional insured.
   (G)   Administration and enforcement.
      (1)   Business registration. Annual business registration costing $50.00
is required.
      (2)   Annual inspections. The owner/operator must schedule an annual
inspection conducted by the village and costing $50.00.
      (3)   Enforcement. 
         (a)   The village is granted the authority to enter the property and
ensure compliance.
         (b)   Violations will incur fines of no less than $500.00 per offense,
with additional penalties for prolonged violations.
         (c)   The village may pursue other legal remedies as necessary.
(Ord. 2024-11-04C, passed 11-4-2024)
NONCONFORMITIES
§ 151.200 NONCONFORMING LOTS.
   (A)   Any vacant lot that does not conform to one or more of the lot size
requirements of the zoning district in which it is located may be used if the
vacant lot, after review by the Village Planning Commission and approval by the
Village Board of Trustees, is deemed appropriate for the intended use and
compatible with surrounding land uses.
   (B)   An area bulk variance must be secured prior to the issuance of a
building permit for a structure on the lot.
§ 151.201 LOTS IN COMMON OWNERSHIP.
   (A)   If two or more lots or combinations of lots and portions of lots with
continuous frontage were lots of record and in common ownership prior to the
date of adoption of the Development Code, and if one or more of those lots does
not meet the minimum lot size requirements of the zoning district in which it
is located, the land involved shall be considered an undivided parcel.
   (B)   No portion of any such parcel shall be developed except in compliance
with this Code, nor shall any such parcel be divided so as to create a lot that
does not meet the requirements of this Code.
§ 151.202 NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   Any lawful structure which exists prior to the date of adoption of the
Development Code, but which could not be erected under the terms of this Code
may lawfully remain; provided that, the structure shall not be:
   (A)   Enlarged or altered in any way which increases its nonconformity;
   (B)   Relocated unless, after relocation, it will conform to all the
regulations of the zoning district in which it is located; and
   (C)   Reconstructed, following destruction or damage by any means, if the
village staff determines that the cost of the reconstruction exceeds 50% of the
structure's market value at the time of loss, unless after reconstruction the
structure will conform to all applicable regulations of the zoning district in
which it is located; in the event that the village staff determines the
estimated cost of reconstruction is 50% or less than the structure's market
value at the time of loss, repairs or reconstruction shall be permitted;
provided, the work starts within six months from the date the damage occurred
and is diligently prosecuted to completion; the village staff may require the
owner of the damaged structure to provide the reconstruction cost estimate made
by a bona fide construction contractor and the structure's market value at the
time of loss as determined by a licensed real estate appraiser.
§ 151.203 NONCONFORMING USES OCCUPYING A STRUCTURE.
   Any lawful use occupying a structure which exists prior to the date of
adoption of the Development Code, but which would not be allowed under the
terms of this Code may lawfully continue; provided that:
   (A)   Any structure housing a nonconforming use shall be maintained through
ordinary repairs;
   (B)   No structure housing a nonconforming use shall be enlarged, altered,
reconstructed or relocated unless the use of the structure is changed to a
permitted use;
   (C)   No nonconforming use shall be extended to any part of the structure
not intended or designed for the use, nor shall the nonconforming use be
extended to occupy any land outside the structure;
   (D)   Any nonconforming use occupying a structure shall not be changed,
except to a permitted use; and
   (E)   Any nonconforming use of a structure, or of a structure and premises
in combination, shall not be discontinued longer than 12 consecutive months or
18 months during any three-year period or it shall not thereafter be allowed to
resume; any discontinuance caused by government action and without any
contributing fault by the nonconforming user shall not be counted in
calculating the length of discontinuance. A nonconforming use may not be
transferred from one party to another.
§ 151.204 NONCONFORMING USES OF THE LAND.
   Any lawful use of the land which exists prior to the date of adoption of the
Development Code but which would not be permitted under the terms of this Code
may lawfully continue; provided that, the nonconforming use of the land shall
not be:
   (A)   Intensified or extended to occupy a greater area of land than already
occupied;
   (B)   Moved, in whole or in part, unless the use, upon relocation, will
conform to all the regulations of the zoning district in which it is located;
   (C)   Changed, except to a permitted use; and
   (D)   Discontinued longer than 12 consecutive months, or it shall not
thereafter be allowed to resume; any discontinuance caused by government action
and without any contributing fault by the nonconforming user shall not be
counted in calculating the length of discontinuance.
§ 151.205 NONCONFORMITIES UNDER PERMIT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   (1)   The regulations of this subchapter shall not preclude final
construction and occupancy of any structure or continued use for which a
building permit was issued prior to the date of adoption of the Development
Code; provided that, the work authorized by the permit is completed within a
reasonable time.
      (2)   The structure or use shall be subsequently treated as a
nonconforming structure or use if it is then nonconforming, or an area bulk
variance may be applied for, if applicable.
   (B)   (1)   Suits pending or rights existing immediately prior to the
effective date of this Code shall not be affected nor impaired except for those
rights relating to nonconformities which are dealt with elsewhere in this Code.
      (2)   Zoning or other related development issues that are a part of an
annexation agreement made prior to the adoption or revision of the Development
Code shall be grandfathered.
      (3)   Grandfathering of Development Code requirements is also permitted
on property platted prior to the adoption of this chapter with permission of
the Village Board.
SUBDIVISION DESIGN AND IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS
§ 151.220 APPLICABILITY OF SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No land within the subdivision jurisdiction of the village, other than
land that is specifically exempted from the requirements of the Illinois Plat
Act (ILCS Ch. 765, Act 205, § 1(b)) shall be subdivided or developed except in
compliance with the regulations of the Development Code, the current edition of
the I.D.O.T. Standards and the applicable provisions of state law. In case of
conflict, the more stringent shall apply. No lot in any subdivision shall be
conveyed until:
      (1)   The final plat of a phase or the whole of said subdivision has been
approved by the Village Board of Trustees and recorded in the office of the St.
Clair County Recorder of Deeds; and
      (2)   The portion or phase of the subdivision in which the lot is located
has been improved in accordance with the requirements of the Development Code
or an assurance of completion has been posted to assure the completion of the
improvements.
   (B)   No building permit shall be issued to allow construction on any lot
conveyed in violation of this action.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-12-8 and ILCS Ch. 765, Act
205, § 1
§ 151.221 SUITABILITY FOR SUBDIVISION GENERALLY.
   Land which the Board of Trustees, with the advice of the Planning Commission
and village staff, determines to be unsuitable for development due to poor
drainage, rough topography, adverse soil conditions, flooding potential or
other conditions that will be harmful to the health, safety and welfare of
inhabitants of the subdivision and/or surrounding areas shall not be subdivided
or developed unless adequate plans/methods are formulated to resolve or avoid
the problems caused by the adverse land conditions.
§ 151.222 LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   Land shall be subdivided in such a way that:
   (A)   All subdivision lots shall conform to the minimum lot size
requirements of the zoning district in which the subdivision is located;
provided, however, land that may be submerged in the 100-year storm event or
land reserved for wetlands, riparian corridors or street improvements shall not
be counted toward meeting the requirements;
   (B)   Every corner and through lot shall be large enough to permit
compliance with the front setback requirements of the applicable zoning
district on every side of the lot that faces a street;
   (C)   All lot remnants shall be added to adjacent lots to avoid the creation
of unbuildable lots;
   (D)   All lots shall contain adequate space for required off-street parking
and loading;
   (E)   All side lot lines shall be at right angles to straight street right-
of-way lines or radial to curved street right-of-way lines;
   (F)   Each lot within the subdivision shall abut a street meeting the street
design specifications in §§
151.245 through
151.254 and have the required frontage as shown in §
151.047;
   (G)   All outlots shall have access to public right-of-way at least 25 feet
wide; and
   (H)   Lots to be sized to ensure the 100-year storm high water elevation is
at least 30 feet from any building proposed on the lot.
Cross-reference:
   Fences, walls and natural barriers, see §
151.167
   Front setbacks on multiple frontage lots, see §
151.034
§ 151.223 REFERENCE MONUMENTS.
   In accordance with "An Act to Revise the Law in Relation to Plats", ILCS Ch.
765, Act 205, §§ 1 et seq., as amended from time to time:
   (A)   Stone or reinforced concrete reference monuments are to be set in the
ground in such a manner that they will not be moved by frost. Reference
monuments are to be placed as directed by the village staff, but a minimum of
one in a corner of a four-sided development; and
   (B)   All lot corners shall be marked by one-half-inch iron pins not less
than 24 inches long. These pins shall be driven into the ground deep enough
that they do not protrude above the ground surface more than one-half inch.
SUBDIVISION STREET DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 151.245 GENERALLY.
   (A)   All streets shall be properly integrated with the existing and
proposed street system indicated on the village’s Official Map and Land Use and
Major Streets Plan, and shall meet the specifications set forth in tabular form
below.
   (B)   When a development street plan includes connectivity to an existing
adjacent subdivision or collector street the connection shall be made as part
of the first phase.
 
Street Design Specifications
Street Type     Permitted On-Street Required R.O.W. Required Pavement Grade
                Parking             Width           Width             Min. Max.
Local           Both sides          50 feet         32 feet           0.5% 10%
Local collector Both sides          60 feet         36 feet           0.5% 8%
Collector       Both sides          60 feet         40 feet           0.5% 8%
                None                60 feet         36 feet           0.5% 8%
 
 
Notes to table:
  Measure from back-to-back of curbs. All pavements shall be centered in the
  required R.O.W. For any subdivision and or development that projects a trip
  count of 190 per day or more as determined by using the latest Trip
  Generation Manual, published by the Institute of Traffic Engineers, a minimum
a of two access streets shall be provided. Whenever a subdivision and/or
  development exceeds 479 trip counts per day as determined by the use of the
  above reference manual, it shall be required to have more than one entrance
  into the development which connects to a local collector, collector or
  arterial street as defined by this Code.
 
§ 151.246 TOPOGRAPHICAL CONSIDERATION.
   (A)   Grades of street shall conform as closely as possible to the natural
topography, but shall not exceed the maximum grade nor be less than the minimum
grade indicated in the Table on Street Design Specifications.
   (B)   All streets shall be arranged so that building sites are at or above
street grade.
§ 151.247 THROUGH TRAFFIC DISCOURAGED.
   (A)   Residential streets shall be laid out so as to discourage through
traffic.
   (B)   The rigid rectangular gridiron street pattern shall be avoided and the
use of curvilinear streets, cul-de-sacs or U-shaped streets shall be encouraged
to effect a more desirable street layout.
§ 151.248 LIMITED ACCESS TO ARTERIALS.
   Where a subdivision abuts or contains an existing or proposed minor arterial
street, the Planning Commission may recommend and the Board of Trustees may
require that access to the minor arterial street be limited by one of the
following means:
   (A)   The subdivision of lots so that they back onto the minor arterial
street and front onto a parallel land access street (double frontage lots),
coupled with the installation of screening in a reserve (access-restricting)
strip along the rear lot lines of the lots;
   (B)   A series of cul-de-sacs, U-shaped streets or short loops entered from
and generally at right angles in the minor arterial street, with the rear lot
lines of the lots at the termini of the streets backing onto the minor arterial
street; or
   (C)   A frontage road separated from the minor arterial street by a planting
strip, but having access thereto at suitable points.
§ 151.249 DEAD-END STREETS.
   (A)   Streets shall be so arranged to provide for the continuation of
streets between adjacent properties. The continuation is necessary for
convenient movement of traffic, effective fire and police protection and
efficient provisions of utilities. The developer's engineers are advised to
also review the village's Official Map and Land Use and Major Streets Plan. If
the adjacent property is undeveloped and the street must dead-end temporarily,
the right-of-way shall be extended to the property line and no strip that would
prevent connections with future streets shall be reserved. A temporary
turnabout shall be provided at the terminus of any temporary dead-end street.
   (B)   For greater convenience to traffic and more effective police and fire
protection, permanent dead-end streets shall be limited to 500 feet in length.
   (C)   The terminus of a permanent dead-end street shall not be closer than
50 feet to the boundary of an adjacent tract. A cul-de-sac turnaround, having a
minimum right-of-way radius of 50 feet and a minimum pavement radius of 45
feet, shall be provided at the end of every permanent dead-end street. All
surfaces of the turnaround shall be paved.
§ 151.250 INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Not more than two streets shall intersect at any one point.
   (B)   Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as possible at
right angles; in no case shall two streets intersect at an angle of less than
75 degrees. An oblique street shall be curved approaching an intersection and
shall be approximately at right angles with the intersection for at least 100
feet therefrom.
   (C)   Proposed new intersections along one side of an existing street shall,
whenever practicable, coincide with any existing intersections on the opposite
side of the street. Except where terrain does not permit, street intersection
jogs with centerline offsets of less than 150 feet shall not be permitted,
except where the intersected street has divided lanes without median breaks at
either intersection. Intersections involving collector or minor arterial
streets should be at least 1,000 feet apart.
   (D)   Radii-returns at intersections shall be made concentric and shall be
rounded by a radius of not less than 25 feet at the right-of-way line and less
than 30 feet at the back of curb line.
   (E)   All streets (including intersections) shall be built in such a way
that the cross-slopes thereon do not exceed 3%.
   (F)   The corner sight distance for streets should be a minimum of 300 feet
and desirably should be 400 feet or more. For local streets the minimum corner
sight distance should be a minimum of 200 feet and desirably should be 300 feet
or more. In order to maintain the minimum distance, restrictions on height of
embankment, locations of buildings and screening fences may be necessary. Any
landscaping in the sight distance triangle should be low growing, i.e., two
feet above pavement level.
   (G)   A flat grade shall be provided at intersections whenever practical; in
hilly terrain, an area with a 3% slope or less for a distance of 75 feet from
the center of the cross street shall be provided at the approach to the
intersection.
   (H)   Where a development traffic study indicates a signal is required, or
any governmental body directs a developer to install traffic signals, the
poles, mast arms, signal heads and all associated fittings, connections, nuts
and bolts shall be black in color. (All parts shall be galvanized per I.D.O.T.
standard, primed per manufacturers recommendations and then painted black.)
§ 151.251 CURVES.
   (A)   Where there is curvilinear horizontal alignment utilized for
subdivision streets, the minimum centerline radius to be used shall be as
indicated below.
 
Land access/local streets 100 feet
Collector street          150 feet
Arterial street           301.56 feet, dc = 19° 00' 00"
 
   (B)   If reverse curves are utilized and the radii are less than 300 feet, a
tangent at least 100 feet long should be introduced between the curves on
collector streets and arterial streets.
§ 151.252 EXISTING STREETS.
   (A)   Whenever any subdivision abuts an existing street that is narrower
than the standards indicated in Street Design Specifications, sufficient right-
of-way shall be dedicated on the side abutting the subdivision to permit
compliance with those standards at some future date.
   (B)   Existing streets within a subdivision shall be improved to the
standards imposed in this subchapter and §§
151.270 through
151.274 at the developer's expense.
§ 151.253 DEDICATION/RESERVATION OF RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   When right-of-way must be dedicated.
      (1)   The subdivider shall dedicate at least the minimum right-of-way
indicated herein whenever he or she proposes to build any of the listed
streets.
      (2)   Whenever the subdivider proposes to build any of the listed
streets, he or she shall dedicate right-of-way in excess of the stated minimum
where, in the village staff's professional opinion:
         (a)   Due to topography, additional width is necessary to provide
adequate sight-lines; or
         (b)   Due to the location of streams, railroad tracks and the like,
additional width is needed to construct bridges, underpasses and/or safe
approaches thereto.
   (B)   When right-of-way must be reserved.
      (1)   The subdivider shall reserve right-of-way whenever a subdivision
abuts an existing street that does not meet the standards set forth herein.
      (2)   The subdivider shall reserve sufficient right-of-way along the side
of the street abutting the subdivision so that, when additional right-of-way is
acquired on the other side, it will be possible to comply with the standards.
   (C)   Right-of-way not part of minimum setback. Any land that is dedicated
or reserved for public rights-of-way shall not be counted in determining
compliance with the lot size and setback requirements set forth in this Code.
§ 151.254 PRIVATE STREETS
   (A)   To create any private street, a variance must be granted by the
village.
   (B)   To obtain such a variance, the subdivider must satisfactorily
demonstrate that there is no current or potential public interest in the
proposed private street.
   (C)   If a private street variance is granted, provisions shall be made for
utility easements, sidewalks and bikeways that may be used by the public within
the private street right-of-way unless waived by action of the Village Board of
Trustees.
SUBDIVISION STREET IMPROVEMENTS; CURB AND CURB AND GUTTER STANDARDS
§ 151.270 GENERALLY.
   All new streets and all work to be undertaken thereon shall be constructed
according to the Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction
adopted and amended by the Illinois Department of Transportation and the
related Highway Standards, all of which are in effect at the time the
development is being constructed, except as provided herein. In case of
conflict, the most stringent shall apply.
§ 151.271 CURB AND/OR CURB AND GUTTER.
   (A)   All streets shall be bounded by integral concrete curb and/or curb and
gutter in conformity with the current State of Illinois Standard Specifications
for Road and Bridge Construction; provided that, this requirement may be waived
in the case of county and state roads with adequate shoulders. The Planning
Commission and the village staff may also recommend the type and size of curb
and/or curb and gutter to be utilized.
   (B)   Curb and/or curb and gutter may be constructed either integrally or
separately in conjunction with portland cement concrete pavement. If
constructed separately, the gutter flag shall be "tied" to P.C.C. pavement with
30-inch long #4 reinforcing bars spaced at 30-inch centers.
   (C)   (1)   Any curb and/or curb and gutter constructed on any development
and/or site improvement shall conform to at least the current I.D.O.T.
standards except as described in division (C)(2) below.
      (2)   In rare instances, the Board may consider decorative only landscape
curb on private property parking lots. The decorative landscape curb shall only
be considered under the following conditions:
         (a)   Shown on site and landscape plans and approved by the Village
Board;
         (b)   Curb does not direct, channel, funnel or provide a travel way
for storm water either in front or in back of the curb;
         (c)   The site is for professional office use only where less than 50%
of the business's clients and/or customers use the service provided by coming
to the site. If the site would cease being used for professional office space
as described above, the property owner will modify the curb to conform to that
required as a result of the new use at owner's expense before an occupancy
permit will be issued;
         (d)   Decorative landscape curb can not be used along driveways,
entrances or aisles;
         (e)   Concrete fiber reinforcement shall be used and shall consist of
100% virgin polypropylene, fibrillated fibers, specifically manufactured to the
optimum gradation for use as concrete secondary reinforcement. Volume of
reinforcement shall be a minimum of one and one-half pounds per cubic yard of
concrete and equal to fiber mesh;
         (f)   All decorative landscape curb shall be sealed to prevent
moisture penetration. Contractor to follow all manufacturer's recommendations
for product used;
         (g)   In no case shall the installation of the curb reduce the
ordinance-required parking stall, aisle size or the requirements of §
151.147; and
         (h)   If the decorative landscape falls into disrepair, in the opinion
of the Village Engineer, the landowner will then be subject to sanctions for
violation of §
91.01 of this Code. By way of example, but not limitation, disrepair shall be
unsealed cracks, fragmentation of curb, movement from design location in any
direction, dislocated pieces or missing pieces.
Cross-reference:
   Sidewalks; pedestrian; bikeways, see §
151.291
   Similar provisions, see
Appendix A
§ 151.272 PAVEMENT.
   All streets shall be paved at least as indicated below; provided that, the
following standards are minimums and the Planning Commission and the village
staff depending on engineering and traffic volume considerations may recommend
higher levels of structural pavement design based upon recognized engineering
standards.
   Minimum Requirements for Structural Composition of Subdivision Pavements
Street Classification Rigid Pavements Bituminous Concrete Pavement
   Minimum Requirements for Structural Composition of Subdivision Pavements
Street Classification Rigid Pavements             Bituminous Concrete Pavement
                      6-inch P.C.C. pavement (15- 2" Bituminous Concrete
                      footjoints)                 Surface Class I, Mix C, Type
Local residential                                 2
                      On 12-inch lime modified    2" Bituminous Concrete
                      sub-grade                   Binder, Class I, Type 2
                                                  12" Stabilized Subgrade
                      8-inch P.C.C. pavement (15- 2" Bituminous Concrete
                      foot reinforced joints)     Surface Class I, Mix C, Type
                                                  2
                      On 12-inch lime modified    5" Bituminous Concrete
Residential collector sub-grade                   Binder, Class I, Type 2
                      OR                          12" Stabilized Subgrade
                      6-inch S.R.P.C.C. pavement
                      (15-foot reinforced joints)
                      On 12-inch lime modified
                      sub-grade
                      8-inch P.C.C. pavement (15- 2" Bituminous Concrete
                      foot reinforced joints)     Surface Class I, Mix C, Type
                                                  2
                      On 12-inch lime modified    9" Bituminous Concrete
Local commercial      sub-grade                   Binder, Class I, Type 2
                      OR                          12" Stabilized Subgrade
                      6-inch S.R.P.C.C. pavement
                      (15-foot reinforced joints)
                      On 12-inch lime modified
                      sub-grade
                      10-inch P.C.C. pavements    2" Bituminous Concrete
                      with 15-foot reinforced     Surface Class I, Mix C, Type
                      joints                      2
                      On 12-inch lime modified    9" Bituminous Concrete
Collector commercial  sub-grade                   Binder, Class I, Type 2
                      OR                          12" Stabilized Subgrade
                      8-inch S.R.P.C.C. pavement
                      (15-foot reinforced joints)
                      On 12-inch lime modified
                      sub-grade
Notes to table:
Abbreviation: S.R.P.C.C. Standard Reinforced Portland Cement Concrete Pavement
 
(Am. Ord. 2020-03-02A, passed 3-2-2020)
§ 151.273 PAVEMENT STRUCTURE.
   (A)   Pavement structure. All streets shall be paved across the entire
surface width specified herein. The structural composition of the pavement
shall conform to the minimum requirements set forth herein unless higher
standards are recommended by staff based upon recognized engineering standards.
Design requirements for rigid and bituminous concrete pavements are set forth
hereinafter.
   (B)   Rigid pavement. Rigid pavement shall be constructed to the thicknesses
shown herein and in strict accordance with the applicable provisions of the
Illinois Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction.
      (1)   All joints to be sealed after joints are cleaned.
      (2)   Contraction joints are to be provided at the spacings shown herein
for each of the various alternates. These transverse joints are to be sawed
joints that are one-eighth inches to one-fourth inches wide with a depth equal
to one-fourth of the pavement thickness. Sawed construction joints are to be
cut at least within 24 hours of placement of the concrete. In all cases, joints
must be cut before the concrete cracks or the entire panel shall be removed and
replaced at the contractor's expense. Joints requiring reinforcement shall be
reinforced with 30-inch #4 deformed tie bars on 12-inch centers.
      (3)   (a)   Expansion joints shall be located per Illinois Department of
Transportation standards and as located by the developer's design engineer.
Expansion Joints are to be dowelled. Dowel sizes and spacing shall comply with
the following requirements:
 
Pavement Thickness Min. Dowel Diameter Min. Dowel Length Min. Dowel Spacing
6"                 3/4"                14"               12"
8"                 1"                  14"               12"
 
         (b)   The dowel units are to be smooth, plain round bars placed at
mid-height of the pavement with an expansion cap on one end. The bars, or
assemblies, shall be placed so that the bars are parallel to the centerline and
to the pavement surface and shall be treated to prevent bonding of the
concrete.
      (4)   (a)   Longitudinal joints shall be constructed no closer than eight
feet and no farther apart than 14 feet. The longitudinal joints may be either
"construction" joints or "sawed" joints. In either case, there shall be
transverse #4 deformed tie bars, 30 inches long, spaced at 30-inch centers
along all longitudinal joints. This includes the joint between the pavement and
curb/gutter if the curb/gutter is not constructed integral with the pavement.
         (b)   Sawed longitudinal joints shall be sawed within 24 hours of
concrete placement and prior to any traffic or vehicles traveling on the
surface or random cracks occurring in pavement. If a random crack occurs, the
entire panel or panels will be removed and replaced. All joints to be sealed
after the pavement is cleaned.
      (5)   Transverse construction joints shall be constructed at the end of
each day's run or at locations where a "cold" joint will occur due to a delay
or interruption in placement operations. All transverse construction joints
shall be "tied" with #4 deformed bars, 35 inches long, spaced at 12-inch
centers. Construction joints must be at least five feet from any other joint
including another transverse construction joint. All joints to be sealed after
joint is cleaned.
      (6)   (a)   Pavement reinforcement shall be used in all rigid pavements
designated as S.R.P.C.C. herein. Reinforcement shall be welded wire fabric (6"
by 12") with W 4 wire transversely and W 5.5 wire longitudinally weighing
approximately 54 pounds per 100 square feet. The fabric shall be lapped 12
inches on transverse laps and six inches on longitudinal laps. Reinforcement
shall be placed on the sub-grade and supported by proper chairs and spacers,
prior to paving, at the heights specified below:
 
Pavement Thickness Depth Below Pavement Surface
6"                 2" min, 3" max
8"                 3" min, 4" max
 
         (b)   Should a question arise whether the minimal standards are
adequate for a given condition (i.e. traffic volume, size of loads, sub-grade
support, drainage and the like), the required pavement design shall be
determined by the subdivider's engineer on the basis of current pavement design
procedures subject to the review of the village staff.
      (7)   Every concrete street, and curb and gutter constructed in the
village shall have a compressive strength of 4,000 PSI at 28 days. The
subdivider or developer shall provide to the village staff at no expense to the
village, concrete tests verifying compressive strength. The number of the tests
shall be determined by the village staff. The village staff shall also have the
right to request other tests, including air entrainment and slump tests, as it
deems necessary.
   (C)   Bituminous concrete pavement. Bituminous concrete pavement (asphalt
pavement) shall be constructed to the thicknesses shown within §
151.272 and in strict accordance with the applicable provisions of the Illinois
Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction. All mix designs shall
be approved by the City Engineer. The surface course on all original roadway
construction and pavement widenings shall be comprised of only virgin
materials.
      (1)   Should a question arise whether the minimal standards are adequate
for a given condition (i.e. traffic volume, size of loads, sub-grade support,
drainage and the like), the required pavement design shall be determined by the
subdivider's engineer on the basis of current pavement design procedures
subject to the review of the village staff.
      (2)   Every asphalt street shall be tested in accordance with ASTM and
AASHTO standards by a testing firm that meets ASTM requirement E-329. Plant
inspections are required with a minimum of 100 per tons per day completed
during construction by the developer's/owner's testing firm. In-place density/
thickness ASTM D1159, AASHTO T209, AASHTO T245 shall be completed by nuclear
testing device at a minimum of every 200 feet per lane per lift, and one per
cul-de-sac during construction by the developer's/owner's testing firm.
Density/thickness ASTM D2726-96, AASHTO T164, ASTM Dl856-95, AASHTO T170, ASTM
D2041-95 shall be completed by core testing. Two cores minimum per day (one
core full testing with second core standby) shall be taken by the developer's/
owner's testing firm. All results from material testing shall be submitted to
the Village of Shiloh for review.
(Am. Ord. 2020-03-02A, passed 3-2-2020)
§ 151.274 MAINTENANCE RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Subsequent to completion of street construction by the developer, the
village staff shall make a final inspection of all streets to ascertain the
acceptability of structural condition, earth slopes, drainage structures and
the like if the inspection indicates no deficient items, the village shall take
formal action to accept the completed streets for maintenance.
   (B)   Should any item need correction or repair, the subdivider will be
notified in writing of each deficiency. No street(s) will be accepted in a
subdivision until all streets comply with the village requirements to the
satisfaction of the village staff.
   (C)   Should the subdivider fail to properly correct any of the
deficiencies, he or she shall be responsible for all maintenance, until such
time as the streets are completely acceptable to the village. Under this
situation, the subdivider's maintenance responsibility shall be construed to
include, but not be limited to, regular mowing of the parkways; periodic
cleaning of debris from the pavement and gutters; periodic cleaning of storm
sewers and catch basins, snow plowing and the like. Should the subdivider fail
to discharge any of these responsibilities, he or she will be notified to
rectify the situation(s) by the village staff. Failure to take the necessary
remedial action(s) within 30 calendar days after the notification may result in
a fine not to exceed $500 with a similar such fine for every 14 calendar-day
period beyond the initial 30 days during which the necessary repairs/
maintenance activities are not completed.
   (D)   It should be noted, that regardless of whether or not the street(s)
have been accepted by the village for maintenance, no occupancy permits shall
be issued for any structure(s) until such time as the builder or developer has
cleaned all debris and mud from the pavement, gutter, drainageways and the like
in the nearby vicinity of the subject structure.
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS GENERALLY
§ 151.290 BLOCK STANDARDS.
   (A)   Blocks shall be sufficiently wide to accommodate two tiers of lots
having the minimum depth required by the zoning district regulations; however,
this requirement may be waived in blocks adjacent to local collector or
collector streets, railroads or water courses.
   (B)   No block shall be longer than 1,400 feet nor shorter than 500 feet.
Wherever practicable, blocks along collector streets shall be not less than
1,000 feet in length.
   (C)   Public access crosswalks not less than ten feet wide shall be built
through the center of blocks more than 1,000 feet long where necessary to
provide adequate access to schools, playgrounds, shopping centers or other
community facilities. Public access to be shown on all plats and maintenance to
be done by the property owner and/or development lot owners through the
subdivisions covenants and restrictions.
§ 151.291 SIDEWALKS/PEDESTRIAN/ BIKEWAYS.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Sidewalks on both sides of the street shall be required near
schools, within shopping areas, along roads of all business and industrial zone
districts and in other public or semi-public places with pedestrian traffic and
as otherwise determined by the Village Board.
      (2)   Sidewalks on both sides of the street shall be required in all
residential zone districts (ME, MR, R-1, R-2, R-3 and CE).
      (3)   No variance from the above requirements shall be granted unless the
Village Board determines that, in the area in question, sidewalks are not
needed to ensure public safety.
   (B)   Sidewalk construction standards.
      (1)   The street-side edge of every sidewalk shall be located at least
four feet from the curb to allow sufficient space for tree planting.
      (2)   Residential sidewalks shall be at least five feet wide.
      (3)   All sidewalks shall be constructed of concrete at least four inches
thick and shall have contraction joints with joint tool at five-foot centers
and expansion joints with one-inch pre-molded joint filler where abutting back
of curb/gutter.
      (4)   No sidewalk shall be constructed at a grade steeper than 10% unless
steps approved by the Village Board are provided.
      (5)   Curbs shall be cut and sidewalks shall be ramped at all
intersections so as to enhance the mobility of disabled individuals.
      (6)   All sidewalks shall be provided with #6 reinforcing mesh across the
entire breadth and width at driveways.
      (7)   See village ordinance for construction on r.o.w. for further
information on sidewalks.
   (C)   Pedestrian/bikeways.
      (1)   All developments shall provide pedestrian/bikeways within the
development and the interconnection of same throughout the village. Developers
shall extend any pedestrian/bikeway currently existing or shown on the Village
Transportation Plan or on adjacent right-of-way depending upon location of
existing pedestrian/bikeway.
      (2)   All bikeways shall be constructed based upon recognized engineering
standards.
§ 151.292 STREET NAMES AND STREET NAME SIGNS.
   (A)   (1)   The names of new streets shall be as approved by the 911 shall
be sufficiently different in sound and spelling from the names of existing
streets in village to avoid confusion.
      (2)   A street which is planned as a continuation of an existing street
shall bear the same name as the existing street.
   (B)   (1)   Street name signs shall meet standards as shown herein and shall
be erected by the developer at all intersections within or abutting the
subdivision.
      (2)   All street name signs shall be mounted on two-inch diameter
galvanized pipe set in concrete to a depth of at least three feet and extending
above the surface to a height of at least seven feet.
Cross-reference:
   Similar, see Appendices
A-6 and
A-7
§ 151.293 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Easements not less than ten feet wide shall be provided on each side
of all rear lot lines and alongside side lot lines where necessary for storm
and sanitary sewers; gas, water and other mains; and for underground electric
power and telephone lines and as required for future extensions of any of the
above. Easements of greater width may be required along or across lots when
necessary for the extension of main sewers or other utilities or where both
water and sewer lines are located in the same easement. The Village Board of
Trustees shall make the final determination as to location and size of
easements.
   (B)   Adequate drainange easements for storm water drainage, storage and
conveyance shall be established along any natural drainage channel and in such
other locations as may be necessary to provide satisfactory flow of storm water
from streets and all other portions of the development including the passage of
the 100-year storm event without an increase in water elevation. The location
and minimum widths of the drainage easements shall be approved by the village
staff.
   (C)   No person shall deny access to the easements to authorized officials
upon display of proper identification.
   (D)   (1)   No person shall erect any structure, fence, retaining wall,
install earth fill or plant any tree or shrub in any easement or within any
street right-of-way without a permit from the village. No person shall place
any object in a right-of-way (i.e., basketball hoop, soccer net) in any
easement or within any street right-of-way.
      (2)   Should the village issue a permit, the property owner will be
responsible for and maintain all items on the easement except for electric,
gas, phone, cable, water and sanitary sewer gravity or force mains.
      (3)   Should it become necessary in the opinion of the village or utility
company that items, exclusive of those listed above as not being the
responsibility of the property owner, on easements need to be demolished,
removed or reconstructed, it will be at the property owner's expense.
      (4)   This cost to include any expenses incurred by the village as a
result of this division (D).
Cross-reference:
   Fences, walls and natural barriers, see §
151.167
   Nuisances generally, see §
90.01
§ 151.294 UTILITIES.
   All utility lines, including gas, electric power, telephone, water, sewer
and CATV lines, shall be located underground throughout the subdivision. Any
extension of the above to the subdivision shall also be underground.
Underground service connections to the property line of each platted lot shall
be installed at the developer's expense; provided that, the Village Board may
waive the requirement for service connections to each lot in the case of
adjoining lots to be retained in single ownership.
Cross-reference:
   Easements, see §
151.293
§ 151.295 WATER FACILITIES.
   (A)   Generally. An adequate supply of potable water shall be provided to
every platted lot in accordance with state's Department of Public Health and
state's Environmental Protection Agency regulations. If the public water system
is reasonably accessible, each lot shall be properly connected thereto at the
property line. If the public water system is not available, individual wells
may be used or a private central water system may be developed, provided the
Village Board and St. Clair County Health Department approve the facilities.
   (B)   Water facilities design and conditions.
      (1)   The utility company providing the service shall design, or have
designed, the proposed water system in accordance with all regulatory
requirements and recommended standards for the area, including village
ordinances.
      (2)   A cost estimate will be furnished to the village staff to ensure
proper inclusion in any assurance of completion.
      (3)   If the utility company is installing the water system at its own
expense, the developer shall furnish the village with a verification letter
from the utility.
      (4)   Upon completion, the developer shall furnish the village with a
letter from the water utility company stating that all water system
improvements have been completed.
      (5)   No fittings shall be permitted under paved surfaces. This to
include, but not be limited to caps, unions, elbows, Ts, valves and/or pressure
reducers.
Cross-reference:
   Public Utilities, see
Chapter 50
§ 151.296 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   Fire hydrants of the type approved by the fire protection district of
jurisdiction shall be installed in every subdivision as part of the water
distribution system. The distance from any residential lot to a hydrant,
measured along the centerline of the public right-of-way, shall not be greater
than 500 feet. In all other zone districts, hydrant spacing shall not exceed
300 feet. Developer to provide sign off from the fire district approving the
location of all fire hydrants.
§ 151.297 SANITARY SEWERS.
   (A)   Generally. All proposed sanitary sewer facilities shall comply with
the regulations of the state's Department of Public Health and the state's
Environmental Protection Agency and must be approved by the village. All
sanitary systems to be extended at developer's expense to property line to
allow continuation of the system on adjoining property.
   (B)   When public system available. Whenever the public sanitary sewerage
system is reasonably accessible, the system shall be extended throughout the
subdivision, and each lot shall be provided with a connection thereto. See
Chapter 50 of this Code for further information.
   (C)   When public system planned. In areas where the public sanitary
sewerage system is not reasonably accessible, but where plans for the
installation of the system have been approved by the state's Environmental
Protection Agency, sanitary sewers shall be provided in accordance with the
plans and temporarily capped. To serve the subdivision until the time when
connection to the public system becomes practicable, an approved private
central sewage disposal system shall be installed or, individual sewage
disposal systems may be used. These private sanitary sewage disposal systems
shall be as approved by the St. Clair County Health Department.
   (D)   Alternate methods of disposal. In the event it is not possible for the
developer to extend the public sewer system into the proposed subdivision, for
whatever reason, the subdivider has the right to petition the village to
install an alternative method of sewage disposal. Any such petition shall be
considered on an individual basis with each case standing on its own merit. No
development shall be accepted without the village's approval of the method of
sewage disposal; and no petition will be considered without written approval of
the proposed system by the St. Clair County Health Department.
      (1)   Private central sewage systems. Upon specific approval of the
Village Board of Trustees, the subdivider may install a private central sewage
system. The village shall reserve the right to review and approve/reject the
detailed plans for such a system. Approval of the plans by the village shall in
no way be construed as acceptance of the design or operation or maintenance
responsibility for said installation. Such installation shall be designed and
constructed in accordance with the rules and regulations of the St. Clair
County On-Site Sewage Disposal Ordinance, the state's Environmental Protection
Agency and the state's Department of Public Health. The developer shall assume
perpetual operational and maintenance responsibilities for the installation
unless arrangements to the contrary are provided for in a formal written
agreement between home owners and the subdivider. Failure of the subdivider to
discharge his or her operational/maintenance responsibilities may result in a
fine of $500 per day for each day a deficiency exists and shall apply to the
subdivider, his or her heirs, successors or assigns. This in addition to any
fines assessed by any other governmental agency.
      (2)   Individual disposal systems. Upon written approval of the Village
Board of Trustees, the subdivider may install individual sewage disposal
systems. If such installations are permitted, they shall be designed and
installed in accordance with the applicable provisions of the requirements and
regulations of St. Clair County On-Site Sewage Disposal Ordinance and/or the
"Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act and Code" of the Illinois Department of
Public Health (St. Clair County Health Department).
§ 151.298 DRAINAGE AND STORM SEWERS.
   (A)   Generally. Every residential subdivision shall be provided with
roadway drainage facilities which can satisfactorily accommodate the storm
water surface runoff incident to the 25-year design storm. The roadway drainage
facilities in any commercial, institutional or industrial development shall be
designed to handle storm water runoff from the 50-year storm. These minimal
design requirements shall not be construed to relieve the developer of any
legal responsibilities for downstream/upstream storm water damages inflicted or
backup from the development.
   (B)   General design consideration. The plans and specifications shall
include provisions to show compliance with the drainage laws of the state and
any subdivision thereof in effect at that time. By requiring that the developer
evidence compliance with drainage law(s), the village assumes no responsibility
to landowners or others for damage caused by noncompliance with such law(s).
      (1)   Storm sewers. Properly-sized storm sewers shall be provided to
carry surface runoff from paved access. The storm sewers shall be of sufficient
length that they shall transport the runoff to rear lot lines or existing
natural drainageways or swales providing their location does not encroach upon
the building site.
      (2)   Drainage swales. Natural drainage swales may be utilized to
accommodate surface runoff providing they are located near lot line and the
flows induced therein do not pose health or safety hazards for residents.
      (3)   Accommodation of upstream drainage areas. Drainage facilities shall
be adequate to accommodate potential runoff from the entire drainage area
upstream of the proposed subdivision without an increase of water elevation or
velocity in the 100-year storm event. Potential runoff shall be determined on
the basis of maximum land use upstream of the proposed subdivision. Potential
runoff shall be determined on the basis of maximum land use upstream area that
is consistent with current zoning or adjacent land use trends.
      (4)   Sufficient design. All storm sewers, culverts, other drainage
structures and/or drainage swales which are proposed in drainageways shall be
of sufficient design to pass the 100-year storm event without an increase in
either headwater elevation or velocity.
      (5)   Drainage retention. In order to protect downstream property from
potential damages by increased flows or greater velocities, it will be
necessary for the developer to provide for drainage detention facilities which
should be designed for the excess runoff due to the proposed development for
both the ten-year and 100-year storm event.
   (C)   Technical requirement. Storm drainage facilities shall be designed and
constructed in accordance with the criteria set forth herein and the standards
contained in Appendix B.
      (1)   Pipe/storm sewers. All pipe sewers shall be determined by
utilization of either the “rational method” or the SCS method, or both, for the
design storm(s) previously specified.
         (a)   The minimum diameter for pipe culverts shall be 15 inches and
the minimum diameter for storm sewers shall be 12 inches.
         (b)   Pipes/storm sewers located under paved surfaces shall be
reinforced concrete pipe with rubber-gasket joints and sufficient wall
thickness and reinforcement to carry the intended loading with the materials
meeting the requirements of ASTM C-76 and ASTM C-443. All concrete storm pipe
to be I.D.O.T. inspected and stamped or manufacturers certifications submitted
that are satisfactory to the village. Polyvinyl Chloride (PVC) pipe may be
considered as an alternate to reinforced concrete pipe with prior approval by
the village. All storm sewer pipes must be constructed in accordance with
Section 550 of the Illinois Department of Transportation Standard
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction.
         (c)   Pipes/storm sewers shall be located at least ten feet
horizontally and/or 18 inches below any proposed water mains or water service
lines. If a pipe/storm sewer must be located within ten feet horizontally and/
or within 18 inches below or above water mains or water service lines, the
storm sewer shall be constructed to meet water main standards utilizing the
following pipe materials:
            1.   Ductile- iron pipe. Ductile-iron pipe shall conform to ANSI A
21.51 (AWWA C151), with thickness class designed per ANSI A 21.50 (AWWA C150)
appropriate to the installation conditions, with tar (seal) coated and cement-
lined interior per ANSI A 21.4 (AWWA C104). with rubber ring gasketed push on
joints. Joints for ductile-iron pipe shall be according to the following
applicable specifications: Push-On Joints - AWWA C111 and C600.
            2.   Plastic pipe. Polyvinyl Chloride (PVC) and Chlorinated
Polyvinyl Chloride (CPVC) shall conform to NSF Standard 14 and ASTM Standard B
1784 or all Standard C 900 or G 905. Piping materials designated Class 12454B
(PVC 11201 Class 12454C (PVC 1220) and Class 23447B (CPVC 41201 are acceptable
in the following pressure ratings: schedule ratings shall be according to ASTM
Standards B 1785 (PVC) and F441 (CPVC): standard dimension ratio pressure rated
(SDR-PR) shall be according to ASTM Standards D2241 (PVC) and ASTM F442 (CPVC).
Schedule 80 is required for all pipe sizes: pipe to be threaded shall be at
least Schedule 120, SDR rating of 26 or less shall be required for PVC 1120,
PVC 1220 and CPVC 4120. All pipe and fittings shall bear the National
Sanitation Foundation (NSF) seal of approval. The piping shall be visibly
marked with specific schedule number of SDR rating.
   Jointing shall be pressure slip jointed, solvent welded, heat welded,
flanged, or threaded joint. Special precautions shall be taken to insure clean,
dry contact surfaces when making solvent or heat welded joints. Adequate
setting time shall be allowed for maximum strength. Elastomeric seals (gaskets)
used for push-on joints shall comply with ASTM Standard F477. Solvent cement
shall be specific for the piping material and shall comply with the ASTM
Standard D2564 (PVC) and F493 (CPVC) and be approved by NSF.
         (d)   Pipes/storm sewers located outside paved surfaces and under
nominal fill loadings shall be of any of the following materials:
            1.   Plastic pipe meeting the requirements of ASTM D-2241, ASTM D-
3034, ASTM F-679 and\or AWWA C-900;
            2.   a.    Corrugated aluminum pipe meeting the requirements of
AASHTO M-196, minimum plate thickness of 14 ga. for D = 15" to 27": 12 ga. for
D 30" and up;
               b.   For every inlet or catch basin within a proposed project
the developer shall install either a placard per village standard or an
integral casting indicating “NO DUMPING - FLOWS TO WATERWAYS”;
            3.   Reinforced concrete pipe with sufficient wall thickness and
reinforcement to carry the intended loading and meeting the requirements of
ASTM C-76; and
            4.   Polymer coated corrugated galvanized steel pipe meeting the
requirements of AASHTO M-36 and M-180, with gage thickness conforming to the
state’s Department of Transportation Standard Specifications for Road and
Bridge Construction. Bands are to have the same coating as the pipe. The
developer shall be responsible for increasing minimum plate gauges as the final
loading dictates. Any storm sewer connecting band shall be a minimum of two
feet. One-foot bands will not be permitted.
         (e)   Installation shall be in accordance with the state’s Standard
Specification for Road and Bridge Construction. All trenches for pipes/storm
sewers that are located under paved surfaces shall be properly backfilled and
compacted in a minimum density of 95% of maximum Standard Lab Dry Density as
prescribed by AASHTO T-99. Developer to furnish compaction tests for all trench
fills.
      (2)   Inlets/catch basins. The spacings for inlets/catch basins shall be
calculated such that the runoff from the design storm shall not encroach upon
the pavement by more than eight feet in the 25-year storm event. Under no
circumstances shall water travel more than 500 feet on paved surfaces.
Inlets/catch basins shall be constructed in accordance with the standards in
Appendix B. All open-throat inlets shall not have a throat opening greater than
six inches with a permitted variance of one-half inch. Streets where the slope
exceeds 5% shall utilize vaned inlets within the curb and gutter to prevent by-
pass of storm water flows.
      (3)   Drainage grades. Minimum/maximum gradients of pipes/storm sewers
and earth drainageways/swales shall conform to the following criteria.
         (a)   Pipes/storm sewers.
            1.   Minimum velocity of storm sewers should be three feet per
second to provide a cleansing velocity.
            2.   Maximum grade: None; Rip-rap and/or energy dissipators shall
be utilized as needed at discharge points to minimize erosion.
         (b)   Drainageways/swa les. All development drainageways/swales
meeting the requirements below, except for natural streams and creeks, shall be
paved. The paved drainageways shall conform to I.D.O.T. standards. The width of
the paved swale shall be determined by the flows involved and conform to
I.D.O.T. design standards. In no case shall the paved swale be less than 18
inches with a six-inch bottom and with no steeper than three to one side
slopes. This to include all storm sewer and/or culvert outfalls and yard
drainage swales.
            1.   Drainage swales to be paved shall be those with a flow of four
cfs or greater in the ten-year storm event except as noted herein.
               a.   For institutional uses, where the property is to be owned
and maintained by the institution and the size of the parcel so owned and
maintained exceeds ten acres, paving or lining will only be required if the
velocities in the 25-year storm event exceed those allowable for grass surfaces
per Table 9 - 503a of the I.D.O.T. Drainage Manual.
               b.    However, design engineer to evaluate the requirements for
lining or paving at any changes in flow direction, at the confluence of two or
more swales, ditches or pipes and swales or ditches or areas subject to
turbulence, wave action or centrifugal forces. Owner is advised that if the use
changes or property is subsequently divided the requirements hereof shall
prevail and owner shall pay for all costs to comply with the Code.
            2.   For drainageways/swales not requiring paving hereunder, the
following shall apply:
               a.    Minimum grade: 1%; and
               b.    Maximum grade: 3%, with no protection other than sod for
those that do not require paving. However, should velocities in the 25-year
storm event exceed those allowable per the soil type as shown in Table 9 - 503a
in the I.D.O.T. Drainage Manual protective lining shall be required.
            3.   Twelve percent with paving, rip-rap and/or energy dissipaters
or paving and the like.
            4. Manholes conforming to the requirements set forth in Appendix B
shall be installed at all changes in vertical grade or horizontal alignment of
storm sewers if at locations other than inlets/catch basins.
   (D)   Areas subject to flooding. Whenever a plat is submitted for an area
that, in the opinion of the village staff, is subject to flooding, the Board of
Trustees will require appropriate protective measures.
(Am. Ord. 2020-03-02A, passed 3-2-2020)
Cross-reference:
   Flood Plain Areas; Development, see §§
151.475 through
151.489
§ 151.299 STORM WATER RUNOFF.
   Any person, firm, corporation or other entity proposing to construct
buildings or develop land within the jurisdiction of the village shall prepare,
for approval by the village staff, a Storm Water Management Plan that describes
the manner in which erosion, sediment and runoff resulting from the development
will be controlled and managed. No building or construction permits or plat
approval shall be issued by the village until the Storm Water Management Plan
has been approved by the village staff as meeting the requirements of this
Code. Downstream property owners, watercourses, channels or conduits shall not
receive storm water runoff from proposed upstream developments at a higher peak
flow rate than would have resulted from the same storm event occurring over the
site of the proposed development with the land in its natural, undeveloped
conditions, nor shall storm water runoff exceed the capacity of the natural
drainage system.
   (A)   Storm water runoff resulting from a proposed development shall be
detained on-site:
      (1)   By wet or dry bottom reservoirs;
      (2)   By underground reservoirs;
      (3)   On flat roofs, parking lots or streets; or
      (4)   By other detention methods approved by the village staff.
   (B)   For purposes of designing adequate on-site detention facilities, the
state's water survey rainfall data for this region shall be used.
   (C)   (1)   Detention basins. Basins may be constructed to temporarily
detain the storm water runoff so that the rate at which it is released is the
same rate as before development. The following features shall be incorporated
into the design of any detention basin.
         (a)   Storage volume. The volume of storage provided shall be
sufficient to store flows both during and immediately after the maximum storm
event which can be expected to occur once every ten and 100 years. After the
appropriate volume has been determined a one-foot "freeboard" shall be added to
the storage elevation to determine the final height of the detaining fill or
structure.
         (b)   Outlet control works.
            1.   Outlet works shall be designated to limit peak outflow rates
from detention storage areas to or below peak flow rates that would have
occurred prior to the proposed development.
            2.   Outlet works shall not include any mechanical components or
devices and shall function without requiring attendance or control during
operation.
         (c)   Spillway. Emergency spillways shall be provided to permit the
safe passage of runoff generated from a 100-year storm.
         (d)   Maximum depth. The maximum planned depth of storm waters stored
shall not normally exceed four feet without properly designed safety features.
(See division (D) below.)
         (e)   Side slopes. The maximum side slopes for grassed basins shall
not exceed one foot vertical for three feet horizontal (3:1 slope) for basins
less than or equal to four feet deep: for basins greater than four feet deep,
the maximum side slope shall not exceed four to one (4:1).
         (f)   Limits of ponding. In no case shall the limits of maximum
ponding be closer than 30 feet horizontally from any building and less than two
feet vertically below the lowest sill elevation.
         (g)   Interior drainage. The basin bottom should be designed to drain
expeditiously. If the bottom is to be grass, it should have a minimum slope of
1%.
         (h)   Low flow channel. Small flows through the detention basin should
be handled by paved ditches from inflow structures to outflow structure to
minimize erosion. Paved ditches to be constructed per I.D.O.T. Standards.
         (i)   Multi-purpose basins. If the detention basin is to have other
uses, the design of the basin bottom should include under-drains to expedite
drying of the bottom between runoff events.
         (j)   Aesthetics. Designs should result in aesthetically pleasing
configurations which will enhance public acceptability.
         (k)   Basin edge. The basin edge must be located a minimum of ten
feet, plus one and one-half times the basin depth from public rights-of-way.
      (2)   Detention ponds and lakes. Detention ponds and lakes may also be
used to temporarily detain the differential runoff from the development. In
addition to the general design features, the following should also be
incorporated into the design of any detention ponds or lakes.
         (a)   Normal pool depth. In order to minimize weed growth, the normal
pool depth should be four feet minimum.
         (b)   Depth for fish. If fish are to be kept in the pond, at least
one-quarter of the area of the permanent pool should have a minimum depth of
ten feet.
         (c)   Facilities for emptying. In order to ease cleaning of the pond
or shoreline maintenance, the pond design should include provisions for
emptying the pond.
         (d)   Low flow bypass. The design of any pond may include a low flow
bypass channel or pipeline to divert runoff that can be accommodated by
downstream drainageways.
         (e)   Bank stabilization. In order to minimize the effects of waves or
ice, some type of bank stabilization such as rip-rap or concrete should be
placed along the normal pool shoreline.
         (f)   Side slopes below normal pool. The side slopes below the normal
pool elevation may exceed the maximum side slope permitted above normal pool.
The design shall, however, include provisions for a safety ledge having a depth
of water not greater than three feet immediately adjacent to the shoreline.
         (g)   For lakes. In addition to the requirements hereof, the final
height of the dam and drainage easement calculations shall take into account
the wave run up due to wind.
      (3)   Rooftop storage. Detention storage may be met in total or in part
by detention on roofs. Details of the design, which shall be included in the
building permit application, shall include the depth and volume of storage,
details of outlet devices and down-drains, elevations of overflow scuppers,
design loadings for the roof structure and emergency overflow provisions.
Direct connection of roof drains to sanitary sewers is prohibited.
      (4)   Parking lot storage. Paved parking lots may be designed to provide
temporary detention storage of storm water on all or a portion of their
surfaces. Outlets will be designed so as to slowly empty the stored waters and
depth of storage must be limited so as to prevent damage to parked vehicles.
Depth of stored water shall not exceed six inches.
      (5)   Other detention methods. All or a portion of the detention storage
may also be provided in underground or surface detention facilities, to include
basins, tanks or swales and the like.
   (D)   Safety features. Design of detention facilities shall incorporate
safety features, particularly at outlets, on steep slopes and at any attractive
nuisances to include, as necessary, fencing, handrails, lighting, steps,
grills, signs and other protective or warning devices so as to restrict access
during critical periods and to afford some measure of safety to both authorized
and unauthorized persons. (Design engineer to certify adequate safety features
are included on the plans.)
      (1)   In addition to any other provisions herein, any structure built
downstream of a dam shall have a lowest sill elevation of one foot above the
maximum wave height associated with a dam breach at the structure location as
per the state's Department of Natural Resources (IDNR) Division of Water
Resources dam safety permit requirement.
      (2)   Any dam associated with a detention pond or lake shall be on a
single parcel. Split ownership will not be permitted.
      (3)   Any subdivision which contains a dam or is downstream of a dam, the
following statement shall be on the final plat:
      "Owner of the parcel containing a dam and those downstream of a dam are
hereby cautioned about the risks associated with parcels downstream of a dam
and the responsibilities of dam ownership. For further information on the
responsibilities and liabilities owners are advised to contact their own
attorney, the State Dam Safety Office and the Illinois Department of Natural
Resources, Office of Water Resources."
   (E)   Application to development and subdivisions. The provisions of this
section shall be applicable to all development and subdivisions.
   (F)   Storm water detention facilities. The storm water detention facilities
must be built in conjunction with the storm sewer installation and be fully
operational after the clearing of vegetation.
      (1)   Silt and debris connected with early construction shall be removed
periodically from the detention area to maintain full storage capacity.
      (2)   The maintenance responsibility of the detention area shall remain
with the developer and/or contractor until final inspection and applicable
escrows are released.
      (3)   Before plat approval, the developer shall submit his or her plan
for future maintenance responsibility of the detention area.
   (G)   Review by village staff. When applicable, the provisions of this
section shall be reviewed by the village staff to assure compliance.
   (H)   Storm water detention facilities fully operational. No occupancy
permit can be issued in any development phase, unless the storm water detention
facilities to which the building area is tributary, are fully operational.
§ 151.300 GRADING AND CLEARING.
   Grading and clearing necessitated for any development shall be done in such
a manner as to assure uniform sub-grade support with adequate bearing capacity
to properly support the loading/structures to be superimposed. In order to help
achieve this result, the subdivider shall comply with the following
requirements.
   (A)   Clearing and grubbing. Prior to grading, the entire area to be
affected with improvements (i.e., pavement, water, sewer, drainage, buildings
and the like) shall be cleared of all tree stumps, roots, brush and other
objectionable materials and of all trees not intended for preservation. All
trees, stumps, hedges and deletions material located within the right-of-way or
buildable areas shall be removed to a depth of not less than 12 inches.
   (B)   Embankments. Embankments and fills within the development shall be
done in a manner compatible with good road construction practices and in
accordance with the provisions herein.
      (1)   Fills shall be constructed in lifts not to exceed 12 inches loose
and each lift shall be properly compacted to a density not less than the
requirements of Article 205.05 of the I.D.O.T. Specifications for Road and
Bridge Construction.
      (2)   No wood, trash or other objectionable material shall be placed in
fills.
      (3)   Large clods and excessively wet fill material shall be disked and/
or aerated as required to achieve the minimum density and result in a stable
embankment.
      (4)   Compaction shall be achieved with a roller capable of properly
compacting the given type of embankment material. In the case of fine drained
soils, a sheep's-foot roller shall be deemed suitable.
      (5)   The village will require the subdivider to furnish, at his or her
expense, results of field compaction tests for verification of proper
construction. The tests shall be performed and certified by a respectable
testing lab or engineering firm.
   (C)   Sub-grades. In areas where embankment is to be placed, the material
shall be properly compacted up to sub-grade elevation. In the case of cut
sections, the sub-grade shall be cleared of all unsuitable material, including,
but not limited to, vegetation, tree stumps and roots, trash, debris, soft
spongy soil and the like, for a minimum depth of 18 inches below sub-grade
elevation. The upper 12 inches of the entire length of sub-grade (cut or fill)
shall be compacted to at least 95% of maximum standard lab density.
§ 151.301 EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL.
   In any development, the following erosion and sedimentation control
regulations shall be observed.
   (A)   The development shall conform to the natural limitations presented by
topography and soil so as to create the least potential for soil erosion.
   (B)   Large trees (those having a diameter of four inches or more when
measured 12 inches above the ground) shall be retained and protected to the
maximum extent consistent with development of the site.
   (C)   Land shall be developed in the smallest increments of workable size so
that adequate erosion and sediment controls can be provided and coordinated
with on-going construction work. When soil is exposed, the exposure shall be
for the shortest feasible period of time.
   (D)   Temporary vegetation or, where appropriate, mulching or other
nonviable cover shall be used to protect areas exposed during development.
   (E)   Provisions deemed adequate by the village staff shall be made to
effectively accommodate the increased runoff caused by changed soil and surface
conditions both during and after development. Appropriate devices, such as
sediment basins, debris basins, desilting basins or silt traps, shall be
installed and maintained to remove sediment from surface waters leaving the
development.
   (F)   No development shall be occupied until grading has been completed in
accordance with the approved improvements plans.
§ 151.302 GREEN SPACE AND/OR RESERVATIONS FOR PUBLIC USE.
   In accordance with ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-12-8, the Planning Commission
shall require the developer to reserve land for parks, playgrounds, schools or
other public purposes and reservations shall be as follows.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ACTIVE USE GREEN SPACE. Land in subdivisions used for passive or active
parks, playgrounds, trails, paths or similar type uses that are accessible to
the subdivision residents.
      BOULEVARD. Any street encompassing in width, as measured from one side's
right-of-way to the other's a distance exceeding by 25% or more the minimum
width required for the street and its use by the ordinances of the village and
which includes a center unpaved area for trees, landscaping grass or other
vegetation.
      GREEN SPACE. Land devoted to parks, recreation or open spaces, including
by example, but not limited to, subdivision entrances, unpaved areas of
boulevard streets, parking islands, trails, paths and interconnections of same
with other subdivisions, and specifically not including parts of one or more
individual lots improved with, and/or used for another principle purpose such
as housing or storm water detention.
      PASSIVE USE GREEN SPACE. Land in subdivisions used for subdivision
entrances, unpaved areas of boulevard streets, parking islands, undeveloped
woods or grasslands that provide visual green space.
   (B)   Information required. The gross and net acreage area of the proposed
subdivision; the acreage of street right-of-way; the acreage of any areas
reserved for the common use of the property owners within the subdivision and/
or for public use; and the gross acreage reserved for green space, the net
acreage for active green space and net acreage for passive green space. The
locations, dimensions and areas of all parcels to be reserved or used for green
space and its intended use.
   (C)   Provision of green space (general green space requirements).
      (1)   Proposed subdivision shall contain active and passive green space.
The green space shall be owned (either in fee simple or by perpetual easement),
supervised, managed and maintained by the developer, subdivision property
owner's or owner's association. In some cases the Village Board may consider
acceptance of active green space as a public park. In no case shall acceptance
be for portions of the storm water management system. The green space shall
consist of active and passive green space, whether developed for recreational
uses or not, but shall not include water retention, water detention or other
storm water management system areas; however, ponds, lakes or natural wetlands
that are part of the storm water management system shall be considered as green
space. Green space must be accessible to all lots via right-of-way or public
access easements. Creative uses of green space will be encouraged.
      (2)   The subdivision's covenants and restrictions shall include language
to the effect that, if the property owners fail to maintain the green space,
the village has the authority to maintain the green space and impose a lien on
each lot in the subdivision for its share of the maintenance costs. The
developer shall have the duty to maintain the green space until such time as
70% of the lots have been sold or individual property owners control the
association. However, the developer shall be responsible for construction
details and construction quality until release of the same per the provisions
of the Development Code. The developer may petition the village to accept
active green space for public park for tracts over three acres.
      (3)   As part of the developer's site plan approval responsibilities,
developers shall be responsible for the improvements to the development for
active and passive green space purposes including, but not limited to, finished
grading and ground cover for all green spaces within their development.
      (4)   In a phased subdivision, the developer must provide the required
green space for the subdivision in proportional amounts for each phase of the
development. The amount of green space exceeding the requirements in a
completed phase may be applied toward any future phase of the subdivision.
      (5)   Locations of green space shall generally conform to the village's
Comprehensive Plan and all regional plans.
      (6)   Any park space accepted by the village as public shall have the
following:
         (a)   Minimum public street frontage of 50 feet;
         (b)   Sanitary sewer on site;
         (c)   Municipal water on site; and
         (d)   Electric, gas, telephone on site.
   (D)   Minimum green space requirements.
      (1)   Single-family residence districts (CE, R-1, R-2 and R-3): 4% of the
total area should be passive green space.
      (2)   Multi-family and mobile home districts (MR, MH): 8% of the total
area should be passive green space.
      (3)   All other districts: 8% of the total area of the subdivision which
shall consist of passive green or active green space all of which shall be
provided within the subdivision.
   (E)   Compliance with green space requirements. In providing the required
areas of green space within the subdivision the required amount of passive
green space must be provided within the boundaries of the proposed subdivision.
The required amount of active green space may be provided in the following
ways:
      (1)   Construction of the active green space within the development;
      (2)   A cash contribution in lieu of constructing active Green Space may
be made by the developer to the "Village of Shiloh Park Improvement Fund";
      (3)   A combination of divisions (E)(1) and (2) above as approved by the
Village Board; or
      (4)   If at least 30% of the required active green space in a district is
provided in the subdivision, the payment of the sum of per lot fee shall still
be paid. If at least 60% of the required active green space is provided in the
subdivision, the sum of 40% of the aforementioned lot fee shall be paid.
Amounts due shall be paid at the time of approval of the final plat of the
subdivision.
   (F)   Protection of green space. Green space shall be protected from
development through platting, deed restrictions or restrictive covenants which
will ensure its perpetual use as a green space as defined in this section and
which further provides that no changes in use may be made without the express
written consent of the village.
§ 151.303 WETLANDS.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   Wetlands of the village are indispensable and fragile resources.
      (2)   In their natural state, wetlands reduce pollution and nutrients
from a broad range of sources, store and convey flood waters, reduce erosion,
provide wildlife nesting and feeding areas, provide habitat for plants, provide
outdoor recreation opportunities, provide buffers, reduce the effects of
adjacent light and noise sources and provide education and scientific study
opportunities.
      (3)   Wetlands play a critical role in water resource protection and
watershed management.
      (4)   The village, therefore, wants to ensure that no further loss of
wetland functions and acreage occur within the village and that any activities
in wetlands will not increase hazards.
      (5)   The village also wants to ensure integration of wetland protection
into its local comprehensive land use plan and development, ecosystem
management and storm water management plan.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      HABITAT LINKAGE. Corridors to help plants and animals migrate. These
linkages include streams, riparian corridors or any conservation corridor that
provides a physical habitat link.
      WETLANDS. Those areas that are permanently or seasonally inundated or
saturated by surface or ground water at a frequency and duration sufficient to
support, and that under normal circumstances do support, a prevalence of
vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions. WETLANDS
generally include swamps, marshes, bogs, fens and similar areas. These areas
are commonly shown on the National Wetland's Inventory Map.
   (C)   Permits.
      (1)   Unless exempted under division (G) herein, no person may conduct or
cause to be conducted a regulated activity within or affecting a wetland
without a permit from the village. Any person proposing to conduct or cause to
be conducted a village regulated activity shall file an application for a
permit with the village. Ten copies of the application shall be submitted. The
applicant shall provide within ten days of filing a permit application a
written notice of the permit application to the owners of each tract of
property adjacent to the property containing the wetland that is the subject of
the permit. The applicant shall also post a notice of the proposed permit,
within ten days of the filing of the application, in a local newspaper of
general circulation.
      (2)   A permit applicant shall include the following information in the
application:
         (a)   A map of the area that will be affected by the activity,
including wetland and water boundaries for the area affected and the existing
uses and structures;
         (b)   A description of the proposed activity, including its purpose,
the location and dimensions of any structures, grading or fills, drainage,
roads, sewers and water supply, parking lots, storm water facilities, discharge
of pollutants and onsite waste disposal;
         (c)   A description of any public benefit to be derived from the
proposed project;
         (d)   A description of the entire parcel owned by the applicant,
including a topographical survey of the property and a sketch map indicating
the location of the wetland on the parcel;
         (e)   A description of any natural hazards at the site, including
flood, erosion and soil bearing capacity hazards, and an indication of how the
applicant will avoid increasing hazards on other lands and avoid hazard losses
associated with the proposed activity;
         (f)   An explanation of other alternatives the applicant has
considered, why the proposed activity cannot be located at other sites, and why
other alternatives cannot be used to fulfill the desired purpose of the
proposed activity;
         (g)   The names and addresses of adjacent landowners as determined by
the current tax assessment roles and a description of adjacent uses and their
distance from the proposed activity; and
         (h)   Proposed measures to reduce the impact of the proposed activity
on wetland and habitat linkage functions and values and to compensate for
impacts.
      (3)   The village may require additional information where that
information is needed to determine the compliance of the proposed activity with
the criteria for issuance of a permit. Where informational deficiencies are
apparent in the application, the village shall advise the applicant of the need
for additional information within 30 days of the receipt of the application.
      (4)   As part of the permit application process, the applicant shall
notify, within ten days, by certified mail other state, federal and local
government entities that may have jurisdiction over the proposed activity, as
well as any other persons or entities that have requested to receive
notification of wetland permit applications from the village. All people and
entities so notified shall have 30 days from the date of the applicant's
notification to provide comments to the village.
      (5)   The village shall also hold a public hearing concerning the permit
application if the proposed activity may have significant impact upon wetland
resources.
      (6)   The village shall issue, conditionally issue, or deny a permit
within 120 days of receipt of a permit application unless the permit applicant
has failed to supply needed information or additional information gathering is
needed to determine the compliance of the permit with regulatory criteria.
      (7)   In granting a permit, the village may impose conditions that must
be carried out to meet the goals of this Code and the permit criteria. The
village may suspend or revoke a permit if it finds that the applicant has not
complied with the conditions or limitations set forth in the permit. The
village may require a bond in an amount and with surety and conditions
sufficient to secure compliance with the conditions and limitations set forth
in the permit.
      (8)   (a)   A permit applicant shall submit a fee to the village when
submitting an application to the village for a regulated activity. The village
shall deny any permit application that does not include the appropriate fee.
         (b)   The amount of the fee shall be $1,000 for each acre pro rata
that will be affected by a regulated activity. However, no fee shall be due
from any entity listed in ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5, § 12.2(e) of the Environmental
Protection Act, as currently enacted or later amended.
         (c)   All fees collected by the village under this section shall be
deposited into the Village Wetlands Protection and Maintenance Fund.
   (D)   Criteria for issuance of permits.
      (1)   The village shall issue a permit when it finds that the proposed
activity is in the public interest.
      (2)   In determining whether a proposed activity is in the public
interest, the village shall consider the goals of this Code and any more
specific criteria for permit issuance adopted by the village. The village shall
also consider the impact on habitat linkage. To find that a proposed activity
is in the public interest, the village must find that:
         (a)   There will be no net loss of wetland function within the
village. At a minimum, this shall require findings that there will be no net
loss within the village of:
            1.   Wetland habitat for breeding, nesting, foraging, resting or
protection of any species, including those species on the federal or state list
of threatened, endangered or rare species;
            2.   Storm water and floodwater retention capacity;
            3.   Groundwater recharge capacity;
            4.   Ability to improve water quality through sedimentation,
filtration, biological treatment or other functions;
            5.   Recreational opportunities such as hunting or fishing, hiking
and the like; and
            6.   Habitat linkage system.
         (b)   There will be no net loss of wetland acreage;
         (c)   The proposed activity will not cause flooding, erosion or other
hazards that will threaten other landowners or the public;
         (d)   An adequate upland buffer will be provided to protect remaining
wetland acres from sediment, pollutants and other threats. This buffer must be
at least 50 feet, except as otherwise provided in the criteria adopted by the
village. The buffer width for a development site may be varied to a minimum of
one-half of the required buffer width provided that the total required buffer
area is achieved;
         (e)   The state has certified that the proposed activity will not
cause or contribute to a violation of any state water quality standards;
         (f)   The proposed activity will not otherwise threaten health and
safety, cause nuisances, impair public rights to the enjoyment and use of
public waters, or threaten a rare or endangered plant or animal or a unique
ecosystem;
         (g)   There is no reduction in the buffering of adjacent light and
noise sources; and
         (h)   Any adverse impacts will be minimized. In evaluating the impact
of the proposed permit, the village shall consider the cumulative effect of
existing and reasonably anticipated future activities upon wetland resources.
The village shall consider any irreversible and irretrievable commitment of
resources that will result from the proposed activity, and the relationship
between short-term uses of the environment and the maintenance and enhancement
of long-term productivity. The village shall also consider any proposed impact
reduction and compensation measures only after determining that there are no
practicable alternatives to the proposed activity and that the measures are
consistent with this Code.
   (E)   General permits.
      (1)   In carrying out its functions relating to regulated activities, the
village may, after notice and opportunity for public hearing, issue a general
permit on a category of regulated activity if the village determines that the
activities in that category are similar in nature, will cause only minimal
adverse environmental effects when performed separately, and will have only
minimal cumulative adverse effect on the environment. Best management practices
shall be prescribed for activities regulated by a general permit. Any general
permit issued under this division shall:
         (a)   Be based on the guidelines set forth in this Code; and
         (b)   Set forth the requirements and standards that will apply to the
activity authorized by the general permit.
      (2)   No general permit issued under this subsection shall be valid for a
period of more than two years after the date of its issuance.
      (3)   A general permit may be revoked or modified by the village if,
after opportunity for public hearing, the village determines that the
activities authorized by the general permit have an adverse impact on the
environment or the activities are more appropriately authorized by individual
permits.
   (F)   Creation, restoration and compensation; mitigation banks.
      (1)   The village shall encourage private landowners, other agencies,
land trusts and others to restore wetlands in order to achieve the long-term
goal of a net gain in wetland resources and habitat linkages. The village shall
identify possible restoration sites in cooperation with other organizations if
available.
      (2)   When a permit applicant proposes wetland restoration, creation or
enhancement to compensate for damage to a wetland, the village shall consider
the risk of failure of the impact reduction and compensation measures and may
require that permit applicant to implement measures prior to undertaking the
proposed activity.
      (3)   The village may not accept as an impact reduction or compensation
measure any measure that creates or restores, on a pro rata basis, less than
one acre of wetland for every one acre of wetland disturbed by a regulated
activity within the village. In deciding whether the compensation ratio
proposed by the project applicant is sufficient to provide no net loss of
wetland functions and acreage, the village shall consider.
         (a)   The sensitivity of the wetland type;
         (b)   The success of other efforts to restore this wetland type;
         (c)   The length of time it will take before a compensation wetland
will become fully functioning;
         (d)   The degree of difficulty that will be encountered in creating or
restoring wetland hydrology in this setting;
         (e)   The adequacy of the overall project design;
         (f)   The threats, if any, posed to the compensation wetland by
pollution or other activities;
         (g)   The adequacy of proposed protection and management measures for
the proposed compensation wetlands;
         (h)   The extent to which monitoring and mid-course correction
capabilities are proposed;
         (i)   The extent to which bonds or other assurances are provided to
insure long-term success;
         (j)   The reduction of habitat linkage; and
         (k)   Any other factors the village determines to be relevant.
      (4)   The village may use the compensation ratios established under the
Illinois Interagency Wetland Policy Act of 1989, being ILCS Ch. 20, Act 830,
and its implementing regulations and guidelines to establish minimum
compensation ratios under this Code. However, all compensating shall be within
the village limits and shall not result in a loss of habitat linkages.
Compensation activities can not be performed outside the immediate sub-
watershed where the regulated activity will occur. Compensatory activities
shall occur within the village, in the same general area and habitat linkage as
that of the wetland to be affected by the permitted activity.
      (5)   The village may also authorize permit applicants, in appropriate
circumstances, to compensate for loss of wetland functions by utilizing wetland
mitigation banks. The village may authorize a permit applicant to use a bank if
there is no practicable onsite alternatives and using the bank will provide a
net benefit in wetland functions and acreage within the village. The village
may permit some combination of onsite impact reduction, compensation measures
and offsite mitigation banks.
   (G)   Exemptions.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (G)(2) below, the following
activities are not prohibited by or otherwise subject to regulation under this
Act:
         (a)   Normal farming, silviculture or ranching activities such as
plowing, seeding, cultivating, minor drainage, harvesting for the production of
food, fiber and forest products and upland soil and water conservation,
practices;
         (b)   Maintenance, including emergency reconstruction of recently
damaged parts, of currently serviceable structures such as dikes, dams, levees,
groins, riprap, breakwaters, causeways, bridge abutments or approaches and
transportation structures;
         (c)   Construction or maintenance of farm or stock ponds or irrigation
ditches, or the maintenance, but not construction of drainage ditches;
         (d)   Construction of temporary sedimentation basins on a construction
site that does not include any regulated activities within or affecting a
wetland; and
         (e)   Construction or maintenance of farm roads, forest roads or
temporary roads for moving mining equipment, where the roads are constructed
and maintained in accordance with best management practices to assure that flow
and circulation patterns and chemical and biological characteristics of
wetlands are not impaired, that the reach of wetlands is not reduced, and that
any adverse effect on the aquatic environment will be otherwise minimized.
      (2)   Any regulated activity having as its purpose bringing a wetland
into a use to which it was not previously subjected, where the flow or
circulation of waters may be impaired, or where the reach of the wetlands shall
be reached, shall be required to have a permit.
   (H)   Administrative appeals. Any permit applicant who has been denied a
permit in whole or in part, and any person who participated in the permit
proceeding and who is aggrieved by a decision of the village to grant a permit
in whole or in part, may appeal the decision to the Village Board within 30
days of the permit grant or denial.
   (I)   Penalties: enforcement.
      (1)   A person who directly or through any employee or agent knowingly
violates this Code or any rule established under this Code is guilty of a Class
A misdemeanor. Each violation of this Code shall be a separate offense, and in
the case of continuing violation, each day's continuance shall be deemed to be
a separate and distinct offense.
      (2)   A person who violates this Code or the rules promulgated under this
Code or causes a violation by his or her employee or agent shall be liable for
a civil penalty not to exceed $50,000 for the original violation and an
additional civil penalty not to exceed $10,000 for each day during which any
loss of wetland functions caused by the violation continues. The penalty shall
be recovered in an action brought by village staff. In determining the
appropriate civil penalty to be imposed the court may consider any matters of
record concerning mitigating or aggravating factors for determining the
penalty, including, but not limited to, the following:
         (a)   The duration and gravity of the violation;
         (b)   The presence or absence of due diligence on the part of the
violator in attempting to comply with the requirements of this Code and the
rules promulgated under this Code or to secure relief as provided by this Code;
         (c)   Any economic benefits received by the violator from the
violation of this Code;
         (d)   The amount of monetary penalty that will serve to deter further
violations by the violator and to otherwise aid in enhancing voluntary
compliance with this Code by the violator and other persons similarly subject
to this Code; and
         (e)   The number, proximity in time, and gravity of previously
adjudicated violations of this Act by the violator.
      (3)   The village may terminate a permit if the holder violates any
conditions of the permit, obtains a permit by misrepresentation or fails to
disclose relevant facts.
      (4)   The village, may, institute a civil action in circuit court for an
injunction or other appropriate legal action to restrain a violation of this
Code or of any rule adopted under this Code. In the proceeding, the court shall
determine whether a violation has been committed or is likely to occur, and
shall enter any order it considers necessary to remove the effects of the
violation and to prevent the violation from occurring, continuing or being
renewed in the future. An order may include a requirement that the violator
restore the affected wetland area, including a provision that, if the violator
does not comply by restoring the wetland or habitat linkage within a reasonable
time, the village may restore the wetland or habitat linkage to its condition
prior to the violation and the violator shall be liable to the village for the
cost of restoration.
      (5)   Any penalty assessed pursuant to this Code, including costs of
wetland or habitat linkage restoration and any restoration requirements, shall
be recorded by the clerk of the court as a lien against the land and shall not
be removed until the penalty is paid or the restoration is completed.
      (6)   All costs, fees and expenses in connection with an enforcement or
restoration action shall be assessed as damages against the violator.
      (7)   All penalties collected by the village under this section shall be
deposited into the Village Wetlands Protection and Maintenance Fund.
      (8)   Enforcement actions under this section may be concurrent or
separate.
   (J)   Village Wetlands Protection and Maintenance Fund. All fees collected
by the village pursuant to this Code shall be deposited into the Village
Wetlands Protection and Maintenance Fund, which is hereby created as a special
fund in the village budget. In addition to any money appropriated from the
General Revenue Fund, the Village Board shall appropriate moneys in the Village
Wetlands Protection and Maintenance Fund to the Park Fund in amounts deemed
necessary to implement this Code and maintain wetlands within the village.
   (K)   Preemption. Nothing in this Code shall be construed as a limitation or
preemption of any statutory or regulatory authority arising under the
Environmental Protection Act or ILCS Ch. 55, Act 5, § 5-1062 of the Counties
Code.
GENERAL PROVISIONS; CODES ADOPTED
§ 151.320 BUILDING CODE ADOPTION.
   The 2018 International Building Code is hereby adopted as the Building Code
for the village, with the conditions listed below as divisions (A) through (E)
below.
   (A)   If there is any conflict between the administrative provisions of the
Code and the provisions of §§
151.340 through
151.351 of this Development Code, the provisions of §§
151.340 through
151.351 shall prevail.
   (B)   If there is any conflict between the substantive (non-administrative)
provisions of the Code and the substantive provisions of this Development Code,
the more stringent regulation shall prevail.
   (C)   Payment of fees to read as outlined in
Chapter 34 of the Village Codified Ordinance Book.
   (D)   Fee schedule to read as outlined in
Chapter 34 of the Village Codified Ordinance Book.
   (E)   Violations to read as outlined in
Chapter 34 of the Village Codified Ordinance Book.
(Am. Ord. 2021-10-04A, passed 10-4-2021)
Cross-reference:
   Fees, see
Chapter 34
§ 151.321 PLUMBING CODE ADOPTION.
   The Illinois State Plumbing Code, published by the Department of Public
Health, State of Illinois, current edition, is hereby adopted as the Plumbing
Code for the village. Every provision of the Illinois State Plumbing Code is
hereby made a part of this Development code as if fully set out herein.
Applicable fees are set forth in
Chapter 34 of the Village Codified Ordinance Book.
§ 151.322 ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTION.
   (A)   The 2017 National Electrical Code is hereby adopted as the Electrical
Code for the village. Applicable fees are set forth in
Chapter 34 of the Village Codified Ordinance Book.
   (B)   Except arc-fault circuit breakers are required only in bedrooms.
(Am. Ord. 2021-10-04A, passed 10-4-2021)
§ 151.323 MECHANICAL CODE ADOPTION.
   The 2018 International Building Code is hereby adopted as the Building Code
for the village, with the conditions listed below. Applicable fees are set
forth in
Chapter 34 of the Village Codified Ordinance Book.
(Am. Ord. 2021-10-04A, passed 10-4-2021)
§ 151.324 FIRE PREVENTION CODE ADOPTION.
   The 2018 International Fire Code as well as the current NFPA Standards are
hereby adopted as the Fire Prevention Code for the village. Applicable fees are
set forth in
Chapter 34 of the Village Codified Ordinance Book.
   (A)   The O'Fallon–Shiloh Valley–Caseyville Fire Protection District shall
review all applications within their district. All applicable fees to be paid
by the applicant per Fire District requirements.
   (B)   When proposed construction is in the O'Fallon–Shiloh Valley–Caseyville
Fire Department Rural District, the following requirements shall supersede any
conflicting portions of other codes.
      (1)   The Fire Department connection (FDC) shall be free standing and
remote from the building at a distance from the building equal to 150% of the
height of the adjacent exterior wall.
      (2)   The (FDC) shall be equipped with a single five-inch thread-less
Storz brand connection and shall have a 30-45 degree downward deflection. The
Storz connection shall connect to the pipe outlet from the building using
National Standard Thread.
      (3)   The (FDC) shall be arranged to face a paved roadway, sidewalk or
other approved area and shall be installed so that it will not interfere with
access to the building when hoses are laid from the closest public hydrant to
the (FDC). The (FDC) shall be located on the same side of the lot and/or
building as the closest public hydrant.
      (4)   The (FDC) shall be arranged so that the connection is between 30
and 48 inches above the finished grade, sidewalk or location of the connection.
      (5)   The (FDC) shall be labeled "sprinkler connection" and/or "Fire
Department connection". The wording shall be easily visible with a contrasting
background.
      (6)   Where the (FDC) is subject to vehicular damage, the connection
shall be protected. Any protection components that are installed shall not
interfere with the use or operation of the connection.
      (7)   A Knox brand locking cap with a chain or cable shall be provided
for the (FDC).
      (8)   All required NFPA tests are required to be witnessed by a Fire
Department member or his or her representative. This includes, but is not
limited to, the following:
         (a)   The flush of all installed underground pipe, prior to connection
of the sprinkler system.
         (b)   The hydrostatic 200-pound test of all underground piping.
         (c)   The hydrostatic 200-pound test of all above ground (building)
piping.
         (d)   Final alarm test concerning the sprinkler system components.
      (9)   A horn/strobe or bell and strobe mounted on the exterior of the
building are required to signify water flow on the sprinkler system.
      (10)   Residential sprinkler systems are optional.
      (11)   All systems must be installed to meet all National Fire Protection
Association and local building code requirements.
(Am. Ord. 2021-10-04A, passed 10-4-2021)
§ 151.325 BUILDING CONSTRUCTION INSPECTION PROCESS.
   The following inspection process will be performed on all new construction
and remodeling within the village (to ensure requested inspection time a 48-
hour notice is recommended. Otherwise, inspections will be done on an "as
inspections are available" schedule):
   (A)   Footing and foundation inspection (before concrete is poured):
      (1)   Concrete curb/gutter; and
      (2)   Work on public right-of-way.
   (B)   Concrete wall inspection (before concrete is poured);
   (C)   Structural inspection (after framing, electrical, plumbing and HVAC
rough-in is completed, but before drywall or plaster);
   (D)   Electrical inspection (temporary electrical service, if needed);
   (E)   Electrical inspection (after rough-in is complete before power is on);
   (F)   Plumbing inspection (rough-in. Also, if basement before floor is
poured for that portion);
   (G)   Electrical inspection (final trim, after power is on);
   (H)   Plumbing inspection (final trim, after water and sewer connected);
   (I)   Aeration inspection (if necessary) by St. Clair County Health
Department; and
   (J)   Final occupancy inspection.
    * If checked, a Fire Inspection is required and is to be scheduled with the
appropriate Fire District by the applicant.
§ 151.326 WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE ADOPTION.
   The 2006 International Wildland-Urban Interface Code is hereby adopted by
the Village of Shiloh.
PROCEDURES
§ 151.340 SUBMITTAL PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Applications or other documentation subject to the procedures
referenced in this subchapter, §§
151.365 through
151.369,
151.380 through
151.383,
151.395 through
151.398,
151.410 through
151.415,
151.430 through
151.436 and
151.450 through
151.461, to the extent submission of applications or other documents are
required, shall be presented to the named authority.
   (B)   Following receipt, the documents shall be examined by the appropriate
authority and if in substantial conformity with the ordinances, in the opinion
of village staff, it will be processed in accordance with the terms of this
subchapter, §§
151.365 through
151.369,
151.380 through
151.383,
151.395 through
151.398,
151.410 through
151.415,
151.430 through
151.436 and
151.450 through
151.461.
§ 151.341 INITIAL CERTIFICATE OF ZONING COMPLIANCE (BUILDING PERMIT).
   (A)   An initial certificate of zoning compliance shall be required to
develop land, establish or erect a new use or structure, or enlarge, extend,
alter, relocate or reconstruct an existing use or structure. Where structural
work occurs, this certificate is equivalent to a building permit. Every
applicant for an initial certificate of zoning compliance shall submit to the
village staff, in graphic and/or narrative form, all the items of information
listed below that are applicable to the particular project. The village staff
shall decide which items are applicable.
   (B)   Items of information:
      (1)   Name and address of the applicants;
      (2)   Name and address of the owner or operator of the proposed structure
or use, if different from division (B)(1) above;
      (3)   Nature of the proposed use, including type of activity, manner of
operation, number of occupants or employees and similar matters;
      (4)   Location of the proposed use or structure and its relationship to
existing adjacent uses or structures;
      (5)   Area and dimensions of the site for the proposed structure or use;
      (6)   Existing topography of the site (USGS ten-foot contour data is
acceptable) and two-foot contours of proposed finished grade (in flatter areas,
staff will require two-foot contours of existing topography to ensure owner's
design professional has considered existing contours properly);
      (7)   Existing and proposed screening, landscaping and erosion control
features on the site, including the parking area;
      (8)   Height and setbacks of the proposed structure;
      (9)   Number and size of proposed dwelling units, if any;
      (10)   Location and number of proposed parking/loading spaces and
accessways;
      (11)   Identification and location of all existing proposed utilities,
whether public or private; and/or
      (12)   Any other pertinent information that the village staff may
require.
   (C)   The village staff shall not issue an initial certificate of zoning
compliance unless, following consultation with technically qualified persons as
necessary, staff determines that the proposed work conforms to the applicable
provisions of the Development Code. This conformance shall include, but not be
limited to, the requirements of §§
151.299 and
151.415. The certificate shall be valid for one year, unless revoked for
failure to abide by a corrective action order or if physical work on the site
is not begun within six months of issuance. The village staff may renew such
certificate for successive one-year periods upon written request by the
applicant; provided, the person is making a good faith effort to complete the
authorized work. The extension request shall be filed by the village staff with
the original application.
§ 151.342 CORRECTIVE ACTION ORDER.
   (A)   Whenever the village staff finds, by inspection or otherwise, that any
lot, structure, or use, or work thereon, is in violation of the Development
Code, staff shall serve a corrective action order upon the responsible party in
one of the following ways:
      (1)   Delivered in person;
      (2)   Sent by registered mail to last known address; or
      (3)   Posted in a conspicuous place on or about the affected premises.
   (B)   The order to take corrective action shall be in writing and shall
include:
      (1)   A description of the premises sufficient for identification;
      (2)   A statement indicating the nature of the violation;
      (3)   A statement of the remedial action necessary to effect compliance;
      (4)   The date by which the violation must be corrected;
      (5)   A statement that the alleged violator is entitled to a conference
with the village staff if he or she so desires;
      (6)   The date by which an appeal of the corrective action order must be
filed and a statement of the procedure for so filing; and
      (7)   A statement that failure to obey a corrective action order shall
result in revocation of the certificate of zoning compliance and may result in
imposition of fines.
   (C)   In such case that the village staff states on the corrective action
order that the violation must cease immediately, the corrective action order is
equivalent to a stop order. Also, in the event that such violation poses an
imminent peril to life or property, staff may institute, without notice or
hearing, any emergency measures considered necessary to alleviate the perilous
condition.
§ 151.343 WRITTEN COMPLAINTS.
   Any person may submit a written complaint whenever any violation of the
Development Code occurs, or is alleged to have occurred. The village staff
shall file the complaint, investigate as soon as possible, and if necessary,
institute corrective action.
§ 151.344 FINAL CERTIFICATE OF ZONING COMPLIANCE (OCCUPANCY PERMIT).
   A final certificate of zoning compliance shall be required to use, occupy or
put into operation any land developed, new use or structure established or
erected, or existing use or structure enlarged, extended, altered, relocated or
reconstructed; provided that, the work required an initial certificate of
zoning compliance. Upon written request and payment of required fee by the
applicant, the village staff shall inspect the work authorized by the initial
certificate. If it is determined that the work has been completed in accordance
with approved plans, the applicant shall receive the final certificate.
§ 151.345 SPECIAL USE PERMIT.
   (A)   Generally. A special use permit shall be required to establish or
erect a use or structure which is listed in the applicable zoning district in
Schedule A as a special use. Applicants for a special use permit for any use
classified as an adult use shall provide additional information to demonstrate
compliance with §
151.183.
   (B)   Application.
      (1)   An application (see division (A) above) shall be submitted for a
special use permit to the village staff, and the application along with a staff
advisory report, will be forwarded to the Planning Commission for consideration
as herein provided. The application shall be accompanied by a non-refundable
fee (See
Chapter 34.)
      (2)   Items of information (in narrative and/or graphic form):
         (a)   Name and address of the applicant;
         (b)   Name and address of the owner or operator of the proposed
structure or use, if different from division (B)(2)(a) above;
         (c)   Nature of the proposed use, including type of activity, manner
of operation, number of occupants or employees, and similar matters;
         (d)   Location of the proposed use or structure, and its relationship
to existing adjacent uses or structure;
         (e)   Area and dimensions of the site for the proposed structure or
uses;
         (f)   Existing topography of the site, with two-foot contours, and
proposed finished grade;
         (g)   Existing and proposed screening, landscaping and erosion control
features on the site, including the parking area;
         (h)   Height and setbacks of the proposed structure;
         (i)   Number and size of proposed dwelling units, if any;
         (j)   Location and number of proposed parking/loading spaces and
accessways;
         (k)   Identification and location of all existing or proposed
utilities, whether public or private;
         (l)   Owner's design professionals certification that all Code
requirements are being met and an analysis of the effect on public utilities
and traffic circulation;
         (m)   For original submittal, two copies (24" by 36" size) of the plan
will be submitted with the application. After review and modifications
applicant to submit two copies (24" by 36" size) plans and ten copies (11" by
17" size) plans; and
         (n)   Any other pertinent information that the Administrator may
require.
   (C)   Public hearing. The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing on
every special use permit application within a reasonable time after the
application is submitted. At the hearing any interested party may appear and
testify, either in person or by duly authorized agent or attorney. Notice
indicating the time, date and place of the hearing and the nature of the
proposed special use shall be given not more than 30, nor less than 15, days
before the hearing.
      (1)   The applicant will give notice by certified mail or notarized
signatures on a sheet to all parties whose property would be directly affected
by the proposal and must include all adjoining property owners. The applicant
shall submit to the village staff prior to the public hearing proof (certified
return receipt) that all parties have been notified. If proof is not given at
least one business day prior to the public hearing, the application shall be
removed from the agenda and the public hearing must be rescheduled.
      (2)   The village will publish notice in a newspaper of general
circulation within its municipality at the applicant's expense.
   (D)   Recommendation, factors considered.
      (1)   (a)   After the public hearing, the Planning Commission shall
submit a recommendation to the Village Board of Trustees. In deciding what
recommendation should be given, the Planning Commission shall consider the
following:
            1.   Whether the proposed design, location and manner of operation
of the proposed special use will adequately protect the public health, safety
and welfare, and the physical environment;
            2.   The effect of the proposed special use on neighboring property
value and the overall tax base;
            3.   The effect of the proposed special use on public utilities and
traffic circulation on nearby streets; and
            4.   Whether there are any facilities near the proposed special use
(such as schools or hospitals) that require special protection.
         (b)   The recommendation, when the applicant is proposing an adult
use, must show compliance with the requirements and development standards
hereof.
      (2)   The Plan Commission may recommend conditions on which the special
use be approved.
   (E)   Action by Village Board of Trustees.
      (1)   The Village Board of Trustees shall act on every request for a
special use permit at its next regularly scheduled Board meeting (not a
committee at large meeting) following submission of the Planning Commission's
recommendation. The Village Board may place additional conditions on which the
special use is approved or modify the conditions recommended by the Planning
Commission. Without further public hearing, the Village Board of Trustees may
grant a special use permit by a vote passed by simple majority vote of all
members then holding office.
      (2)   If a request for a special use is denied by the Village Board, a
special use resubmittal, on the parcel, by the same owner/applicant, will not
be accepted by the village for one year following the Village Board meeting at
which the denial was made.
      (3)   Any special use so granted, shall be based on submittals made to
the village prior to the vote of the Village Board. Any modifications or
alterations proposed after the vote shall not be considered or accepted. Should
the applicant wish to modify from the original submittal, the special use
process shall begin again and public hearings, recommendations and votes be
taken on the new special use request.
(Am. Ord. 2020-03-02A, passed 3-2-2020)
§ 151.346 RESERVED.
§ 151.347 AMENDMENT/RE-ZONING.
   (A)   Generally. The Village Board of Trustees may amend this Development
Code in accordance with state law (Illinois Compiled Statutes) and the
provisions of this section. Amendments may be proposed by the Village Board of
Trustees, the village staff, the Village Planning Commission or any party in
interest.
   (B)   Application.
      (1)   An application (see §
151.340) shall be submitted to the village staff and the application along with
a staff advisory report, will be forwarded to the Planning Commission for
consideration as herein provided. The application shall be accompanied by a
non-refundable fee. (See
Chapter 34.)
      (2)   Every Amendment proposal shall also be filed with the St. Clair
County Soil and Water Conservation District by the applicant and evidence of
same furnished with the application to the village.
      (3)   Applicant, at a minimum, to include the following items of
information (in narrative and/or graphic form):
         (a)   Name and address of the applicant;
         (b)   Name and address of the owner or operator of the proposed
structure or use, if different from division (B)(3)(a) above;
         (c)   Nature of the proposed use, including type of activity, manner
of operation, number of occupants or employees and similar matters;
         (d)   Location of the proposed use or structure, and its relationship
to existing adjacent uses or structure;
         (e)   Area and dimensions of the site for the proposed structure or
uses;
         (f)   Existing topography of the site, with two-foot contours and
proposed finished grade;
         (g)   Number and size of proposed dwelling units, if any;
         (h)   Location and number of proposed parking/loading spaces and
accessways;
         (i)   Identification and location of all existing utilities;
         (j)   For original submittal, two copies (24" by 36" size) of the plan
will be submitted with the application. After review and modifications
applicant to submit two copies (24" by 36" size) plans and ten copies (11" by
17" size) plans; and
         (k)   Any other pertinent information that the Administrator may
require.
   (C)   Public hearing, notice. The Village Planning Commission shall hold a
public hearing on every amendment proposal within a reasonable time after said
proposal has been submitted. At the hearing any interested party may appear and
testify, either in person or by duly authorized agent or attorney. Notice
indicating the time, date and place of the hearing, and the nature of the
proposed amendment shall be given not more than 30, nor less than 15, days
before the hearing.
      (1)   The applicant will give notice by certified mail or notarized
signatures on a sheet to all parties whose property would be directly affected
by the proposal and must include all adjoining property owners. Applicant shall
submit to the village staff prior to the public hearing proof (certified return
receipt) that all parties have been notified. If proof is not given at least
one business day prior to the public hearing, the application shall be removed
from the agenda and the public hearing must be rescheduled.
      (2)   The village will publish notice in a newspaper of general
circulation within its municipality at the applicant's expense.
   (D)   Recommendation, findings of fact. After the public hearing, the
Planning Commission shall submit a recommendation to the Village Board of
Trustees. This recommendation shall state the Village Planning Commission’s
findings regarding adoption of the proposed amendment.
   (E)   Action by Village Board of Trustees. The Village Board of Trustees
shall act on every proposed Amendment at its next regularly scheduled meeting
(not a committee at large meeting) following submission of the Village Planning
Commission's recommendation. Without further public hearing, the Village Board
of Trustees may pass any proposed Amendment or may refer it back to the Village
Planning Commission for further consideration, by simple majority vote of all
members then holding office.
      (1)   If a request for an amendment is denied by the Village Board, an
amendment/rezoning request, on same parcel, by the same owner/applicant, will
not be accepted by the village, for one year following the Village Board
meeting at which the denial was made.
      (2)   Exception: The favorable vote of at least two-thirds of all the
members of the Village Board of Trustees is required to pass an amendment to
this Development Code when the proposed amendment is opposed, in writing, by
the owners of 20% of the frontage proposed to be altered, or by the owners of
20% of the frontage immediately adjoining or across an alley therefrom, or by
the owners of 20% of the frontage directly opposite the frontage proposed to be
altered.
(Am. Ord. 2020-03-02A, passed 3-2-2020)
§ 151.348 APPEAL.
   (A)   Generally. Any person aggrieved by any decision or order of the
village staff in any matters related to the interpretation or enforcement of
any provision of this Code may appeal to the Village Board of Appeals. In no
case can an appeal be made on construction document interpretation after the
work has been completed. Every such appeal shall be made and treated in
accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Filing, record transmittal.
      (1)   Every appeal shall be made within 28 days of the matter complained
of by filing with the village staff a written notice specifying the grounds for
appeal.
      (2)   An application shall be submitted for an appeal to the village
staff who will review it to ensure it is complete. If it is incomplete, staff
will notify the applicant that the application is invalid, and not a submittal
of record. If staff certifies the application as complete, it will be forwarded
to the Board of Appeals for consideration as herein provided.
      (3)   The appeal application shall include at a minimum: The specific
portion(s) of the ordinance or construction documents which applicant feels
have been incorrectly interpreted and a list of specific code sections or
construction documents in dispute. For construction document interpretation
claims, the application must include an opinion from a licensed design
professional stating that staff interpretation is not correct and design
professional's technical opinion of why it has been misinterpreted. A list of
all property owners to whom the notice (see division (C) below) must be sent.
      (4)   The village staff shall transmit to the Village Board of Appeals
all records pertinent to the case.
   (C)   Public hearing, notice. The Village Board of Appeals shall hold a
public hearing on every appeal within a reasonable time after filing of the
appeal notice. At the hearing, any interested party may appear and testify,
either in person or by duly authorized agent or attorney. Notice indicating the
time, date and place of the hearing, and briefly describing the issue to be
decided shall be given not more than 30, nor less than 15, days before the
hearing.
      (1)   The applicant will give notice by certified mail or notarized
signatures on a sheet to all parties whose property would be directly affected
by the proposal and must include all adjoining property owners. Applicant shall
submit to the village staff prior to the public hearing proof (certified return
receipt) that all parties have been notified. If proof is not given at least
one business day prior to the public hearing, the application shall be removed
from the agenda and the public hearing must be rescheduled.
      (2)   The village will publish notice in a newspaper of general
circulation within its municipality.
   (D)   Stay of further proceedings.
      (1)   An appeal stays all further action on the matter being appealed
unless the village staff certifies to the Village Board of Appeals, after the
notice of appeal has been filed with them, that for reasons stated in the
certificate, a stay would cause imminent peril to life or property. In such
case, further action shall not be stayed unless the Village Board of Appeals or
the circuit court grants a restraining order for due cause, and so notifies the
village staff.
      (2)   Filing of an appeal on construction document interpretation shall
also prohibit the applicant from performing any work in question until the
decision of the Village Board.
   (E)   Recommendation, findings of fact. After the public hearing, the
Village Board of Appeals shall submit its recommendation to the Village Board
of Trustees. The recommendation shall state the Village Board of Appeals’
findings regarding the appeal and its reasons therefor.
   (F)   Decision by Village Board of Trustees. The Village Board of Trustees
shall render a decision on the appeal within a reasonable time after receipt of
the Village Board of Appeals’ recommendation. The Board of Trustees may reverse
or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify or amend the decision or order
appealed from to the extent and in the manner that they deem appropriate.
(Am. Ord. 2020-03-02A, passed 3-2-2020; Am. Ord. 2022-05-02A, passed 5-2-2022)
§ 151.349 MAINTENANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The subdivider/developer shall maintain all the improvements in the
subdivision until they have been accepted by and dedicated to the village or
other appropriate entity. The dedication shall occur within two years of the
village staff's certification that all required improvements have been
satisfactorily completed, but can only occur if the below are followed.
   (B)   (1)   Prior to dedication, the subdivider/developer shall notify the
village in writing he or she is prepared to dedicate the improvements and shall
post a maintenance guarantee with the village staff.
      (2)   The guarantee shall be in the form of an irrevocable letter of
credit in the amount determined by the village staff to be sufficient to
guarantee the satisfactory condition of the required improvements for a period
of two years from the date of their acceptance and dedication.
      (3)   If, at any time during the two-year period, the improvements are
found to be defective, they shall be repaired/replaced by the subdivider/
developer at the subdivider's/developer's expense.
      (4)   If the subdivider/developer fails or refuses to pay such costs
within 60 days after demand is made upon him or her by the village staff, the
village shall have the defective items repaired and use the letter of credit to
pay for the necessary repairs/replacement.
      (5)   If the cost of repairs/replacement exceeds the irrevocable letter
of credit amount, the subdivider/developer shall be liable for the excess. At
the end of the two-year period, the irrevocable letter of credit shall be
released.
§ 151.350 VACATION OF PLATS.
   (A)   In accordance with state law (Illinois Compiled Statutes), any plat or
part thereof may be vacated by the owner of the tract, at any time before the
sale of any lot therein, by a written vacation instrument to which a copy of
the plat is attached.
   (B)   If there are public service facilities in any street, other public way
or easement shown on the plat, the instrument shall reserve to the village or
other public entity or public utility owning the facilities the property,
rights-of-way and easements necessary for continuing public service by means of
those facilities and for maintaining or reconstructing the same. The vacation
instrument shall be approved by the Village Board of Trustees in the same
manner as plats of subdivision and shall also be approved by the St. Clair
County Superintendent of Highways, the Highway Commissioner of the appropriate
township, the District Engineer of the State Department of Transportation and
the public utilities, if involved.
   (C)   In the case of the platted tracts wherein any lots have been sold, the
written vacation instrument must also be signed by all the owners of lots in
said tracts.
§ 151.351 SUBDIVISION VARIANCE.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Any subdivider/developer desiring a variance from the requirements
of this Development Code shall file a written application therefor with the
village staff at the same time that he or she files his or her preliminary
plat.
      (2)   The application shall fully explain the grounds for the variance
request, and specify the section(s) of this Code which, if strictly applied,
would cause great practical difficulties or hardship.
      (3)   The village staff shall prepare an advisory report on every
variance application and submit it, together with the completed application, to
the Village Planning Commission.
   (B)   Review By the Village Planning Commission. The Village Planning
Commission shall review the variance application and the village staff’s
comments, and submit its recommendation to the Village Board of Trustees
together with recommendations on preliminary plat approval. The Village
Planning Commission’s recommendation shall be responsive to all the variance
standards as set forth in division (C) below.
   (C)   Action By Board of Trustees, variance standards. At its next regularly
scheduled Board meeting (not the committee at large meeting) following receipt
of the Village Planning Commission recommendation, the Village Board of
Trustees shall decide by ordinance whether to grant or deny the requested
subdivision variance. A copy of the decision, clearly stating reasons therefor
and the exact terms of any variance granted, shall be attached to both the
preliminary and final plats. The Village Board of Trustees shall not grant any
subdivision variance unless, based upon the information presented, it
determines that:
      (1)   The proposed variance is consistent with the general purposes of
the Development Code;
      (2)   Strict application of the subdivision design and improvement
requirements would result in great practical difficulties or hardship to the
applicant, not a mere inconvenience;
      (3)   The proposed variance is the minimum deviation from the
requirements that will alleviate the difficulties/hardship;
      (4)   The plight of the applicant is due to peculiar circumstances not of
his or her own making;
      (5)   The peculiar circumstances engendering the variance request are not
applicable to other tracts and, therefore, that a variance would be more
appropriate remedy than an amendment;
      (6)   The variance, if granted, will not substantially impair
implementation of the village's Development Code including the Official Map;
and
      (7)   The proposed variance is not based upon complaint of lack of
reasonable return or hardship because applicant paid more for property than it
was worth basing the purchase price upon anticipation of obtaining a variance
or hardship because applicant failed to exercise due diligence in researching
the limitations of the site.
(Am. Ord. 2020-03-02A, passed 3-2-2020)
Cross-reference:
   Variance procedures, see §§
151.365 through
151.369
ZONING VARIATIONS (VARIANCES)
§ 151.365 GENERALLY.
   (A)   In order that the spirit of this Code may be observed and substantial
justice done the Village Board may, upon application, grant a variation
(variance) from the strict application of the Code; provided that, variations
of use restrictions (permitted, special, or accessory) shall not be permitted.
Variances may be used only in the case of an exceptionally irregular, narrow,
shallow, or steep lot or other exceptional physical condition, whereby such
strict application would result in such difficulty or unnecessary hardship as
would deprive the owner of any reasonable use of the land or building involved,
but in no other case. In no case shall a variance be considered for a
circumstance that is within the control of the applicant, i.e. a self-imposed
hardship and staff shall not forward same to the Planning Commission. Variances
under these conditions also includes signage.
   (B)   A variation may be granted by the Village Board upon making a finding
of fact that, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the
provisions of this Code would result in unnecessary extreme and undue hardship
which would deprive the owner of the property for which the variation is sought
of all practical use of the property.
   (C)   An application (see §
151.340) shall be submitted for a variance to the village staff, and the
application along with a staff advisory report will be forwarded to the
Planning Commission for consideration as herein provided. The application shall
be accompanied by a non-refundable fee. (See
Chapter 34.)
   (D)   Every application for a variance shall include adjoining zoning,
history of the area relating to zoning issues, effect on comprehensive plan and
any past zoning approvals or denials on the same issue. The application shall
contain, at minimum, the following:
      (1)   Name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   Location of the structure/use for which the variance is sought;
      (3)   Relationship of the structure/use to existing structures/uses on
adjacent lots;
      (4)   Specific section(s) of this Code containing the regulations which,
if strictly applied, would cause a serious problem;
      (5)   Certification that the reason for the variance is not self-imposed;
      (6)   Certification from the applicant's design professional detailing
the exceptional nature of the case and expressing his or her professional
opinion that the request will not adversely impact public utilities, traffic
circulation, drainage or public safety; and
      (7)   Any other pertinent information that the village staff may require.
§ 151.366 PUBLIC HEARING; NOTICE.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing on each variance
request not more than 60 days after the variance application is submitted to
them.
   (B)   At the hearing, any interested party may appear and testify, either in
person or by duly authorized agent or attorney.
   (C)   Notice indicating the time, date and place of the hearing and the
nature of the proposed variance shall be given not more than 30, nor less than
15, days before the hearing.
      (1)   The applicant will give notice by certified mail or notarized
signatures on a sheet to all parties whose property would be directly affected
by the proposal must include all adjoining property owners. The applicant shall
submit to the village staff prior to the public hearing proof (certified return
receipt) that all parties have been notified. If proof is not given at least
one business day prior to the public hearing, the application shall be removed
from the agenda and the public hearing must be rescheduled.
      (2)   The village will publish notice in a newspaper of general
circulation within its municipality at the applicant's expense.
§ 151.367 RECOMMENDATION, FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   After the public hearing, the Planning Commission shall submit a
recommendation to the Village Board of Trustees.
   (B)   The Planning Commission recommendation shall state the Planning
Commissions’ findings regarding the variance request.
   (C)   The Planning Commission shall use the same criteria for a variance
review as listed in §
151.369.
(Am. Ord. 2020-03-02A, passed 3-2-2020)
§ 151.368 IMPOSITION OF CONDITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   The Planning Commission may recommend such conditions and restrictions upon
the premises benefitted by a variation as may be necessary to prevent injurious
effects therefrom upon other property in the neighborhood, village right-of-
way, public infrastructure or public safety and to better carry out the general
intent of this Code.
(Am. Ord. 2020-03-02A, passed 3-2-2020)
§ 151.369 TERMS OF RELIEF; FINDING OF FACT.
   (A)   The Village Board of Trustees shall render a decision on every
variance request within a reasonable time after receipt of the Planning
Commissions’ recommendation. This is not meant to imply the next scheduled
committee at large meeting or Village Board Meeting after the Planning
Commission recommendation is submitted.
   (B)   The Village Board of Trustees shall not grant any variance unless,
based upon the information presented, it determines that:
      (1)   The proposed variance is consistent with the general purposes of
the Development Code;
      (2)   Strict application of the design and improvement requirements would
result in great practical difficulties or hardship to the applicant, not a mere
inconvenience;
      (3)   The proposed variance is the minimum deviation from the
requirements that will alleviate the difficulties/hardship;
      (4)   The plight of the applicant is due to peculiar circumstances not of
his or her own making;
      (5)   The peculiar circumstances engendering the variance request are not
applicable to other tracts and, therefore, that a variance would be a more
appropriate remedy than an amendment;
      (6)   The variance, if granted, will not substantially impair
implementation of the Village's Development Code including the Official Map;
and
      (7)   The proposed variance is not based upon complaint of lack of
reasonable return or hardship because applicant paid more for property than it
was worth basing the purchase price upon anticipation of obtaining a variance
or hardship because applicant failed to exercise due diligence in researching
the limitation of the site.
(Am. Ord. 2020-03-02A, passed 3-2-2020)
PRELIMINARY PLAT
§ 151.380 GENERALLY.
   (A)   Except as specifically provided otherwise below, every person who
proposes to subdivide any land located within the subdivision jurisdiction of
the village shall submit four copies of the preliminary plat of the subdivision
with the village staff for filing subject to §
151.340.
   (B)   They shall also file one copy of the preliminary plat and supporting
data with the St. Clair County Soil and Water Conservation District. The
district shall have not more than 30 days to submit any comments it might wish
to make to the Village Planning Commission.
   (C)   Whenever a large tract is to be developed in stages and only a portion
of that tract is submitted for final plat approval, nonetheless, a preliminary
plat of the entire tract shall be submitted. A preliminary plat shall be
required of all proposed land subdivisions within the jurisdictional boundaries
of the village unless the subdivision is:
      (1)   Minor subdivisions, as defined at §
151.010; or
      (2)   Land that is specifically exempted from the Illinois Plats Act,
being ILCS Ch. 765, Act 205, as now or hereafter amended.
§ 151.381 INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every preliminary plat shall be prepared by a land surveyor registered
in the state at any scale necessary for clarity provided the resultant drawing
does not exceed 36 inches square.
   (B)   The preliminary plat, together with the supporting data, shall provide
all of the following information:
      (1)   Names and addresses of the owner, subdivider (if not the owner) and
registered land surveyor;
      (2)   Location, boundaries and name of the proposed subdivision;
      (3)   Zoning district classification of the tract to be subdivided;
      (4)   North arrow, graphic scale, date of map, dimensions of the tract
and its gross area;
      (5)   Plan for pedestrian, bike and vehicular traffic with planning for
internal circulation within proposed and neighboring tracts and multiple points
for emergency access;
      (6)   Topography of the tract to be subdivided as indicated by two-foot
contour data (to include existing and proposed);
      (7)   Locations of such features as bodies of water, ponding areas,
natural drainage ways, railroads, cemeteries, bridges, parks, schools and the
like within or adjacent to the tract to be developed;
      (8)   Locations and right-of-way widths of all existing and proposed
streets;
      (9)   Locations, widths and purposes of all existing and proposed
easements;
      (10)   Location and size of existing and proposed sanitary sewers, storm
sewers and detention areas, drainage ways, green space, wetlands, flood plains,
riparian corridor habitat linkage and 100-year high water elevation;
      (11)   Locations of all other existing and proposed utilities;
      (12)   Locations, dimensions, and areas of all parcels to be reserved for
parks/playgrounds, or other public purposes; and
      (13)   Locations, dimensions and areas of all proposed or existing lots
within the subdivision.
§ 151.382 VILLAGE PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION.
   (A)   Developers shall be required to submit for filing their preliminary
plats to the village staff at least 14 days before the next regularly scheduled
Planning Commission meeting, staff to include recommendation and shall not
forward incomplete applications subject to §
151.340 above.
   (B)   The Village Planning Commission shall either approve or disapprove the
application for preliminary plat approval within 60 days from the date of staff
submission of the application or the filing of the last item of required
supporting data, whichever date is later, unless the Village Planning
Commission and the subdivider mutually agree to extend this time limit.
   (C)   If the Village Planning Commission disapproves the Preliminary Plat,
it shall furnish to the applicant within the 60-day period a written opinion
statement. If the Village Planning Commission approves the preliminary plat, it
shall so inform the Village Board of Trustees. If the Village Planning
Commission fails to act on a preliminary plat within the prescribed time
limits, the failure to act shall be considered a positive recommendation.
(Am. Ord. 2020-03-02A, passed 3-2-2020)
§ 151.383 BOARD OF TRUSTEES’ ACTION.
   (A)   If the Village Planning Commission has approved a preliminary plat,
the Village Board of Trustees, shall either accept or reject the plat within 30
days after its next regularly scheduled meeting (not the committee at large
meeting) following the Village Planning Commission’s notification to the
Village Board. If the Village Board of Trustees rejects the preliminary plat,
they shall specify the aspects in which the plat fails to comply with the
Development Code. The village staff shall notify the developer of the Trustees
action. If approved, one copy of the signed plat shall be retained by the
Clerk, one copy shall be filed with the village staff and one copy shall be
given to the subdivider. Board approval shall not qualify a preliminary plat
for recording.
   (B)   Therefore, if the Village Board finds it is in the best interest of
public safety, it shall request modification to any portion of the preliminary
plat for which improvement plans have not been submitted and accepted by the
Village Board.
(Am. Ord. 2020-03-02A, passed 3-2-2020)
IMPROVEMENT/CONSTRUCTION PLANS
§ 151.395 GENERALLY.
   (A)   After the Village Board of Trustees has approved the preliminary plat,
but prior to submittal of the final plat, the subdivider shall furnish for
filing four copies of the plans (24" by 36" size) and one copy of the plan (11"
by 17" size) along with specifications for all improvements to be installed
within or in conjunction with the proposed subdivision to the village staff for
review by the appropriate village staff subject to §
151.340.
   (B)   In addition, the developer shall provide the appropriate village staff
with a copy of its design engineer's errors and omissions insurance policy
declarations page.
   (C)   The errors and omissions insurance policy shall provide minimum
insurance limits of $1,000,000 or the expected cost of the construction
project, whichever is greater. If the developer chooses to construct the
development in phases, each phase shall comply with the codes and ordinances in
effect at the time construction is to begin unless the phase is constructed
within one year of the Village Board's approval of the preliminary plat. All
phased construction started within the one year of the approval of the
preliminary plat by the Board, shall comply with codes and ordinances in effect
at the time the preliminary plat was approved. However, should the Village
Board determine it is in the best interest of public safety, it shall request
modification to any portion of the preliminary plat for which improvement plans
have not been submitted and the developer shall comply with the request. These
plans and specifications shall be signed and sealed by the registered
professional engineer responsible for their preparation.
   (D)   Until the village staff certifies in writing that the proposed
improvements conform to generally accepted engineering practices, to the
standards imposed in the Development Code and to applicable I.D.O.T. Standards:
      (1)   The village staff shall not issue any building permit to allow
construction of the improvements; and
      (2)   The Village Board of Trustees shall not act upon the application
for final plat approval.
§ 151.396 INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Improvements plans shall consist of black or blue line prints not
larger than 36 inches square; and one set of 11" by 17" size shall be
submitted.
   (B)   These plans and the related specifications shall provide all of the
following information:
      (1)   In flood prone areas, a topographical map (at the same scale as
required in the preliminary plat) indicating that all lots and improvements
will be above the regulatory flood elevation;
      (2)   Existing and proposed elevations along the centerlines of all
streets;
      (3)   Radii of all curves and lengths of tangents on all streets;
      (4)   Locations and typical cross-section of street pavements including
curbs/gutters and catch basins;
      (5)   Plans, profiles and cross-sections of streets showing names, right-
of-way and pavement widths, elevations, paving details, grades, curbs and
gutter, storm sewers, inlets, catch basins, sidewalks, bikeways/trails and any
other improvements to be constructed within or in conjunction with the
development;
      (6)   Plan of drainage system including watershed outlines with drainage
computations, detention and retention basins showing drainage areas, existing
wetlands and/or riparian corridor, locations of storm sewers, culverts,
drainage channels, swales, slopes, pipe sizes, invert elevations, underground
drains outlet locations, velocity reduction techniques, and indication of area
subject to flooding during the 100-year storm event;
      (7)   Locations, and sizes of all water, gas, electric and other
utilities;
      (8)   Locations of street signs;
      (9)   Locations of all wooded areas, wetlands, habitat linkage;
      (10)   All proposed land disturbance including areas of excavation,
grading, filling, removal or destruction of topsoil and spreading of earth
material, together with a time schedule of the operation;
      (11)   All proposed temporary and permanent erosion and sedimentation
control measures;
      (12)   Design computations for structural measures to control erosion and
sedimentation and a statement of applicable engineering assumptions and
calculations;
      (13)   Provisions for maintenance of erosion and sedimentation control
facilities; high water elevations of all lakes\streams adjoining or within the
tract;
      (14)   Such other information as the village staff may reasonably require
to perform his or her studies under this section;
      (15)   Plan of sewage disposal system pipe locations, sizes, force mains,
invert elevations, manhole locations, lift stations and the like;
      (16)   One or more benchmarks in or near the subdivision to which the
subdivision is referenced;
      (17)   Copy of design engineer's errors and omissions insurance coverage;
      (18)   Copy of N.P.D.E.S. permit application;
      (19)   Copy of the cultural resource sign off;
      (20)   Copy of I.D.N.R. review if water impoundments are proposed or
modified;
      (21)   Copy of Corp of Engineers sign off (if applicable); and
      (22)   Copy of transmittal letter to St. Clair County Soil and Water
District.
§ 151.397 INSPECTIONS REQUIRED.
   (A)   The subdivider/developer shall notify the village staff at least 48
hours before the start of construction of approved improvements.
   (B)   (1)   The village staff and developer's design professional shall
inspect the improvements while they are under construction.
      (2)   If staff determines that they are being built in violation of the
Development Code, staff shall promptly notify the appropriate village staff
who, in turn, shall issue a corrective action order.
      (3)   Any violation noted by the developer's design professional shall be
submitted in writing to the village and corrected at the developer's expense.
   (C)   The village staff shall also inspect improvements upon their
completion. The village shall not accept any completed improvements until the
developer's design professional and village staff have certified that the
improvements comply with the Development Code, the approved plans and the
developer certifies all contractors and suppliers have been paid.
§ 151.398 FILING "AS-BUILT" RECORDS.
   Upon the completion of approved improvements, the subdivider/developer shall
file with the Administrator in a format, CAD or otherwise, as determined by the
village staff, a reproducible media showing the as-built details and any
deviations from the approved plans before a final acceptance can be issued.
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS; ASSURANCE OF COMPLETION
§ 151.410 GENERALLY.
   The Village Board of Trustees shall not approve any final plat of
subdivision (and, hence, the final plat shall not be entitled to recording)
until:
   (A)   All improvements required in the approved improvements plan have been
completed by the subdivider/developer, at his or her expense, inspected by the
village staff, and the developer's design professional or other regulatory
agencies accepted by the village or other appropriate entity, and dedicated to
the village or other appropriate entity; or
   (B)   In accordance with subsections below, the subdivider/developer has
provided the village with legal assurances to guarantee the satisfactory
completion and dedication of all required improvements.
§ 151.411 FORMS OF ASSURANCE.
   (A)   The required assurance shall be as directed in §
151.412.
   (B)   Any assurances shall be deposited with village staff.
§ 151.412 AMOUNT OF ASSURANCE.
   (A)   The amount of the assurance shall be equal to the village staff's
estimate of the costs of constructing the uncompleted portion of the required
improvements, plus any costs of bid advertising or other cost incurred and all
required inspection and administrative fees.
   (B)   Any assurance shall be in the form of either:
      (1)   Cash;
      (2)   An irrevocable letter of credit from a lending institution
guaranteeing to the village the availability of the escrow funds upon demand.
The irrevocable letter of credit shall be such that the location for the
village to present a request for drawing(s) shall be no more than 30 miles from
the Shiloh Municipal Building; or
      (3)   Certificate of deposit, treasury bills or other readily negotiable
instruments approved by village staff and made payable to the village.
§ 151.413 TERM OF ASSURANCE; EXTENSION.
   (A)   The initial term of any assurance shall not exceed two years.
   (B)   If all the required improvements have not been completed by the end of
the two-year period, the village staff, with the advice and consent of the
Village Board of Trustees, may either extend the assurance for one year only,
or may proceed as per §
151.415.
§ 151.414 RELEASE OF ASSURANCE.
   The amount of the assurance shall not be released until:
   (A)   The village staff and the developer's design professional have
certified to the Village Board in writing that all required improvements have
been satisfactorily completed; and
   (B)   The improvements have been accepted by and dedicated to the village or
other appropriate entity.
§ 151.415 FAILURE TO COMPLETE IMPROVEMENTS.
   If all the required improvements have not been completed by the end of the
two-year period (or three-year period, in the case of an extension), the
village staff, with the assistance of the Village Attorney, shall:
   (A)   Order the Village Treasurer to retain all assurance funds needed to
complete the required improvements and to return the balance (if any) of such
funds to the subdivider/developer; or
   (B)   Require the subdivider/developer to submit a new assurance in an
amount sufficient to cover any increase in the cost of constructing the
required improvements.
FINAL PLAT
§ 151.430 GENERALLY.
   (A)   The St. Clair County Recorder of Deeds shall not record any final plat
of a subdivision located within the subdivision jurisdiction of the village
until the final plat has been approved by the Village Board of Trustees.
   (B)   The Board shall not approve any final plat unless it determines that
it is in compliance with all pertinent requirements of the Development Code
including those set forth in the sections below.
§ 151.431 FILING, TIME LIMITS.
   (A)   The subdivider of every subdivision, whether major or minor but
excluding land specifically exempted from the Illinois Plats Act, being ILCS
Ch. 765, Act 205, as now or hereafter amended, who desires final plat approval
shall file four copies (24" by 36" size) and one copy (11" by 17" size) of the
final plat and supporting data with the village staff not later than two years
after the preliminary plat approval has been granted.
   (B)   However, with the written consent of the Village Board of Trustees,
the subdivider may delay application for final approval of part(s) of the tract
shown on the preliminary plat for successive one-year periods.
§ 151.432 INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every final plat shall be prepared by a registered land surveyor on
new linen tracing cloth- or polyester-base film with waterproof black ink at a
scale not greater than 100 feet equals one inch, provided that the resultant
drawing shall not exceed 36 inches square and one copy (11" by 17").
   (B)   The final plat and supporting data shall portray/provide all of the
following information:
      (1)   North arrow, graphic scale and data;
      (2)   Name of subdivider;
      (3)   Accurate metes and bounds or other adequate legal description of
the tract;
      (4)   Accurate boundary lines, with dimensions and bearings or angles
which provide a survey of the tract, closing with an error of closure of not
more than one foot in 10,000 feet;
      (5)   Reference to recorded plats of adjoining platted land by record
name, plat book and page number;
      (6)   Accurate locations of all existing streets intersecting the
boundaries of the subdivision;
      (7)   Right-of-way lines of all streets, other rights-of-way, easements
and lot lines with accurate dimensions, angles or bearings and curve data,
including radii, arcs or chords, points of tangency and central angles;
      (8)   Name and right-of-way width of every proposed street;
      (9)   Location and purpose of any existing or proposed easements;
      (10)   Number of each lot, lot dimensions and (in a separate list) lot
areas;
      (11)   Purpose(s) for which sites, other than private lots, are reserved;
      (12)   Building or setback lines with accurate dimensions;
      (13)   In a supporting document, restrictions of all types which will run
with the land and become covenants in the deeds of lots;
      (14)   Indication of ponding limits for the 100-year storm event;
      (15)   Indication of the responsibilities with dam ownership (see §§
151.220 through
151.223);
      (16)   Indication of risks associated with parcels downstream of a dam
(see §§
151.220 through
151.223);
      (17)   Location of all wetlands, habitat linkage and green space;
      (18)   Covenants and restriction that run with the land;
      (19)   Note indicating the private land owners are responsible for the
maintenance of all drainageways, storm sewer and appurtenances, storm water,
grass, detention area and the like not on village street right-of-way; and
      (20)   Note indicating that no fences, sheds, logs, piles, landscaping
features or fill to be placed in drainage easements and/or areas subject to
flooding in the 100-year storm event.
§ 151.433 CERTIFICATES REQUIRED.
   As required by state law, the following certificates shall be executed on
the final plat:
   (A)   Owner's certificate.
 
We,                                                   , the owners of                                                                                  , have caused the tract to be
surveyed and subdivided in the manner shown and the subdivision is to be hereinafter known as                                                                                              .
All rights-of-way and easements shown hereon are hereby dedicated to the use of the public forever, including the release and waiver of the right of homestead under the Homestead Exemption
laws of the State of Illinois.
Dated this                                day                                                   of                        
                                                                                                                         (Seal)
                                                                                                                         (Seal)
 
   (B)   Notary public's certificate.
 
State of Illinois)
)SS
County of St. Clair   )
I,                                                             , a notary public in and for the county aforesaid, do hereby certify
that are personally known to me to be the same persons whose names are subscribed to the foregoing instrument, and that they
appeared before me this day in person and acknowledged that they signed and sealed the same as their free and voluntary act for the
uses and purposes therein set forth, including the release of waiver of the right of homestead.
Given under my hand and notarial seal this                     day of                                      20           .
                                                   
Notary Public
 
   (C)   Surveyor's certificate.
 
I,                                                         , a registered Illinois professional land surveyor, licensed under
the laws of the State of Illinois, certify that I have surveyed, subdivided and platted the above described property. All
required monuments have been installed. All dimensions and other essential information required by the Code of Ordinances of the
Village of Shiloh regulating the platting of land into subdivisions adopted by the village on have been complied with. I also
certify that the parcel included within this plat is located within Zone "                     " as delineated by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency Panel No.                       .
                                                            
Illinois Land Surveyor
                                                                                                            
Registration Number
                                                                                                            
Date
 
   (D)   County Clerk's certificate.
 
I,                                                                                         , County Clerk of St. Clair County, Illinois, do hereby certify that I find no
unpaid or forfeited taxes against any of the real estate included within this plat.
                                                                                                            
County Clerk
                                                                                                            
Date
 
   (E)   Certificate of Board of Trustees.
 
I,                                                                                         , Mayor of the Village of Shiloh, do hereby certify that plat shown herein was duly
presented to the Board of Trustees and approved at a meeting of same held on                                   .
                                                                                                            
Mayor
                                                                                                            
Village Clerk
 
§ 151.434 ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW, ADVISORY REPORT.
   (A)   Within 30 days from the date of application for final plat approval
and filing per §
151.340, the village staff shall review the final plat (and supporting data)
subject to §
151.340, and shall advise the Planning Commission in writing whether it
substantially conforms to the approved preliminary plat or any subsequent
revisions required by the Village Board.
   (B)   The Village Planning Commission shall prepare a report or minutes and
forward same to the Village Board of Trustees.
§ 151.435 ACTION BY BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   (A)   The Village Board of Trustees shall either approve or disapprove the
application for final plat within 60 days from the date of submission of
approved Planning Commission minutes unless the Board and the subdivider
mutually agree to extend this time limit. The Board of Trustees shall not
approve any final plat unless:
      (1)   The final plat substantially conforms to the approved preliminary
plat; or subsequent revisions required by the Village Board;
      (2)   The final plat manifests substantial compliance with the official
map and with the design and improvements standard of this Development Code;
      (3)   To the Board's knowledge and belief, the final plat complies with
all pertinent requirements of state law; and
      (4)   All conditions of §§
151.410 through
151.415 have been met.
   (B)   If the Village Board of Trustees disapproves the final plat, they
shall specify the aspects in which the plat fails to meet the above conditions
for approval.
   (C)   The village staff shall notify the developer of the Board's
disapproval to the final plat. If approved, one copy of final plat shall be
retained by the Clerk, one copy shall be filed with the village staff, and one
copy shall be given to the subdivider.
§ 151.436 APPROVED FINAL PLATS.
   (A)   Developer to record a copy of the final plat and covenants and furnish
the village with three recorded copies of each.
   (B)   Once a final plat is approved by the Village Board of Trustees, it
shall not thereafter be modified; provided, however, that, minor changes may be
made upon approval of written application to the Village Board. Major changes
require the filing of a new final plat and complete re-review.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD)
§ 151.450 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   This subchapter establishes provisions for a Planned Unit Development
(PUD).
   (B)   The purpose of this subchapter is to achieve the objectives enumerated
in §
151.002 (the general intent and purpose of the Code) and the following
additional objectives:
      (1)   To provide a regulatory mechanism whereby the village can be
assured that upon completion, approved development projects will substantially
conform to the plans or models which constituted the basis for the village's
issuance of the necessary zoning, subdivision and/or building permit;
      (2)   To permit development of a variety of mixed uses in proximity to
each other in a single comprehensively planned project;
      (3)   To preserve the natural topography, scenic features, mature trees,
wetlands, riparian corridors and historic structures existing on sites proposed
for development;
      (4)   To encourage innovative site layouts and coordinated architectural
treatment;
      (5)   To ensure the provision of useable common open space in planned
developments and to spur installation of amenities therein;
      (6)   To facilitate the installation of standard streets, sewers,
utilities and other improvements;
      (7)   To ensure efficient and effective traffic and pedestrian
circulation, both within and adjacent to the development site; and
      (8)   To create a safe and desirable living environment for residential
areas characterized by a unified building and site development program.
§ 151.451 MINIMUM SIZE AND DEVELOPMENTS PERMITTED.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Planned unit developments are of three types in the village:
residential, business and industrial.
      (2)   The minimum size for each type of planned unit development is five
acres of contiguous land. This requirement may be reduced by the Village Board
of Trustees on appeal, when it is found that conformance to the provisions
contained elsewhere in this Code relating to lot size, bulk, dwelling type or
number of structures or other requirements would result in a gross waste or
inefficient use of a substantial portion of land area contained in a particular
parcel proposed as the planned unit development or which would result in other
consequences deemed incompatible with the purposes of this Code and the
Comprehensive Plan. For areas located within the Town Core, as shown on the
Comprehensive Plan Amendment of the PGAV Exhibit, the minimum size for a
Planned Unit Development shall be one acre without the need for an appeal.
      (3)   Planned residential developments and planned commercial
developments may be proposed in combination. Planned commercial developments
and planned industrial developments may be proposed in combination. Planned
residential developments and planned industrial developments may not be
proposed in combination.
   (B)   Planned residential development (PRD). An area of minimum contiguous
size, specified by this Code, to be planned, developed, operated and maintained
as a unified development and containing one or more residential clusters, and
with appropriate public, or quasi-public uses as may be approved by the Village
Board of Trustees; provided that, such other uses are primarily for the benefit
of the residential development.
   (C)   Planned commercial development (PCD). An area of minimum contiguous
size, specified by this Code, to be planned, developed, operated and maintained
as a unified development and containing one or more structures to accommodate
retail, service, commercial or office uses, or a combination of such uses, and
appurtenant common areas and accessory uses incidental to the predominant uses
in the development.
   (D)   Planned industrial development (P1D). A planned development consisting
primarily of industrial uses, with such other appropriate business, public or
quasi-public uses as may be included on approval if the uses are primarily
incidental to the industrial development.
(Am. Ord. 2013-12-02A, passed 12-2-2013)
§ 151.452 PLANNED RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT (PRD).
   (A)   Dwelling unit density and area.
      (1)   The number of dwelling units which may be constructed within a
Planned Residential Development will be determined by dividing the portion of
the project area that is able to be counted toward meeting lot minimum size
requirements as defined in §
151.222 by the required lot area per dwelling unit which is required in the
zoning district in which the planned development is located. In cases where the
land to which the plan pertains is divided into two or more adjoining districts
of differing restrictions, the maximum number of dwelling units which may be
located on the entire development parcel may not exceed the combination of the
aggregate number of dwelling units permitted on each such parcel. In each
planned residential development, the minimum lot size for any single-family
residential structure located within the development shall be an average of
12,500 square feet with none being smaller than 8,000 square feet. Dwelling
requirements, including setbacks, in the planned residential development will
comply with the base zoning district requirements applicable to the
development.
      (2)   In instances where the proposed PRD is in a multi-family zone, the
Village Board may consider a minimum lot size conforming to §
151.185 rather than the minimum lot size of 8,000 square feet listed above. The
minimum lot size listed in §
151.185 shall only apply to areas that are zoned multi-family.
   (B)   Ground coverage.
      (1)   The percentage of ground coverage and/or percentage of lot coverage
of a planned residential development to be occupied by buildings, lot
improvements and structures not included in common open space shall be the same
as permitted in the existing zoning district in which the parcel or zoning lot
is located.
      (2)   However, in unique situations, the Village Board may consider
reducing the side setback requirements if the developer proposes enhancements
not specifically required by code.
   (C)   Common open space.
      (1)   Common open space shall be provided in all planned residential
developments for the benefit of all residents of the development and shall be
of a design approved by the Planning Commission and Village Board. Construction
and completion of all common open space and other common use or public
facilities included in the plan for the development shall occur at an
equivalent or greater rate than the construction of residential structures
within the development.
      (2)   The Planning Commission and Village Board shall establish
conditions necessary to assure the preservation and maintenance of common open
space for their intended purpose as demonstrated in the development plan. The
developer shall give legally enforceable assurances satisfactory to the
Planning Commission and Village Board, that common open space and/or public
facilities shall be properly developed and maintained throughout the life of
the planned residential development.
      (3)   The area of any outlot or common open space locations shall not be
less than 6,000 square feet in area nor less than 30 feet in its smallest
dimension. In addition, common open space shall be contiguous or connected via
the pedestrian/bicycle path.
      (4)   Common open spaces should be distributed equitably throughout the
development in relation to the dwelling units that such common open space is
intended to serve. The common space shall not be isolated in one corner of the
development, but shall be highly accessible (physically and/or visually) to the
residents of the development
   (D)   Perimeter buffer requirements.
      (1)   Where a PRD development proposes residential development along the
perimeter of the site, which is higher in density than that of an adjacent
dwelling district, there shall be a minimum 30-foot wide buffer area. The
buffer area shall be kept free of buildings or structures and shall be
landscaped or protected by natural features so that all higher-density
residential buildings are effectively screened from the abutting lower density
residential property.
      (2)   Where a PRD development abuts a commercial or industrial use or
district, there shall be a minimum 30-foot wide buffer area. This buffer area
shall be permanent and landscaped and otherwise provided with screening (i.e.,
sight proof fencing) so as to effectively screen the commercial or industrial
use from the PRD development.
   (E)   Deed covenants.
      (1)   The planned residential development plan shall contain such
covenants, easements and other provisions relating to the bulk, location and
density, of all structures, including residential structures, non-residential
structures, common facilities, public facilities and other structures, within
the development as are necessary for the welfare of the planned residential
development project and are not inconsistent with the best interest of the
village.
      (2)   Such covenants shall include provisions for the creation and
maintenance of homeowner or property owner associations to maintain common open
space, common facilities and public facilities within the development, and
shall be a requirement for such developments. All such deed covenants and
similar instruments shall be subject to approval by the Planning Commission and
the Village Board. All developments shall provide for such means, through home
owner or property owner associations or the equivalent, to provide for the
maintenance of all common open spaces, common facilities and public facilities
within the development.
   (F)   Landscaping and utility lines.
      (1)   All required open space, parking lot islands and all land area not
otherwise developed shall be appropriately landscaped in a manner, with village
approval, that enhances the appearance of the planned residential development
project (see also landscaping requirements elsewhere in this Code.)
      (2)   All utility lines shall be installed beneath the surface of the
ground and a planned layout and specifications to accomplish these requirements
shall be submitted to the village staff as an integral part of the planned
residential development plan. All planned residential developments shall be
provided with public water and public sanitary sewer systems.
   (G)   Parking.
      (1)   Sufficient parking shall be provided on the same site as the use
which it is intended to serve.
      (2)   The parking must be in an amount comparable to the requirements for
the zoning district in which the parcel is located.
      (3)   Additional parking may be required where it is deemed necessary for
proper development of the planned residential development, or provision of
space to add future parking may be required as part of the development.
   (H)   Natural features. Provision is to be made in each plan to accommodate,
preserve and assure the maintenance of unique natural and human-made amenities
such as streams, stream banks, flood plains, wooded areas, riparian corridors,
rough terrain, historic sites and similar areas consistent with the development
of the planned residential development. (See Conservation Overlay in
Comprehensive Plan for further information.)
§ 151.453 PLANNED COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT (PCD).
   (A)   Generally. A planned commercial development is intended to be utilized
for development involving retail, shopping centers, medical centers,
recreational areas, commercial office complexes with mixed uses and similar
types of generally larger scale compatible use developments. The intent of a
planned commercial development is to allow mixed uses in a compatible format.
   (B)   Requirements and standards for planned commercial development.
      (1)   Natural features. Provision is to be made in each plan to
accommodate and assure the maintenance of unique natural and man-made amenities
such as streams, stream banks, flood plains, wooded areas, rough terrain,
historic sites, riparian corridor and similar areas consistent with the
development of the Planned Commercial Development.
      (2)   Unified control. The developed land is or will be under continuing
unified control during and after construction, subject to the provisions of
this Code.
      (3)   Common open space.
         (a)   Common open space shall be provided in all planned commercial
developments for the benefit of all employees or visitors of the development
and the community at large. Common open space shall be a design approved by the
Planning Commission and Village Board. Construction and completion of all
common open space and other common use or public facilities included in the
plan for the development shall occur at an equivalent or greater rate than the
construction of structures within the development.
         (b)   The Planning Commission and Village Board shall establish
conditions necessary to assure the preservation of common open space for their
intended purpose as demonstrated in the development plan. The developer shall
provide legally enforceable assurances satisfactory to the Planning Commission
and the Village Board, that common open space or common use or public
facilities shall be properly maintained throughout the life of the planned
commercial development.
         (c)   The area of any outlot or common open space locations shall not
be less than 6,000 square feet in area nor less than 30 feet in its smallest
dimension. In addition, common open space shall be contiguous or connected via
the pedestrian/bicycle path.
         (d)   Common open spaces should be distributed equitably throughout
the development in relation to the buildings that the common open space is
intended to serve. The common space shall not be isolated in one corner of the
development, but shall be highly accessible (physically and/or visually) to the
employees or visitors and the community at large.
         (e)   Common open space shall comprise at least 15% of the gross area.
      (4)   Maximum gross floor area. For business and commercial uses within
the planned commercial development, the total gross floor area of all buildings
and open storage or retail sales areas should generally not exceed 40% of the
project net area for commercial uses subject to the following.
         (a)   Exceptions to the maximum gross floor area may be permitted by
the Village Board for commercial uses; provided that, the exceptions are
clearly set forth in the approved development plan and adequate off-street
parking and other facilities are provided. Building coverage, parking
structures, parking lots and parking spaces added together shall not, however,
exceed 70% of the project area.
         (b)   The Village Board may consider an increase in the maximum site
coverage from 70% to 80%. In order to qualify for this bonus the development
plan must demonstrate compliance with four or more of the following criteria:
            1.   Incorporate storm drainage retention facilities as a site
amenity;
            2.   Install storm drainage detention facilities underground;
            3.   Increasing parking lot landscaping by 50% more than otherwise
required;
            4.   Submitting for approval developments on tracts that are more
than five acres in size;
            5.   Modifying any adjacent "rural" road section to an "urban" road
section with storm sewers;
            6.   Construction of separate-grade pedestrian and bicycle paths;
            7.   Providing storm water management features that exceed those
required by the code by at least 25%;
            8.   Demonstration of a development using innovative architectural,
site planning and land use design and of the quality as to set an excellent
example for subsequent development or redevelopment projects; and
            9.   Any other performance criteria that further the goals,
objectives and policies of the Comprehensive Plan and that, in the opinion of
the Planning Commission and Village Board warrant the approval of development
bonuses.
         (c)   In cluster developments, shopping centers or business parks,
there shall be no gross floor area or building coverage restrictions on
individual building lots; provided that, there are provisions for the planned
development project to meet all of the other criteria listed herein.
      (5)   Building types permitted. In the Planned Commercial Development
only the type of building, structures or uses permitted by the base district
regulations applicable to the development shall be permitted. Determination of
compliance with this requirement shall be included within the review of the
development plan by the Planning Commission.
      (6)   Setbacks and open spaces. Building setbacks and distances between
buildings shall be dimensioned on the required plans for the development and
shall be established as part of the plan approval for individual building lots
within the planned commercial development project. Building setbacks from the
planned development boundary shall conform to the perimeter setback
requirements set forth below, unless otherwise established as part of plan
approval.
      (7)   Perimeter setbacks.
         (a)   At locations where the planned commercial development adjoins or
abuts a residential lot, use or zoning district, there shall be a minimum 50-
foot buffer area between nonresidential and residential use. This buffer to be
landscaped as described elsewhere within the Code and be sufficient to screen
excessive sounds and view from the development into the adjoining or nearby
residential areas.
         (b)   In addition to the buffer requirements, any structure exceeding
30 feet in height within the development which adjoins property in a
residential zoning usage shall be setback an additional one foot for every two
feet in height above 30 feet.
         (c)   Greater setbacks may be required by the Planning Commission to
ensure compatibility with adjoining developments or uses.
      (8)   Off-street parking and loading.
         (a)   Off-street parking and loading shall be provided as otherwise
required by the provisions of this Code for the uses proposed within the
planned commercial development project. Off-street parking designed to
accommodate the entire development may be established on a single parcel of
land owned in common in which the parking areas, drives and landscaping are
maintained by the owners, tenants or occupants of the planned development
project for common usage. In such circumstances, means shall be provided for
the care and maintenance for such off-street parking for the duration of the
development.
         (b)   Where the Planned Commercial Development includes two or more
uses, the Planning Commission may approve a reduction of not more than 30% in
the otherwise required off-street parking for developments which exceed 500,000
square feet of gross floor area under a single ownership or management control.
If it is demonstrated that the combined uses and customary operation of the
uses in the development will not require the higher level of parking which
would otherwise be required.
      (9)   Accessory structures or minor additions.
         (a)   Accessory uses and structures shall meet the requirements of the
base zoning district regulations in which the development is located and such
uses shall be included in the development plan.
         (b)   Accessory structures and minor additions may be added; provided
that, detailed plans are in substantial conformance with the plan as approved
by the Village Board.
      (10)   Lighting. All lighting facilities shall be arranged and designed
in a manner which will minimize direct glare or hazardous interference of any
kind and will protect neighboring properties from excessive glare or the
spillage of lighting. (See also lighting requirements elsewhere in this Code.)
For the preliminary submittal, a light intensity survey is not required.
Applicant is advised that improvement plans shall meet the code requirements.
      (11)   Landscaping and utility lines.
         (a)   All required open space, parking lot islands, and all land area
not otherwise developed shall be landscaped in a manner which enhances the
appearance of the planned commercial development project. All utility lines
shall be installed beneath the surface of the ground and a plan layout and
specifications to accomplish these requirements shall be submitted to the
village staff as an integral part of the planned commercial development. All
planned commercial development shall be provided with public water and sewer
systems. (See also landscape requirements elsewhere in this Code.)
         (b)   For the preliminary submittal only, a general landscape plan is
required. Applicant is advised that improvement plans shall meet the code
requirements.
§ 151.454 PLANNED INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT (PID).
   (A)   Planned industrial developments are intended to permit industrial
activities found in the industrial zoning district regulations within a planned
unit development. The planned industrial development is intended to provide for
mixed use of industrial development.
   (B)   Permitted uses within a planned industrial development shall include
all of those allowed by the industrial zoning district in which the development
is located, subject to the restrictions applicable to such uses within that
zoning district, and include:
      (1)   Industrial parks;
      (2)   Landscaped areas, parks and open space areas which are integrated
into the Planned Industrial Development;
      (3)   The following commercial uses are permitted in the planned
industrial development when approved by the Planning Commission as part of the
approval process for the development. Retail, service, office and recreational
uses which are compatible with the industrial uses occurring in the planned
industrial development and which are primarily designed to accommodate the
needs of the planned industrial development; and
      (4)   Planned industrial developments shall follow §
151.453.
§ 151.455 PROCEDURES; APPROVAL OF PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   To the extent that the planned unit development entails a subdivision
of real estate the procedures for subdivision approval shall be coordinated
with the procedures for consideration of the planned development by the
Planning Commission and Village Board.
   (B)   Where practicable, submittal, public hearings and meeting for
consideration of the Planned Development shall operate in conjunction with the
other procedures of this Code.
      (1)   Pre-application conference.
         (a)   Prior to submitting an application for a planned development, an
applicant shall confer with the village staff to obtain information and
guidance before entering into the development or incurring substantial expense
in the preparation of plans, surveys and other data expense in the preparation
of plans, surveys and other data required for the planned development.
Applicants are encouraged to submit a sketch plan.
         (b)   No planned development shall be allowed that would result in:
            1.   Inadequate or unsafe access to the development;
            2.   Peak-hour traffic volumes exceeding the capacity of the
adjoining or nearby street. Capacity shall be based on a street providing a
"level of service of "D" or better as defined in the latest publication of
Transportation and Traffic Engineer's Handbook, Institute of Transportation
Engineers;
            3.   An undue burden on public parks, recreation areas, fire and
police protection and any other public facilities which serve or are proposed
to serve the planned development; and
            4.   Other detrimental impacts on the surrounding area including,
but not limited to, visual and noise pollution.
      (2)   Application.
         (a)   An application (see §
151.340) shall be submitted for filing for a planned development to the village
staff, and it will be forwarded to the Planning Commission for consideration as
herein provided. The application shall be accompanied by a non-refundable fee.
(See
Chapter 34.)
         (b)   The application shall include, at a minimum, the following
information:
            1.   A legal description of the property proposed for the
development;
            2.   A preliminary development plan prepared at a scale of not more
than 100 feet to one inch depicting the following:
               a.   The gross land area and project net area of the planned
development, the present zoning classification of the area and the zoning
classification of the properties surrounding the development;
               b.   All existing structures and land uses currently on the
property proposed for the development and the location of any uses and
structures on properties which adjoin the proposed development;
               c.   The location and use or uses proposed for each existing or
proposed structure within the planned development, the number of stories,
building or structure height, gross floor area, building coverage and
approximate location of entrances and exits;
               d.   Existing and proposed contours at intervals of two feet.
Locations, elevations and direction of flow of major water courses, natural
drainageways, riparian corridors, areas subject to flooding in the 100-year
storm event and ponding areas shall be delineated;
               e.   All existing and proposed curb cuts, driving lanes, parking
areas, loading areas, storage areas and trash storage areas. The village will
require design access locations that allow for shared access by adjacent
property owners;
               f.   All pedestrian walks and open areas for use by the
occupants or persons using or present in the proposed development, as well as
the general public;
               g.   Types of surfacing proposed for all walks, bikeways,
driveways and other accessways. The Village Board will require connectivity to
adjoining properties and existing or proposed walks, bikeways and trails. The
Village Board will require development accommodation for pedestrian and bike
users;
               h.   A preliminary landscape, screening and buffering plan for
the project including the approximate height, type and location of all buffers,
fences, landscaping and walls, and the methods by which the landscaping, fences
and walls will be preserved and maintained throughout the life of the
development;
               i.   A concept plan showing all existing or proposed facilities
and features such as hydrants, utility structures, wells, sewage disposal
facilities, outside lighting, recreation facilities, together with information
regarding the maintenance and preservation of the facilities;
               j.   Preliminary plans for control and disposal of natural and
storm water drainage;
               k.   Preliminary plan for the adequate control of erosion and
sedimentation, including that expected to occur during all phases of clearing,
grading and construction;
               l.   Typical plans and elevations for each type of structure to
be located within the development to indicate architectural type, style and
materials of construction;
               m.   Location of present utility services to the proposed
development including electric, water, sanitary sewer and telephone; (All
utilities to be underground.)
               n.   For original submittal, two copies (24" by 36" size) of the
preliminary development plan will be submitted with the application. After
review and modifications to submit two copies (24" by 36" size) plans and ten
copies (11" by 17" size) plans;
               o.   A list indicating which code requirements are not being met
by the submittal. To include: reference code number and page, code
requirements, applicant's request and reason code requirements can not be met;
and
               p.   Cover sheet checklist, signed by the applicant that
certifies all items listed herein are attached.
            3.   The names and addresses of the applicant, and all persons to
whom notices of hearings required by this Code are required to be sent (see
below).
      (3)   Review of planned development application and preliminary plan. The
application and planned development plan shall be submitted to the village
staff for review as to the completeness of the submittal. When it is determined
that the application and plan are complete, it will be filed and referred by
the village staff to the Planning Commission.
      (4)   Public hearing.
         (a)   The Planning Commission shall only hold a public hearing on the
complete application and planned development plan. The hearing may be conducted
simultaneously with any other public hearing required for its consideration.
         (b)   Required notices for such hearings may be combined.
         (c)   Upon filing of the complete application and plan by the village
staff, the public hearing should be set before the Planning Commission within
60 days of the date of filing. The public hearing may be adjourned from time-
to-time and notice given of the time, date and location to which the hearing is
adjourned shall be sufficient and no further notice need be given.
      (5)   Notice of public hearing. The village staff shall give notice of
the time, date and place of the public hearing as follows.
         (a)   Content. The notice shall contain:
            1.   A brief description of the proposed development plan;
            2.   The particular location of the real estate proposed for the
development by street address, or, if no street address is available, by
reference to any well-known landmark, highway, road, thoroughfare or
intersection;
            3.   A brief summary explaining the purpose and subject matter of
the hearing; and
            4.   The following language shall be included in the notice:
      "The Planning Commission may approve the proposed planned development
plan and application with or without modifications or conditions or it may
disapprove the plan. This could significantly amend, modify, revise or alter
the plan as originally filed by the applicant and could significantly change
the impact of the proposed planned development on surrounding property owners,
including roadways, drainage, sewage systems, traffic patterns and utilities.
Should you desire to be heard regarding the proposed plan as filed or as to any
amendments, modifications, revisions or alterations of the proposal, you should
attend the public hearing."
         (b)   Published notice. The foregoing notice shall be published one
time in a newspaper of general circulation within the village at least 15 days,
but not more than 30 days, prior to the scheduled public hearing. The applicant
shall pay the cost of publishing the notice.
         (c)   Mailed notice. The foregoing notice shall also be sent by United
States First Class Mail at least 15 days before the scheduled public hearing to
the applicant and to the owners of all property adjacent to the subject
property. The applicant shall furnish to the village staff at the time the
application is filed a complete list containing the names and last known
addresses of the owners of property required to be notified and shall pay the
cost of the notice to the adjacent and surrounding property owners. Any error
in notification of the adjacent or surrounding property owners due to the
inadequacy of the listing shall be the responsibility of the applicant.
         (d)   Posted notice.
            1.   The foregoing notice shall also be posted on the property, by
the applicant, where the planned development is to be located at least ten days
prior to the public hearing date. It shall be placed where it can be readily
seen from the street or highway on which the property fronts as follows.
               a.   The notice must be protected from the wind and weather and
be fastened and secured to a board or other support which can in turn be
attached to a two inches by four inches or other anchoring device.
               b.   The notice should be placed at least four feet above ground
level or above the grade of the street or highway on which the property fronts
where it can be readily seen by persons passing the property.
               c.   The notice should be placed at a location which is located
within five feet of the right-of-way of the most traveled street or highway on
which the property fronts.
            2.   In the event the property does not have frontage on a major
road or is so located that it is accessed by a private or non-public roadway,
the notice should be posted on the subject property at a location which will
provide the greatest available visibility. An affidavit of posting shall be
placed on file prior to or on the date of the hearing. The village staff may
require additional notices to be posted by the applicant as may be necessary to
carry out the intent of this Code to provide public notice of the planned
development.
      (6)   Decision by Planning Commission. The Planning Commission shall,
within 90 days of the date the complete application is filed and certified as
complete by the village staff, at a duly scheduled meeting (which may, but need
not, be held in conjunction with the public hearing on the application), either
approve (with or without modifications/conditions) or disapprove the
application and development plan. The applicant and the Commission may extend
this time limit by mutual agreement. The Commission shall state its reasons for
its action (including the nature of any conditions/modifications). One copy of
the application and plan shall be returned to the village staff and filed, and
one copy shall be returned promptly to the applicant by first class mail.
      (7)   Decision by Village Board. The recommendation of the Planning
Commission shall in each case be forwarded by the village staff to the Village
Board for final approval or rejection. The Village Board shall approve (with or
without modifications/conditions) or disapprove the recommendation of the
Planning Commission regarding the proposed preliminary development plan within
30 days following its first regular meeting (not committee at large meeting)
after which the recommendation is received from the Planning Commission.
      (8)   Notification. Following the final decision of the Village Board, a
letter of notification shall be sent by the village staff to the person whose
name is noted on the application and development plan to receive notices, and
the letter shall be dated the day it is actually sent.
      (9)   Modification/conditions.
         (a)   The Commission may recommend conditions or modifications on the
application or development plan, which may include, but not be limited to, the
following:
            1.   Permitted uses, including maximum floor area;
            2.   Performance standards;
            3.   Height performance;
            4.   Minimum yard requirements;
            5.   Off-street parking and loading requirements;
            6.   Minimum requirements for site development plans;
            7.   Time limitations for commencement of construction;
            8.   Connectivity requirements for all modes of transportation; and
            9.   Wetland, drainageway or riparian corridor requirements.
         (b)   The Village Board may approve, deny, table or approve any of the
conditions or modifications which are contained in the recommendation of the
Planning Commission. The Village Board may also add modifications they feel are
in the best interest of the village and/or request additional information the
Board feels necessary to make an informed decision.
      (10)   Submittal of master development plan. The master development plan
for the planned development shall be submitted to the village staff and subject
to review as follows.
         (a)   Not later than six months following the approval of the
preliminary development plan and application, together with any re-zoning
petition which may be required, the applicant shall file with the village staff
an application for approval of a master development plan and the village staff,
upon written request from the applicant, may extend for an additional six-month
period the time for filing the application for approval of the master
development plan.
         (b)   The application for master plan development approval shall be
accompanied by ten copies of the master development plan and a non-refundable
processing fee. (See
Chapter 34.)
         (c)   In the event a master development plan is not submitted within
six months following approval of the preliminary plan and if the village staff
does not grant a six-month extension for such submittal, the application shall
lapse and no further consideration will be given to the application.
      (11)   Contents of master development plan. The master development plan
shall assure that each phase of the development plan substantially conforms to
the intent, form and content of the approved preliminary development plan and
requirements of the portions of the Development Code specifically not modified
in the planned unit development approval (special use ordinance.) Each phase of
the master plan shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
         (a)   A scaled plan showing all of the features and characteristics
set forth in the preliminary plan and to be incorporated in the master
development plan;
         (b)   A landscape plan showing the location, type and size at
installation of all proposed landscape materials, existing landscaping and
trees to be retained on the site, as well as the identification of any existing
trees to be removed that are two inches in diameter or greater, all proposed
buffering, fencing, walls, berms and any other pertinent architectural elements
associated with the landscape plan for the development or any buffering or
screening characteristics required;
         (c)   Land use characteristics in table form containing the following
information:
            1.   Gross project area in terms of acreage;
            2.   Net project area in terms of acreage;
            3.   Approved density for the project in terms of lot area/square
feet of building area;
            4.   Approved usable space for the project in terms of square feet
of open space/net project area; and
            5.   Total number of parking spaces and loading spaces (if
applicable).
         (d)   Graphic representation of all public easements and legal
descriptions thereof, the recipient of the easement, the purpose of the
easement, and any conditions relating to the use of the easement or its
duration or scope;
         (e)   Legal description of the gross project area;
         (f)   Any other minimum requirements established in this Code; and
         (g)   All requirements of §§
151.395 through
151.398 and
151.458.
(Am. Ord. 2020-03-02A, passed 3-2-2020)
§ 151.456 "PB" PLANNED BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   The "PB" District is intended to provide for maximum commercial
site design and utilization in areas favorable for commercial growth. It is the
purpose of these regulations to facilitate the establishment of developments
and uses in locations appropriate under approved site plans.
      (2)   This allows the village to create a more attractive community,
maximize economic value and to reduce capital expenditures for public
improvements.
   (B)   Special procedures in "PB" District. A permit for any proposed
development in the "PB" District shall not be issued until:
      (1)   The preliminary development plan is approved by the Village Board
of Trustees.
      (2)   The application process and requirements shall be the same as those
for a PCD except as indicated below.
         (a)   The design and configuration of the PB District must balance the
high visibility and accessibility of the area with limited curb cuts to
individual businesses.
         (b)   Pedestrian and bike access is required by providing sidewalks
and such other or additional access as may be required to implement the Metro
East Park and Recreation District Plan and the Land Use and Transportation
Plan, as amended from time to time.
         (c)   All developments must provide for internal transportation
circulation within the development and between adjacent tracts.
         (d)   The development to upgrade "rural" roadway conditions to "urban"
conditions.
         (e)   A high level of building design is required.
   (C) Approval. A site development plan is approved by the Village Board of
Trustees. The site development requirements, plan submittals, review and
approval process are the same as that for a PCD.
   (D)   Uses and regulations.
      (1)   The permitted uses allowed in the "PB" Planned Business District
shall be limited to those listed in §
151.046. Special uses shall be as listed in §
151.047.
      (2)   Specific sign regulations shall be per the sign section elsewhere
in this Code and as modified below.
         (a)   The permitted signs in a PB District shall be those shown on
Table 1.5A for a B-2 Zone.
         (b)   The maximum sign areas shall be those shown on
Table 1.5B for B-2 Zone. However, note "e", where applicable shall apply.
         (c)   The number, dimensions and location of individual signs shall be
those shown on
Table 1.5C for the B-2 zone. However, note "l" where applicable shall apply.
         (d)   
Table 1.5D shall apply.
         (e)   The permitted sign characteristics shall be those shown on
Table 1.5E for the I Zone District.
§ 151.457 TIME LIMITATIONS.
   The following time limitations shall apply to planned developments.
   (A)   Actual construction shall occur within one year following the date of
final approval of the development plan and shall be diligently pursued to
completion. In any event, where construction has not been commenced within the
one-year period, the Board of Trustees may allow a reasonable extension upon
written request by the applicant providing reasonable cause for an extension to
be granted.
   (B)   In the event construction has not been commenced within the one year
following final approval and an extension of time has not been granted by the
Village Board, the special use permit shall automatically lapse.
§ 151.458 AMENDMENTS TO THE DEVELOPMENT PLAN/SUBMISSION IN PHASES.
   (A)   Any minor or non-substantive change in the approved plan may be made
only after approval of the change by the village staff. Any proposed change
shall be clearly portrayed on all copies of the final approved plan and shall
be submitted to the village staff for review and determination or, at his or
her discretion, shall be referred directly to the Planning Commission for
approval or rejection.
   (B)   Any change or addition of land use (other than accessory uses), common
open space area and parking facilities shall require approval of the Planning
Commission and Village Board.
   (C)   All changes to the plan must be compatible with the original plan for
land use, traffic circulation and open space and with the height and area
regulations and parking ratios reflected in the plan originally approved by the
Village Board. Substantive changes in the development plan shall require
consideration in the same manner as the original application.
   (D)   (1)   A planned development may be submitted for approval in phases,
however, each phase of the development shall be equal in area to the minimum
area requirement for the proposed planned development. The submission of the
initial phase shall include a master plan for future phases and the overall
development in such detail as the village staff and/or Planning Commission may
deem necessary to properly evaluate the proposed planned development on a
phased basis, but the master plan will not generally require the detail
required for the preliminary development plan application.
      (2)   The application for each phase of the planned development shall
comply fully with the requirements of this Code. Approval by the village of an
initial phase or a subsequent phase will not constitute approval of the entire
planned development where only a master plan for future phases has been
presented and each phase will be evaluated separately. After a master plan has
been submitted as part of the approval of an initial or subsequent phase, any
modification of the master plan may only be made with the approval of the
Village Board of Trustees. The master plan shall, minimally, provide the
following information:
         (a)   A legal description of the property proposed for master plan
approval;
         (b)   A concept development plan prepared at a scale of not more than
200 feet to one inch depicting the following:
            1.   The gross land area and project net area of the planned
development, the present zoning classification of the area, and the zoning
classification of the properties surrounding the planned development;
            2.   All existing structures and land uses currently on the
property proposed for the development and the location of any uses and
structures on properties which adjoin the proposed planned development;
            3.   The location and use or uses proposed for each existing or
proposed structure within the planned development, the number of stories and
gross floor area;
            4.   Existing and proposed contours at intervals of two feet.
Locations and direction of flow of major water courses, natural drainageways
and ponding areas shall be delineated;
            5.   All existing and proposed curb cuts, driving lanes, parking
areas, loading areas and storage areas;
            6.   Common area walks and common open areas for use by residents,
tenants and the general public;
            7.   A concept landscape, screening and buffering plan for the
Planned Development;
            8.   Concept plans for the control and disposal of natural and
storm water drainage, including detention facilities. To include riparian
corridors, wetlands and areas subject to flooding in the 100-year storm event;
            9.   Location of present utility services to the proposed planned
development, including electric, water, sanitary sewer and telephone;
            10.   Boundary lines of the area of the master plan. Boundary lines
of the preliminary development plan for the initial phase shall be shown, along
with boundary lines for proposed future phases; and
            11.   Not less than ten copies of the master plan shall be
submitted with the application, one of which shall be 11 inches by 17 inches.
§ 151.459 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS INSURANCE.
   Prior to the acceptance of the improvement plans by the village (including
PRDs, PCDs or NDs) the developer shall provide the village staff with a copy of
its design engineer's errors and omissions insurance policy declaration page.
The errors and omissions policy shall provide minimum insurance limits of
$1,000 or the expected cost of the construction project, whichever is greater.
§ 151.460 GUARANTY OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   No building permits, or permits authorizing the occupancy or use of a
building, facility, establishment or structure shall be issued until all
required related improvements are constructed in accordance with the provisions
of this Code, or the conditions of approval under this Code have been met per
§§
151.410 and
151.411.
   (B)   In the event a planned development is constructed or developed in
phases, the requirement for such assurances shall apply to all major
improvements necessary to the proper operation and function of the phase in
question, even though the improvements may be located outside the particular
area of the development where the phase is being developed.
§ 151.461 WITHDRAWAL OF APPLICATION.
   Any person who files an application for planned development may request
withdrawal of the application any time prior to final Village Board action on
the application. A request for withdrawal shall be submitted in writing and
signed by all persons who signed the original application. A withdrawal
effectively made pursuant to these provisions shall constitute an abandonment
of the application. Fees are non-refundable.
FLOOD PLAIN AREAS
§ 151.475 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to the
village's Municipal Code, under ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 1-2-1, 11-12-12, 11-30-
2, 11-30-8 and 11-31-2, in order to accomplish the following purposes:
   (A)   To prevent unwise developments from increasing flood or drainage
hazards to others;
   (B)   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from
flood damage;
   (C)   To promote and protect the public health, safety and general welfare
of the citizens from the hazards of flooding;
   (D)   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control, repairs to
public facilities and utilities and flood rescue and relief operations;
   (E)   To maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating blight areas;
   (F)   To make federally subsidized flood insurance available; and
   (G)   To preserve the natural characteristics and functions of watercourses
and floodplains in order to moderate flood and storm water impacts, improve
water quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat,
provide recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance
community and economic development.
§ 151.476 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% probability of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year. The BASE FLOOD is also known as the 100-YEAR FLOOD. The BASE
FLOOD ELEVATION, at any location, is as defined in §
151.477.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation in relation to mean sea level of
the crest of the base flood.
   BUILDING. A structure that is principally above ground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof including manufactured homes, prefabricated buildings and gas
or liquid storage tanks. The term also includes recreational vehicles and
travel trailers installed on a site for more than 180 days per year.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. Any public or private facility which, if flooded, would
create an added dimension to the disaster or would increase the hazard to life
and health. Examples are public buildings, emergency operations and
communication centers, health care facilities and nursing homes, schools and
toxic waste treatment, handling or storage facilities.
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any human-made change to real estate including, but not necessarily
limited to:
         (a)   Demolition, construction, reconstruction, repair, placement of a
building or any structural alteration to a building;
         (b)   Substantial improvement of an existing building;
         (c)   Installation of a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site
for a manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than
180 days per year;
         (d)   Installation of utilities, construction of roads, bridges,
culverts or similar projects;
         (e)   Construction or erection of levees, dams, walls or fences;
         (f)   Drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading, excavating, paving
or other alterations of the ground surface;
         (g)   Storage of materials including the placement of gas and liquid
storage tanks; and
         (h)   Channel modifications or any other activity that might change
the direction, height or velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include routine maintenance of existing
buildings and facilities; resurfacing roads; or gardening, plowing and similar
practices that do not involve filling, grading or construction of levees.
   FEMA. Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD FRINGE. The portion of the floodplain outside of the regulatory
floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP. A map prepared by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency that depicts the floodplain or special flood hazard area (SFHA) within a
community. This map includes insurance rate zones and may or may not depict
floodways and show base flood elevations.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION or FPE. The elevation of the base flood, plus one
foot of freeboard at any given location in the floodplain.
   FLOODPLAIN and SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). Are synonymous. Those lands
within the jurisdiction of the village, the extraterritorial jurisdiction of
the village, or that may be annexed into the village, that are subject to
inundation by the base flood. The FLOODPLAINS of the village are generally
identified as such on the countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map of St. Clair
County prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated 11-5-2003.
FLOODPLAIN also includes those areas of known flooding as identified by the
community.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural or nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate, property and their contents.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form published by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency that is used to certify that a building has been designed and
constructed to be structurally dry floodproofed to the flood protection
elevation.
   FLOODWAY. The portion of the floodplain required to store and convey the
base flood. The FLOODWAYS for the floodplains of Richland, Loop and Silver
Creeks shall be as delineated on the countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map of St.
Clair County prepared by FEMA and dated 11-5-2003. The FLOODWAYS for each of
the remaining floodplains of the village shall be according to the best data
available from federal, state or other sources.
   IDNR/OWR. Illinois Department of Natural Resources/Office of Water
Resources.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections, that
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to required utilities.
   NFIP. National Flood Insurance Program.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event on the average equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SFHA. See definition of FLOODPLAIN.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damage condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred
regardless of actual repair work performed. Volunteer labor and materials must
be included in this determination.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilition, addition or
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure before the improvement or repair is started.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is considered to occur when the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building commences,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the
structure. The term does not, however, include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications which are solely
necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or the Illinois Register of Historic Places.
   TRAVEL TRAILER (or RECREATIONAL VEHICLE). A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less in size;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
§ 151.477 BASE FLOOD ELEVATION.
   (A)   This subchapter's protection standard is the base flood. The best
available base flood data are listed below. Whenever a party disagrees with the
best available data, the party shall finance the detailed engineering study
needed to replace the existing data with better data and submit it to the FEMA
and IDNR/OWR for approval prior to any development of the site.
   (B)   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of Richland, Loop and
Silver Creeks shall be as delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the
countywide Flood Insurance Study of St. Clair County prepared by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency and 11-5-2003.
   (C)   The base flood elevation for each floodplain delineated as an "Ali
Zone" or "AO Zone" shall be that elevation (or depth) delineated on the
countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map of St. Clair County dated 11-5-2003.
   (D)   The base flood elevation for each of the remaining floodplains
delineated as an "A Zone" on the countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map of St.
Clair County shall be according to the best data available from federal, state
or other sources. Should no other data exist, an engineering study must be
financed to determine base flood elevations.
   (E)   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of those parts of
unincorporated St. Clair County that are within the extraterritorial
jurisdiction of the village, or that may be annexed into the village, shall be
as delineated on the 100-year flood profiles of the countywide Flood Insurance
Study of St. Clair County prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
and dated 11-5-2003.
§ 151.478 DUTIES OF THE VILLAGE STAFF.
   (A)   The village staff shall be responsible for the general administration
of this subchapter and ensure that all development activities within the
floodplains under the jurisdiction of the village meet the requirements of this
subchapter.
   (B)   Specifically, the village staff shall:
      (1)   Process development permits in accordance with §
151.480;
      (2)   Ensure that all development in a floodway (or a floodplain with no
delineated floodway) meets the damage prevention requirements of §
151.479;
      (3)   Ensure that the building protection requirements for all buildings
subject to §
151.481 are met and maintain a record of the "as-built" elevation of the lowest
floor (including basement) or floodproof certificate;
      (4)   Assure that all subdivisions and annexations meet the requirements
of §
151.482;
      (5)   Ensure that water supply and waste disposal systems meet the public
health standards of §
151.483;
      (6)   If a variance is requested, ensure that the requirements of §
151.484 are met and maintain documentation of any variances granted;
      (7)   Inspect all development projects and take any and all actions
outlined in §
151.486 as necessary to ensure compliance with this subchapter;
      (8)   Assure that applicants are aware of and obtain any and all other
required local, state and federal permits;
      (9)   Notify IDNR/OWR and any neighboring communities prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse;
      (10)   Provide information and assistance to citizens upon request about
permit procedures and floodplain construction techniques;
      (11)   Cooperate with state and federal floodplain management agencies to
coordinate base flood data and to improve the administration of this
subchapter;
      (12)   Maintain for public inspection base flood data, floodplain maps,
copies of state and federal permits and documentation of compliance for
development activities subject to this subchapter;
      (13)   Perform site inspections to ensure compliance with this subchapter
and make substantial damage determinations for structures within the
floodplain; and
      (14)   Maintain the accuracy of floodplain maps including notifying IDNR/
OWR and/or submitting information to FEMA within six months whenever a
modification of the floodplain may change the base flood elevation or result in
a change to the floodplain map.
§ 151.479 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   No person, firm, corporation or governmental body not exempted by law
shall commence any development in the floodplain without first obtaining a
development permit from the village staff.
   (B)   The village staff shall not issue a development permit if the proposed
development does not meet the requirements of this subchapter.
      (1)   The application for development permit shall be accompanied by:
         (a)   Drawings of the site, drawn to scale showing property line
dimensions;
         (b)   Existing grade elevations and all changes in grade resulting
from excavation or filling;
         (c)   The location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to
buildings;
         (d)   The elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of all
proposed buildings subject to the requirements of §
151.481;
         (e)   Cost of project or improvements as estimated by a licensed
engineer or architect. A signed estimate by a contractor may also meet this
requirement; and
         (f)   A calculation verifying that compensatory storage has been
provided for any activity in the floodplain. Calculations shall be accompanied
by a chart indicating cuts and fills proposed in the floodplain. No fill can be
placed in the floodplain unless an equal amount of material is removed from the
floodplain. Removal to be done in a manner to ensure the net effect to water
storage is zero.
      (2)   Upon receipt of an application for a development permit, the
village staff shall compare the elevation of the site to the base flood
elevation. Any development located on land that can be shown by survey data to
be higher than the current base flood elevation and which has not been filled
after the date of the site's first Flood Insurance Rate Map is not in the
floodplain and therefore not subject to the requirements of this subchapter.
Conversely, any development located on land shown to be below the base flood
elevation and hydraulically connected, but not shown on the current Flood
Insurance Rate Map is subject to the provisions of this subchapter. The village
staff shall maintain documentation of the existing ground elevation at the
development site and certification that this ground elevation existed prior to
the date of the site's first Flood Insurance Rate Map identification.
§ 151.480 PREVENTING INCREASED FLOOD HEIGHTS AND RESULTING DAMAGES.
   Within the floodplain identified on the countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map,
the following standards shall apply.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, no development shall be
allowed which, acting in combination with existing and anticipated development,
will cause any increase in flood heights or velocities or threat to public
health and safety. The following specific development activities shall be
considered as meeting this requirement:
      (1)   Barge fleeting facilities meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
statewide permit No. 3;
      (2)   Aerial utility crossings meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
statewide permit No. 4;
      (3)   Minor boat docks meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide
permit No. 5;
      (4)   Minor, non-obstructive activities meeting the conditions of IDNR/
OWR statewide permit No 6;
      (5)   Outfall structures and drainage ditch outlets meeting the
conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit No. 7;
      (6)   Underground pipeline and utility crossings meeting the conditions
of IDNR/OWR statewide permit No. 8;
      (7)   Bank stabilization projects meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
statewide permit No. 9;
      (8)   Accessory structures and additions to existing residential
buildings meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit No. 10;
      (9)   Minor maintenance dredging activities meeting the conditions of
IDNR/OWR statewide permit No. 11;
      (10)   Bridge and culvert replacement structures and bridge widens
meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit No. 12;
      (11)   Temporary construction activities meeting the conditions of IDNR/
OWR statewide permit No. 13; and
      (12)   Any development determined by IDNR/OWR to be located entirely
within a flood fringe area.
   (B)   Other development activities not listed in (a) may be permitted only
if:
      (1)   A permit has been issued for the work by IDNR/OWR (or written
documentation is provided that an IDNR/OWR permit is not required);
      (2)   Sufficient data has been provided to FEMA when necessary, and
approval obtained from FEMA for a revision of the regulatory map and base flood
elevation; and
      (3)   Water storage in the floodplain is not reduced.
§ 151.481 PROTECTING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   In addition to the damage prevention requirements of §
151.480, all buildings located in the floodplain shall be protected from flood
damage below the flood protection elevation. This building protection
requirement applies to the following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of a new building valued at more than
$1,000 or 70 square feet;
      (2)   Substantial improvements made to an existing building. This
alteration shall be figured cumulatively beginning with any alteration which
has taken place subsequent to the adoption of this subchapter;
      (3)   Repairs made to a substantially damaged building. These repairs
shall be figured cumulatively beginning with any repairs which have taken place
subsequent to the adoption of this subchapter;
      (4)   Structural alterations made to an existing building that increase
the floor area by more than 20%;
      (5)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site (the building protection requirements do not apply to
returning a manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it
was removed to avoid flood damage);
      (6)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days per year; and
      (7)   Repetitive loss to an existing building as defined in §
151.476.
   (B)   Residential or non-residential buildings can meet the building
protection requirements by one of the following methods:
      (1)   The building may be constructed on permanent land fill in
accordance with the following:
         (a)   The lowest floor (including basement) shall be at or above the
flood protection elevation;
         (b)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than six inches
before compaction and should extend at least ten feet beyond the foundation
before sloping below the flood protection elevation;
         (c)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap or other structural measure;
         (d)   The fill shall be composed of rock or soil and not incorporate
debris or refuse materials;
         (e)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties and when necessary, storm water management
techniques such as swales or basins shall be incorporated; and
         (f)   Any fill placed shall be offset by an equal removal of earth
from the floodplain to ensure no loss of water storage in the floodplain.
      (2)   The building may be elevated in accordance with the following:
         (a)   The building or improvements shall be elevated on stilts, piles,
walls or other foundation that is permanently open to flood waters;
         (b)   The lowest floor and all electrical, heating, ventilating,
plumbing and air conditioning equipment and utility meters shall be located at
or above the flood protection elevation;
         (c)   If walls are used, all enclosed areas below the flood protection
elevation shall address hydrostatic pressures by allowing the automatic entry
and exit of flood waters. Designs must either be certified by a registered
professional engineer or by having a minimum of one permanent opening on each
wall no more than one foot above grade. The openings shall provide a total net
area of not less than one square inch for every one square foot of enclosed
area subject to flooding below the base flood elevation;
         (d)   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored,
designed and certified so as to minimize exposure to hydrodynamic forces such
as current, waves, ice and floating debris;
         (e)   The finished interior grade shall not be less than the finished
exterior grade;
         (f)   All structural components below the flood protection elevation
shall be constructed of materials resistant to flood damage;
         (g)   Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines,
submersible pumps and other service facilities may be located below the flood
protection elevation provided they are waterproofed; and
         (h)   The area below the flood protection elevation shall be used
solely for parking or building access and not later modified or occupied as
habitable space.
   (C)   Manufactured homes or travel trailers to be permanently installed on
site shall be:
      (1)   Elevated to or above the flood protection elevation; and
      (2)   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement by being
tied down in accordance with the Rules and Regulations for the Illinois Mobile
Home Tie-Down Act issued pursuant to 77 Ill. Adm. Code 870.
   (D)   (1)   Travel trailers and recreational vehicles on site for more than
180 days shall meet the elevation requirements of §
151.482 unless the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The vehicle must be either self-propelled or towable by a light
duty truck. The hitch must remain on the vehicle at all times;
         (b)   The vehicle must not be attached to external structures such as
decks and porches;
         (c)   The vehicle must be designed solely for recreation, camping,
travel or seasonal use rather than as a permanent dwelling;
         (d)   The vehicle's largest horizontal projections must be no larger
than 400 square feet;
         (e)   The vehicle's wheels must remain on axles and inflated;
         (f)   Air conditioning units must be attached to the frame so as to be
safe for movement out of the floodplain;
         (g)   Propane tanks, electrical and sewage connections must be quick-
disconnect and above the 100-year flood elevation; and
         (h)   The vehicle must be licensed and titled as a recreational
vehicle or park model.
      (2)   The vehicle must be either entirely supported by jacks rather than
blocks or have a hitch jack permanently mounted, have the tires touching the
ground, and be supported by blocks in a manner that will allow the blocks to be
easily removed by use of the hitch jack.
      (3)   Non-residential buildings may be structurally dry floodproofed (in
lieu of elevation) provided a registered professional engineer or architect
certifies that:
         (a)   Below the flood protection elevation the structure and attendant
utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the effects of the
base flood;
         (b)   The building design accounts for flood velocities, duration,
rate of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of buoyancy and
the impact from debris and ice;
         (c)   Floodproofing measures will be incorporated into the building
design, and operable without human intervention and without an outside source
of electricity; and
         (d)   Compensatory storage has been provided in the floodplain for the
building area.
      (4)   Levees, berms, floodwalls and similar works are not considered
floodproofing for the purpose of this division.
      (5)   Garages or sheds constructed ancillary to a residential use are not
permitted.
      (6)   A building may not be constructed with a crawlspace located below
the flood protection elevation.
§ 151.482 SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The village shall take into account flood hazards, to the extent that
they are known, in all official actions related to land management use and
development.
   (B)   New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, annexation agreements,
planned unit developments and additions to manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall meet the damage prevention and building protection standards
of §§
151.480 and
151.481.
   (C)   Any proposal for the development shall include the following data:
      (1)   The base flood elevation and the boundary of the floodplain (where
the base flood elevation is not available from an existing study, the applicant
shall be responsible for calculating the base flood elevation);
      (2)   The boundary of the floodway when applicable; and
      (3)   A signed statement by a registered professional engineer that the
proposed plat or plan accounts for changes in the drainage of surface waters in
accordance with the Plat Act (ILCS Ch. 765, Act 205) and that there will be no
reduction in either the storm water conveyance or storage capacity in the
floodplain.
§ 151.483 PUBLIC HEALTH AND OTHER STANDARDS.
   (A)   Public health standards must be met for all floodplain development.
   (B)   In addition to the requirements of §§
151.481 and
151.482, the following standards apply.
      (1)   No development in the floodplain shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, flammable liquids, pollutants or
other hazardous or toxic materials below the flood protection elevation unless
the materials are stored in a floodproofed and anchored storage tank and
certified by a professional engineer or floodproofed building constructed
according to the requirements of §
151.481.
      (2)   Public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas and electric
shall be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
      (3)   Public sanitary sewer systems and water supply systems shall be
located and constructed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters
into the systems and discharges from the systems into flood waters.
      (4)   New and replacement on-site sanitary sewer lines or waste disposal
systems shall be located and constructed to avoid impairment to them or
contamination from them during flooding. Manholes or other above ground
openings located below the flood protection elevation shall be watertight.
      (5)   Critical facilities shall be protected to the 500-year flood
elevation. In addition, all ingress and egress from any critical facility must
be protected to the 500-year flood elevation.
   (C)   All other activities defined as development shall be designed so as
not to alter flood flows or increase potential flood damages.
§ 151.484 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Whenever the standards of this chapter place undue hardship on a
specific development proposal, the applicant may apply to the village for a
variance. The village staff shall review the applicant's request for a variance
and shall submit a recommendation to the Village Board. The Village Board may
attach such conditions to granting of a variance as it deems necessary to
further the intent of this subchapter.
   (B)   (1)   No variance shall be granted unless the applicant demonstrates
that all of the following conditions are met.
         (a)   The development activity cannot be located outside the
floodplain.
         (b)   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted.
         (c)   The relief requested is the minimum necessary.
         (d)   There will be no additional threat to public health or safety or
creation of a nuisance.
         (e)   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
rescue or relief operations, policing or repairs to roads, utilities or other
public facilities, this to be accompanied by a verification from a licensed
professional engineer.
         (f)   The applicant's circumstances are unique and do not establish a
pattern inconsistent with the intent of the NFIP.
         (g)   All other required state and federal permits have been obtained.
         (h)   There will not be a reduction in water storage in the floodplain
and/or increase in water height on adjoining property.
      (2)   The Village Board shall notify an applicant in writing that a
variance from the requirements of the building protection standards of §
151.481 that would lessen the degree of protection to a building will:
         (a)   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to $25
per $100 of insurance coverage;
         (b)   Increase the risks to life and property; and
         (c)   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks
and that the applicant acknowledge in writing the assumption of the risk and
liability.
   (C)   Variances to the building protection requirements of §
151.481 requested in connection with the reconstruction, repair or alteration
of a site or building included on the National Register of Historic Places or
the Illinois Register of Historic Places may be granted using criteria more
permissive than the requirements hereof.
§ 151.485 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of protection required by this subchapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may
occur or flood heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This
subchapter does not imply that development either inside or outside of the
floodplain will be free from flooding or damage. This subchapter does not
create liability on the part of the village or any officer or employee thereof
for any flood damage that results from proper reliance on this subchapter or
any administrative decision made lawfully thereunder.
§ 151.486 PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure to obtain a permit for development in the floodplain or
failure to comply with the conditions of a permit or a variance shall be deemed
to be a violation of this subchapter. Upon due investigation, the village staff
may determine that a violation of the minimum standards of this subchapter
exists. The village staff shall notify the owner in writing of the violation.
   (B)   If the owner fails after ten-days' notice to correct the violation:
      (1)   The village shall make application to the Circuit Court for an
injunction requiring conformance with this ordinance or make such other order
as the court deems necessary to secure compliance with this subchapter;
      (2)   Any person who violates this subchapter shall upon conviction
thereof be fined in accordance with
Chapter 34, for each offense;
      (3)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during
or on which a violation occurs or continues; and
      (4)   The village shall record a notice of violation on the title to the
property.
   (C)   The village staff shall inform the owner that any such violation is
considered a willful act to increase flood damages and therefore may cause
coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
   (D)   (1)   Nothing herein shall prevent the village from taking such other
lawful action to prevent or remedy any violations.
      (2)   All costs connected therewith shall accrue to the person or persons
responsible.
§ 151.487 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   This chapter repeals and replaces other ordinances adopted by the
village to fulfill the requirements of the National Flood Insurance Program
including: Previous Article 12.
   (B)   However, this subchapter does not repeal the original resolution or
ordinance adopted to achieve eligibility in the program.
   (C)   Nor does this subchapter repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions.
   (D)   Where this subchapter and other ordinance easements, covenants or deed
restrictions conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall prevail.
§ 151.488 SEPARABILITY.
   The provisions and sections of this subchapter shall be deemed separable and
the invalidity of any portion of this subchapter shall not affect the validity
of the remainder.
§ 151.489 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage
and approval and publication, as required by law.
APPLICATIONS, FORMS AND THE LIKE
§ 151.500 APPLICATION FOR DEMOLITION.
VILLAGE OF SHILOH, ILLINOIS
DEPARTMENT OF BUILDINGS
APPLICATION FOR DEMOLITION
Date                                              , 20                   Type of Building                                                          
Owner's Name                                                        Address                                                                       
Owner's Telephone                                                  Owner's FAX                                                              
Owner's Address                                                                                                                                           
Contractor                                                              Contractor's Address                                                     
Contractor's Telephone                                            Contractor's FAX                                                         
Building to be located                                                                                                                                     
Lot No.                                Block No.                                 Subdivision                                      
Building Size                   Ft. Wide                   Ft. Long                   Ft. High   Stories                
Is the building provided with a sewer?                                                                                                              
Estimated Cost $                                                  
Remarks                                                            
Total =                                                             
The applicant hereby agrees that the approval of plans or the issuing of a permit, procured by misrepresentation of facts or conditions, misstatement in application or though improper action of any officer or employee of this department, does not legalize an
illegal construction, arrangement or condition.
I Hereby Certify That the Above Answers are Correct and True.
STATE OF ILLINOIS
{'}'}ss.                                                                    
COUNTY OF ST. CLAIR   Owner, Agent or Contractor
Demolition Permit No.                       Fee                       Issued                                                  , 20                
Application for Permit approved                                                                                                                      
Building Commissioner
Include a letter notifying utilities, certificate of insurance and bond. Please note: you must call 48 hours in advance to schedule inspection appointments.
 
Click_here_to_view_the_above_form_in_a_PDF_document.
§ 151.501 SUBDIVISION APPROVAL PROCESS.
VILLAGE OF SHILOH
SUBDIVISION APPROVAL PROCESS
PRELIMINARY PLAT
1.   Applicant meets with staff to discuss development requirements and
procedures.
2.   Preliminary plat prepared by applicant and submitted for staff review and
review by the Planning Commission (four copies required). Preliminary plat fee
paid. Preliminary plat submittal to be made a minimum of 14 days before the
Planning Commission meeting (which is the second Monday of the month).
3.   Upon favorable review by the Planning Commission, submission to the Village
Board for action.
CONSTRUCTION PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS
4.   Construction plans and specifications prepared by applicant along with
required data and submitted to the village and other applicable agencies for
review. (Four copies required for village use). Calculations for all drainage,
storm water management and sediment/erosion items to be sealed by professional
engineer licensed in the state. Construction plans and specifications to be
submitted a minimum of 14 days prior to the Planning Commission meeting.
5.   Village staff and other agencies review plans for completeness and respond to
applicant's engineer with comments.
6.   Plans and specifications meeting by staff. Review forwarded to the Planning
Commission for action.
7.   Letter of approval/disapproval forwarded to applicant with appropriate
comments and suggestions for the Planning Commission.
8.   Upon approval of construction plans, all permits are secured by applicant.
Inspection of improvements fee paid.
CONSTRUCTION AND FINAL PLAT
9.   Construction of improvements initiated by the developer.
10.   Construction completed and accepted by the village. (Developer submits one
reproducible copy of "as builts").
11.   Developer furnishes two-year maintenance guarantee bond. Village releases
assurance of completion. Requests for final plat approval to be received a minimum
of 14 days prior to the Planning Commission meeting.
12.   Recommendation of the Planning Commission to accept final plat to the
Village Board. Developer pays final plat fee before submittal to the Planning
Commission.
13.   Village Board accepts final plat at the village's regular Board meeting
(first Monday of the month).
14.   Developer records final plat and submits three recorded copies to the
village. Lots can be sold.
OR
NOTE: This is only applicable for portion of development for which construction
plans have been approved.
15.   Developer's Engineer prepares estimate of improvement completion signed by
the village.
16.   Developer posts assurance of completion satisfactory to the village.
17.   Repeat of #12, #13 and #14.
18.   Repeat of #9, #10 and #11.
 
Click_here_to_view_the_above_form_in_a_PDF_document.
§ 151.502 PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION PLAT REVIEW.
VILLAGE OF SHILOH
APPLICATION FOR PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION PLAT REVIEW
Name of Subdivision                                                                                                                                       
Location of Subdivision Sec                 of T.                   , R.                 of the                P.M.                   County
Permanent Tax I.D. Number                                                                                                                           
Present Zoning Classification                                                                                                                           
Area of Proposed Subdivision                                                                                                                           
Proposed Number of Lots                                                                                                                                
Subdivider                                                                                                                                                     
Address                                                                                                                                                         
Phone No.                                                                  
Subdivider's Engineer                                                                                                                                     
Address                                                                                                                                                         
Phone No.                                                                                                                                                     
I hereby make application for application for approval of the preliminary submittal of the above named subdivision and do hereby affirm that I am complying with the Development Code of the village, as indicated by my engineer's certification below.
Subdivider's Signature                                                                                            DATE                               
Engineer's Signature of Certification                                                                         DATE                                
Please attach the following items to this application:
Preliminary Plat Checklist (3 copies)
Preliminary Plats (4 complete sets)
Variance Request (if applicable)
Subdivision Restrictions/Covenants
The application will not be considered complete and cannot be processed until these items have been submitted.
For office use only
Date Application Filed                                                                                                                                    
Received by                                                                                                                                                   
Received at Least 14 Days Prior to Planning Commission Meeting   [ ] Yes [ ] No
   Preliminary Plat Filing Fee Paid   [ ] Yes [ ] No      Amount [   ]
 
Click_here_to_view_the_above_form_in_a_PDF_document.
§ 151.503 PRELIMINARY PLAT CHECKLIST.
 
VILLAGE OF SHILOH
PRELIMINARY PLAT CHECKLIST
SUBDIVISION NAME                                                                                                                                                
SUBDIVIDER's NAME                                                                                          DATE                                             
 
REQUIREMENTS
A.    SUBMITTALS                                                     YES NO
1    Application for Subdivision Plat Review
2    Preliminary Plat Filing Fee Paid
3    Four Copies of Preliminary Plat
4    Preliminary Plat Checklist
5    Proposed Deed Restrictions/covenants, If Any
6    Submitted to Appropriate Sanitary System for Review and Approval
7    Submitted to St. Clair County Soil and Water Conservation District
 
B.    PRELIMINARY PLAT
1    Name of Subdivision and Title
2    Identification of Section, Township, Range, County
3    Name and Address of Owner/subdivider
4    Name and Address of Surveyor And/or Engineer
5    North Arrow
6    Zoning District Classification Indicated
7    Date
8    Graphic Scale
9    Location and Dimensions of Boundaries
10    Locations, Dimensions and Number of Proposed and Existing Lots
11    Adjacent Streets, Property Lines and Survey Lines
12    Locations, Names, Width and R/w Radio of Proposed Streets
13    Locations, Width and Purpose of Proposed and Existing Easements
14    Area of Each Proposed Lot
15    Gross and Net Area of Subdivision
16    Topography of Subdivision and Surrounding Area per §
151.345
17    Location, Accessibility and Size of Existing Public Utilities Within
and Adjoining Proposed Subdivision/development
18    Location Type and Size of Utility Improvements to Be Installed
19    Locations, Dimensions and Areas of All Parcels to Be Reserved for
Parks/ Playgrounds on Other Public Purposes
20    Limit of Ponding of 100-year Storm Event Indicated
 
 
FOR VILLAGE USE                ACTION DATE
Zoning hearing (if applicable)
Variances (if applicable)
Planning Commission
Approval letter
 
 
                     PLANNING COMMISSION APPROPRIATE    VILLAGE ENGINEER
                                         SUPERINTENDENT
Preliminary plat
Streets and drainage
Water main
Sewer main
 
Click_here_to_view_the_above_form_in_a_PDF_document.
§ 151.504 CONSTRUCTION PLANS AND SPECIFICATION REVIEW APPLICATION.
VILLAGE OF SHILOH
APPLICATION FOR CONSTRUCTION PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS REVIEW
Name of Subdivision                                                                                                                                       
Area of Proposed Subdivision                                                                                                                           
Subdivider                                                                         
Address                                                                                                                                                         
Phone No.                                                                                                                                                     
Subdivider's Engineer                                                                                                                                     
Address                                                                                                                                                         
Phone No.                                                                                                                                                     
I hereby make application for application for approval of the preliminary submittal of the above named subdivision and do hereby affirm that I am complying with the Development Code of the village, as indicated by my engineer's certification below.
Subdivider's Signature                                                                                            DATE                               
Engineer's Signature of Certification                                                                         DATE                                
Please attach the following items to this application:
Construction plans and specification (4 sets)
Calculations sealed by an Illinois Licensed Engineer (1 set)
Construction plans and specifications checklist (2 copies)
Itemized estimate of cost of improvements (2 copies)
The application will not be considered complete and cannot be processed until these items have been submitted.
For office use only
Date Application Filed                                                                                                                                    
Received by                                                                                                                                                   
Received at least 14 days prior to Planning Commission Meeting   [ ] Yes [ ] No
   Preliminary Plat Filing Fee Paid   [ ] Yes [ ] No      Amount [   ]
 
Click_here_to_view_the_above_form_in_a_PDF_document.
§ 151.505 CONSTRUCTION PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS CHECKLIST.
 
VILLAGE OF SHILOH
CONSTRUCTION PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS CHECKLIST
SUBDIVISION NAME                                                                                                                                                
ENGINEER                                                                                DATE SUBMITTED                                                    
 
A.    WATER AND SEWER MAIN OVERLAY                                       YES NO
1    Title of Overlay
2    North Arrow
3    Graphic Scale
4    Date
5    Proposed and Existing Rights-of-Way and Pavements
6    Location and Size of Existing Water Mains, Hydrants and Valves
7    Location and Size of Proposed Water Mains, Hydrants and Valves
8    Water Facility Standards
9    Location and Size of Existing Sanitary Sewer and Manholes
10    Location and Size of Proposed Sanitary Sewer and Manholes, EPA Permit
11    Sewer Facilities Standards
12    Location, Type and Width of Easements for Water Mains and Sanitary
Sewer
 
B.    DRAINAGE AND ROAD OVERLAY
1    Title of Overlay
2    North Arrow
3    Graphic Scale
4    Date
5    Grading and Clearing Requirements
6    Sediment and Erosion Control Plan
7    Locations of Existing Drainage Features and Profiles
8    Proposed Grading Plan
9    Proposed & Existing Street Rights-of-Way & Widths
10    Proposed & Existing Horizontal & Vertical Alignment
11    Intersection Angles
12    Centerline Radii
13    Street Design Standards
14    Street improvement Standard
15    Entrance Permits from Applicable Agencies
16    Proposed and Existing Drainage Easements and Widths
17    Storm Sewer and Catch Basin Locations
18    Proposed and Existing Sidewalks
19    Proposed and Existing Street Lights
20    Easement Reservations
21    Location of Street Signs
22    High Water Excavations of all Lakes/Streams Adjoining or Within the
Tract
23    Storm Water Management Plan
24    Ten-Year or 100-Year Storms Event Ponding Limit Indication (Indicate
Highest Only)
25    Correlate High Water Elevation, Lot Size and Building Setbacks To
Insure Ponding Limit Restrictions are not Exceeded
26    N.P.D.E.S. Permit in Hand if Applicable
 
 
C.    SUBMITTALS
1    Four (4) copies of all plans and specifications
2    Plans sealed by registered professional engineer
3    Calculations sealed by registered professional engineer
4    Itemized estimate of improvement costs sealed by registered professional
engineer
 
 
FOR VILLAGE USE
Date Improvement Plans Received                                                                                                                             
Village Action                                                                                                                                                            
Approval Letter                                                                                                                                                         
 
 
                   ZONING ADMINISTRATION APPROPRIATE    VILLAGE ENGINEERS
                                         SUPERINTENDENT
Roads and Drainage
Water Main
Approval Letter
 
Click_here_to_view_the_above_form_in_a_PDF_document.
§ 151.506 FINAL SUBDIVISION PLAT REVIEW APPLICATION.
VILLAGE OF SHILOH
APPLICATION FOR FINAL SUBDIVISION PLAT REVIEW
Name of Subdivision                                                                                                                , Village of Shiloh
Location of Subdivision Sec                  of T.                  R.                  of the                  P.M.                  County
Permanent Tax I.D. Number                                                                                                                           
Final Number of Lots                                                                                                                                     
Subdivider                                                                                                                                                     
Address                                                                                                                                                         
Phone No.                                                                                                                                                     
Subdivider's Engineer                                                                                                                                     
Address                                                                                                                                                         
Phone No.                                                                                                                                                     
I hereby make application for application for approval of the preliminary submittal of the above named subdivision and do hereby affirm that I am complying with the Development Code of the village, as indicated by my engineer's certification below.
Subdivider's Signature                                                                                            DATE                               
Engineer's Signature of Certification                                                                         DATE                                
Please attach the following items to this application:
Final plans (4 complete sets)
Copy of village acceptance of construction plans and specifications
Completion assurance or two-year maintenance guarantee bond
Final plat checklist (3 copies)
The application will not be considered complete and cannot be processed until these items have been submitted.
For office use only
Date Application Filed                                                                                                                                    
Received by                                                                                                                                                   
Received at least 14 days prior to Planning Commission Meeting   [ ] Yes [ ] No
   Preliminary Plat Filing Fee Paid   [ ] Yes [ ] No      Amount [   ]
 
Click_here_to_view_the_above_form_in_a_PDF_document.
§ 151.507 FINAL PLAT CHECKLIST.
 
VILLAGE OF SHILOH
FINAL PLAT CHECKLIST
NOTE: FINAL PLAT WILL ONLY BE ACCEPTED FOR PORTIONS OF DEVELOPMENT ON WHICH CONSTRUCTION PLANS HAVE BEEN APPROVED.
SUBDIVISION NAME                                                                                                                                                
SUBDIVIDER                                                                                DATE SUBMITTED                                      
ENGINEER                                                     DATE SUBMITTED                                                    
 
 
A.    SUBMITTALS                                 YES NO
1    Four Copies of All Documents
2    Final Plat Filing Fee
3    Legal Assurance for Completion of Improvements
4    Two-year Maintenance Guarantee Bond
 
B.    GENERAL
1    Name of Subdivision
2    North Arrow
3    Graphic Scale
4    Date
5    References for Adjacent Land
6    Adjacent Streets with Names
7    Restrictions or Covenants
8    Surveyor's Signature and Seal
9    Variances Included on Plat
10    Statement That the Maintenance of Drainage Easements and Storm Sewer
System on Private Property Is the Responsibility of the Land Owner
 
C.    LOTS
1    Dimensions
2    Bearing and/or Angles
3    Lot Numbers
4    Square Footage
5    Radii
6    Points of Tangency
7    Setback Lines
8    Easement Lines
9    Address
 
 
D.    STREETS
1    Name(s)
2    R/W Widths
3    Curve Data
4    Points of Tangency, Central Angles, etc.
 
 
E.    BOUNDARIES
1    Dimensions and Bearings
2    Metes and Bounds or Other Legal Descriptions
3    Locations of Monuments
4    Previously Recorded Easements
5    One-hundred Year Storm Event Ponding Limits Indicated
 
 
F.    CERTIFICATES
1    Owner's
2    Notary Public's
3    Surveyor's
4    County Clerk's
5    Village Board
6    Flood Certificate
 
Click_here_to_view_the_above_form_in_a_PDF_document.
§ 151.508 OCCUPANCY INSPECTION CHECKLIST.
OCCUPANCY INSPECTION CHECKLIST
ADDRESS                                                                                                                                                    
DATE                                               INSPECTOR                                                                                           
EXTERIOR
House numbers on building                                                                                                                              
Foundation cracks or holes                                                                                                                               
Holes in siding or brick                                                                                                                                   
Grading sloping from building minimum 1:12 for 8'                                                                                           
   (on new buildings also check develop plan)
Weeds - Garbage or rubbish                                                                                                                             
Exterior painting                                                                                                                                            
Chimney condition                                                                                                                                          
Accessory structures including fences and decks                                                                                                 
Exterior electrical wires hanging lower than 8'                                                                                                   
Doors work freely & lock                                                                                                                                
Plumbing vent stack on roof                                                                                                                             
INTERIOR
Doors work freely and latch                                                                                                                             
Windows open and have screens                                                                                                                       
(For sleeping rooms windows must have clear opening of 5 Sq. Ft. on grade floor and 5.4 Sq. Ft. on other. Sill height of window no more than 44" from floor.)
Ceilings and walls free from cracks, chips, pops etc.                                                                                           
Smoke detectors                                                                                                                                             
(by bedrooms, on each floor,
Drip leg on hot water heater                                                                                                                             
Check stack condition on furnace and hot water heater                                                                                         
Running water in sinks, stools, bathtub etc.                                                                                                        
Check for leaking drain under sinks                                                                                                                  
Grounded outlet for washer & dryer                                                                                                                  
Minimum 2 outlets in each bedroom                                                                                                                  
Exhaust vent in bathrooms or operating window                                                                                                 
G.F.I. protection for outlets in kitchen within 6' of sink                                                                                      
G.F.I. protection for outlets in bath within 6' of sink                                                                                           
G.F.I. protection for outlets 6' from sink by wet bar etc.                                                                                     
Open splice wiring                                                                                                                                          
Wiring entering metal box without connector                                                                                                      
Panel box - No open spaces                                                                                                                              
   If open check for double lugging. Any questions have electrical inspector check it.
Handrails all stairs with 3 or more risers. Includes decks.                                                                                    
If any proposed basement sleeping rooms check egress and ingress. Windows 5.4 Sq. Ft. clear opening with sill height maximum 44" from floor. or exit to a hail which
provides second exit separate from stairs.
GARAGE 
1/2" drywall, joints taped, between garage and living space.                                                                                
If sleeping rooms above garage lhr. fire rating in garage ceiling.                                                                           
Door to living space to be 1 3/8 solid wood or metal with 1 hr. rating                                                                  
FORMULA FOR OCCUPANCY
Number of bedrooms                                                                                                                                      
(No bedroom can have a dimension under 7' and must have escape)
Bedroom for 1 person can not be less than 70 sf.                                                                                                
Bedroom for more than one must have at least 50 sf. per person.                                                                    
Living room for 3-5 at least 120 sf., for 6 or more 150 sf.                                                                                   
Dining room for 3-5 at least 80 sf., for 6 or more 100 sf.                                                                                    
Kitchen for 3-5 at least 50 sf., for 6 or more 60 sf.                                                                                             
TYPE OF STRUCTURE 
1 Story                                2 Story                                Split Level                             
Basement                                Apartment                             
ADDITIONAL COMMENTS
                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                    
 
Click_here_to_view_the_above_form_in_a_PDF_document.
APPENDICES
APPENDIX A: SELECTED ILLUSTRATIONS
A-1 Reserved
A-2 Reverse Curves
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d14942e4c4f8cb463017d7393a947477e3bbd522/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1380.jpg]
 
A-3 Curb and Curb and Gutter Details
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d14942e4c4f8cb463017d7393a947477e3bbd522/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1383.jpg]
 
CURB AND GUTTER DETAILS
For Curb Details - See current I.D.O.T. Standards.
Note: These details are applicable to any development and \ or site improvement
within the village.
+ Thickness of the gutter to be no less than six inches. However, where
adjacent P.C.C. pavement is thicker than six inches, this measurement shall be
the same as the adjoining pavement.
DECORATIVE LANDSCAPE CURB ONLY WHEN ALLOWED PER §
151.270.
A-3A Decorative Landscape Curb Details
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d14942e4c4f8cb463017d7393a947477e3bbd522/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1386.jpg]
 
DECORATIVE LANDSCAPE CURB (NTS)
NOTES:
1.   All exposed concrete shall have a broom finish.
2.   Contraction/control joints shall be grooved every four feet and sealed
with polyurethane sealant limestone color equal to sonolastic.
3.   Fill cannot be placed higher than the top of the decorative landscape curb
without design engineers calculations for stability of curb.
4.   Inspection must be scheduled at least 48 hours before pour, with the
village, to ensure application of bond coat and proper location.
5.   Decorative landscape curb to be bonded to asphalt surface by use of SS-
H or CSS-1-H Cutback asphalt per I.D.O.T. Article 1009.07. Apply tack coat in a
manner to provide a uniform continuous coating one-eighth inch to three-
sixteenths inch in thickness and a width one inch less than the base width of
the curb. Care should be exercises to prevent spills or running of tack coat
over surface of finished asphalt.
A-4 Corner Restrictions
Note: Two feet height limit on obstructions (i.e. landscaping and the like) in
restricted area.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d14942e4c4f8cb463017d7393a947477e3bbd522/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1389.jpg]
 
A-5 Reserved
A-6 Standard Drawings for Street Signs
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d14942e4c4f8cb463017d7393a947477e3bbd522/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1392.jpg]
 
A-7 Street Sign Specifications
All street identification signs within the Village of Shiloh shall conform to
the following standards:
1)   Sign shall be .080 aluminum conforming to 5052 # 38 alloy Engineer grade.
2)   Sign shall be six feet tall with four-inch high lettering conforming to
Highway Gothic B.
3)   All Suffixes: Drive, Court, Lane etc. Letters to be two inches high
Highway Gothic B and shall follow the National Standard for said abbreviation.
4)   Red background to be Premium Fire Red #2076 as manufactured by Spar-cal or
approved equal.
5)   White to be Reflective 3M Engineer Grade #3260 or approved equal.
6)   All signs to be U.V. protected.
7)   Edge border to be three-eighths inch wide and white in color as described
in #5 herein.
8)   Letter and logo to be equally spaced from edge of sign with a minimum
space of one-half inch from inside edge of white border of letter or logo.
9)   One-half inch space shall also be between logo and 1st letter of street
name.
10)   Minimum space of one-half inch between top of lower white border and
letters or logo.
11)   Minimum space of one-half inch between bottom of upper white border and
letters of logo.
12)   Spacing between letters to conform to national standard.
13)   Letters can not be condensed to less than 90% of specified size.
14)   Sign artwork to conform to Exhibit A.
Exhibit A
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d14942e4c4f8cb463017d7393a947477e3bbd522/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1395.jpg]
 
APPENDIX B: STANDARD DRAWINGS FOR SANITARY SEWER AND STORM DRAINAGE
B-1 Standard Catch Basin
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d14942e4c4f8cb463017d7393a947477e3bbd522/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1398.jpg]
 
B-2 Type 1 Storm Sewer Manhole
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d14942e4c4f8cb463017d7393a947477e3bbd522/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1401.jpg]
 
B-3 Type 2 Storm Sewer Manhole
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d14942e4c4f8cb463017d7393a947477e3bbd522/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1404.jpg]
 
B-4 Standard Gutter Outlets
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d14942e4c4f8cb463017d7393a947477e3bbd522/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1407.jpg]
 
APPENDIX C: RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE
C-1 Reserved for Future Use
C-2 Reserved for Future Use
C-3 Reserved for Future Use
APPENDIX D: SPECIFICATIONS FOR PORTLAND CEMENT CONCRETE PAVEMENTS
   It is the intent of these regulations to assure that the materials,
equipment and methods of construction utilized in the construction of Portland
cement concrete subdivision pavement are adequate to provide a safe, durable,
smooth-riding pavement of sufficient quality to afford a useful life of at
least twenty (20) years. No pavement shall be constructed upon a frozen or
spongy sub-grade.
   All materials to be used in conjunction with subdivision pavement
construction shall meet the requirements specified herein and all other
applicable I.D.O.T. Standards.
D-1 Sub-grade
   It is assumed that all sub-grades will be properly graded to the lines and
grades shown on the plans for the given project. In the event there is to be
embankment construction, all fill material shall be placed and compacted per
the requirements of the IDOT Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction or
Shiloh Codes whichever requires the highest level of performance.
D-1 Forms
   Forms shall be clean and securely staked and braced prior to placement of
concrete. Forms may be wood or metal, straight and free from bend or warp.
Deviation from true straightness shall not exceed the following limits for a
ten (10) foot length as determined with a stringline.
Horizontally   1/4 in
Vertically   1/8 in
   When set to grade and staked in place, the maximum deviation of the top of
any section from a straight line shall not exceed 3/16 in. The forms to be used
shall be capable of carrying the weight of the paving equipment without
deflecting or being depressed into the sub-grade/sub-base.
D-1 Equipment
   Portland cement concrete pavement may be placed with a slip-form paver with
an automatic grade control system. The slip-form paver shall be capable of
striking off, consolidating, and finishing the pavement to the required cross
section. Pavement placed with this method shall be checked with a ten (10) foot
straightedge and any necessary corrections made as discussed hereinafter.
   At the Contractor's option, in lieu of a slip-form paver, he may use forms
in conjunction with the following equipment to place Portland cement concrete:
   a.   A two-screed power driven finishing machine designed to strike off,
screen, and consolidate the plastic mixture, or
   b.   A vibrating screed to strike off and consolidate the mixture to the
proper cross section, and
   c.   A longitudinal float not less than twelve (12) feet in length and six
(6) inches in width that is properly stiffened to prevent flexibility and
warping, and equipped with handles.
   In addition, with employment of the equipment specified in either (1) or (2)
and (3) above, the Contractor shall be required to furnish at least two 10-foot
metal straightedges for use following either the finishing machine or the
longitudinal float. The straightedges shall not exceed true straightness by
more than 1/16 in. when checked with a stringline. Long handled wood or metal
float shall be used to correct a surface deviation indicated by the
straightedge. Said floats shall have a blade not less than five (5) feet in
length and six (6) inches in width.
D-1 Sub-grade Preparation
   Prior to placement of concrete on the sub-grade/sub-base, the grade shall be
checked for proper depth with a template or stringline if forms are used, or
with before and after elevation shots for slip-form work. Any soft or spongy
areas shall be properly corrected by undercutting or stabilization. Under no
circumstances shall concrete be placed on a frozen sub-grade. Provisions shall
be made for wetting dry sub-grades in advance of concrete placement.
D-1 Placement & Finishing
   Plastic Portland cement concrete shall be deposited on the grade in such a
manner as to require a minimal amount of rehandling or segregation. It shall be
deposited in successive batches in a continuous operation. No batch/load shall
be incorporated that has been in the truck longer than sixty (60) minutes. The
operation will be coordinated in such a manner as to have the mixture struck
off and consolidated within thirty (30) minutes of deposition on the grade.
   If a vibrating screed is used to strike-off and consolidate the mixture, the
Contractor may be required to make two passes with the equipment. The
longitudinal float shall be passed across the entire surface a minimum of two
times with an overlap of 50% between successive locations along the pavement.
   After the operation of the slip-form paver, or the finishing machine, or the
longitudinal float, but while the concrete is still plastic, the pavement
surface shall be tested with a ten (10) foot straightedge. The straight-edge
shall be held in successive positions parallel to the pavement centerline in
contact with the surface. Advancement along the pavement shall be such to
provide at least 50% overlap for successive stages. High areas shall be cut
down and refinished with a five (5) foot float. The corrected area shall be
checked again with the ten (10) foot straight edge.
   All construction joints and pavement edges shall be finished with an edging
tool having a radius of 1/4 inch.
Subsequent to initial set, and prior to hardening of the surface, the pavement
shall be given a broomed or burlap drag finish either transversely or parallel
to the centerline of road. Resulting indenture of the surface shall yield a
nominal depth of 1/16 inch.
D-1 Curing
   Subsequent to application of the finished texture, the freshly placed
concrete shall be covered with polyethylene sheeting or curing compound as soon
as such application can be made without marring the surface. In the case of
curing compound, the Contractor shall insure that adequate and uniform coverage
is achieved. In the case of polyethylene sheeting, all edges shall be securely
anchored to prevent air movement under the sheeting. Curing shall be maintained
for a minimum of 72 hours. Polyethylene sheeting may be temporarily rolled back
to allow sawing of contraction joints. The exposed surface shall be wet and
recovered for the remainder of the curing period subsequent to sawing.
   When freezing temperatures are predicted within 72 hours of placement of
concrete pavement, adequate insulation shall be provided for protection against
freezing.
D-1 Joint Sealing
   Prior to traffic being allowed on newly placed concrete pavement, all joints
(contraction and longitudinal) are to be cleaned and sealed with hot poured
rubber asphalt joint filling compound.
D-1 Portland Cement Concrete
   All Portland cement concrete to be used for pavement construction shall be a
6-bag mix meeting the following mix proportions with the aggregate meeting the
gradation and quality requirements of the Illinois Department of Transportation
and must attain 4000 psi in 28 days.
 
Portland Cement, Type 1               6 bags
CA-7 or C-11 (IDOT) Crushed Limestone 1900 + 50 lbs
Sand: FA-1 or FA-2 (IDOT)             1200 + 50 lbs
Water: Amount Required to Produce     3Y2" Max. Slump Vibrated) 4-1/2" Max.
                                      Slump
Air-Entrainment Agent                 5 to 7%(In plastic state)
Mortar Factor                         0.72 to 0.82
 
D-1 Plastic Mixture Requirements
   In addition to being proportioned in accordance with the above requirements,
the plastic mixture shall conform to the following requirements:
 
   Slump: VibratMax.= 3'/2"
   Non-Vibrated Max.= 4'/2"
   Air Entrainme– 5 to 7%
 
D-1 Admixtures
   Calcium Chloride shall not be used in concrete mixtures except in cold
weather construction and at that time shall not be in excess of 2%.
APPENDIX E: PORTLAND CEMENT CONCRETE SPECIFICATIONS
(for any improvements other than pavement)
   It is the intent of these regulations to establish minimum quality control
requirements for Portland cement concrete construction, other than pavement,
that will assure durable, functional, installations that are workmanlike in
appearance. All construction is to be per I.D.O.T. Standards except as modified
herein.
E-1 Mix Proportions
   Portland cement concrete to be constructed in subdivisions for curb and/or
gutter, sidewalk, paved ditch, drainageways, median, etc., shall conform to the
following approximate mix proportions per cubic yard and attain minimums of
4000 psi in 28 days.
 
   Portland Cement, Type 1            6 bags
   CA7 or CA-11 (IDOT) Crushed Limesto1900 + 50 lbs
   Sand: FA1 or FA2 (IDOT)            1200 + 50 lbs
   Water: Amount Required to Produce  5" Max. Slump (Non Vibrated) 4" Max.
                                         Slump (Vibrated)
   Air Entraining Agent               5 to 7% (In plastic state)
   Mortar Factor                      0.78 to 0.88
 
E-1 Construction Methods
   All Portland cement concrete shall be placed at such a consistency that the
plastic mixture is workable but does not exceed the slumps stated above.
Concrete shall not be placed that has been batched in excess of one (1) hour.
Any truck shall be empty within one and one-half (1-1/2) hours after batching.
   Placement shall be accomplished in an acceptable and workmanlike manner.
Care shall be exercised to avoid segregation of the mixture. The mixture shall
be properly consolidated (by vibrator or spading) prior to or concurrently with
the strike-off operation.
   Forms shall be clean and securely staked and braced prior to placement of
concrete. Forms may be wood or metal, straight and free from warp. Deviation
from true straightness shall not exceed the following limits for a ten (10)
foot length when checked with a stringline:
      Horizontal     3/8 inch
      Vertical     1/4 inch
   Forms shall be stable enough to prevent vertical movement during placement
and finishing operations.
   All concrete shall be worked sufficiently to bring 1/8 inch to 1/4 inch of
mortar to the surface to allow for proper finishing. Prior to the final set,
the finished product shall be given a lightly broomed finish at right angles to
the centerline of the road or to the flow line.
   All freshly placed concrete shall be properly cured with polyethylene sheet
(properly secured) or a membrane curing compound with a fugitive dye for a
minimum period of 72 hours. Curing application shall be accomplished as soon as
it can be applied without marring the finish.
   Calcium chloride shall not be used in concrete mixtures except in cold
weather construction and at that time shall not be in excess of 2%. Portland
cement shall not be placed on spongy or frozen grade. When freezing
temperatures are predicted within 72 hours of placement, adequate insulation
shall be provided for protection against freezing.
   Curb and curb & gutter shall have two #4 reinforcing bars, twenty-four (24)
inches long, placed at all construction joints. Joints in curb and curb &
gutter shall coincide with those in adjacent P.C.C. pavement. For curb and curb
& gutter joints adjacent to flexible drive or parking surfaces, joint spacing
shall not exceed 20'. All joints are to be sealed.
APPENDIX F
Be in ordained by the Village Board of the Village of Shiloh, Illinois as
follows:
SECTION 1. Appendix F of Chapter 151 - Requirements for Demolition
"For a permit for the demolition of a building or structure, the fee shall be a
rate of $50.00" for each building or structure, which includes inspection.
SECTION 2. DEMOLITION
A)   A person obtaining a Permit to Demolish a building from the Village of
Shiloh is hereinafter referred to as "Permittee."
B)   A "Permittee" shall obtain a Permit for demolition of a building or
structure from the Building Official of the Village of Shiloh. The Permit shall
require such information as the Building Official deems necessary. Before a
Permit shall be issued, the "Permittee" shall submit proof to the Building
Official that all the utilities connected to this structure or premises have
been notified of the impending demolition.
C)   The "Permittee" is responsible to first notify all Utility Companies of
the demolition prior to beginning the project. All rules and regulations of the
Utility Companies along with Village and County Codes must be complied with
before, during and after the demolition project.
D)   The "Permittee" shall fill only with broken concrete, masonry rubble,
sand, gravel or clean dirt up to 36" from the level grade of the existing
surrounding area. Any concrete used for fill shall be no larger than 6" on any
side and shall be so placed to minimize voids. Broken concrete or masonry
rubble shall not be placed in larger than 12" lifts with a minimum of 12" of
compacted gravel, sand or dirt placed over each lift of broken concrete or
masonry rubble. Compaction of gravel, sand or dirt to be a minimum of 90% of
standard lab density. Contractor to pay for and supply compaction test results
from a certified testing laboratory. This shall include basement floors. The
top layer of fill shall be a minimum of 12" soluble soil, capable of
encouraging vegetation. Site shall be seeded and watered until vegetation is
established.
E)   The "Permittee" shall comply with all regulations of the Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency and the United States Environmental Protection
Agency.
F)   Lumber, lathe, or other organic materials will not be permitted in the
fill.
G)   Material which is not suitable for fill material shall not be used, but
shall be removed from the site of the work and disposed of at the "Permittee's"
expense.
H)   All of any materials to be disposed of shall be disposed of at a State of
Illinois approved disposal area.
I)   Any authorized material remaining on the premises, lack of final grading
and/or lack of vegetation will delay final acceptance until such problems have
been corrected.
J)   The burning of materials is not authorized or permitted.
K)   Care shall be taken by a "Permittee" to prevent the occurrence of voids in
the fill or undue settlement after the fill has been placed.
L)   The operation of the "Permittee" shall be done in such a manner as to
avoid hazard to person's and properties. Interference with the use of adjacent
buildings or the interruption of free passage to and from such buildings is
prohibited.
M)   After work is started on the building, or structure, it should be
continued promptly and expeditiously. The "Permittee" shall satisfactorily
complete the work within thirty (30) days from the date of issuance of the
Permit. If said work is not completed, the Village shall make a claim to have
the bonding company complete the job.
N)   The "Permittee" shall, at all time, reserve and comply with the Federal
and State Laws, Local Ordinances, and Regulations which effect the conduct of
his work.
O)   The "Permittee" shall be solely responsible for all claims and liabilities
arising from or based upon the violation of any such laws, ordinances, or
regulations whether by himself or his employees.
P)   The "Permittee" shall provide the Village with a Performance Bond in the
amount to be determined by the Village Staff. Said Bond is to be approved by
the Village Staff to guarantee that the "Permittee" shall comply with all the
terms of this Ordinance.
Q)   Under no circumstances shall debris, mud, rock, dirt or trash of any kind
be on Public Right-of-way. It shall immediately be removed by "Permittee."
R)   The "Permittee" shall call the Village at least 24 hours prior to
beginning work and shall call at least 24 hours in advance to schedule the
following required inspections.
   (1)   When concrete is broken up.
   (2)   When fill is being placed.
   (3)   Final.
DEMOLITION PROCEDURES
FEE: $50.00
APPLICATION: APPLY FOR APPLICATION AT: SHILOH MUNICIPAL BUILDING #1 PARK DRIVE,
SHILOH, IL 62269
VERIFICATION FROM UTILITIES: "PERMITTEE" IS RESPONSIBLE TO FIRST NOTIFY ALL
UTILITY COMPANIES OF THE DEMOLITION PRIOR TO BEGINNING THE PROJECT. THESE
"DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE LETTERS" MUST BE ON FILE BEFORE THE PERMIT IS
ISSUED.
SANITARY SEWERS: IF A SANITARY SEWER IS UNCOVERED DURING THE COURSE OF
DEMOLITION, THE OPENING SHOULD BE PLUGGED. THE OFFICE OF THE DEPARTMENT OF
PUBLIC WORKS (632-5667) MUST BE CONTACTED BY THE "PERMITTEE" AND THE PLUG
INSPECTED.
BOND: A BOND IN THE AMOUNT OF
                                                     WILL BE REQUIRED.
LIABILITY: THE "PERMITTEE" SHALL PROCURE AND MAINTAIN PUBLIC LIABILITY AND
PROPERTY DAMAGE INSURANCE AND FURNISH VILLAGE COPY OF CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE
INDICATING SAME.
THE "PERMITTEE" SHALL COMPLY WITH ALL PROVISIONS OF THE DEMOLITION ORDINANCE
(SEE ATTACHMENT) OF THE CORPORATE AUTHORITY.
THE "PERMITTEE" AGREES TO SATISFACTORILY COMPLETE THE WORK WITHIN THIRTY (30)
DAYS FROM THE DATE THE CONTRACT IS AWARDED.
APPENDIX G
Process Chart for the Regional Advisory Board Review
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d14942e4c4f8cb463017d7393a947477e3bbd522/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1722.jpg]
 
APPENDIX H
Airport Imaginary Surfaces
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d14942e4c4f8cb463017d7393a947477e3bbd522/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1716.jpg]
 
Figure 1. Plan view of FAA imaginary obstruction space standard, FAR Part 77
(3)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d14942e4c4f8cb463017d7393a947477e3bbd522/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1718.jpg]
 
3-D View of FAA Airport Airspace Control Surface
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d14942e4c4f8cb463017d7393a947477e3bbd522/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1720.jpg]
 
Figure 2. Isometric view of FAA imaginary obstruction space standard. FAR Part
77(3)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
[Reserved]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
ILCS Cites Code Section
ILCS Cites                                  Code Section
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.01                      10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.02                      10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.03                      10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.04                      10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.05                      10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.07                      10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.08                      10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.09                      10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.10                      10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.11                      10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.12                      10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.15                      10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.16                      10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.17                      10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.20                      10.02;
                                            32.44
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.24                      10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.28                      10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.29                      10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 2                         10.04
Ch. 5, Act 120, §§ 1 et seq.              31.13
Ch. 5, Act 140 et seq.                      36.01
Ch. 5, Act 140, § 6                        36.03
Ch. 10, Act 5, § 10-2                      32.04
Ch. 20, Act 830                             151.303
Ch. 30, Act 405, §§ 1 et seq. [Repealed] 50.001
Ch. 35, Act 105, §§ 1 et seq.             33.01
Ch. 40, Act 5, § 3-101                     32.20
Ch. 40, Act 5, § 3-127                     32.24
Ch. 40, Act 5, § 3-128                     32.21
Ch. 40, Act 5, § 3-130                     32.22
Ch. 50, Act 45, §§ 1 et seq.              33.22,
                                            117.01
Ch. 55, Act 5, § 5-1062                    151.303
Ch. 65, Act 5                               10.02
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-1-2                     10.02
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-1                     10.99;
                                            151.475
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-1.1                   10.99
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-9                     139.99
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-5                     32.51
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-15-25                 32.44
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-30-21                 32.51
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 7-4-7                     32.48
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 7-4-8                     32.48
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-1                    33.02;
                                            33.03
                                            33.02—
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-2                    33.05;
                                            33.55
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-6                    33.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-22                   116.01,
                                            116.03
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 10-2.1-1                  32.01;
                                            32.10
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 10-2.1-2                  32.02;
                                            32.03
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 10-2.1-3                  32.10
                                            32.04;
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 10-2.1-4                  32.05;
                                            32.42
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 10-2.1-5                  32.06
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 10-2.1-5.1                32.07
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 10-2.1-20                 32.08
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 10-2.1-22                 32.09
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-12-8                   151.220;
                                            151.302
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-12-12                  151.475
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-1426                   70.07
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-1428                   70.07
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-30-2                   151.475
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-30-8                   151.475
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-31-2                   151.475
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 11-31.1-1 et seq.       90.03
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-42-5                   Ch. 111
Ch. 105, Act 5, § 26                       132.04
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 2-202                    33.55
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 3-105                    151.165
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 9-221                    33.52
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 9-222                    33.52
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 9-222.1                  33.52
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 16-102                   151.165
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 16-104                   33.03
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 16-108.5(i)              151.165
Ch. 220, Act 5, Art. XXI                    117.02
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-301(c)                117.01
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-401                   117.01
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-401(b)(6)             117.01
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-601                   117.03
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-701                   117.02
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-801                   117.01
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-801(b)                117.01
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-801(c)(1)(vi)         117.01
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-1001                  117.02
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-1301(a)               117.02
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 70-501                   117.03
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 70-501(r)(1)             117.03
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 70-501(s)                117.03
Ch. 225, Act 225, §§ 1 et seq.            50.122
Ch. 230, Act 15, §§ 0.01 et seq.          112.03;
                                            112.07
Ch. 230, Act 40                             112.20
Ch. 230, Act 40, §§ 1 et seq.             112.21
Ch. 235, Act 5, §§ 1-1 et seq.            110.10
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-20(g)                  110.12
Ch. 245, Act 5, § 1-3.24                   110.07
Ch. 410, Act 82                             136.52
Ch. 410, Act 130                            116.01,
                                            136.52
Ch. 410, Act 705                            136.50
Ch. 415, Act 5, § 12-2(e)                  151.303
Ch. 415, Act 5, § 55                       90.01
Ch. 425, § 35                              70.26
Ch. 425, Act 35, §§ 0.01 et seq.          138.02
Ch. 505, Act 89                             136.50
Ch. 605, § 5                               70.27
Ch. 620, Act 25, §§ 1 et seq.             151.101;
                                            151.104
Ch. 620, Act 25, § 12                      151.072
Ch. 620, Act 25, § 17                      151.081
Ch. 620, Act 25, § 18                      151.081
Ch. 620, Act 25, § 33                      151.083
Ch. 620, Act 25, §§ 24, 27, 28, 29        151.099
Ch. 620, Act 25, § 25                      151.104
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 1-1 et seq.            70.20;
                                            70.25
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-100                    70.20
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-188                    10.02
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-300                    70.20
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 3-100 et seq.          70.21
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 6-100 et seq.          70.22
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 11-100 et seq.         70.23
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-207                   70.23
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-208                   70.23
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-208.1                 70.23
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-208.2                 70.23
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-209                   70.23
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-211                   70.23
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-302                   70.23
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-303                   70.23
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-313                   70.23
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 11-401 through 11-416  70.23
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 11-500 through 11-502  70.07
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-501(h)                70.23
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-601                   70.23
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-602                   70.23
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-603                   70.23
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-604                   70.23
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-606(b)                70.23
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-608                   70.23
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 12-100 et seq.         70.24
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-709                   70.07
Ch. 705, Act 405, §§ 1-1 et seq.          130.09
Ch. 720, Act. 5, § 28-2                    112.01
Ch. 720, Act 550, §§ 1 et seq.            136.35;
                                            136.36
Ch. 735, Act 5, §§ 3-101 et seq.          150.53
Ch. 760, Act 100, § 2                      94.05
                                            151.010;
Ch. 765, Act 205                            151.380;
                                            151.430;
                                            151.482
Ch. 765, Act 205, §§ 1 et seq.            151.223
Ch. 765, Act 205, § 1                      151.220
Ch. 765, Act 205, § 1(b)                   151.220
                                            
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No.    Date Passed Code Section
2015-12-07A 12-7-15     30.14
                       
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.       Date Passed Code Section
785            11-3-1997   33.50–
                           33.59
- -            12-6-99     30.13
876            1-2-2001    33.20–
                           33.37
2008-02-04A    2-4-2008    117.01–
                           117.03
2008-08-04A    - -2008     31.08
2011-11-07B    11-7-2011   34.01
2012-07-02B    7-7-2012    34.01,
                           112.20
2012-07-02C    7-7-2012    110.03,
                           110.11
                           111.02,
2012-07-02D    7-2-2012    111.10,
                           111.11,
                           111.13
2012-09-04A    9-4-2012    Chapter 151, Table 1.5C
2013-02-04C    2-4-2013    34.01,
                           110.07
2013-06-03D    6-3-2013    Chapter 73, Sch. I
2013-07-01I    7-1-2013    138.02
2013-12-02A    12-2-2013   151.451
2014-04-07B    4-7-2014    34.01
2014-10-06D    10-6-2014   34.01
2015-06-01F    6-1-2015    151.147,
                           151.172
2015-09-08C    9-8-2015    31.06
2015-11-02A    11-2-2015   90.02
2016-01-04D    1-4-2016    33.02,
                           33.03
                           31.01,
2016-06-06     6-6-2016    31.06,
                           31.14
2016-07-05A    7-5-2016    30.15A
                           34.01,
2017-02-06B    2-2-2017    91.06,
                           114.02,
                           114.03
2017-04-03A    4-3-2017    111.14,
                           111.15
                           93.01,
2017-06-05C    6-5-2017    93.08,
                           93.10
2017-06-05E    6-5-2017    Chapter 74, Sch. I
2018-01-02 A   1-2-2018    37.01–
                           37.05
                           112.01–
2018-03-05 A   3-5-2018    112.09,
                           112.99
2018-07-02A    7-2-2018    37.03
2018-07-23A  7-23-2018   151.165
                           30.17,
2018-12-03D    12-3-2018   30.18,
                           30.19
2019-02-04B    2-4-2019    34.01
2019-03-04A    3-4-2019    91.10
                           34.01,
2019-05-06B    5-6-2019    94.01–
                           94.11
2019-06-03A    6-3-2019    34.01
2019-07-01A  7-1-2019    136.20–
                           136.22
2019-08-05D    8-5-2019    Chapter 73, Sch. I
2019-11-04E  11-4-2019   Chapter 73, Sch. I
2019-11-04F  11-4-2019   Chapter 74, Sch. I
                           34.02,
2019-12-02A  12-2-2019   136.50–
                           136.52
2019-12-02B  12-2-2019   116.01–
                           116.03
2020-08-03C    11-4-2019   Chapter 73, Sch. I
2020-02-03A    11-4-2019   Chapter 73, Sch. I
                           151.272,
                           151,273,
                           151.298,
                           151.345,
                           151.347,
2020-03-02A    3-2-2020    151.348,
                           151.351,
                           151.367 -
                           151.369,
                           151.382,
                           151.383,
                           151.455
                           151.010,
2020-03-02B    3-2-2020    151.046,
                           151.183,
                           151.190
                           50.001,
                           50.020 -
                           50.027,
                           50.035,
                           50.036,
                           50.038 -
                           50.046,
                           50.060 -
2020-03-02C    3-2-2020    50.064,
                           50.080,
                           50.097,
                           50.099, -
                           50.103,
                           50.120 -
                           50.127,
                           50.999,
                           Ch. 50, Appendix A
2020-05-04A    5-4-2020    112.21,
                           112.99
2021-02-01A    2-1-2021    117.01
2021-04-05E    4-5-2021    Chapter 73, Sch. I
2021-05-03D    5-3-2021    Chapter 73, Sch. I
2021-08-02C    8-2-2021    Chapter 73, Sch. I
                           150.02,
                           150.03,
2021-10-04A    10-4-2021   151.320,
                           151.322 -
                           151.324
2021-11-01B    11-1-2021   Chapter 73, Sch. I
2021-11-01C    11-1-2021   70.07
                           34.01,
2021-12-06C    12-6-2021   150.50 -
                           150.52
                           34.01,
2021-12-06D    12-6-2021   110.07,
                           151.046
2021-12-17     12-17-2021  34.01
2022-04-04B    4-4-2022    37.01–
                           37.04
                           31.06,
                           34.01,
2022-05-02A    5-2-2022    151.010,
                           151.100,
                           151.101,
                           151.348
2022-07-05C    7-5-2022    91.05
2022-07-05D    7-5-2022    Chapter 73, Sch. I
                           51.01,
2022-08-01C    8-1-2022    51.02,
                           51.99,
                           Ch. 51 Appendix A
2022-08-01D    8-1-2022    Chapter 73, Sch. I
2022-11-07A    11-7-2022   90.01
2022-11-07C    11-7-2022   150.04,
                           150.05
                           113.01–
2024-01-02B    1-2-2024    113.03,
                           113.99,
                           Ch. 113, Appendix A
                           139.01–
2024-05-06A    5-6-2024    139.08,
                           139.99
2024-06-03E    6-3-2024    Chapter 73, Sch. I
2024-07-01B    7-1-2024    150.50–
                           150.54
2024-11-04C    11-4-2024   151.046,
                           151.191
                          
 
 
