VILLAGE CODE
of
SHOREWOOD, ILLINOIS
1994
Code current through:
Ord. 25-2151, passed 8-26-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
         This code of the Village of Shorewood, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 25-2151, passed 8-26-2025. Ordinances
of the Village adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this
code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult
the Village office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of
the code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
 
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL VILLAGE CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the Village Board of Trustees, this Village Code is hereby
declared to be and shall hereafter constitute the official Code of the Village.
This Village Code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the SHOREWOOD
VILLAGE CODE and it is hereby published by authority of the Board and shall be
supplemented to incorporate the most recent legislation of the Village as
provided in Section
 1-1-3  of this Chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this Village Code by title in any legal documents. (1994 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The Village Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of
this State as the ordinances of the Village of general and permanent effect,
except the excluded ordinances enumerated in Section
1-2-1 of this Code. (1994 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the Village Code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this Village Code. All
such amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this Village Code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the Village Code. (1994 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this Village Code in such a manner that
the meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages
may be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by
the Board of Trustees. The Village Clerk shall see that the replacement pages
are properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the
Clerk. Any person having in his custody an official copy of the Village Code
shall make every effort to maintain said Code current as to the most recent
ordinances codified. He shall see to the immediate insertion of new or
replacement pages when such are delivered to him or made available to him
through the office of the Village Clerk. Said Code books, while in actual
possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be and remain the
property of the Village and shall be returned to the office of the Clerk when
directed to do so by order of the Board of Trustees. (1994 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways and Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the Village passed prior to the adoption of this
Village Code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this Village
Code or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to
the saving clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the
following ordinances which are not hereby repealed 1 : tax levy ordinances;
appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations;
franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
Village; traffic schedules; and all special ordinances. (1994 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See the Appendix to this Code.
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinances relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public
ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities
shall be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this Village Code or by virtue
of the preceding Section, excepting as the Village Code may contain provisions
for such matters, in which case this Village Code shall be considered as
amending such ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (1994
Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former
ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any
offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   This Section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be construed as abating any
action now pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the Village
herein repealed and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this
Code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the
same provision; nor shall this Chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
Village under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this Village Code. (1994 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this Village Code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this Code, or any part thereof. The Board of Trustees
hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (1994 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Whenever any word in any section of this Village Code importing the
plural number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or
persons, any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included,
although distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter,
party or person is referred to in this Village Code by words importing the
singular number only, or the masculine gender, several matters, parties or
persons and females as well as males and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be
included; provided, that these rules of construction shall not be applied to
any section of this Village Code which contains any express provision excluding
such construction or where the subject matter or context may be repugnant
thereto.
   B.   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the Village has
been changed in the content of this Village Code to "Title", "Chapter",
"Section" and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to the Village's ordinances is not
meant to amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (1994
Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
   AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressed or implied, to do so.
   CODE: The Village Code of the Village of Shorewood.
   EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a Village employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the
Village of Shorewood".
   FEE: A sum of money charged by the Village for the carrying on of a
business, profession or occupation.
   LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
   NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or
any act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
the inhabitants of the Village, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
   OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
   OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this Code or the omission of
any act required by the provisions of this Code.
   OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a Village officer by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the
Village of Shorewood".
   OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or
profession.
   OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
   PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods,
chattels, effects, evidences of rights in action and all written instruments by
which any pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created,
acknowledged, transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and
every right of interest therein.
   RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to
relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the
consumer.
   RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
   STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
   TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such buildings or land, whether alone or with
others.
   VILLAGE: The Village of Shorewood, County of Will, State of Illinois.
   WHOLESALER: The terms "wholesaler" and "wholesale dealer" as used in this
Code, unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to
the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in quantity to persons who
purchase for the purpose of resale.
   WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case he is unable to write, by his proper
mark. (1994 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the Village Code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or re-
enacted. (1994 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
Any person found to have been in violation of any of the terms and provisions
of this code shall be fined in an amount not less than twenty five dollars
($25.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). Each day that a
violation continues shall be deemed to be a separate offense. A penalty for
each offense may include a requirement that the offending party perform some
reasonable public service. A violation hereof may be established by a
preponderance of the evidence. (Ord. 02-1124, 9-10-2002)
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every
section of this code the same as though it were a part of each and every
separate section.
   B.   In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this code, the prosecuting officer may elect
under which to proceed, but not more than one recovery shall be had against the
same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or
permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other
penalty being enforced.
   C.   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes
a breach of any section or provision of this code and there shall be no fine or
penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of this chapter
shall apply. (1994 Code)
ARTICLE A. ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION PENALTIES
SECTION:
1-4A-1: Administrative Adjudication Penalties
1-4A-2: Application Of Fines
1-4A-1: ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION PENALTIES:
That the penalties for the corresponding offenses set forth on Exhibit A
attached to Ord. 23-2059 are hereby incorporated into 1-4A-1 by reference as if
fully set forth therein. (Ord. 23-2059, 1-24-2023)
1-4A-2: APPLICATION OF FINES:
That the fines established in
1-4A-1 shall apply in all Administrative Adjudication proceedings. If an
offense is not set forth in
1-4A-1 then the fine amount shall be Seventy-Five ($75.00) Dollars. The fines
set forth on Exhibit A shall apply to all fines paid prior to appearing before
the Adjudicator. In the event that the fine is not paid prior to appearing
before the Adjudicator, the Adjudicator may impose a fine of up to Seven
Hundred Fifty ($750.00) Dollars in addition to any other remedy permitted by
law or ordinance. (Ord. 23-2059, 1-24-2023)
CHAPTER 5
VILLAGE OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-5-1: Compensation
1-5-2: Travel; Expenses
1-5-3: Personnel Rules And Regulations
1-5-4: Social Security Coverage
1-5-5: Indemnification Of Village Officers And Employees
1-5-6: Electronic Attendance At Meetings
1-5-7: Paid Leave Required For Full-Time Village Employees
1-5-1: COMPENSATION:
   A.   Village President: The Village President shall receive as total
compensation the sum of one thousand three hundred dollars ($1,300.00) per
month. This amount shall include all compensation for the Village President
including the roles of Liquor Commissioner and Tobacco Commissioner. No other
compensation shall be paid.
The President is allowed to be absent for two (2) meetings during each year for
which compensation may be paid. The President may be absent for more than two
(2) meetings per year and may be compensated if the President can show due
cause for such additional absences, such as illness of the President, serious
illness of the President's immediate family, a death in the President's
immediate family or other like cause. For absences in excess of the
aforementioned, the President forfeits thirty percent (30%) of the compensation
for the month each time such an absence occurs.
   B.   Village Trustee: Each Village Trustee shall receive the sum of six
hundred fifty dollars ($650.00) per month as total compensation. No additional
compensation shall be paid.
Each Trustee is allowed to be absent for two (2) meetings during each year for
which compensation may be paid. Each Trustee may be absent for more than two
(2) meetings per year and may be compensated if the Trustee can show due cause
for such additional absences, such as illness of the Trustee, serious illness
of the Trustee's immediate family, a death in the Trustee's immediate family or
other like cause. For absences in excess of the aforementioned, the Trustee
forfeits thirty percent (30%) of the compensation for the month each time such
an absence occurs.
   C.   Village Clerk: The Village Clerk shall receive five hundred fifty
dollars ($550.00) per month as total compensation. No additional compensation
shall be paid.
The Village Clerk is allowed to be absent for two (2) meetings during each year
for which compensation may be paid. The Village Clerk may be absent for more
than two (2) meetings per year and may be compensated if the Village Clerk can
show due cause for such additional absences, such as illness of the Village
Clerk, serious illness of the Village Clerk's immediate family, a death in the
Village Clerk's immediate family or other like cause. For absences in excess of
the aforementioned, the Village Clerk forfeits thirty percent (30%) of the
compensation for the month each time such an absence occurs.
Should the Village Clerk not be able to attend a meeting, the person
substituting for the Clerk at said meeting for the purpose of taking official
minutes shall be compensated one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) per meeting.
   D.   Annual Cost Of Serving Adjustment: Commencing on May 1, 2010, and on
May 1 annually thereafter, the compensation set forth in this section shall be
adjusted based upon the consumer price index established by the U.S. Department
of Labor for Chicago-Gary-Kenosha on the first business day of each year.
   E.   Retirement Compensation: The elected officials may elect to participate
in the Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund as adopted by resolution.
   F.   Effect Of Provisions: The compensation fixed by this section shall be
effective as to each office on the first day of the term of that office when
said term begins at least one hundred eighty (180) days hereafter. The
compensation established by prior ordinances for each office shall continue
until the compensation set forth in this section becomes effective as to that
office. (Ord. 08-1509, 10-28-2008)
1-5-2: TRAVEL; EXPENSES:
   A.   Expense Regulations:
      1.   Overnight Accommodations: When overnight accommodations are
necessary, travelers are expected to select the most reasonably priced
accommodations, consistent with accomplishment of the task at hand. Luxury
suites are not authorized. Receipts stating the name of the hotel or motel, the
city and state in which it is located, the date(s) of the stay and the itemized
amount of the bill must be presented before bill payment or reimbursement is
authorized. Reservations may be made in the name of the elected person for
authorized payment by the Village.
      2.   Meals: The maximum amount of reimbursement authorized for meals is
thirty five dollars ($35.00) per person, per day. Receipts are required.
      3.   Spouses And Other Dependents: Spouses are encouraged to attend
official seminars and meetings including those requiring travel, lodging, meals
and other associated expenses. However, reimbursements for spouse's expenses
are limited to the Illinois Municipal League Conference and Will County
Municipal League meetings. (Ord. 90-537, 4-25-1990)
      4.   Mode Of Travel: Officials and employees are expected to use the most
economical mode of travel consistent with job accomplishment. When commercial
conveyances are required, a rental car is authorized, if necessary. The most
economical rental vehicle available, consistent with job accomplishment, must
be utilized. Luxury automobiles are not authorized. Travel by privately owned
vehicle will be reimbursed at the then current mileage reimbursement as
established by the Internal Revenue Service per mile. Necessary travel in and
around the destination is authorized. (Ord. 17-1865, 11-14-2017)
      5.   Entertainment Expenses: Since, in some cases, it may be advantageous
to act as host to officials from other governmental bodies and/or agencies and
certain private persons with whom the Village government has business,
reimbursement for refreshments and meals is authorized upon presentation of a
receipt showing when, where and how much money is being claimed and a memo from
the claimant indicating the occasion and purpose for the expenditure.
      6.   Incidental Expenses: Miscellaneous expenses incurred, when necessary
and reasonable, will be reimbursed. Such expenses may include registration
fees, costs of materials, taxi fare and tips.
   B.   Trip Report: Written reports are not required for routine local
meetings (such as the Will County municipal league monthly meeting and Illinois
municipal league conference). However, conferences held out of state require a
written report. (Ord. 90-537, 4-25-1990)
   C.   Expense Approval: In cases where employees or elected officials seek
reimbursement for expenses as herein provided, such request for reimbursement
shall be shown on an expense reimbursement report which report shall be voted
on as a separate item and by separate motion at a meeting of the president and
board of trustees. The request for reimbursement shall be included in the
routine bills list of the village for bookkeeping purposes; however, the
separate vote on the expense reimbursement report shall control as to whether
such expenses are approved. (Ord. 00-982, 4-25-2000, eff. 4-25-2000)
1-5-3: PERSONNEL RULES AND REGULATIONS 1 :
   A.   Personnel Manual Adopted: The personnel manual attached to the
ordinance codified herein and marked as exhibit A and by reference thereto
specifically made a part of this subsection, is hereby declared to be the
official personnel manual of the village of Shorewood. (Ord. 07-1441, 9-25-
2007)
   B.   Equal Opportunity Employer: The village:
      1.   Shall take all federally mandated steps to remain an equal
opportunity employer as defined by title IV of the civil rights act of 1964,
and shall adhere to all requirements of the U.S. environmental protection
agency issued pursuant to that title.
      2.   Shall not discriminate against any employer or applicant for
employment because of race, color, religion, sex or national origin.
      3.   Will abide by the equal opportunity requirements, compliance
procedures and files as set forth in the code of federal regulations, chapter
41, section 60. (Ord. 92-660, 9-8-1992)
   C.   Safety Manual Adopted: The safety manual, revised December 2005, and
attached to the ordinance codified herein as exhibit A, be and the same is
hereby adopted. (Ord. 06-1343, 1-24-2006)
   D.   Drug And Alcohol Abuse Policy Adopted: The drug and alcohol abuse
policy, attached to the ordinance codified herein on file in the office of the
village clerk, be and is hereby adopted for those village employees whose
position of employment with the village requires a CDL driver's license. (Ord.
95-825, 11-28-1995)
 
Notes
1 1. See appendix M of this code for amendments.
1-5-4: SOCIAL SECURITY COVERAGE:
   A.   Participation In Social Security System: It is hereby declared to be
the policy and purpose of the governing body of the village to extend to the
eligible employees thereof, effective as of April 1, 1978, the benefits of the
federal old age, survivors and disability insurance provisions of the federal
social security act and amendments thereto 1 . In pursuance of said policy, and
for that purpose, the village president shall take such action with the social
security unit of the state employee's retirement system as may be required by
applicable state and federal laws or regulations.
   B.   Agreement With State: The village president is hereby authorized and
directed to execute an agreement with the social security unit of the state
employee's retirement system to secure coverage of eligible employees as
provided in subsection A of this section.
   C.   Withholdings: Withholdings from salaries or wages of employees for the
purpose provided in subsection A of this section are hereby authorized to be
made in the amounts and at such times as may be required by applicable state
and federal laws or regulations and shall be paid over to the social security
unit in such amounts and at such times as are designated by state laws or
regulations.
   D.   Employer Contributions And Administrative Costs: Employer contributions
and administrative expenses shall be paid to the social security unit in
accordance with applicable state laws and regulations from amounts appropriated
for such purposes.
   E.   Records And Reports: The village clerk shall maintain such records and
submit such reports as may be required by applicable state and federal laws or
regulations. (Ord. 78-272, 4-25-1978)
 
Notes
1 2. 40 ILCS 5/21-101 et seq.
1-5-5: INDEMNIFICATION OF VILLAGE OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES:
To the extent permitted by law, whenever any elected or appointed officer or
official, including the village president, village clerk, village trustees,
village treasurer, village administrator and any village employees, full or
part time, including, but not limited to, members of the police department,
commits an act or omission or takes an action while acting within the scope of
his office or employment, and said act or action is done in furtherance of his
duties of office or employment, and the official or employee is thereafter sued
in any civil tribunal or administrative body for money damages or other relief,
the village shall bear the entire expense of defending said village official or
employee before said tribunal and shall indemnify the village official or
employee for and pay any money judgment (excluding punitive damages) entered
against him, whether or not the village official still holds elected office or
remains employed by the village at the time the proceedings are commenced
against him. The elected official or employee may, with the consent of the
corporate authorities, employ legal counsel of his own choosing at the
village's expense to defend his interests. This section shall not be construed
to require the village to pay any expenses of the village official associated
with the defense of a purely criminal charge lodged against him; provided
further, that this section shall not be construed to require the village to pay
any expenses associated with the defense of any disciplinary proceeding to
suspend, terminate or otherwise discipline any village officer, official or
employee. (Ord. 81-329, 9-22-1981; amd. 1994 Code)
1-5-6: ELECTRONIC ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS:
   A.   Rules Statement: It is the decision of the president and board of
trustees of the village of Shorewood that any member of a public body of the
village of Shorewood may attend any open or closed meeting of said public body
via video or audio conference, provided that such attendance is in compliance
with these rules and any applicable laws.
   B.   Prerequisites: A member of a public body may attend a meeting
electronically if the member meets the following conditions:
      1.   The member should notify the clerk or secretary of the public body
at least one hour before the meeting, unless impractical, so that necessary
communications equipment can be arranged. Inability to make the necessary
technical arrangements will result in denial of a request for remote
attendance.
      2.   The member must assert one of the following reasons why he or she is
unable to physically attend the meeting:
         a.   The member cannot attend because of personal illness or
disability; or
         b.   The member cannot attend because of employment purposes or the
business of the public body; or
         c.   The member cannot attend because of a family or other emergency.
   C.   Authorization To Participate:
      1.   The clerk or secretary, after receiving the electronic attendance
request, shall inform the public body of the request for electronic attendance.
      2.   After establishing that there is a quorum physically present at a
meeting where a member of the public body desires to attend electronically, the
presiding officer shall state that: a) a notice was received by a member of the
public body in accordance with these rules, and b) the member will be deemed
authorized to attend the meeting electronically unless a motion objecting to
the member's electronic attendance is made, seconded, and approved by a
majority of the members of the public body physically present at the meeting.
If no such motion is made and seconded or if any such motion fails to achieve
the required vote by the members of the public body physically present at the
meeting, then the request by the member to attend the meeting electronically
shall be deemed approved by the public body, and the presiding officer shall
declare the requesting member present. After such declaration by the presiding
officer, the question of a member's electronic attendance may not be
reconsidered.
   D.   Adequate Equipment Required: The member participating electronically
and other members of the public body must be able to communicate effectively,
and members of the audience must be able to hear all communications at the
meeting site. Before allowing electronic attendance at any meeting, the public
body shall provide equipment adequate to accomplish this objective at the
meeting site.
   E.   Minutes: Any member attending electronically shall be considered an off
site attendee and counted as present electronically for that meeting if the
member is allowed to attend. The meeting minutes shall also reflect and state
specifically whether each member is physically present or present by electronic
means.
   F.   Rights Of Remote Member: A member permitted to attend electronically
will be able to express his or her comments during the meeting and participate
in the same capacity as those members physically present, subject to all
general meeting guidelines and procedures previously adopted and adhered to.
The member attending electronically shall be heard, considered, and counted as
to any vote taken. Accordingly, the name of any member attending electronically
shall be called during any vote taken, and his or her vote counted and recorded
by the clerk or secretary and placed in the minutes for the corresponding
meeting. A member attending electronically may leave a meeting and return as in
the case of any member, provided the member attending electronically shall
announce his or her leaving and returning. (Ord. 07-1407, 2-27-2007)
1-5-7: PAID LEAVE REQUIRED FOR FULL-TIME VILLAGE EMPLOYEES:
The Village of Shorewood shall provide all full-time employees of the Village
with no less than five (5) work days of paid leave per year, to be administered
pursuant to the applicable provisions of the Village of Shorewood Personnel
Manual, bona fide collective bargaining agreement, or other employment
agreement. (Ord. 23-2087, 12-12-2023)
ARTICLE A. VILLAGE TREASURER
SECTION:
1-5A-1: Village Treasurer
1-5A-2: Deputy Treasurer
1-5A-1: VILLAGE TREASURER:
   A.   Appointment: The finance director shall serve as the village treasurer.
(Ord. 04-1212, 4-27-2004)
   B.   Bond 1 : The treasurer shall execute a bond in an amount of money that
is not less than three (3) times the latest federal census population or any
subsequent census figure used for motor fuel tax purposes. This bond shall be
filed with the village clerk.
   C.   Authority And Duties: The village treasurer shall have authority and
perform the following duties:
      1.   Be custodian of the police pension fund and all other funds and
finances belonging to the municipality.
      2.   Keep financial records which show separate accounts for each fund of
the village.
      3.   Enter into agreements for the deposit, redeposit, investment,
reinvestment and withdrawal of all funds held by the village.
      4.   Make a monthly report to the village board showing the state of the
treasury as of the date of the report.
      5.   Be responsible for all other duties as set forth in 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/3-10-1 et seq. (1994 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/3-14-3.
1-5A-2: DEPUTY TREASURER:
   A.   Appointment: The assistant finance director is hereby appointed and
designated as the deputy treasurer of the village. (Ord. 04-1212, 4-27-2004)
   B.   Bond: The deputy treasurer shall make bond to secure the faithful
performance of his/her duties as deputy treasurer.
   C.   Duties: The duties of the deputy treasurer shall be coextensive with
the duties, authorities and obligations of the village treasurer. (Ord. 79-288,
2-27-1979; amd. 1994 Code)
ARTICLE B. VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR
SECTION:
1-5B-1: Office Created; Qualifications
1-5B-2: Appointment; Removal; Resignation
1-5B-3: Powers and Duties
1-5B-4: Policy Making
1-5B-5: Salary and Expenses
1-5B-6: Authority of Other Officers
1-5B-1: OFFICE CREATED; QUALIFICATIONS:
The office of Village Administrator is hereby created subject to the provisions
of this Article. The Village Administrator shall be chosen by the Village
President and Board of Trustees on the basis of the Administrator's executive
and administrative ability and in compliance with the personnel policies of the
Village. Special consideration will be given to the Administrator's education,
experience in, or special knowledge of the administration of local government
and of the duties specified herein. (Ord. 19-1940, 8-13-2019)
1-5B-2: APPOINTMENT; REMOVAL; RESIGNATION:
The Village Administrator shall be appointed by and, in all cases, be subject
to the authority and direction of the Village President and Board of Trustees.
The Administrator shall exercise his or her responsibilities as chief
administrative officer in the name and under the supervision of the President
and Board of Trustees and shall be subject at all times to removal from office
by the affirmative vote of the corporate authorities of the Village. (Ord. 19-
1940, 8-13-2019)
1-5B-3: POWERS AND DUTIES 1 :
The Village Administrator shall be responsible to the President and Board of
Trustees for the proper administration of the affairs of the Village and shall,
on behalf of the President and Board of Trustees, direct, supervise and
coordinate the work of all Village department heads and employees 2 . Toward
that end, he or she shall:
   A.    Make a recommendation to the corporate authorities with respect to the
hiring, promotion, or removal of any department head.
   B.    Appoint, promote and remove all Village employees, except department
heads.
   C.   Prepare the annual budget each year and submit it to the President and
Board of Trustees. He or she shall be responsible for its administration after
adoption.
      1.   See Section 1-5C-4 of this Chapter, Administrator may serve as
Building Inspector.
      2.   See Organizational Chart in the office of the Village Clerk.
   D.   Procure from the Treasurer and submit to the President and Board of
Trustees a quarterly report on the finances and administrative activities of
the Village during the preceding quarter.
   E.   Keep the President and Board of Trustees advised of the financial
condition of the Village, of the future needs of the Village, and make
recommendations as appropriate.
   F.   Gather information for the President and Board of Trustees regarding
Village affairs and make appropriate recommenda tions.
   G.   Be responsible for the administration of all personnel and purchasing
activities of the Village, within the limits established by the President and
Board of Trustees, and report regularly on all activities related thereto.
   H.   Be responsible to the President and Board of Trustees for the
enforcement of all Village ordinances, rules, regulations and policies.
   I.   Cooperate with and advise the Village Treasurer and Village Clerk in
the performance of their duties.
   J.   Perform such other duties as may be prescribed, from time to time, by
the Village Board of Trustees. (Ord. 19-1940, 8-13-2019)
 
Notes
1 See Section
  1-5C-4 of this Chapter, Administrator may serve as Chief Building Official.
2 2. See Organizational Chart in the office of the Village Clerk.
1-5B-4: POLICY MAKING:
Except for internal administrative matters, the Village Administrator does not
set policy for the Village. Rather, it is the Administrator's responsibility to
see that the policies of the Village President and Board of Trustees are
carried out to the best of his ability. (Ord. 19-1940, 8-13-2019)
1-5B-5: SALARY AND EXPENSES:
The Village Administrator shall be paid a salary as, from time to time, is
provided for by motion or resolution of the Board of Trustees and shall be
reimbursed for his out-of-pocket expenses incurred while in the performance of
his duties on behalf of the Village 1 . (Ord. 19-1940, 8-13-2019)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  1-5-2 of this Chapter.
1-5B-6: AUTHORITY OF OTHER OFFICERS:
Nothing in this Article contained shall be deemed to diminish or detract from
the powers and authority of the elected Village officials and the Village
Treasurer. (Ord. 19-1940, 8-13-2019)
ARTICLE C. CHIEF BUILDING OFFICIAL
SECTION:
1-5C-1: Position Created
1-5C-2: Duties
1-5C-3: Conflict of Interest
1-5C-4: Vacancy in Position
1-5C-1: POSITION CREATED:
There is hereby created the position of Chief Building Official for the
Village. (Ord. 89-519, 10-10-89; 1994 Code; Ord. 20-1982, 8-25-2020)
1-5C-2: DUTIES:
The Chief Building Official shall be responsible for securing compliance with
Building Codes 1  and related regulations including inspecting the construction
of buildings, additions and alterations to insure compliance with building
ordinances, reviewing requests for and issuing building permits and conferring
with contractors and property owners to enforce Municipal Building Codes. In
addition, other duties shall include, but not be limited to, interpreting
regulations and codes to builders and property owners and assisting them in
altering construction plans to meet established standards and to recommend and
propose amendments to the Building Code to comply with legislative and
technical changes. The Chief Building Official shall also act as a technical
advisor to various committees, boards and Village officials on matters related
to Municipal building and related codes and ordinances. Other responsibilities
include assisting in court proceedings to enforce Village ordinances,
inspecting businesses and other occupancies to verify compliance, and
performing the tasks that may be directed by the Village Administrator. (Ord.
89-519, 10-10-89; 1994 Code; Ord. 20-1982, 8-25-2020)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 8, Chapter 1 and Chapter 10, respectively, of this Code.
1-5C-3: CONFLICT OF INTEREST:
The Chief Building Official shall not have any pecuniary interest, directly or
indirectly, in any contract, work or business of the Village or in the sale of
any article to the Village or in the purchase of any property belonging to the
Village. (Ord. 89-519, 10-10-89; 1994 Code; Ord. 20-1982, 8- 25-2020)
1-5C-4: VACANCY IN POSITION:
In the event of a vacancy in the position of the Chief Building Official, the
Village Administrator or his designee shall perform or cause the performance of
the duties and responsibilities of said position. (Ord. 89-519, 10-10-89; 1994
Code; Ord. 20-1982, 8-25-2020)
ARTICLE D. CABLE TELEVISION LIAISON OFFICER
SECTION:
1-5D-1: Office Created; Appointment; Term
1-5D-2: Duties
1-5D-1: OFFICE CREATED; APPOINTMENT; TERM:
There is hereby created the office of Cable Television Liaison Officer who
shall be a member of the Board of Trustees and shall be appointed by the
Village President with the advice and consent of the Village Board of Trustees
and who shall serve an initial term, terminating on May 1, 1988, and,
thereafter, shall serve a term of two (2) years, terminating on May 1, 1990,
and every other May 1 thereafter; provided, however, such Liaison Officer shall
continue to serve after his term until his successor has been appointed and
confirmed by the Board of Trustees. (Ord. 87-429, 4-14-87)
1-5D-2: DUTIES:
The duties of the Cable Television Liaison Officer shall be as follows:
   A.   To attend such meetings of the local cable television access group
(presently the Shorewood Community Cable Television, Inc.) as he may be
directed by the Board of Trustees and such additional meetings as he may choose
to attend and to report to the Board of Trustees, such actions of the access
group, as he deems appropriate.
   B.   To facilitate communication and cooperation between the Village Board
of Trustees, the local cable television access group and the Cable Television
Committee of the Village Board 1 .
   C.   To make recommendations to the Village Board of Trustees in regard to
provisions for the local cable television access group in the annual Village
budget and appropriation ordinance and in regard to the use of Village
buildings and equipment by the local cable television access group.
   D.   To perform such other like and similar duties as may, from time to
time, be designated by the Board of Trustees. (Ord. 87-429, 4-14-87)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  1-6-7 of this Title.
CHAPTER 6
ADMINISTRATIVE COMMITTEES AND CHAIRPERSONS
SECTION:
1-6-1: Definitions
1-6-2: Finance Committee
1-6-3: Strategic Planning Committee
1-6-4: Annexation Committee
1-6-5: Public Works Committee
1-6-6: Parks And Recreation Committee
1-6-7: Cable Television Committee
1-6-8: Citizens' Advisory Committee
1-6-9: Citizens' Recycling Committee
1-6-10: Beautification Committee
1-6-11: Building Feasibility Committee
1-6-12: Safety Committee
1-6-13: Police Chief Selection Committee
1-6-14: Chairman Of Special Events
1-6-15: Village Hall Expansion Committee
1-6-16: Flood Disaster Committee
1-6-17: Disaster Response Committee
1-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meanings given herein. When not inconsistent with
the context, words used in the plural number include the singular number and
words in the singular number include the plural number.
   BOARD: The board of trustees of the village of Shorewood, Will County,
Illinois.
   COMMITTEE: The appropriate committee of the village of Shorewood as created
by this chapter.
   PRESIDENT: The president of the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
   VILLAGE: The village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois. (1994 Code)
1-6-2: FINANCE COMMITTEE:
   A.   Committee; Membership: The finance committee shall consist of eight (8)
persons: the six (6) village trustees, the village president and a resident of
the village who does not hold any other elected or appointed office in the
village. One of the trustee members shall be the chairman of the committee and
shall call, chair and conduct all meetings held by the committee. Another
trustee member shall serve as vice chairman. The vice chairman shall chair and
conduct meetings in the absence of the chairman.
   B.   Appointment And Terms: The village president shall appoint the chairman
and vice chairman. The term of the chairman and vice chairman shall be four (4)
years or for such shorter term that he/she may hold the office of trustee. The
village resident member shall be appointed by the president with the advice and
consent of the board of trustees and serve a four (4) year term.
   C.   Secretary: The finance director or his or her designee shall serve as
the secretary for the committee.
   D.   Duties: The duties of the committee shall be:
      1.   From time to time, as it deems necessary and convenient, to make
recommendations to the village president and board of trustees in all matters
regarding or relating to the finances and/or financial policies of the village.
      2.   On or before March 1 of each year, to prepare and submit to the
president and board of trustees a proposed budget for the village and each
department thereof for the next ensuing fiscal year of the village.
      3.   On or before November 1 of each year, to prepare and submit to the
president and board of trustees the proposed annual tax levy ordinance for the
next ensuing fiscal year of the village.
      4.   To submit a written report of all committee actions and
recommendations as necessary to the president and board of trustees.
      5.   To investigate any and all financial matters and questions as are,
from time to time, submitted to the committee by the president or board of
trustees for investigation and to make recommendations concerning the same to
the president and board of trustees. (Ord. 11-1605, 1-11-2011)
1-6-3: STRATEGIC PLANNING COMMITTEE:
   A.   Committee Established; Composition; Residency: Subject to the
provisions of this section, the village hereby establishes a strategic planning
committee, which committee shall continue in existence for such time only as
determined appropriate by the president and the village board. The committee
shall consist of seven (7) members, including the chairperson. Each member of
the committee shall be a resident of the village at the time of his appointment
and during his incumbency. The chairperson shall be a member of the village
board at the time of his service as chairperson on the committee.
   B.   Appointment; Terms Of Office; Compensation:
      1.   The members of the committee shall be appointed by the president of
the village with the advice and consent of the board and shall serve without
compensation.
      2.   The initial terms of members of the committee appointed after the
effective date hereof shall be as follows:
         a.   Three (3) members shall be appointed to a one year term.
         b.   Three (3) members shall be appointed to a two (2) year term.
Upon the expiration of the initial terms set forth in subsections B2a and B2b
of this section, committee members shall be appointed for a term of two (2)
years; provided, however, that all members shall serve until their successors
have been duly appointed.
   C.   Vacancies And Removals From Office: Vacancies occurring on the
committee shall be filled for the unexpired term by an appointment by the
village president with the advice and consent of the board, and the village
president, with the advice and consent of the board, shall have the authority
to remove any member of the committee from office whenever, in the president's
discretion, the best interests of the village shall be served thereby.
   D.   Organization:
      1.   Chairperson: The village president, with the advice and consent of
the village board, shall appoint a village trustee to serve as chairperson to
preside over meetings of the committee. The chairperson shall call meetings of
the committee as may be necessary or convenient to fully perform the duties of
the committee as provided in this section.
      2.   Meetings: Meetings shall be held by the committee at the call of the
chairperson. A majority of all the members appointed to the committee shall
constitute a quorum at any meeting and the committee shall only act with a
quorum present.
      3.   Reports: The committee shall provide reports to the board as, from
time to time, may be necessary to fulfill the functions of the committee.
   E.   Powers And Duties:
      1.   The strategic planning committee shall have the following powers and
duties:
         a.   To investigate and report to the president and board of trustees
as to whether it would be beneficial and appropriate for the village to become
a home rule unit of government. The strategic planning committee shall consider
the following in making its recommendation:
            (1)   The relative advantages and disadvantages of home rule status
to the village as a whole.
            (2)   The economic impact of home rule status both in terms of
economic development opportunities and revenue enhancement.
            (3)   The economic impact upon revenues paid to the village by its
residents, its business community, as well as "nonresidents".
            (4)   The probable impact upon real property and other taxes.
            (5)   The information gained from conducting at least one public
forum on the issue of home rule.
            (6)   The information gained from meeting with leaders of several
home rule communities.
            (7)   The information gained from studying the legal impact of
becoming a home rule community.
            (8)   The process for becoming a home rule unit.
            (9)   Any other information which the committee determines to be
valuable in making its analysis.
         b.   To, from time to time, review the progress of the implementation
of the village strategic plan dated September 1998, including:
            (1)   The objectives to be achieved by December 31, 1998.
            (2)   The objectives to be achieved by December 31, 1999.
            (3)   The objectives to be achieved by December 31, 2000.
            (4)   To report such findings and make such suggestions to the
president and board of trustees as are appropriate.
         c.   To, from time to time, investigate and report to the president
and board of trustees on such matters upon which they might direct.
         d.   The powers and duties of the strategic planning committee shall
be advisory and not binding. (Ord. 99-943, 6-8-1999)
1-6-4: ANNEXATION COMMITTEE:
   A.   Committee Established; Compensation; Residency: Subject to the
provisions of this section, the village hereby establishes an annexation
committee, which committee shall continue in existence for such time only as
determined appropriate by the president and the village board. The committee
shall consist of four (4) members, including the chairperson. Each member of
the committee shall be a resident of the village at the time of his appointment
and during his incumbency.
   B.   Appointment; Terms Of Office; Compensation:
      1.   The members of the committee shall be appointed by the president of
the village with the advice and consent of the board and shall serve without
compensation.
      2.   The members of the committee shall be appointed for a term of one
year and shall serve until their successors have been duly appointed. The
president, with the advice and consent of the board, shall have the authority
to reappoint members.
   C.   Vacancies And Removals From Office: Vacancies occurring on the
committee shall be filled for the unexpired term by an appointment by the
president of the village with the advice and consent of the board, and the
president of the village, with the advice and consent of the board, shall have
the authority to remove any member of the committee from office whenever, in
his discretion, the best interests of the village shall be served thereby.
   D.   Organization: The president of the village shall appoint a chairperson
to preside over meetings of the committee, which chairperson shall be a member
of the board. The chairperson shall call meetings of the committee as may be
necessary or convenient to fully perform the duties of the committee as
provided in this section. The committee shall not meet or conduct any business
without a quorum of its members.
   E.   Powers And Duties:
      1.   The annexation committee shall have only the following powers and
duties:
         a.   To collect data and information which can be used to promote the
orderly development and expansion of the village.
         b.   To contact owners of and electors residing on property not within
the corporate limits of the village but within the area of the village
comprehensive plan 1  or service area to ascertain and discuss the feasibility
of annexing such property to the village, realizing, however, that all
decisions on the feasibility of and annexation by the village lies solely with
the village president and board.
         c.   To regularly confer with and advise the village president and
board on matters concerning the annexation, planning and development of such
property.
      2.   The powers and duties of the annexation committee are of an advisory
nature only. (Ord. 88-474, 8-9-1988; amd. 1994 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9, chapter 1 of this code.
1-6-5: PUBLIC WORKS COMMITTEE:
   A.   Committee Established; Composition; Residency: Subject to the
provisions of this section, the village hereby establishes a public works
committee, which committee shall continue in existence for such time as
determined appropriate by the president and board. The committee shall consist
of seven (7) members, including the chairperson. Each member of the committee
shall be a resident of the village at the time of his appointment and during
his term of office. The chairperson shall be a member of the board.
   B.   Appointment; Term Of Office; Compensation:
      1.   The members of the committee, including the chairperson, shall be
appointed by the president with the advice and consent of the board and shall
serve without compensation.
      2.   The nontrustee committee members originally appointed on or after
January 1, 1991, and prior to November 12, 1991, shall be appointed to terms in
conformance with the following: one shall be appointed as a committee member
for a term of twelve (12) months; one shall be appointed as a committee member
for a term of eighteen (18) months; one shall be appointed as a committee
member for a term of twenty four (24) months; and one shall be appointed as a
committee member for a term of thirty (30) months. The two (2) nontrustee
committee members originally appointed on or after November 12, 1991, shall be
appointed as committee members for terms of twelve (12) months. Each committee
member shall serve until his successor has been duly appointed.
      3.   The appointments made to the committee pursuant to the authority
vested by ordinances 88-481 and 90-572 are hereby affirmed as appointments to
the public works committee for duration of their prior respective terms; it
being the intention of this section to consolidate amendments to ordinance 88-
481 into one ordinance. All prior actions taken by the committee are hereby
affirmed.
   C.   Vacancies And Removals From Office: Vacancies occurring on the
committee shall be filled for the unexpired term by appointment by the
president with the advice and consent of the board. The president, with the
advice and consent of the board, shall have the authority to remove any member
of the committee from office whenever, in the president's discretion, the best
interest of the village shall be served thereby.
   D.   Organization:
      1.   Chairperson: The president shall appoint a board member as
chairperson to preside over meetings of the committee. The chairperson shall
call meetings of the committee as may be necessary or convenient to fully
perform the duties of the committee as provided in this section.
      2.   Meetings: Meetings shall be held by the committee at the call of the
chairperson. A majority of all the members appointed to the committee shall
constitute a quorum at any meeting and the committee shall only act with a
quorum present.
      3.   Reports: The committee shall provide reports to the board as, from
time to time, may be necessary to fulfill the functions of the committee.
   E.   Powers And Duties: The public works committee shall have, but not be
limited to, the following powers and duties:
      1.   To investigate and study issues relating to the care, maintenance,
planning and/or development of water, sewer, streets and drainage systems which
currently exist or may exist in the future, not only in the village but in
areas surrounding the village. This shall include, but is not limited to, the
analysis of problems relating to sewage disposal and/or collection, property
maintenance problems affecting the public health or safety, the care,
maintenance and construction of streets, sidewalks and public ways and the
construction, maintenance and extension of street drains and stormwater sewers.
The Public Works Committee shall not have the power or duty to investigate and
study issues relating to garbage and refuse disposal or collection.
      2.   To provide an exchange of information between the public and the
Village Department of Municipal Utilities and Street Department on issues
relating to the care, maintenance, planning and/or development of water, sewer,
streets and drainage systems within the Village and areas surrounding the
Village.
      3.   To cooperate with and provide an exchange of information with the
Village Department of Municipal Utilities and Street Department on issues
relating to sanitation needs not only in the Village but in areas surrounding
the Village, including information necessary to resolve water, sewer and
drainage problems which currently exist or may develop in the future, the
development of innovative plans and programs to ensure that water, sewer and
drainage needs within the Village are satisfied and the formulation of
recommendations, from time to time, to the Board on preserving or expanding
existing water, sewer and drainage services and in making any changes in said
service which may be beneficial to the public.
      4.   To regularly confer with and advise the Village President and Board
on matters relating to water, sewer, streets and drainage issues.
      5.   To perform such other functions and duties as the committee may be,
from time to time, directed to perform by the Board.
The powers and duties of the Public Works Committee are of an advisory nature
only. (Ord. 91-614, 11-12-1991)
1-6-6: PARKS AND RECREATION COMMITTEE:
   A.   Committee Created; Composition; Appointment And Terms: There is hereby
created a Parks and Recreation Committee which shall consist of, two (2)
members of the Village Board of Trustees, who are charged with responsibility
for parks and recreational activities in the Village, and up to six (6)
residents of the Village. A Trustee member shall serve as a member of the Parks
and Recreation Committee as its Chair. The Chairman of the committee shall
call, chair, and conduct all meetings held by the committee. Additionally a
Trustee shall be appointed to serve as Vice Chair of the Parks and Recreation
Committee and shall preside as Chairman in the absence of the Chair. Neither
the Chairman of the committee nor the Vice Chair shall have a vote on matters
to come before the committee. The Chairman of the committee shall, when a
vacancy occurs or when terms of members are about to expire, submit to the
Village President a list of names of persons who are willing and whom the
Chairman deems well qualified to serve as members of the committee, and the
Village President shall appoint all members of the committee with the advice
and consent of the Village Board of Trustees. The President, with the advice
and consent of the Village Board shall have the right to remove any member of
the committee whenever, in the President's discretion, the best interest of the
Village will be served thereby. The term of the Trustee member shall be four
(4) years or for such shorter term that he may hold the Office of Trustee. The
initial terms of the other resident members shall be three (3) for two (2)
years and three (3) for one year thereafter, their successors shall serve two
(2) year terms.
   B.   Purpose: The purpose of the Parks and Recreation Committee shall be to
serve as an advisory committee generating ideas, suggestions and
recommendations and to otherwise assist in the running (volunteering) of
special events for the Village.
   C.   Powers And Duties: The duties of the committee shall be:
      1.   To assist in the positive facilitation of Village special events by
volunteering for a minimum of ten (10) hours per year at parks and recreation
events throughout the calendar year.
      2.   To make recommendations to the Village President and Board of
Trustees concerning the acquisition of parks, recreational sites and facilities
and equipment and recreational activities in the best interests of the
residents of the Village.
      3.   To review and make recommendations on any updates to Village
planning documents, which affect parks and recreation facilities, including but
not limited to the park facility study and land acquisition plan and Riverfront
Master Plan.
      4.   To periodically forward its ideas, suggestions and recommendations
to the Parks and Recreation Department for consideration, including but not
limited to events, programming, and grant application.
   D.   Meetings: The committee shall meet at least three (3) times per year.
Additional special meetings may be held periodically for planning or debriefing
within the season of each event. All meetings of the committee shall be open to
the public, and shall be conducted in accordance with the Illinois Open
Meetings Act. (Ord. 18-1881, 4-24-2018)
1-6-7: CABLE TELEVISION COMMITTEE:
   A.   Committee Created; Composition; Appointment And Terms: There is hereby
created a committee to be known as the Shorewood Cable Television Committee
which shall consist of four (4) members to be appointed by the Village
President, one of whom shall be a member of the Village Board of Trustees,
which member shall be the Chairman of the committee whose term shall be to the
end of the calendar year in which he is appointed. The other three (3) members
shall be appointed respectively for one, two (2) and three (3) year terms and
their successor appointees shall each serve for three (3) year terms. In the
event of resignation or inability of any committee member to serve as such
member, the Village President shall, without undue delay, appoint a successor
committee member to complete the unexpired vacant term.
   B.   Organization:
      1.   Meetings: The Cable Television Committee shall meet not less than
once each month during any period of time in which construction of cable
television lines and facilities occur. At the conclusion of the construction,
the committee shall meet at the call of the Chairman.
      2.   Vote Required: Each member of the committee, including its Chairman,
shall have a vote on matters to come before the committee. A three-fourths (3/
4) vote of the entire committee is required for approval of any recommendation
which the committee makes to the President and Board of Trustees. In the event
that such vote is taken at a meeting attended by only three (3) members of the
committee, a unanimous vote shall be required for such recommendation.
   C.   Failure To Attend Meetings: In the event that any member of the Cable
Television Committee shall fail to attend three (3) consecutive meetings of the
committee without a valid excuse for the same deemed acceptable by the Village
President, the same shall be deemed to be a resignation by the committee
member.
   D.   Duties: The committee shall perform the following duties:
      1.   Review all applications for cable television franchises and
investigate the ability of the applicant to provide adequate cable television
services and make recommendations to the Village Board in connection therewith.
      2.   Review the construction of all cable television systems and all
monthly reports from the franchisee in regard to the same and make
recommendations as appropriate.
      3.   Review and hear complaints from subscribers to cable television and
attempt to mediate the same.
      4.   Review audit reports furnished by the franchisee and such other
books, documents and records of the franchisee as are submitted to the Village
or required by the Village Board and make recommendations in regard to the
same.
      5.   Review rates and charges to the television system subscribers and
make recommendations in connection with the same.
      6.   Coordinate the franchisee's local programming service to obtain its
best use of public facilities and make recommendations in regard to the same.
      7.   Perform all other tasks as may be required or deemed necessary in
the best interest of the Village. (Ord. 83-341, 1-8-1983)
1-6-8: CITIZENS' ADVISORY COMMITTEE:
   A.   A Citizens' Advisory Committee to the Village Board is established. The
Citizens' Advisory Committee shall consist of a Village Trustee selected by the
Village President and one resident over the age of 18 years who shall be a
voting member and one alternate who shall only vote in the absence of the
voting member from each of the following areas:
   Section 1   Saddlebrook Estates
         Heritage Hills
         Fields of Shorewood
   Section 2   Breckenridge
         Edgewater
         Huntington Village
         Summit Creek
   Section 3   Towne Center
         Towne Center 2
         Fox Bend
   Section 4   Rollingwood
         Brookforest North
         Shorewood Meadows
         Country West
         Robin Hill
         Brookforest
   Section 5   Walnut Trails
         Shorewood Glen
         Hunt Club
         The Vintage
   Section 6   Westfield Village
         River Oaks West
         River Oaks Estates
         Oakwood Manor
         River Bluff
   Section 7   Estates of Hidden Creek
         Kipling Estates
         Westminister Gardens
         Lake Forest
         Lake Forest South
   Section 8   The Manors
         River Oaks South
         River Crossing
         Lake of the Woods
         (North)
   B.   Appointment And Term Of Office: The terms of members of the Citizens'
Advisory Committee prior to the adoption of this subsection are hereby
terminated. The Village President with the advice and consent of the Board of
Trustees shall appoint all voting members and alternates. The Village
President, with advice and consent of the Board, shall have the authority to
remove any member of the committee whenever, in the President's discretion, the
best interest of the Village would be served. All appointments shall be for a
term of two (2) years. Members shall serve until their successors are appointed
and confirmed.
   C.   Organization:
      1.   Chairperson: The Citizens' Advisory Committee shall be chaired by a
Trustee of the Village.
      2.   Meetings: The Advisory Committee shall meet at least monthly. Other
special meetings may be called either upon the written notice by the committee
Chairperson or a majority of the members of the committee. At least four (4)
days' notice is required to all committee members of any special meeting.
      3.   Quorum: A quorum shall consist of a majority of the appointed
members of the committee who are eligible to vote at the meeting.
      4.   Minutes: The Village shall provide the committee with a Secretary to
take and prepare complete and accurate minutes of its meetings and shall
distribute and make copies of those minutes to the Village Board. The Advisory
Committee shall cause these minutes to be kept and maintained.
   D.   Duties: The duties of the Citizens' Advisory Committee include:
      1.   Provide a forum for the Village and its residents to discuss and
address their ideas and comment upon issues facing the Village.
      2.   Disseminating information about the Village to neighborhood
residents which, for illustration, might include advising residents of Village
projects in their neighborhood.
      3.   Promoting an exchange of ideas between the Village and its
residents.
      4.   Participating in such projects as may, from time to time, be
requested by the Village Board.
      5.   Offering the Village Board suggestions and ideas for the betterment
of the Village.
   E.   Committee Volunteers: The Citizens' Advisory Committee Chair may select
additional committee members who may from time to time attend meetings and
advise or assist the committee on particular projects. These members shall
serve two-year terms. (Ord. 91-585, 6-11-1991; amd. Ord. 93-727, 12-14-1993;
Ord. 18-1882, 4-24-2018; Ord. 22-2032, 1-25-2022)
1-6-9: CITIZENS' RECYCLING COMMITTEE:
   A.   Committee Created; Composition: A Citizens' Recycling Committee to the
Village Board of Trustees is hereby created. The Citizens' Recycling Committee
shall consist of seven (7) residents of the Village who shall be appointed by
the Village President with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees. The
Village President shall designate one member of the committee to serve as its
Chairperson.
   B.   Village Administrator Serves As Liaison: The Village Administrator
shall serve as a liaison between the Citizens' Recycling Committee and the
President and Board of Trustees.
   C.   Functions And Duties: The mission of the Citizens' Recycling Committee
is to advise and make recommendations to the President and Board of Trustees
concerning the following:
      1.   To devise and develop methods of promoting the recycling of
residential, commercial and industrial waste in the Village.
      2.   To investigate and formalize an Educational Outreach Program to more
fully inform residents of the Village concerning recycling issues.
      3.   To design a brochure to help facilitate the implementation of a
Recycling Program.
      4.   To prepare articles for distribution in the Village Newsletter
concerning recycling issues.
      5.   To develop a recycling slogan.
      6.   To investigate the purchase of recycling bins.
      7.   To make recommendations concerning the expenditure of funds from the
Will County solid waste recycling grant.
   D.   Duration Of Committee: The Citizens' Recycling Committee shall be an ad
hoc committee and shall exist until such time as the mission and duties as
herein delineated are completed or until otherwise terminated by ordinance.
(Ord. 91-592, 7-9-1991)
1-6-10: BEAUTIFICATION COMMITTEE:
   A.   Committee Created: The Shorewood Beautification Committee is hereby
created, consisting of not more than fifteen (15) members who shall be
appointed by the Village President with the advice and consent of the Board of
Trustees.
   B.   Residence Requirements: All members of the Shorewood Beautification
Committee shall reside within the corporate limits of the Village.
   C.   Term Of Office: The initial committee shall be appointed for the
following terms: one-third (1/3) of the members shall be appointed for a term
of one year; one-third (1/3) of the members shall be appointed for a term of
two (2) years; and one-third (1/3) of the members, including the Chairman,
shall be appointed for a term of three (3) years. Thereafter, all subsequent
appointments to the committee shall be for a term of three (3) years.
   D.   Meetings, Officers; Quorum: The committee Chairman shall be appointed
by the Village President with the advice and consent of the Village Board and
shall serve for a term of three (3) years or until a successor is duly
appointed. The committee shall meet from time to time on call of the Chairman.
A majority of the committee members shall constitute a quorum for the purpose
of transacting any business that may come before the committee.
   E.   Duties: The committee shall develop beautification projects including,
but not limited to landscaping, tree planting and flower planting and shall
recommend implementation of said projects to the Board of Trustees. After
obtaining the necessary permits from IDOT, the committee shall be particularly
concerned with the beautification of major roadway intersections, the planting
of trees along major roadways and the planting of shrubs and flowers at the
Village entrance signs and the Village Hall. (Ord. 92-638, 4-28-1992)
1-6-11: BUILDING FEASIBILITY COMMITTEE:
   A.   Committee Created: A Building Feasibility Committee to the Village
Board of Trustees is hereby created.
   B.   Composition: The Building Feasibility Committee shall consist of nine
(9) members as follows: one Trustee who will serve as Chairman, the Village
Administrator, the Chief Building Official, the Police Chief, the Village
Treasurer, one member of the Finance Committee and three (3) residents of the
Village, all who shall be appointed by the Village President with the advice
and consent of the Board of Trustees.
   C.   Duration Of Committee: The Building Feasibility Committee shall be an
ad hoc committee and shall exist until such time as the mission and duties as
hereafter delineated are completed or until otherwise terminated by ordinance.
   D.   Mission And Duties: The mission of the Building Feasibility Committee
is to advise and make recommendations to the President and Board of Trustees
concerning the following:
      1.   To study the use of existing space in the Village Hall.
      2.   If expansion is deemed unnecessary, to make recommendations for
improved use of space.
      3.   If expansion is deemed necessary, to make recommendations on size
and design.
      4.   If expansion is deemed necessary, to make recommendations on
projected costs and methods of financing. (Ord. 92-662, 9-22-1992; Ord. 20-
1982, 8-25-2020)
1-6-12: SAFETY COMMITTEE:
   A.   Committee Created; Composition; Duration:
      1.   Committee Created: A Safety Committee to the Village Board of
Trustees is hereby created. (Ord. 92-669, 10-27-1992)
      2.   Composition: The Safety Committee shall consist of five (5) members
as follows: the Administrative Assistant who will serve as Safety Coordinator,
the Village Administrator, the Chief Building Official, the Police Chief and
the Public Works Supervisor and who shall be appointed by the Village President
with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees. (Ord. 95-805, 8-22-1995)
      3.   Duration: The Safety Committee shall exist until terminated by
ordinance.
   B.   Meetings: The Safety Committee shall hold regular meetings as often as
deemed necessary by the chairman. Minutes shall be taken and approved by the
Committee and distributed to the Board of Trustees.
   C.   Mission And Duties: The mission of the Safety Committee is as follows:
      1.   Develop and revise as needed a general safety manual setting forth
such items as loss control responsibility, self- inspection programs and
accident reporting, investigation and procedures. This manual shall be
presented to the Board of Trustees for approval.
      2.   Develop and revise as needed a specific safety manual pertinent to
each department. These manuals shall be presented to the Board of Trustees for
approval.
      3.   Bring the Village into compliance with current Illinois Department
of Labor and OSHA requirements.
      4.   Represent management's direction and commitment to safety.
      5.   Implement a self-inspection program with documentation.
      6.   Identify specific safety issues and implement control measures
through recommendations to the Board of Trustees. (Ord. 92-669, 10-27-1992;
amd. Ord. 20- 1982, 8-25-2020)
1-6-13: POLICE CHIEF SELECTION COMMITTEE:
   A.   Committee Created: A Police Chief Selection Committee to the Village
Board of Trustees is hereby created.
   B.   Composition: The Police Chief Selection Committee shall consist of five
(5) members as follows: one Trustee, the current Chief of Police, a member of
the Police and Fire Commission, one resident of the Village and one member of
the business community. The members shall be appointed by the Village President
with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees. The President will
appoint one member as chairman.
   C.   Duration Of Committee: The Police Chief Selection Committee shall be an
ad hoc Committee and shall exist until such time as the mission and duties as
hereafter delineated are completed or until otherwise terminated by ordinance.
   D.   Mission And Duties: The mission of the Police Chief Selection Committee
is to advise and make recommendations to the President and Board of Trustees
concerning the following:
      1.   Develop a job description and profile for the position of Chief of
Police.
      2.   Screen all resumes for the Chief of Police position.
      3.   Select ten (10) potential candidates to interview for position.
      4.   Interview the ten (10) selected candidates.
      5.   After interviews have been completed, select three (3) candidates to
be recommended to the Village Board. (Ord. 93-706, 8-24-1993)
1-6-14: CHAIRMAN OF SPECIAL EVENTS:
   A.   Chairmanship Created; Appointment: The Chairmanship of Special Events
is hereby created subject to the provisions of this Section. The Chairman of
Special Events shall be appointed from among the members of the Board of
Trustees by the Village President subject to the advice and consent of the
Board of Trustees.
   B.   Duties: The Chairman of Special Events shall be responsible to the
elected body for the performance of the following:
      1.   Making policy recommendations to the Village President and Board of
Trustees regarding:
         a.   Appropriate occasions or persons to be recognized.
         b.   Appropriate type of event for the occasion or person to be
recognized.
         c.   Annual budget for special events.
      2.   Plan and supervise special events, including:
         a.   Determining date, time and place.
         b.   Arranging for food and refreshments (as appropriate).
         c.   Acting on behalf of the elected body in contractual agreements
for facilities, catering and entertainment (as appropriate).
         d.   Assure that the appropriate persons are properly compensated.
      3.   Chair ad hoc committees appointed by the Village President, with the
advice and consent of the Board of Trustees, as, from time to time, necessary
to assist in special events activities.
   C.   Relationship With Village Staff: The Village Administrator and other
staff members assist the chairman by providing advice and information as
requested. The chairman does not direct, supervise or act as advocate for
Village employees at any level of the organization. (Ord. 87-433, 5-12-1987)
1-6-15: VILLAGE HALL EXPANSION COMMITTEE:
   A.   Creation And Composition Of Committee: A Village Hall Expansion
Committee of the Village of Shorewood be and the same is hereby created.
The Village Hall Expansion Committee shall consist of seven (7) members as
follows: one Trustee who will serve as chairman, the Village Administrator, the
Chief Building Official, the Police Chief, the Village Treasurer, the Trustee
(chairman) of the Finance Committee, and the Superintendent of the Public Works
Department, all who shall be appointed by the Village President with the advice
and consent of the Board of Trustees. The Village President shall serve as a ex
officio member of the Committee.
   B.   Duration Of Committee: The Village Hall Expansion Committee shall be an
ad hoc committee and shall exist until such time as the mission and duties as
hereafter delineated are completed or until otherwise terminated by ordinance.
   C.   Mission And Duties Of The Committee: The mission of the Village Hall
Expansion Committee is to advise and make recommendations to the President and
Board of Trustees concerning the following:
      1.   To study the use of existing space in the Village Hall.
      2.   To make recommendations on size and design of the expansion of the
Village Hall and to oversee the construction of the facility until completed.
      3.   To make recommendations on the expansion, in particular, of the
Shorewood Police Department utilizing the space in the existing Village
Boardroom, and to oversee the construction until completed.
      4.   To make recommendations on projected costs and methods of financing.
(Ord. 95-776, 1-24-1995; amd. Ord. 20-1982, 8-25-2020)
1-6-16: FLOOD DISASTER COMMITTEE:
   A.   Committee Created: There is hereby created an ad hoc advisory committee
to be known as the Flood Disaster Committee (the "Flood Committee") to work
with Federal, State, and local officials to advise the President and Board of
Trustees as to problems created by the July 1996 flood and to identify
potential solutions to those problems.
   B.   Flood Committee Membership: The Flood Committee shall be composed of
ten (10) members who shall be appointed by the Village President with the
advice and consent of the Board of Trustees.
   C.   Flood Committee Duties: The Committee shall work with Village staff and
the staff of Federal, State, and local agencies to:
      1.   Identify problems created by the flood and suggest possible
solutions to the President and Board of Trustees.
      2.   Explore potential sources of relief which are available to flood
victims.
      3.   Make suggestions to the President and Board of Trustees and Village
staff as to a schedule to implement any and all suggestions.
      4.   Consider any and all other business which relates to the flood and
make recommendations with regard to same.
   D.   Flood Committee Chairperson: The Village President with the advice and
consent of the Board of Trustees shall name one of the Flood Committee members
to serve as Committee chairperson and to serve as liaison to the President and
Board of Trustees.
   E.   Flood Committee Secretary: The Flood Committee shall select one of its
members to serve as secretary to the Committee to prepare minutes of each
meeting.
   F.   Flood Committee Duration: The Flood Committee shall terminate when its
business is concluded. (Ord. 96-849, 8-13-1996)
1-6-17: DISASTER RESPONSE COMMITTEE:
   A.   Committee Created: There is hereby created an ad hoc advisory committee
to be known as the "Disaster Response Committee" to work with appropriate
Federal, State, and local officials to develop a proposed plan to respond to
future natural disasters which might occur in the Village.
   B.   Disaster Response Committee Membership: The Disaster Response Committee
shall be composed of a total of twelve (12) members who shall be appointed by
the Village President with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees.
Provided, however, that the Shorewood Emergency Coordinator shall be a member
of the Committee and one Village Trustee shall also be a member of the
Committee.
   C.   Disaster Response Committee Duties: The Committee shall work with the
staff of the Village and other local, State, and Federal agencies to identify
appropriate responses to future natural disasters which may occur in the
Village and to recommend to the Village a Natural Emergency Response Plan which
may be implemented in times of emergency to coordinate resources of various
agencies to best serve the Village.
   D.   Disaster Response Committee Chairperson: The Village Trustee member
shall serve as chairperson of the Disaster Response Committee and a liaison
between the Committee and the Village President and Board of Trustees.
   E.   Disaster Response Committee Secretary: The Disaster Response Committee
shall select one of its members to serve as secretary to prepare minutes of
each meeting. (Ord. 96-850, 8-13-1996)
CHAPTER 7
MUNICIPAL FINANCES
SECTION:
1-7-1: Payment Of Bills; Purchases
1-7-2: Checks With Insufficient Funds
1-7-3: Wage Rates For Public Works Employees
1-7-4: Cash Contributions For Library Purposes
1-7-5: Development Application Fees
1-7-1: PAYMENT OF BILLS; PURCHASES:
   A.   The Village Administrator shall have the authority to issue and sign
drafts upon the General Corporate Fund and all other funds of the Village for
payment of supplies, repair bills and other bills that occur in the day to day
operation of the business of the Village.
   B.   The Village Administrator shall further have the authority to issue and
sign drafts upon the General Corporate Fund and all other funds of the Village
for payment for services rendered by any person that occur in the day to day
operation of the business of the Village; provided, that for any purchase of
services where the amount of the purchase exceeds five hundred dollars
($500.00), any such purchase or payment must be approved by the Board. Only
after such submission and approval shall the Administrator have authority to
issue a draft for the purchase of supplies or services set out in this proviso.
Violation of the provisions in this subsection will result in disciplinary
action with a hearing before the Village Board. (Ord. 90-542, 6-12-1990)
1-7-2: CHECKS WITH INSUFFICIENT FUNDS:
A fee in the amount of twenty five dollars ($25.00) shall be assessed against
all persons who present to the Village a check which is dishonored or upon
which payment is refused in attempting to pay for any service provided for or
charge levied by the Village, and such fee shall be assessed for immediate
payment or added to the balance owing of the person presenting the check. (Ord.
06-1341, 1-24-2006)
1-7-3: WAGE RATES FOR PUBLIC WORKS EMPLOYEES:
   A.   To the extent and as required by the Prevailing Wage Act, the general
prevailing rate of wages in this locality for laborers, mechanics and other
workers engaged in construction of public works projects coming under the
jurisdiction of the Village is hereby determined to be the same as the
prevailing rate of wages for construction work in Will County area as
determined by the Department of Labor of the State of Illinois as of September
2017, a copy of that determination being exhibit A on file in the Village and
incorporated herein by reference. The definition of any terms appearing in this
section which are also used in aforesaid Act shall be the same as in said Act.
   B.   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to apply said general
prevailing rate of wages as herein ascertained to any work or employment except
public works construction of the Village to the extent required by the
aforesaid Act.
   C.   The Village Administrator shall publicly post or keep available for
inspection by any interested party in the main office of this Village this
determination of such prevailing rate of wage.
   D.   The Village Administrator shall mail a copy of this determination to
any employer, and to any association of employers and to any person or
association of employees who have filed their names and addresses, requesting
copies of any determination stating the particular rates and the particular
class of workers whose wages will be affected by such rates. (Ord. 18-1887, 6-
12-2018)
1-7-4: CASH CONTRIBUTIONS FOR LIBRARY PURPOSES:
   A.   Contributions Required; Amount:
      1.   Residential Subdivisions And Planned Unit Developments:
         a.   As a condition of approval of a final plat of subdivision or of a
final plat of a planned unit development, each subdivider or developer will be
required to pay a cash contribution for library purposes to serve the immediate
and future needs of the residents of the development. The amount of cash
contributions shall be four hundred twenty five dollars ($425.00) for each
detached single-family residential lot or parcel.
         b.   For multi-family residential property, the cash contribution
shall be four hundred twenty five dollars ($425.00) for each unit; a "unit" is
defined as space intended or designed as a dwelling for one family (e.g., for a
4-unit apartment building, the contribution is $1,700.00).
      2.   Annexations: The cash contribution required by this section shall
also be required as a condition to the annexation of any land to the Village,
and provisions therefor shall be incorporated in any preannexation agreement
governing such land.
   B.   Time Of Payment: The cash contributions required by this section shall
be paid to the Village at the time of issuance of a residential building
permit. The Village shall disburse such contributions to the library district
quarterly.
   C.   Disposition Of Contributions; Refunds: Contributions received by the
library pursuant to this section may be used as the library deems appropriate.
No party shall have any claim or right to a refund of cash contributions paid
pursuant to this section. (Ord. 17-1839, 3-28-2017)
1-7-5: DEVELOPMENT APPLICATION FEES:
   A.   Application Fee: At the time of any application for annexation
(including an annexation agreement), subdivision or planned unit development,
conditional use, map amendment, variance, site plan, concept plan or other
petition, the applicant shall pay the Village the fee(s) applicable to said
application in accordance with the fee schedule as from time to time are
established by the Village.
Annexation:                        
 Single lot residential          $350.00
 Multiple lot residential        $850.00 plus $50.00 per dwelling unit
 Nonresidential                  $850.00 plus $100.00 per acre or fraction
                                  thereof
Preliminary subdivision plat:      
 Single lot residential          $250.00
 Multiple lot residential        $750.00 plus $50.00 per dwelling unit
 Nonresidential                  $750.00 plus $100.00 per acre or fraction
                                  thereof
Final subdivision plat:            
 Single lot residential          $250.00
 Multiple lot residential        $750.00 plus $50.00 per dwelling unit
 Nonresidential                  $750.00 plus $100.00 per acre or fraction
                                  thereof
Conditional use permit:            
 Including amendments            $400.00
 For a planned unit development, $1,150.00 plus $400.00 for each
  including amendments            additional CUP request embodied in PUD
Rezoning/map amendment            $650.00
Variance:                          
 Single lot residential          $225.00
 Nonresidential and multiple lot $650.00 per requested deviation
  residential
                                  $250.00 for sites up to 2 acres in size;
Concept plan review               $500.00 for sites 2 acres or larger in
                                  size
Site plan review                  $2,000.00 plus $100.00 per acre or
                                  fraction thereof
Site plan amendment               $500.00 plus $100.00 per acre or fraction
                                  thereof
 
   B.   Liability For Fees; Filing Fee: All annexation agreements submitted to
the Village pursuant to the provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-
15-1 et seq., and all plats of subdivision, plats of planned unit development,
conditional use permits, map amendments, variances, concept plans, site plans
and other approvals for consideration shall be accompanied by a petition
requesting that the Village take the appropriate prescribed action thereon and
stating that the petitioner is aware of and will abide by the provisions of
this section and pay all fees and expenses required hereby in addition to all
other fees and expenses otherwise by law or ordinance required. All such
applications or petitions shall be accompanied with the appropriate filing fee
in the amount provided heretofore and hereafter in other ordinances of the
Village.
   C.   Additional Costs And Expenses:
      1.   Professional Fee Agreement: Any developer, person, entity,
corporation, association or group filing an application with the planning and
zoning commission or with the village for any approvals as set forth in Titles
10 and 11, Shorewood Crossroads Zoning and Shorewood Subdivision and
Development Ordinances, respectively, or as required by Title 8, Building
Regulations, shall at the time of the execution of said petition or application
or at any time the Village must engage a third-party consultant sign a written
agreement to fully reimburse the Village for any and all third-party consulting
fees and expenses ("Professional Fees") incurred by the Village in connection
with processing and administering said petition or application ("Project") from
the date of the application through the Project's completion, on a form
approved by the Village, and submit a Professional Fee Security in an amount
determined by the Zoning Officer. Professional Fees include, but are not
limited to, third-party attorneys, land planners, engineers, and financial,
traffic and transportation consultants. Professional Fees shall include, but
are not limited to, all expenses associated with review, analysis, discussions,
meetings, inspections, planning and other work or services performed on behalf
of the Village in conjunction with the Project.
      2.   Payment: In the event that there is an outstanding balance for
Professional Fees, the Village may direct staff and third-party consultants to
cease work on the Project until the outstanding balance is paid in full. If the
Project has progressed to the stage where a building or occupancy permit is
ready to be issued, such permits may be withheld until all outstanding balances
are paid to the satisfaction of the Village.
   D.   Fees Are Additional: The fees and expenses required by any other
ordinance of the Village, both now in force or hereinafter adopted, shall not
be affected hereby, it being the express intention that the fees and expenses
herein provided be in addition to and not in lieu of such fees and expenses
provided for in other ordinances. (Ord. 10-1581, 4-13-2010; amd. Ord. 20-1962,
1-14-2020)
CHAPTER 8
MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-8-1: Soliciting for a Candidate at Poll Site
1-8-2: Vehicle Parking
1-8-3: Enforcement
1-8-4: Penalty
1-8-1: SOLICITING FOR A CANDIDATE AT POLL SITE:
No candidate or representative of a candidate shall solicit votes within the
property boundary lines of the grounds of the Shorewood Municipal Building or
any other polling place on election day; provided, however, that this provision
shall not exclude a candidate or his representative poll watchers from being
present at polling places as provided by the laws of the State governing poll
watchers 1 . (Ord. 79-302, 11-27-79)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 10 ILCS 5/17-23.
1-8-2: VEHICLE PARKING:
No vehicle shall be parked in such a manner as to interfere in any way with any
voter or person in transit to or from a polling place, and no vehicle shall be
parked within the boundary lines of the Shorewood Municipal Building grounds or
any other polling place grounds which shall exhibit signs, other than usual and
normal sized bumper stickers, advertising any political candidate 1 . (Ord. 79-
302, 11-27-79)
 
Notes
1 2. See Section
  8-4-1 of this Code for political campaign signs.
1-8-3: ENFORCEMENT:
During the hours of polling for each Village election, a Shorewood Village
police officer shall periodically check and patrol each polling place to
enforce the provisions of this Chapter, to keep the peace and regulate traffic
in the parking area of the polling place. (Ord. 79-302, 11-27-79)
1-8-4: PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate the provisions of this Chapter shall, upon
conviction, be subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 79-302, 11-27-79; 1994 Code)
CHAPTER 9
DEDICATION OF PARK LANDS OR PAYMENT OF FEES
SECTION:
1-9-1: Criteria For Determining Land Dedication Or Fee
1-9-2: Density Formula
1-9-3: Reservation Of Additional Land
1-9-4: Combining With Adjoining Development
1-9-5: Site Requirements
1-9-6: Prerequisite To Annexation Agreement
1-9-7: Time Of Dedication Or Payment
1-9-8: Method Of Payment
1-9-9: Park Pavilion Rental
1-9-1: CRITERIA FOR DETERMINING LAND DEDICATION OR FEE:
As a condition of approval of a final plat of subdivision or of a final plat of
planned unit development, each applicant for subdivision approval, subdivider
or developer is required to dedicate land for park and recreation purposes to
serve the immediate and future needs of the residents of the proposed
development or to make a cash contribution in lieu of actual land dedication or
a combination of both, at the option of the Village, in accordance with the
following criteria and formula: (Ord. 90-562, 12-11-1990)
   A.   Criteria For Requiring Park And Recreation Land Dedication:
      1.   Requirement And Population Ratio: The ultimate density of a proposed
development shall bear directly upon the amount of land required for
dedication. The total requirement shall be ten (10) acres of land per one
thousand (1,000) of ultimate population. (Ord. 05-1290, 4-26-2005)
      2.   Location: The location of the site to be dedicated shall be
determined by the Board of Trustees considering recommendations of the Plan
Commission and the Parks and Recreation Committee, taking into account the
suitability of the park site for recreation purposes or development and its
relationship to population concentrations. A park site which is not less than
five (5) acres shall be considered a requirement adjoining all elementary and
junior high schools constructed after the effective date hereof. A central
location which will serve equally the entire development is most desirable. In
large developments, these sites may be located throughout the development,
taking into account the Village's Comprehensive Plan 1 .
      3.   Credit For Private Open Spaces And Recreation Areas: When
subdividers or developers provide their own open space for recreation areas and
facilities, it may have the effect of reducing the demand for local public
recreation areas and services. Such private open space, however, is difficult
to develop and maintain, since ownership usually is surrendered to the adjacent
property owners or to a homeowners' association who may not have the personnel
or financial resources to ensure adequate maintenance and improvement of the
facilities. Nevertheless, some instances might exist in which the public is
better served by providing for private open space in lieu of public open space.
Credit for private open space may be allowed only when the Village Board of
Trustees has determined that private open space or recreation areas will, by
reason of the type of development, better serve the interests of the public.
Where allowed, a substitution of private open space for dedicated parks will
imply a substantially higher degree of improvement and the installation of
recreation facilities, including equipment by the developer, as part of his
obligation. Detailed plans of such areas, including specifications of
facilities to be installed, must be approved by the Village. Before any credit
is given for private recreation areas, the subdivider or developer must
guarantee that these private recreation areas will be permanently maintained
for such use by the execution of the appropriate legal documents. When an
adjustment for private recreation areas is warranted, it will be necessary to
compute the total park land dedication that would have been required from the
subdivision or planned unit development and then subtract the credit to be
given for the private open space, the amount of which credit shall be
determined by the Village Board of Trustees and may consist of a credit for the
total requirement or any fraction thereof. (Ord. 90-562, 12-11-1990)
      4.   Stormwater Facilities: The Village shall not permit stormwater
retention or detention facilities to be the site dedicated to the Village, nor
shall the subdivider or developer be given credit for such stormwater detention
or retention facilities as open spaces or recreation areas. (Ord. 94-768, 11-
22-1994)
   B.   Criteria For Requiring A Cash Contribution In Lieu Of Park And
Recreation Land Dedication:
      1.   Requirement And Use Of Contributions: Where the development is small
and the resulting sites would be too small to be practical or when the
available land is inappropriate for park and recreation purposes, the Village
shall require the subdivider or developer to pay a cash contribution in lieu of
the land dedication required. The cash contributions in lieu of park and
recreation land dedication shall be paid to the Village prior to or upon the
issuance of building permits for any building or structure located within the
subdivision or planned unit development. Such contributions shall be used
solely for the acquisition of park and recreation land as hereinabove
classified, which will be available to serve the immediate or future needs of
the residents of that subdivision or development or for the improvement of
other existing local park and recreation land which already serves such needs.
(Ord. 90-562, 12-11-1990)
      2.   Fair Market Value As Basis Of Contribution: The cash contributions
in lieu of land shall be based on the "fair market value" of the number of
acres of improved land that otherwise would have been dedicated as park and
recreation sites. It has been determined that the present "fair market value"
of such improved land in and surrounding the Village is forty six thousand six
hundred seventy six dollars ($46,676.00) per acre, and such figure shall be
used in making any calculation herein unless the subdivider or developer of a
planned unit development shall submit a written appraisal showing the "fair
market value" of such improved land in the area of his subdivision or planned
unit development or other evidence thereof. The final determination of the
"fair market value" per acre of such improved land shall be made by the village
board based upon such information submitted by the subdivider or developer of a
planned unit development and from other sources which may be submitted to the
village board. (Ord. 12-1665, 7-24-2012)
   C.   Criteria For Requiring Land Dedication And A Cash Contribution: There
will be situations in subdivisions or planned unit developments when a
combination of land dedication and cash contributions are both necessary. These
occasions will arise when:
      1.   Only a portion of the proposed park site is located on the property
to be developed. That portion of the park location located within the
subdivision or planned unit development shall be dedicated as a park or
recreation site as herein provided, and in addition thereto, a cash
contribution shall be required for additional acreage which would have
otherwise been required had the entire park or recreation site been located
within the development.
      2.   A major part of the park site has already been acquired, and only a
small portion of land is needed from the development to complete the site. The
remaining portions necessary to be acquired shall be required by dedication,
and cash contributions shall be required for the remaining acreage. (Ord. 90-
562, 12-11-1990)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9, chapter 1 of this Code.
1-9-2: DENSITY FORMULA:
The following table of population is generally indicative of current and short
range projected trends in family size for new construction as determined by the
Illinois school consulting service and shall be used in calculating the amount
of required acres of land to be dedicated or the cash contributions in lieu
thereof, these estimates are conclusive unless a written objection is filed
thereto by the subdivider or developer of the planned unit development as
provided herein: (Ord. 90-562, 12-11-1990; amd. Ord. 12-1665, 7-24-2012)
TABLE OF ESTIMATED ULTIMATE POPULATION PER DWELLING UNIT
Type Of                                                               Total Per
Unit    Preschool Elementary Junior High Total K–High School Adults Dwelling
                                                                      Unit
                                  Junior                              Total Per
Type Of Unit Preschool Elementary High   Total K–High School Adults Dwelling
                                                                      Unit
Detached
single-                                                          
family:
 2 bedroom  0.113     0.136      0.048  0.184     0.02        1.7    2.017
 3 bedroom  0.292     0.369      0.173  0.542     0.184       1.881  2.899
 4 bedroom  0.418     0.530      0.298  0.828     0.36        2.158  3.764
 5 bedroom  0.283     0.345      0.248  0.593     0.3         2.594  3.77
Attached
single-
family                                                           
(townhouse,
row house,
etc.):
 1 bedroom  0         0          0      0         0           1.193  1.193
 2 bedroom  0.064     0.088      0.048  0.136     0.038       1.752  1.99
 3 bedroom  0.212     0.234      0.058  0.292     0.059       1.829  2.392
 4 bedroom  0.323     0.322      0.154  0.476     0.173       2.173  3.145
Apartments:                                                      
 Efficiency 0         0          0      0         0           1.294  1.294
 1 bedroom  0         0.002      0.001  0.003     0.001       1.754  1.758
 2 bedroom  0.047     0.086      0.042  0.128     0.046       1.693  1.914
 3 bedroom  0.052     0.234      0.123  0.357     0.118       2.526  3.053
 
Source: Illinois School Consulting Service/Associated Municipal Consultants,
Inc. (1996)
The following chart shall be utilized to determine the amount of contribution
when such contribution is not fulfilled in part by the dedication of land:
PARK CASH CONTRIBUTION
Type Of Unit Total Per Dwelling Unit Cash Contribution
Type Of Unit            Total Per Dwelling Unit Cash Contribution
Detached single-family:                         
   2 bedroom         2.017                   $ 884.56
   3 bedroom         2.899                   1,271.36
   4 bedroom         3.764                   1,650.70
   5 bedroom         3.77                    1,653.33
Attached:                                       
   1 bedroom         1.193                   523.19
   2 bedroom         1.99                    872.71
   3 bedroom         2.392                   1,049.01
   4 bedroom         3.145                   1,379.24
Apartments:                                     
   Efficiency        1.294                   567.48
   1 bedroom         1.758                   770.97
   2 bedroom         1.914                   839.30
   3 bedroom         3.053                   1,338.89
 
(Ord. 12-1665, 7-24-2012)
In the event a subdivider or developer of a planned unit development files a
written objection to the table of estimated ultimate population listed herein,
he shall submit his own demographic study showing the estimated additional
population to be generated from the subdivision or planned unit development,
and in that event, the village board shall consider such studies together with
other sources of information submitted to the board prior to determining the
actual estimate to be utilized. The determination of the village board shall be
final. It is recognized that population density, age distribution and local
conditions change over the years, and the specific formula for the dedication
of land or cash contributions in lieu thereof as provided herein is subject to
periodic review and amendment if necessary. (Ord. 90-562, 12-11-1990)
1-9-3: RESERVATION OF ADDITIONAL LAND:
Nothing herein contained shall limit the authority of the village to require
the designation and reservation of other recreational land, school sites or
other public lands as a condition for approval of any plat of subdivision or
planned unit development where such land is to be acquired by condemnation
within one year from final plat approval as set forth under division 12 of
article 11 of the Illinois municipal code 1  as amended. (Ord. 90-562, 12-11-
1990)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS.
1-9-4: COMBINING WITH ADJOINING DEVELOPMENT:
Where the subdivision or planned unit development is less than forty (40)
acres, a park or recreation site which is to be dedicated should, whenever
possible, be combined with dedications from adjoining subdivisions or planned
unit developments in order to produce usable park or recreational sites without
hardship on a particular subdivider or developer of a planned unit development.
(Ord. 90-562, 12-11-1990)
1-9-5: SITE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Topography And Grading: The slope, topography and geology of the
dedicated site, as well as its surroundings, must be suitable for its intended
purposes. Dedicated sites shall be final graded and seeded, and elevations
shall not differ greatly from surrounding land.
   B.   Improved Sites: All sites shall be dedicated in a condition ready for
full service of electrical, water, sewer and streets (including enclosed
drainage, sidewalks and curb and gutters) as applicable to the location of the
site, in addition to all other improvements as may be required by the
subdivision code 1 . (Ord. 90-562, 12-11-1990)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 11 of this code.
1-9-6: PREREQUISITE TO ANNEXATION AGREEMENT:
The dedication of land or cash contributions in lieu thereof or combination of
both as required by this chapter shall be a matter of policy of the village,
and provisions therefor shall be incorporated into any annexation agreement
governing such land. (Ord. 90-562, 12-11-1990)
1-9-7: TIME OF DEDICATION OR PAYMENT:
The dedication of land shall be made at the time the village board of trustees
approves the final plat of subdivision or planned unit development. Failure to
make such dedications or contributions as required herein shall be grounds for
rejection of said final plat. All cash contributions required herein shall be
paid to the village prior to or upon issuance of building permits for any
dwellings or structures located within the subdivision or planned unit
development. If dedicated sites do not conform to the requirements of sections
1-9-5 and
1-9-6 of this chapter, the village may, at its option, draw down on any letter
of credit or bond which was posted by the subdivider or developer to ensure
compliance with the subdivision code 1 . (Ord. 90-562, 12-11-1990)
 
Notes
1 2. See title 11 of this code.
1-9-8: METHOD OF PAYMENT:
The cash contributions required herein shall be made by certified check payable
to the village of Shorewood and shall be deposited with the village clerk prior
to the issuance of a building permit. (Ord. 90-562, 12-11-1990)
1-9-9: PARK PAVILION RENTAL:
   A.   Applications: Application and payment must be made in full, in person,
at the time of booking pavilion rentals and must be made at least seven (7)
business days prior to the desired date. Applications and payments can be made
at the Village of Shorewood offices.
      1.   Applicants will be subject to an additional twenty five dollar
($25.00) processing fee should the application be submitted less than seven (7)
business days prior to the desired date.
   B.   Rules And Regulations:
      1.   Applicants must show proof of residency to receive discounted
resident rates.
      2.   Applicants must be twenty one (21) or older to rent Village of
Shorewood parks pavilion.
      3.   At least one (1) adult chaperon (over 21 years of age) must be
provided for every fifteen (15) minors in attendance.
      4.   No alcoholic beverages are permitted on park property.
      5.   All groups or individuals renting facilities shall be responsible
for the facility being clean and in an orderly state after scheduled use.
Should the facilities be left in such a condition to require additional cleanup
or maintenance, this expense will be invoiced to the responsible party.
      6.   All functions conducted in/on parks and recreation facilities must
be in accordance with Village of Shorewood standards and, therefore, not be in
violation of any Village regulations or ordinances as set forth in the
ordinances providing for the issuance of permits for the use of park
facilities.
      7.   No park facility can be rented past dusk without prior written
approval from the Village Administrator.
   C.   Refund Requests: In the instances when a scheduled event must be
canceled, refund requests must be made in writing at the Village of Shorewood
Parks and Recreation Offices at least seven (7) business days prior to
requested rental date. After the seven (7) day threshold, no refunds will be
issued. All refunds will be assessed a ten dollar ($10.00) administrative fee.
No pavilion refunds will be issued in the cases of inclement weather.
   D.   Large Groups: Groups of one hundred (100) or more must receive special
permission from the Village of Shorewood and meet the following requirements:
      1.   Must have one (1) off-duty Shorewood Police Officer, per every one
hundred (100) guests, at the current contract rate of pay per hour at the
expense of the party renting the pavilion.
Please note: This must be arranged with the Shorewood Police Department prior
to permit for function being issued.
      2.   An additional fee of two hundred dollars ($200.00) (resident) or
three hundred dollars ($300.00) (non-resident) will apply to any event
anticipating over two hundred (200) guests and the event itself will require
the approval of the Village Administrator prior to issuance of permit.
      3.   Events anticipating more than one hundred (100) guests will be
required to provide additional Port-O-Lets from the Village's approved vendor
only. One (1) additional unit per fifty (50) guests, at minimum will be
required. Coordination of delivery and service will be done by Village
personnel only with invoice for the service to be paid directly by the renter.
      4.   A logistics meeting will be required between Village staff and at
minimum, the person who signed the application.
   E.   Additional Park Use: Any event requiring or requesting additional uses
of the parks besides the use of the pavilion such as a private wedding, charity
event, run/walk event, etc., will require additional information as well as a
separate application to be submitted. Special approval from the Village of
Shorewood will be required.
 
                                            Resident Non- Resident
Park pavilion fees (by capacity):
   45 - 100                              $100.00  $200.00
   30 - 45                               75.00    150.00
   15 - 30                               50.00    100.00
   Up to 15                              30.00    60.00
   Each additional hour (exceeding 4 hour15.00    15.00
 
   F.   Penalty: Any person, firm, or corporation who violates, disobeys,
neglects, or refuses to comply with any provision of this section, shall be
subject to a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. Each day a violation is
permitted to exist after notification thereof shall constitute a separate
offense. (Ord. 17-1839, 3-28-2017)
CHAPTER 10
ADMINISTRATIVE COMPLIANCE TICKETS
SECTION:
1-10-1: Definition
1-10-2: Issuance Of ACT
1-10-3: Procedure
1-10-4: Compliance With ACT
1-10-5: Appeal For An Administrative Hearing
1-10-1: DEFINITION:
"Administrative compliance ticket", hereinafter referred to as "ACT", is
defined as a courtesy ticket used in the case of certain minor ordinance
violations in lieu of arrest or penalty as provided in this code. (Ord. 95-821,
10-24-1995)
1-10-2: ISSUANCE OF ACT:
An ACT may be issued by village police officers and the village code
enforcement officer or such other person as authorized by the village
administrator. (Ord. 95-821, 10-24-1995)
1-10-3: PROCEDURE:
Any person accused of violating any provision of this code, except traffic
offenses that must be reported to the secretary of state in accordance with 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-204, may be issued an ACT in lieu of arrest or
penalty as provided in this code, which will require the violator to:
   A.   Pay an administrative fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) to the village
within fourteen (14) days of the issuance of an ACT as a settlement and
compromise of the claim against the violator. In the event payment of the fifty
dollar ($50.00) ACT has not been received within the said fourteen (14) day
period, the administrative fee will be increased to one hundred dollars
($100.00) for the period beginning the fifteenth day and including the
thirtieth day after issuance of the ACT and the offender shall have until the
close of business on the thirtieth day to satisfy said claim.
   B.   In the event a person or entity is accused of violating section
5-3-4 or
5-3-4-2 of this code, the person or entity accused shall pay an administrative
fee in the amount set forth in the corresponding subsection of
5-3-4 and
5-3-4-2 to the village within fourteen (14) days of issuance of an ACT as a
settlement and compromise of the claim. In the event payment is not received
within the said fourteen (14) day period, the Village may file an ordinance
violation with the Circuit Court.
   C.   In the event the violator is accused of violating title 6, exhibit A,
sections
11-1303,
11-1304,
11-1308, or
11-1310 of this code, pay an administrative fee of ten dollars ($10.00) to the
village within fourteen (14) days of the issuance of an ACT as a settlement and
compromise of the claim against the violator. In the event payment of the ten
dollar ($10.00) ACT has not been received within the said fourteen (14) day
period, the administrative fee will be increased to twenty dollars ($20.00) for
the period beginning the fifteenth day and including the thirtieth day after
issuance of the ACT and the offender shall have until the close of business on
the thirtieth day to satisfy said claim.
   D.   Correct, repair, or rectify any condition which constitutes a
continuing violation of this code within the period specified in the ACT. (Ord.
10-1569, 1-26-2010; amd. Ord. 20-1966, 1-28-2020)
1-10-4: COMPLIANCE WITH ACT:
If any person to whom an ACT has been issued fails to: (Ord. 95-821, 10-24-
1995)
   A.   Settle and pay the claim within the period specified in section
 1-10-3 of this chapter, (Ord. 01-1040, 3-13-2001)
   B.   Correct, repair or rectify the violation within the period specified in
the ACT,
then a notice to appear shall be issued to said person and filed with the Will
County circuit court, and that person shall be subject to prosecution in the
circuit court and shall be subject to the fines and penalties authorized by
law/ordinance. (Ord. 95-821, 10-24-1995)
1-10-5: APPEAL FOR AN ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING:
   A.   Procedure: If any person to whom an ACT has been issued desires to
contest the validity of the ACT, then that person shall file a written notice
of appeal with the village administrator or his/her designee within five (5)
days of the issuance of the ACT on a form provided for that purpose. An
administrative hearing shall be held within five (5) days of receipt of a
written request for said hearing, unless the person waives the right to a
speedy hearing. Saturdays, Sundays, and village holidays are to be excluded
from the calculation of the five (5) day periods.
   B.   Decision Final: The village administrator may serve as hearing officer
or may appoint another person to so serve, who shall, after receiving evidence
from the person issuing the ACT and the person to whom the ACT is issued,
render a written decision on a form provided for that purpose. The decision of
the hearing officer is final. If the person to whom the ACT is issued refuses
to comply with the decision rendered by the hearing officer, then the village
shall have the right to pursue any available remedy to seek collection and
compliance, including prosecution in circuit court. (Ord. 95-821, 10-24-1995)
CHAPTER 11
DEDICATION OF SCHOOL SITES OR PAYMENT IN LIEU THEREOF
SECTION:
1-11-1: Dedication Of School Sites Or For Payment Of Fees In Lieu Thereof
1-11-2: Density
1-11-3: Reservation Of Additional Land For Public Purposes
1-11-4: Combination With Adjoining Development
1-11-5: Topography And Grading
1-11-6: Improved Sites
1-11-7: Prerequisite To Annexation Agreement
1-11-8: Time Of Payment
1-11-9: Method Of Payment
1-11-10: Indemnification, Hold Harmless And Release
1-11-11: Accounting Of Funds
1-11-12: Periodic Review
1-11-1: DEDICATION OF SCHOOL SITES OR FOR PAYMENT OF FEES IN LIEU THEREOF:
As a condition of approval of a final plat of subdivision or of a final plat of
planned unit development, each subdivider or developer will be required to
dedicate land for school sites to serve the immediate and future needs of the
residents of the development, or cash contributions in lieu of actual land
dedication, or a combination of both, at the option of the village upon
recommendation of the school districts affected in accordance with the
following criteria and formula:
   A.   Criteria For Requiring Land Dedication:
      1.   School Site Dedication:
         a.   Requirement And Population Ratio: The ultimate number of students
to be generated by the subdivision or planned unit development shall bear
directly upon the amount of land required to be dedicated for school sites. The
land dedication requirement shall be determined by obtaining a ratio of: 1)
estimated children to be served in each school classification over the 2)
maximum recommended number of students to be served in each school
classification as stated herein, and then applying such ratio to the 3) minimum
recommended number of acres for a school site of each such school
classification as stated herein. The product thereof shall be the acres of land
deemed needed to have sufficient land for school sites to serve the estimated
increased children in each such school classification. (Ord. 96-837, 3-12-1996,
eff. 4-8-1996)
         b.   School Classification And Size Of School Site: School
classification and size of school sites within or serving the village shall be
determined in accordance with the following criteria:
 
                               Maximum Number Of        Minimum Number Of Acres
School Classification By Grade Students For Each School Of Land For Each School
                               Classification           Site For Each
                                                        Classification
Elementary schools, grades     600 students             17 acres
kindergarten through 5 (K–5)
Junior high schools, grades 6  900 students             30 acres
through 8 (6–8)
High schools, grades 9 through 1,500 students           60 acres
12 (9–12)
 
(Ord. 06-1360, 4-25-2006, eff. 5-8-2006)
         c.   Location: The location of the site to be dedicated shall be
determined by the village board of trustees upon recommendation of the board of
education of the school district having or to have jurisdiction of the school
to be erected on the site taking into account the comprehensive school plan
and/or the standards adopted by the affected school district as a guideline in
locating sites. The village board of trustees shall not select the site without
allowing opportunity for the board of education of the school district affected
to make a recommendation with respect thereto.
   B.   Criteria For Requiring A Contribution In Lieu Of School Sites:
      1.   Requirement And Use Of Contributions: Where the development is
"small" as used herein and the resulting site is too small to be practical or
when the available land is inappropriate for a school site, and it is
determined by the village after recommendation by the affected school district
not to require the dedication of land, the village shall require the subdivider
or developer to pay a cash contribution in lieu of the land dedication
required. In considering whether a development is "small" as used herein, the
village may consider whether the total number of the proposed dwelling units
will produce less than the maximum number of students for one school of each
school classification in accordance with this chapter. The cash contributions
in lieu of school sites shall be paid to the village prior to the issuance of
building permits. The village shall turn over any and all dollars actually
collected for such fees to the appropriate school districts annually. Such
contributions shall be used solely for the acquisition of land for a school
site to serve the immediate or future needs of children from that subdivision
or development or for the improvement to any existing school sites and
buildings which serve such needs. Improvement under this section shall be
liberally construed and shall include, but shall not be limited to, the
development of parking lots; sidewalks; traffic signals; arterial streets;
collector streets; internal roadways; connections with sewer, water and
electrical lines; playgrounds; recreation grounds; and athletic fields.
Improvement shall also include the purchase of any material, goods or equipment
necessary to said development and construction. Improvement shall further
include the construction of buildings; additions to existing school buildings;
remodeled or renovated noninstructional spaces in classrooms and the purchase
of prefabricated classroom units to be used at a school site. (Ord. 96-837, 3-
12-1996, eff. 4-8-1996)
      2.   Fair Market Value As Basis Of Contribution: The cash contributions
in lieu of land shall be based on the "fair market value" of the acres of land
in the area improved as specified herein that otherwise would have been
dedicated as school sites. It is hereby determined that the present "fair
market value" of such improved land in and surrounding the village is forty six
thousand six hundred seventy six dollars ($46,676.00) per acre. Such amount
shall be used in making the calculation for school contributions unless the
subdivider or developer of a planned unit development files a written objection
thereto. In the event of any such written objection, the subdivider or
developer of the planned unit development shall submit an appraisal showing the
"fair market value" of such improved land in the area of his subdivision or
planned unit development or other evidence thereof. Final determination of said
"fair market value" of such improved land shall be made by the village board
based upon the information submitted and from other sources which may be
submitted to the village board by the school districts or others. (Ord. 12-
1665, 7-24-2012)
   C.   Criteria For Requiring Land Dedication And A Contribution: There will
be situations in subdivisions or planned unit developments when a combination
of land dedication and a contribution in lieu of land are both necessary. These
occasions will arise when:
      1.   Only a portion of the land to be developed is proposed as the
location for a school site. That portion of the land within the subdivision or
planned unit development falling within the school location shall be dedicated
as a site as aforesaid, and a cash contribution in lieu thereof shall be
required for any additional land that would have been required to be dedicated.
      2.   A major part of the school site has already been acquired and only a
small portion of land is needed from the development to complete the site. The
remaining portions shall be required by dedication, and a cash contribution in
lieu thereof shall also be required to fulfill the obligations of that
development. (Ord. 96-837, 3-12-1996, eff. 4-8-1996)
1-11-2: DENSITY:
The table that follows this paragraph is generally indicative of current and
short range projected trends in family size for newly constructed residential
units and shall be used in calculating the amount of required dedication of
acres of land or the cash contributions in lieu thereof unless a written
objection is filed thereto by the subdivider or developer of the planned unit
development. In the event a subdivider or developer of a planned unit
development files a written objection to the table listed herein, he shall
submit his own demographic study showing the estimated additional population to
be generated from the subdivision or planned unit development, and, in that
event, final determination of the density formula to be used in such
calculations shall be made by the village board based upon such demographic
information submitted by the subdivider or developer of the planned unit
development, from other sources which may be submitted to the village board
from the school districts or others, and upon consideration of such information
which most accurately and fairly represents current demographic trends. (Ord.
96-837, 3-12-1996, eff. 4-8-1996; amd. Ord. 02-1098, 5-28-2002)
Village of Shorewood      TABLE OF ESTIMATED ULTIMATE POPULATION PER DWELLING
UNIT
Type Of                                                               Total Per
Unit    Preschool Elementary Junior High Total K–High School Adults Dwelling
                                                                      Unit
                                  Junior                              Total Per
Type Of Unit Preschool Elementary High   Total K–High School Adults Dwelling
                                                                      Unit
Detached
single-                                                          
family:
 2 bedroom  0.113     0.136      0.048  0.184     0.02        1.7    2.017
 3 bedroom  0.292     0.369      0.173  0.542     0.184       1.881  2.899
 4 bedroom  0.418     0.530      0.298  0.828     0.36        2.158  3.764
 5 bedroom  0.283     0.345      0.248  0.593     0.3         2.594  3.77
Attached
single-
family                                                           
(townhouse,
row house,
etc.):
 1 bedroom  0         0          0      0         0           1.193  1.193
 2 bedroom  0.064     0.088      0.048  0.136     0.038       1.752  1.99
 3 bedroom  0.212     0.234      0.058  0.292     0.059       1.829  2.392
 4 bedroom  0.323     0.322      0.154  0.476     0.173       2.173  3.145
Apartments:                                                      
 Efficiency 0         0          0      0         0           1.294  1.294
 1 bedroom  0         0.002      0.001  0.003     0.001       1.754  1.758
 2 bedroom  0.047     0.086      0.042  0.128     0.046       1.693  1.914
 3 bedroom  0.052     0.234      0.123  0.357     0.118       2.526  3.053
 
Source: Illinois School Consulting Service/Associated Municipal Consultants,
Inc. (1996)
The amount of cash contribution in cases where no land is dedicated shall be as
set forth in the following table:
SCHOOL CASH CONTRIBUTION
Type Of Unit K – 9 – 12
Type Of Unit            K – 8  9 – 12
Detached single-family:          
   2 bedroom         $ 239.16 $ 35.08
   3 bedroom         711.40   322.77
   4 bedroom         1,094.19 631.51
   5 bedroom         791.21   526.26
Attached:                        
   1 bedroom         0.00     0.00
   2 bedroom         179.52   66.66
   3 bedroom         375.55   103.50
   4 bedroom         625.22   303.48
Apartments:                      
   Efficiency        0.00     0.00
   1 bedroom         3.95     1.75
   2 bedroom         168.26   80.69
   3 bedroom         470.57   207.00
 
(Ord. 12-1665, 7-24-2012)
1-11-3: RESERVATION OF ADDITIONAL LAND FOR PUBLIC PURPOSES:
Nothing herein contained shall limit the authority of the village to require
the designation and reservation of school sites, or other public lands as a
condition to approval of any plat of subdivision or planned unit development
where such land is to be acquired by condemnation within one year from final
plat approval as set forth under division 12 of article 11 of the Illinois
municipal code. (Ord. 96-837, 3-12-1996, eff. 4-8-1996)
1-11-4: COMBINATION WITH ADJOINING DEVELOPMENT:
Where the subdivision or planned unit development is less than forty (40)
acres, a school site which is to be dedicated should, where possible, be
combined with dedications from adjoining subdivisions or planned unit
developments in order to produce usable school sites without hardship on a
particular subdivider or developer of a planned unit development. (Ord. 96-837,
3-12-1996, eff. 4-8-1996)
1-11-5: TOPOGRAPHY AND GRADING:
The slope, topography and geology of the dedicated site as well as its
surroundings must be suitable for its intended purposes. Grading on sites
dedicated for school uses shall not differ greatly from surrounding land. (Ord.
96-837, 3-12-1996, eff. 4-8-1996)
1-11-6: IMPROVED SITES:
All school sites donated pursuant to this chapter shall be fully improved by
the developer or subdivider. All property to be dedicated shall be in a fully
improved condition ready for service of electricity, gas, water and sewer
service; streets, including sidewalks, enclosed drainage, curbs and gutters
shall be installed in compliance with the ordinances of the village. To ensure
the timely installation of said improvement, the village may require the
posting of a bond in the form of an irrevocable letter of credit in a form and
from a financial institution which are both acceptable to the village. This
letter of credit shall be in the amount of one hundred fifteen percent (115%)
of the cost of the required public improvements as estimated by the village
engineer and in accordance with all requirements of the village subdivision
ordinance. This bond or letter of credit may be reduced upon the conditions and
in the same manner as is required by the village subdivision ordinance. (Ord.
96-837, 3-12-1996, eff. 4-8-1996)
1-11-7: PREREQUISITE TO ANNEXATION AGREEMENT:
The dedications of land or cash contributions in lieu thereof or combination of
both as required by this chapter shall also as a matter of policy of the
village be required as a condition to the annexation of any land to the village
and provisions therefor shall be incorporated in any annexation agreement
governing such land. Additionally, the village shall notify the appropriate
school districts when a party submits a proposed annexation agreement to the
village so that the school district may discuss dedication issues with said
party. (Ord. 96-837, 3-12-1996, eff. 4-8-1996)
1-11-8: TIME OF PAYMENT:
The dedication of land shall be made at the time of final plat approval by the
board of trustees of the proposed subdivision or planned unit development. Cash
contributions shall be made at the time of the issuance of the building permits
for the subject residential dwelling units. (Ord. 96-837, 3-12-1996, eff. 4-8-
1996)
1-11-9: METHOD OF PAYMENT:
The cash contributions required hereunder shall be made by check payable to the
village of Shorewood and shall be deposited with the village. The village clerk
shall keep a record of these receipts. The village shall annually distribute
the amounts actually collected to each of the school districts. (Ord. 96-837,
3-12-1996, eff. 4-8-1996)
1-11-10: INDEMNIFICATION, HOLD HARMLESS AND RELEASE:
The village shall not collect funds under this chapter for any school district
which does not, prior to the effective date hereof, enter into an
intergovernmental agreement with the village which provides that such school
district will hold harmless, indemnify and release the village upon such terms
and conditions as are acceptable to the village. (Ord. 96-837, 3-12-1996, eff.
4-8-1996)
1-11-11: ACCOUNTING OF FUNDS:
Each district receiving funds under this chapter shall annually make a written
report to the village detailing the amount of funds received and how such funds
were expended. This report shall be provided to the village prior to December
31 of each year. (Ord. 96-837, 3-12-1996, eff. 4-8-1996)
1-11-12: PERIODIC REVIEW:
The village shall review this chapter every three (3) years to determine
whether the land value and demographic information herein set forth is
consistent with current values and data. Additionally, three (3) years after
the effective date of this section, any or all affected school districts may
submit a demographic study based upon local information and data for the
village's consideration. The village may, at its sole option, adopt such local
study to be used for calculations under this chapter. (Ord. 06-1360, 4-25-2006,
eff. 5-8-2006)
CHAPTER 12
ETHICS REGULATIONS
SECTION:
1-12-1: Definitions
1-12-2: Prohibited Political Activities
1-12-3: Gift Ban
1-12-4: Ethics Advisor
1-12-5: Penalties
1-12-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall be given these
definitions:
   CAMPAIGN FOR ELECTIVE OFFICE: Any activity in furtherance of an effort to
influence the selection, nomination, election, or appointment of any individual
to any federal, state, or local public office or office in a political
organization, or the selection, nomination, or election of presidential or vice
presidential electors, but does not include activities: a) relating to the
support or opposition of any executive, legislative, or administrative action,
b) relating to collective bargaining, or c) that are otherwise in furtherance
of the person's official duties.
   CANDIDATE: A person who has filed nominating papers or petitions for
nomination or election to an elected office, or who has been appointed to fill
a vacancy in nomination, and who remains eligible for placement on the ballot
at a regular election, as defined in section 1-3 of the election code 1 .
   COLLECTIVE BARGAINING: Has the same meaning as that term is defined in
section 3 of the Illinois public labor relations act 2 .
   COMPENSATED TIME: With respect to an employee, any time worked by or
credited to the employee that counts toward any minimum work time requirement
imposed as a condition of his or her employment, but for purposes of this
chapter, does not include any designated holidays, vacation periods, personal
time, compensatory time off or any period when the employee is on a leave of
absence. With respect to officers or employees whose hours are not fixed,
"compensated time" includes any period of time when the officer is on premises
under the control of the employer and any other time when the officer or
employee is executing his or her official duties, regardless of location.
   COMPENSATORY TIME OFF: Authorized time off earned by or awarded to an
employee to compensate in whole or in part for time worked in excess of the
minimum work time required of that employee as a condition of his or her
employment.
   CONTRIBUTION: Has the same meaning as that term is defined in section 9-1.4
of the election code 3 .
   EMPLOYEE: A person employed by the village of Shorewood, whether on a full
time or part time basis or pursuant to a contract, whose duties are subject to
the direction and control of an employer with regard to the material details of
how the work is to be performed, but does not include an independent
contractor.
   EMPLOYER: The village of Shorewood.
   GIFT: Any gratuity, discount, entertainment, hospitality, loan, forbearance,
or other tangible or intangible item having monetary value including, but not
limited to, cash, food and drink, and honoraria for speaking engagements
related to or attributable to government employment or the official position of
an officer or employee.
   LEAVE OF ABSENCE: Any period during which an employee does not receive: a)
compensation for employment, b) service credit towards pension benefits, and c)
health insurance benefits paid for by the employer.
   OFFICER: A person who holds, by election or appointment, an office created
by statute or ordinance, regardless of whether the officer is compensated for
service in his or her official capacity.
   POLITICAL ACTIVITY: Any activity in support of or in connection with any
campaign for elective office or any political organization, but does not
include activities: a) relating to the support or opposition of any executive,
legislative, or administrative action, b) relating to collective bargaining, or
c) that are otherwise in furtherance of the person's official duties.
   POLITICAL ORGANIZATION: A party, committee, association, fund, or other
organization (whether or not incorporated) that is required to file a statement
of organization with the state board of elections or a county clerk under
section 9-3 of the election code 4 , but only with regard to those activities
that require filing with the state board of elections or a county clerk.
   PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITY:
   A.   Preparing for, organizing, or participating in any political meeting,
political rally, political demonstration, or other political event.
   B.   Soliciting contributions, including, but not limited to, the purchase
of, selling, distributing, or receiving payment for tickets for any political
fundraiser, political meeting, or other political event.
   C.   Soliciting, planning the solicitation of, or preparing any document or
report regarding anything of value intended as a campaign contribution.
   D.   Planning, conducting, or participating in a public opinion poll in
connection with a campaign for elective office or on behalf of a political
organization for political purposes or for or against any referendum question.
   E.   Surveying or gathering information from potential or actual voters in
an election to determine probable vote outcome in connection with a campaign
for elective office or on behalf of a political organization for political
purposes or for or against any referendum question.
   F.   Assisting at the polls on election day on behalf of any political
organization or candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum
question.
   G.   Soliciting votes on behalf of a candidate for elective office or a
political organization or for or against any referendum question or helping in
an effort to get voters to the polls.
   H.   Initiating for circulation, preparing, circulating, reviewing, or
filing any petition on behalf of a candidate for elective office or for or
against any referendum question.
   I.   Making contributions on behalf of any candidate for elective office in
that capacity or in connection with a campaign for elective office.
   J.   Preparing or reviewing responses to candidate questionnaires.
   K.   Distributing, preparing for distribution, or mailing campaign
literature, campaign signs, or other campaign material on behalf of any
candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum question.
   L.   Campaigning for any elective office or for or against any referendum
question.
   M.   Managing or working on a campaign for elective office or for or against
any referendum question.
   N.   Serving as a delegate, alternate, or proxy to a political party
convention.
   O.   Participating in any recount or challenge to the outcome of any
election.
   PROHIBITED SOURCE: Any person or entity who:
   A.   Is seeking official action: 1) by an officer or 2) by an employee, or
by the officer or another employee directing that employee;
   B.   Does business or seeks to do business: 1) with the officer or 2) with
an employee, or with the officer or another employee directing that employee;
   C.   Conducts activities regulated: 1) by the officer or 2) by an employee,
or by the officer or another employee directing that employee; or
   D.   Has interests that may be substantially affected by the performance or
nonperformance of the official duties of the officer or employee. (Ord. 04-
1219, 5-11-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. 10 ILCS 5/1-3.
2 2. 5 ILCS 315/3.
3 1. 10 ILCS 5/9-1.4.
4 2. 10 ILCS 5/9-3.
1-12-2: PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITIES:
   A.   No officer or employee shall intentionally perform any prohibited
political activity during any "compensated time", as defined herein. No officer
or employee shall intentionally use any property or resources of the village of
Shorewood in connection with any prohibited political activity.
   B.   At no time shall any officer or employee intentionally require any
other officer or employee to perform any prohibited political activity: 1) as
part of that officer's or employee's duties, 2) as a condition of employment,
or 3) during any compensated time off (such as holidays, vacation or personal
time off).
   C.   No officer or employee shall be required at any time to participate in
any prohibited political activity in consideration for that officer or employee
being awarded additional compensation or any benefit, whether in the form of a
salary adjustment, bonus, compensatory time off, continued employment or
otherwise, nor shall any officer or employee be awarded additional compensation
or any benefit in consideration for his or her participation in any prohibited
political activity.
   D.   Nothing in this section prohibits activities that are permissible for
an officer or employee to engage in as part of his or her official duties, or
activities that are undertaken by an officer or employee on a voluntary basis
which are not prohibited by this chapter.
   E.   No person either: 1) in a position that is subject to recognized merit
principles of public employment or 2) in a position the salary for which is
paid in whole or in part by federal funds and that is subject to the federal
standards for a merit system of personnel administration applicable to grant in
aid programs, shall be denied or deprived of employment or tenure solely
because he or she is a member or an officer of a political committee, of a
political party, or of a political organization or club. (Ord. 04-1219, 5-11-
2004)
1-12-3: GIFT BAN:
   A.   Prohibitions: Except as permitted by this chapter, no officer or
employee, and no spouse of or immediate family member living with any officer
or employee (collectively referred to herein as "recipients"), shall
intentionally solicit or accept any gift from any "prohibited source", as
defined herein, or which is otherwise prohibited by law or ordinance. No
prohibited source shall intentionally offer or make a gift that violates this
section.
   B.   Exceptions: Subsection A of this section is not applicable to the
following:
      1.   Opportunities, benefits, and services that are available on the same
conditions as for the general public.
      2.   Anything for which the officer or employee, or his or her spouse or
immediate family member, pays the fair market value.
      3.   Any: a) contribution that is lawfully made under the election code
or b) activities associated with a fundraising event in support of a political
organization or candidate.
      4.   Educational materials and missions.
      5.   Travel expenses for a meeting to discuss business.
      6.   A gift from a relative, meaning those people related to the
individual as father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt,
great aunt, great uncle, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife,
grandfather, grandmother, grandson, granddaughter, father-in-law, mother-in-
law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather,
stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, half
sister, and including the father, mother, grandfather, or grandmother of the
individual's spouse and the individual's fiance or fiancee.
      7.   Anything provided by an individual on the basis of a personal
friendship unless the recipient has reason to believe that, under the
circumstances, the gift was provided because of the official position or
employment of the recipient or his or her spouse or immediate family member and
not because of the personal friendship. In determining whether a gift is
provided on the basis of personal friendship, the recipient shall consider the
circumstances under which the gift was offered, such as: a) the history of the
relationship between the individual giving the gift and the recipient of the
gift, including any previous exchange of gifts between those individuals; b)
whether to the actual knowledge of the recipient the individual who gave the
gift personally paid for the gift or sought a tax deduction or business
reimbursement for the gift; and c) whether to the actual knowledge of the
recipient the individual who gave the gift also at the same time gave the same
or similar gifts to other officers or employees, or their spouses or immediate
family members.
      8.   Food or refreshments not exceeding seventy five dollars ($75.00) per
person in value on a single calendar day; provided that the food or
refreshments are: a) consumed on the premises from which they were purchased or
prepared or b) catered. For the purposes of this section, "catered" means food
or refreshments that are purchased ready to consume which are delivered by any
means.
      9.   Food, refreshments, lodging, transportation, and other benefits
resulting from outside business or employment activities (or outside activities
that are not connected to the official duties of an officer or employee), if
the benefits have not been offered or enhanced because of the official position
or employment of the officer or employee, and are customarily provided to
others in similar circumstances.
      10.   Intragovernmental and intergovernmental gifts. For the purpose of
this chapter, "intragovernmental gift" means any gift given to an officer or
employee from another officer or employee, and "intergovernmental gift" means
any gift given to an officer or employee by an officer or employee of another
governmental entity.
      11.   Bequests, inheritances, and other transfers at death.
      12.   Any item or items from any one prohibited source during any
calendar year having a cumulative total value of less than one hundred dollars
($100.00).
Each of the exceptions listed in this subsection is mutually exclusive and
independent of every other.
   C.   Disposition Of Gifts: An officer or employee, his or her spouse or an
immediate family member living with the officer or employee, does not violate
this chapter if the recipient promptly takes reasonable action to return a gift
from a prohibited source to its source or gives the gift or an amount equal to
its value to an appropriate charity that is exempt from income taxation under
section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code of 1986, as now or hereafter
amended, renumbered, or succeeded. (Ord. 04-1219, 5-11-2004)
1-12-4: ETHICS ADVISOR:
   A.   The president, with the advice and consent of the board of trustees,
shall designate an ethics advisor for the village of Shorewood. The duties of
the ethics advisor may be delegated to an officer or employee of the village of
Shorewood.
   B.   The ethics advisor shall provide guidance to the officers and employees
of the village of Shorewood concerning the interpretation of and compliance
with the provisions of this chapter and state ethics laws. The ethics advisor
shall perform such other duties as may be delegated by the president and/or
board of trustees. (Ord. 04-1219, 5-11-2004)
1-12-5: PENALTIES:
   A.   A person who intentionally violates any provision of section
1-12-2 of this chapter may be punished by a term of incarceration in a penal
institution other than a penitentiary for a period of not more than three
hundred sixty four (364) days, and may be fined in an amount not to exceed two
thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00).
   B.   A person who intentionally violates any provision of section
1-12-3 of this chapter is subject to a fine in an amount of not less than one
thousand one hundred dollars ($1,001.00) and not more than five thousand
dollars ($5,000.00).
   C.   Any person who intentionally makes a false report alleging a violation
of any provision of this chapter to the local enforcement authorities, the
state's attorney or any other law enforcement official may be punished by a
term of incarceration in a penal institution other than a penitentiary for a
period of not more than three hundred sixty four (364) days, and may be fined
in an amount not to exceed two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00).
   D.   A violation of section
1-12-2 of this chapter may be prosecuted as a criminal offense by an attorney
for the village of Shorewood by filing in the circuit court an information, or
sworn complaint, charging such offense. The prosecution shall be under and
conform to the rules of criminal procedure. Conviction shall require the
establishment of the guilt of the defendant beyond a reasonable doubt.
A violation of section
1-12-3 of this chapter may be prosecuted as a quasi-criminal offense by an
attorney for the village of Shorewood, or, if an ethics commission has been
created, by the commission through the designated administrative procedure.
   E.   In addition to any other penalty that may be applicable, whether
criminal or civil, an officer or employee who intentionally violates any
provision of section
1-12-2 or
1-12-3 of this chapter is subject to discipline or discharge. (Ord. 04-1219, 5-
11-2004)
CHAPTER 13
LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
SECTION:
1-13-1: Title
1-13-2: Scope
1-13-3: Definitions
1-13-4: Notices
1-13-5: Late Payment
1-13-6: Payment
1-13-7: Certain Credits And Refunds
1-13-8: Audit Procedure
1-13-9: Appeal
1-13-10: Hearing
1-13-11: Interest And Penalties
1-13-12: Abatement
1-13-13: Installment Contracts
1-13-14: Statute Of Limitations
1-13-15: Voluntary Disclosure
1-13-16: Publication Of Tax Ordinances
1-13-17: Internal Revenue Procedure
1-13-18: Application
1-13-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as, and may be cited as, the LOCALLY IMPOSED AND
ADMINISTERED TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITY ORDINANCE. (Ord. 08-1464, 2-26-2008)
1-13-2: SCOPE:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the village of Shorewood's
procedures in connection with all of the village's locally imposed and
administered taxes. (Ord. 08-1464, 2-26-2008)
1-13-3: DEFINITIONS:
Certain words or terms herein shall have the meaning ascribed to them as
follows:
   ACT: The "local government taxpayers' bill of rights act".
   CORPORATE AUTHORITIES: The village's president and board of trustees.
   LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR: The village is charged with the administration and
collection of the locally imposed and administered taxes, including staff,
employees or agents to the extent they are authorized by the local tax
administrator to act in the local tax administrator's stead. The local tax
administrator shall have the authority to implement the terms of this chapter
to give full effect to this chapter. The exercise of such authority by the
local tax administrator shall not be inconsistent with this chapter and the
act. The finance director shall serve as the local tax administrator.
   LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX OR TAX: Each tax imposed by the village
that is collected or administered by the village not an agency or department of
the state. It does not include any taxes imposed upon real property under the
property tax code or fees collected by the village other than infrastructure
maintenance fees.
   NOTICE: Each audit notice, collection notice or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the village's locally imposed and
administered taxes.
   TAX ORDINANCE: Each ordinance adopted by the village that imposes any
locally imposed and administered tax.
   TAXPAYER: Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered
tax and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax
is placed and with respect to consumer taxes includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
village.
   VILLAGE: The village of Shorewood, Illinois. (Ord. 08-1464, 2-26-2008; amd.
Ord. 14-1732, 4-8-2014)
1-13-4: NOTICES:
   A.   Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given, the
notice is to be in writing mailed not less than seven (7) calendar days prior
to the day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit or other scheduled act of
the local tax administrator. The notice shall be sent by the local tax
administrator as follows:
      1.   First class or express mail, or overnight mail, addressed to the
persons concerned at the persons' last known address, or
      2.   Personal service or delivery. (Ord. 08-1464, 2-26-2008)
1-13-5: LATE PAYMENT:
Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required to be made to the
village pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered late unless it is: a)
physically received by the village on or before the due date, or b) received in
an envelope or other container displaying a valid, readable U.S. postmark dated
on or before the due date, properly addressed to the village, with adequate
postage prepaid. (Ord. 08-1464, 2-26-2008)
1-13-6: PAYMENT:
Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be applied in the
following order: a) first to the tax due for the applicable period; b) second
to the interest due for the applicable period; and c) third to the penalty for
the applicable period. (Ord. 08-1464, 2-26-2008)
1-13-7: CERTAIN CREDITS AND REFUNDS:
   A.   The village shall not refund or credit any taxes voluntarily paid
without written protest at the time of payment in the event that a locally
imposed and administered tax is declared invalidly enacted or unconstitutional
by a court of competent jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer shall not be deemed
to have paid the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked knowledge of the facts
upon which to protest the taxes at the time of payment or if the taxpayer paid
the taxes under duress.
   B.   The statute of limitations on a claim for credit or refund shall be
four (4) or less years after the end of the calendar year in which payment in
error was made. The village shall not grant a credit or refund of locally
imposed and administered taxes, interest, or penalties to a person who has not
paid the amounts directly to the village.
   C.   The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest or penalties paid in error shall be as follows:
      1.   The taxpayer shall submit to the local tax administrator in writing
a claim for credit or refund together with a statement specifying:
         a.   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
         b.   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
         c.   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the canceled
check or receipt for the payment;
         d.   The taxpayer's recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
         e.   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest and penalties overpaid, and,
as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however, that
there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer owes
any monies to the village.
      2.   Within ten (10) days of the receipt by the local tax administrator
of any claim for a refund or credit, the local tax administrator shall either:
         a.   Grant the claim; or
         b.   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement as
to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
      3.   In the event the local tax administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate of five percent (5%) per annum, based on
a year of three hundred sixty five (365) days and the number of days elapsed,
from the date of the overpayment to the date of mailing of a refund check or
the grant of a credit. (Ord. 08-1464, 2-26-2008)
1-13-8: AUDIT PROCEDURE:
Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any locally administered tax shall
comply with the notice requirements of this chapter.
   A.   Each notice of audit shall contain the following information:
      1.   The tax;
      2.   The time period of the audit; and
      3.   A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the auditor.
   B.   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours and if the
date and time selected by the local tax administrator is not agreeable to the
taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer within thirty
(30) days after the originally designated audit and during normal business
hours.
   C.   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted not less than seven (7) days nor more
than thirty (30) days from the date the notice is given, unless the taxpayer
and the local tax administrator agreed to some other convenient time. In the
event the taxpayer is unable to comply with the audit on the date in question,
the taxpayer may request another date within the thirty (30) days, approved in
writing, that is convenient to the taxpayer and the local tax administrator.
   D.   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the taxpayer's
business or activities, including original source documents and books of entry
denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given rise to any
tax liability, exemption or deduction. All books shall be kept in the English
language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by the village.
   E.   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make available
its books and records for inspection by the village. If the taxpayer or tax
collector fails to provide the documents necessary for audit within the time
provided, the local tax administrator may issue a tax determination and
assessment based on the tax administrator's determination of the best estimate
of the taxpayer's tax liability.
   F.   If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a locally
imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice of the
amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within thirty (30) days of
the village's determination of the amount of overpayment.
   G.   In the event a tax payment was submitted to the incorrect local
governmental entity, the local tax administrator shall notify the local
governmental entity imposing such tax. (Ord. 08-1464, 2-26-2008)
1-13-9: APPEAL:
   A.   The local tax administrator shall send written notice to a taxpayer
upon the local tax administrator's issuance of a protestable notice of tax due,
a bill, a claim denial, or a notice of claim reduction regarding any tax. The
notice shall include the following information:
      1.   The reason for the assessment;
      2.   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
      3.   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
      4.   The obligations of the village during the audit, appeal, refund and
collection process.
   B.   A taxpayer who receives written notice from the local tax administrator
of a determination of tax due or assessment may file with the local tax
administrator a written protest and petition for hearing, setting forth the
basis of the taxpayer's request for a hearing. The written protest and petition
for hearing must be filed with the local tax administrator within forty five
(45) days of receipt of the written notice of the tax determination and
assessment.
   C.   If a timely written notice and petition for hearing is filed, the local
tax administrator shall fix the time and place for hearing and shall give
written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be scheduled for a date
within fourteen (14) days of receipt of the written protest and petition for
hearing, unless the taxpayer requests a later date convenient to all parties.
   D.   If a written protest and petition for hearing is not filed within the
forty five (45) day period, the tax determination, audit or assessment shall
become a final bill due and owing without further notice.
   E.   Upon the showing of reasonable cause by the taxpayer and the full
payment of the contested tax liability along with interest accrued as of the
due date of the tax, the local tax administrator may reopen or extend the time
for filing a written protest and petition for hearing. In no event shall the
time for filing a written protest and petition for hearing be reopened or
extended for more than ninety (90) days after the expiration of the forty five
(45) day period. (Ord. 08-1464, 2-26-2008)
1-13-10: HEARING:
   A.   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under section
1-13-9 of this chapter, the local tax administrator shall conduct a hearing
regarding any appeal.
   B.   No continuances shall be granted except in cases where a continuance is
absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of preparation
shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted shall not
exceed fourteen (14) days.
   C.   At the hearing the local tax administrator shall preside and shall hear
testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax determination, audit or
assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall not apply.
   D.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the local tax administrator shall
make a written determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the
hearing. The taxpayer or tax collector shall be provided with a copy of the
written decision. (Ord. 08-1464, 2-26-2008)
1-13-11: INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
In the event a determination has been made that a tax is due and owing, through
audit, assessment or other bill sent, the tax must be paid within the time
frame otherwise indicated.
   A.   Interest: The village hereby provides for the amount of interest to be
assessed on a late payment, underpayment, or nonpayment of the tax, to be five
percent (5%) per annum, based on a year of three hundred sixty five (365) days
and the number of days elapsed.
   B.   Late Filing And Payment Penalties: If a tax return is not filed within
the time and manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance, a late filing
penalty of five percent (5%) of the amount of tax required to be shown as due
on a return shall be imposed; and a late payment penalty of five percent (5%)
of the tax due shall be imposed. If no return is filed within the time or
manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance and prior to the village
issuing a notice of tax delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a failure
to file penalty shall be assessed equal to twenty five percent (25%) of the
total tax due for the applicable reporting period for which the return was
required to be filed. A late filing or payment penalty shall not apply if a
failure to file penalty is imposed by the controlling ordinance. (Ord. 08-1464,
2-26-2008)
1-13-12: ABATEMENT:
The local tax administrator shall have the authority to waive or abate any late
filing penalty, late payment penalty or failure to file penalty if the local
tax administrator shall determine reasonable cause exists for delay or failure
to make a filing. (Ord. 08-1464, 2-26-2008)
1-13-13: INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS:
The village may enter into an installment contract with the taxpayer for the
payment of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance. The local tax
administrator may not cancel any installment contract so entered unless the
taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing. Upon written notice by the
local tax administrator that the payment is thirty (30) days delinquent, the
taxpayer shall have fourteen (14) working days to cure any delinquency. If the
taxpayer fails to cure the delinquency within the fourteen (14) day period or
fails to demonstrate good faith in restructuring the installment contract with
the local administrator, the installment contract shall be canceled without
further notice to the taxpayer. (Ord. 08-1464, 2-26-2008)
1-13-14: STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS:
The village, through the local tax administrator, shall review all tax returns
in a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due and
owing. The taxpayer shall have forty five (45) days after receiving notice of
the reviewed tax returns to make any request for refund or provide any tax
still due and owing.
   A.   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than four (4)
years maximum after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later.
   B.   If any tax return is not filed or if during any four (4) year period
for which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the
village, the tax paid was less than seventy five percent (75%) of the tax due,
the statute of limitations shall be six (6) years maximum after the end of the
calendar year in which return for the applicable period was due or end of the
calendar year in which the return for the applicable period was filed.
   C.   No statute of limitations shall apply if a fraudulent tax return was
filed by the taxpayer. (Ord. 08-1464, 2-26-2008)
1-13-15: VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE:
For any locally imposed and administered tax for which a taxpayer has not
received a written notice of an audit, investigation, or assessment from the
local tax administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an application with the
local tax administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the tax due. A taxpayer
filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to pay the amount of tax
due, along with interest of one percent (1%) per month, for all periods prior
to the filing of the application but not more than four (4) years before the
date of filing the application. A taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure
application may not be liable for any additional tax, interest, or penalty for
any period before the date the application was filed. However, if the taxpayer
incorrectly determined and underpaid the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is
liable for the underpaid tax along with applicable interest on the underpaid
tax, unless the underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the
taxpayer, in which case the application shall be deemed invalid and void. The
payment of tax and interest must be made by no later than ninety (90) days
after the filing of the voluntary disclosure application or the date agreed to
by the local tax administrator. However, any additional amounts owed as a
result of an underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under this
section must be paid within ninety (90) days after a final determination and
the exhaustion of all appeals of the additional amount owed or the date agreed
to by the local tax administrator, whichever is longer. (Ord. 08-1464, 2-26-
2008)
1-13-16: PUBLICATION OF TAX ORDINANCES:
Any locally administered tax ordinance shall be published via normal or
standard publishing requirements. The posting of a tax ordinance on the
internet shall satisfy the publication requirements. Copies of all tax
ordinances shall be made available to the public upon request at the village
clerk's office. (Ord. 08-1464, 2-26-2008)
1-13-17: INTERNAL REVENUE PROCEDURE:
   A.   The local tax administrator shall establish an internal review
procedure regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for unpaid taxes.
Upon a determination by the local tax administrator that the lien is valid, the
lien shall remain in full force and effect. If the lien is determined to be
improper, the local tax administrator shall:
      1.   Timely remove the lien at the village's expense;
      2.   Correct the taxpayer's credit record; and
      3.   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien. (Ord.
08-1464, 2-26-2008)
1-13-18: APPLICATION:
This chapter shall be liberally construed and administered to supplement all of
the village's tax ordinances. To the extent that any tax ordinance is in
conflict with or inconsistent with this chapter, this chapter shall be
controlling. (Ord. 08-1464, 2-26-2008)
CHAPTER 14
VILLAGE CREDIT CARD ACCEPTANCE PROGRAM
SECTION:
1-14-1: Definitions
1-14-2: Use Of Credit Card Authorized
1-14-3: Agreements Authorized
1-14-4: Payment To Service Provider
1-14-5: Payment Of Fees By Cardholders
1-14-6: Relief From Underlying Obligation
1-14-7: Liability Of Village Employees
1-14-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, whenever any of the following words, terms, or
definitions are used herein, they shall have the meanings ascribed to them in
this section:
   AUTHORIZED OBLIGATION: Any utility bill payment owing to, or collected by or
on behalf of the village.
   CREDIT CARD: An instrument or device, whether known as a credit card, bank
card, charge card, debit card, automated teller machine card, secured credit
card, smart card, electronic purse, prepaid card, affinity card, or by any
other name, issued with or without fee by an issuer for the use of the holder
to obtain credit, money, goods, services, or anything else of value. (Ord. 08-
1511, 11-11-2008)
1-14-2: USE OF CREDIT CARD AUTHORIZED:
Acceptance by the village of credit card payments for all types of authorized
obligations (herein restricted to municipal utility obligations) is hereby
authorized. (Ord. 08-1511, 11-11-2008)
1-14-3: AGREEMENTS AUTHORIZED:
The village of Shorewood shall enter into agreements with one or more financial
institutions or other service providers to facilitate the acceptance and
processing of credit card payments. Such agreements shall identify the specific
services to be provided, an itemized list of the fees charged, and the means by
which each such fee shall be paid. Such agreements may include a discount fee
to cover the costs of interchange, assessments and authorizations, a per item
processing fee for the service provider, and any other fee, including a payment
of a surcharge or convenience fee, that may be applicable to specific
circumstances. Any agreement for acceptance of payments by credit cards shall
include a provision that such agreement may be canceled by the village upon
giving reasonable notice of intent to cancel. (Ord. 08-1511, 11-11-2008)
1-14-4: PAYMENT TO SERVICE PROVIDER:
The village may pay amounts due a financial institution or other service
provider: a) upon presentation of an invoice or b) by allowing the financial
institution or other service provider to withhold the amount of the fees from
the credit card payment. No payment to or withheld by a financial institution
or other service provider may exceed the amounts authorized under subsection
1-14-5B of this chapter. (Ord. 08-1511, 11-11-2008)
1-14-5: PAYMENT OF FEES BY CARDHOLDERS:
   A.   Surcharge May Be Imposed: A convenience fee or surcharge may be imposed
upon a cardholder making payment by credit card in an amount to wholly or
partially offset, but in no event exceed, the amount of any discount or
processing fee incurred by the village. Such fee or surcharge may be applied
only when allowed under the operating rules and regulations of the credit card
involved. When a cardholder elects to make a payment by credit card to the
village and a convenience fee or surcharge is imposed, the payment of the
convenience fee or surcharge shall be deemed voluntary by the person and shall
not be refundable.
   B.   Maximum Amounts Of Surcharges Or Fees:
      1.   No fee or accumulation of fees exceeding the lesser of twenty
dollars ($20.00) or five percent (5%) of the principal amount charged may be
imposed in connection with the issuance of any license, sticker, or permit, or
with respect to any other similar transaction.
      2.   No fee or accumulation of fees exceeding the lesser of five dollars
($5.00) or five percent (5%) of the transaction involved may be imposed in
connection with the payment of any fine.
      3.   No fee or accumulation of fees exceeding the lesser of forty dollars
($40.00) or three percent (3%) of the principal amount charged may be imposed
in connection with the payment of any tax.
      4.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, a minimum fee of one dollar ($1.00)
may be imposed with respect to any transaction.
   C.   Prohibited: No convenience fee, surcharge, or other fee in excess of
the amount paid in connection with the credit card transaction shall be
received or retained, directly or indirectly, by the village. In addition, no
financial institution or service provider shall be required to pay, refund,
rebate or return, directly or indirectly, to the village for final retention,
any portion of a surcharge, convenience fee, or other fee paid in connection
with a credit card transaction. (Ord. 08-1511, 11-11-2008)
1-14-6: RELIEF FROM UNDERLYING OBLIGATION:
A person who makes a payment by credit card to the village shall not be
relieved from liability for the underlying obligation except to the extent that
the village realizes final payment of the underlying obligation in cash or the
equivalent. If final payment is not made by the credit issuer or other
guarantor of payment in the credit card transaction, then the underlying
obligation shall survive, and the village shall retain all remedies for
enforcement that would have applied if the credit card transaction had not
occurred. A person making payment by credit card is not liable for any discount
or fee paid to a credit card issuer or other party by the village. (Ord. 08-
1511, 11-11-2008)
1-14-7: LIABILITY OF VILLAGE EMPLOYEES:
A village employee who accepts payment by credit card in accordance with this
chapter and any applicable rules shall not incur personal liability for the
final collection of the payment. (Ord. 08-1511, 11-11-2008)
CHAPTER 15
ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING AND ADJUDICATION
SECTION:
1-15-1: Purpose
1-15-2: Office Established
1-15-3: Authority
1-15-4: Office Staff
1-15-5: Scope Of Authority
1-15-6: Administrative Hearings
1-15-7: Procedure
1-15-8: Representation At Hearings
1-15-9: Default
1-15-10: Fines; Compliance Bond
1-15-11: Enforcement Of Administrative Hearing Officer’s Order
1-15-12: Election Of Remedies
1-15-13: Fines For Offenses
1-15-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   The stated purpose of this chapter is to provide for fair and efficient
enforcement of village ordinances as may be allowed by law and directed by
ordinance through administrative adjudication of violations of said ordinances
thereby reinforcing voluntary compliance and expediting correction and
prosecution of violations of said ordinances.
   B.   The establishment of an administrative hearing and adjudication system
under this chapter does not preclude or prohibit the village from using any
other legal system or other methods for correcting or enforcing violations of
its ordinances. (Ord. 23-2060, 1-24-2023)
1-15-2: OFFICE ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby created an Office within the village, to be known as the Office
of administrative hearings ("Office"), supervised by the village administrator,
but receiving legal guidance and instruction from the village attorney, to
oversee, manage, direct and operate a system of administrative adjudication of
charges of Code violations for the Village of Shorewood. The system will
authorize an administrative hearing officer to conduct adjudicatory hearings of
cases instituted by village departments. Hearing officers authorized under this
section shall be officers within the meaning of this Code and shall be
appointed by the Mayor, with advice and consent of the Village Board, for a
term consistent with the term of the Mayor and until his successor is appointed
and qualified. Multiple Hearing Officers may be appointed. Hearing Officers may
be removed upon recommendation of the Mayor with the concurrence of the Village
Board. (Ord. 23-2060, 1-24-2023)
1-15-3: AUTHORITY:
   A.   Division 2.1 (65 ILCS 5/1-2.1-1 et seq.) of the Illinois Municipal
Code, as may be amended from time to time, is hereby adopted and incorporated
herein to the extent not inconsistent with this Chapter.
   B.   The Office is empowered to enforce and adjudicate any violation of this
Code, including, but not limited to, those violations permitted by Division
31.1 of Article 11 of the Illinois Municipal Code and Section 11-208.3 of the
Illinois Vehicle Code, as amended from time to time, or other municipal
ordinance, except for:
      1.   Proceedings not within the statutory or home rule authority of
municipalities; and
      2.   Any offense under the Illinois Vehicle Code or a similar offense
that is a traffic regulation governing the movement of vehicles and except for
any reportable offenses under Section 6-204 of the Illinois Vehicle Code.
   C.   Those matters subject to the administrative adjudication system
provided for by this chapter are charges of violation of any regulation of the
Village of Shorewood, excluding traffic violations that regulate the movement
of vehicles, so long as the relief sought is not a penalty of incarceration or
a total fine in excess of $50,000.00, excluding allowable costs. The $50,000.00
limitation shall not apply to those cases brought to enforce the collection of
any tax imposed and collected by the village. (Ord. 23-2060, 1-24-2023)
1-15-4: OFFICE STAFF:
   A.   The Office shall be directed by an administrative hearings' supervisor
(the "supervisor"), who shall be the village administrator, or his/her
designee. The supervisor's function is to expedite the prosecution and/or
correction of Code violations subject to the jurisdiction of the administrative
adjudication system, and as further identified in this section. The supervisor
is authorized to manage the administrative adjudication process in the manner
provided for in this chapter.
   B.   The Office shall operate pursuant to law and authority of this chapter
under the day-to-day supervision of the village administrator. The village
attorney shall provide legal advice, assistance and counsel as may from time to
time be required or appropriate. The village administrator may assign or affix
duties and responsibilities, and may also appoint other persons to assist, as
needed to carry out the provisions of this Chapter.
   C.   The Office shall consist of those officers, employees and agents of the
village as may from time to time be needed to carry out the Office's purposes.
Office personnel may be provided by any village administrative element, but
will most routinely and typically involve representative(s) of or from the
village attorney, police department, building and zoning department, and/or
public works department, with administrative assistance from those departments
or the village clerk as may from time to time be required.
   D.   The supervisor shall have the following powers and duties:
      1.   Operating and managing administrative adjudication of village
ordinance violations as may be permitted by law and directed by ordinance;
      2.   Adopt, distribute and process all notices as may be required or may
reasonably be required to carry out the purposes of this chapter;
      3.   Implement, operate and maintain an adequate and appropriate
automated information management system enabling the monitoring and recording
of ordinance violation notice information, administrative adjudication hearing
information including determination orders, penalty assessments and payments
(if any) and results from administrative adjudication hearings (including, but
not limited to, respondent appearance or failure to appear, respondent pleas,
hearing officer determinations, orders, sanctions or other fines or penalties
imposed and costs, if any);
      4.   With the advice of the village attorney and administrative hearing
officer(s), prepare and procure documents and forms as may from time to time be
required in furtherance of administrative hearings pursuant to this chapter.
   E.   The village clerk, or his or her designee, shall have the following
powers and duties:
      1.   Collect monies received as fines, penalties and/or costs assessed
after a final determination of liability by a hearing officer, and issuing
receipts therefor;
      2.   Certify copies of final determinations of violations adjudicated
pursuant to this chapter along with any reports or documents related thereto
and admitted as part of the record (if any);
      3.   Collect unpaid fines, penalties and/or costs through private
collection agencies and/or, in cooperation with the village attorney, pursuit
of all other post-judgment remedies available at law or equity.
   F.   An administrative hearing officer must be an attorney licensed to
practice law in the State of Illinois for at least three years, and be in good
standing with the attorney registration and disciplinary commission of the
supreme court of Illinois.
Prior to conducting administrative adjudication proceedings under this chapter,
the administrative hearing officer shall have successfully completed a formal
training program as provided by state law 65 ILCS 5/1-2.1-4(c), that includes
the following:
      1.   Instruction on the rules of procedure of the administrative hearings
over which the administrative hearing officers shall preside;
      2.   Orientation to each subject area of the Code violations they will
adjudicate;
      3.   Observation of administrative hearings; and
      4.   Participation in hypothetical cases, including ruling on evidence
and issuing final orders.
Provided, however, that persons who have served as a judge are not required to
comply with 1-4. (Ord. 23-2060, 1-24-2023)
1-15-5: SCOPE OF AUTHORITY:
Administrative hearing officers shall preside over adjudicatory administrative
hearings. The authority of an administrative hearing officer shall encompass
all acts necessary to conduct fair and impartial adjudicatory hearings,
including, but not limited to:
   A.   Hearing testimony and accepting evidence that is relevant to the
existence of the Code violation.
   B.   Administering oaths and affirmations to witnesses.
   C.   At the request of any party or on the administrative hearing officer's
own motion, issuing subpoenas for the attendance of relevant witnesses and/or
the production of relevant books, records, or other information. Subpoena
issuance shall be at the discretion of the administrative hearing officer,
where it is determined that the requested witness or document is material to
the defense of the allegations and does not constitute a needless presentation
and that the elements of the defense sought to be proved could not otherwise be
established without the production of the requested evidence.
   D.   Preserving and authenticating the record of the hearing, including all
exhibits and evidence admitted into the record at the hearing.
   E.   Holding conferences for settlement or simplification of issues.
   F.   Dismiss with or without costs, cases in which the respondent has
demonstrated abatement and compliance prior to his/her first appearance.
   G.   Promulgate rules and regulations for the conduct of administrative
hearings.
   H.   Ruling on objections, motions and admissibility of evidence.
   I.   Issuing a determination based upon a review of the notice of violation,
citation, other charging document (hereinafter, "charging document") and on the
evidence admitted, which determination shall be final for purposes of judicial
review under the Illinois Administrative Review Act. The determination shall be
in writing, shall be signed by the administrative hearing officer, shall be
designated as findings, decision, and order, and shall include the fine,
penalty or action with which the respondent must comply.
   J.   Upon finding a respondent liable for violating one or more charged Code
provisions:
      1.   Imposing penalties as provided by the governing penalty provision,
except, however, that in no event shall an administrative hearing officer have
authority to:
         a.   Impose a penalty of incarceration; or
         b.   Impose a fine in excess of $50,000.00, excluding allowable costs.
      2.   Each day a Code provision is found to have been violated by the
respondent shall constitute a separate offense, and each separate offense
subjects the respondent to the penalty provided by the governing penalty
provision.
      3.   Imposing, in addition to fines, administrative and/or enforcement
costs and, when applicable, imposing costs incurred by the village for
effecting compliance with Code provision(s) for which a respondent has been
found liable.
      4.   Ordering, regardless of fines imposed or costs assessed, the
respondent to perform a term of community service.
   K.   Adhering to the policies, procedures, and legislation set forth in this
Code, except where discretion is specifically vested in the administrative
hearing officer. However, an administrative hearing officer is authorized to
waive the fine and/or costs that otherwise would be imposed upon finding a
respondent liable for one or more Code violations when the administrative
hearing officer specifically finds that the violation(s) occurred under such
circumstances that a reasonable person would believe to constitute an excuse,
explanation or justification for the violation(s).
   L.   Asking all questions of the parties and witnesses, if necessary, to
ensure the clarity and completeness of the testimony and the record. A party or
witness desiring clarification of a point in the hearing shall direct the
matter to the administrative hearing officer, who retains sole discretion as to
whether and to what extent to pursue the point to be clarified.
   M.   Regulating the course of the hearing in accordance with this chapter,
the rules adopted by the administrative hearings' supervisor for the conduct of
administrative hearings, and other applicable law. (Ord. 23-2060, 1-24-2023)
1-15-6: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS:
   A.   All administrative hearings conducted by an administrative hearing
officer are open to the public and shall be presided over by a duly appointed
administrative hearing officer who is charged with providing the parties a full
and fair opportunity to be heard.
   B.   All administrative hearings shall be conducted on the date set for
hearing, however, for good cause shown, a continuance may be granted at the
discretion of the administrative hearing officer. The purpose of administrative
hearings is to provide a prompt resolution of alleged Code violations.
Accordingly, the request for, and the grant of, continuances shall be curtailed
to the extent fairness permits. Lack of preparation shall not be grounds for a
continuance. Continuances shall not be granted for more than two months or
twice per case, unless good cause is shown.
   C.   The administrative hearing officer may issue subpoenas.
   D.   The formal and technical rules of evidence do not apply in the conduct
of the hearing. Evidence, including hearsay, may be admitted only if it is of a
type commonly relied upon by reasonably prudent persons in the conduct of their
affairs.
   E.   The administrative hearing officer shall permit persons to contest the
merits of an alleged violation subject to the administrative adjudication
procedures of this chapter without attending a hearing. Any person, who wishes
to contest a vehicular violation, must file a notarized statement of facts
specifying grounds for contesting the violation notice, which must be filed
with the Office of administrative hearings, postmarked within ten days of the
issuance of the notice of violation. The request shall be deemed filed, if
postmarked by such due date. The submission of a notarized statement of facts
is a waiver of the person's right to a personal appearance and the
administrative hearing officer will make his/her decision based upon the
notarized statement of facts submitted by the person and the facts contained in
the notice of violation(s).
   F.   No violation may be established except upon proof by a preponderance of
the evidence. However, the original or a legible copy of the charging document,
issued in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Code, shall be
prima facie evidence of the correctness of the facts specified in the document.
   G.   The administrative hearings supervisor shall determine the manner in
which the record shall be preserved. Such preservation may be made by tape
recording or other appropriate means. The record of all hearings before an
administrative hearing officer shall include a copy of the findings, decision,
and order of the administrative hearing officer's final determination.
   H.   At the conclusion of a hearing, the administrative hearing officer
shall issue his/her final determination. If the administrative hearing officer
issues a final determination of liability, he or she may impose fines, assess
costs, and make orders as are consistent with this chapter and the specific
Code provision(s) found to have been violated.
   I.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the administrative hearing officer
shall inform the parties orally and in writing of his determination. Such
determination shall constitute a final determination for purposes of judicial
review and is subject to review under the Illinois Administrative Review Act.
Based on the charging document and the evidence admitted, the administrative
hearing officer may issue the following determinations: liable, not liable, or
liable upon a plea of no contest. The administrative hearing officer also may
dismiss the case with or without prejudice or grant a properly made motion by
the village to voluntarily dismiss the case. (Ord. 23-2060, 1-24-2023)
1-15-7: PROCEDURE:
All matters to be adjudicated by the administrative hearing officer shall be
commenced against the party alleged to have violated one or more Code
provisions by issuing and serving upon that party a charging document and shall
be conducted in accordance with the following procedures:
   A.   The charging document shall be issued by a village officer or employee
so authorized and served as provided for in this section.
      1.   Any charging document issued pursuant to this section shall contain
the following information:
         a.    The name; village department; position; and identification
number, if applicable, of the person issuing the charging document;
         b.   The name and address of the person or entity being charged with
one or more Code violations ("respondent");
         c.   The name and address of the person to whom the charging document
is given if that person is not the respondent;
         d.   The section(s) of this Code alleged to have been violated;
         e.   The date, time, and place of the alleged violation(s);
         f.   A legally sufficient description of the activity or conduct
alleged to constitute a violation of each Code section set forth in the
charging document or a legally sufficient description of the facts giving rise
to the allegations set forth in the charging document; and
         g.   The complainant's name if the complainant is not the issuing
village officer or employee.
   B.   The village officer or employee issuing the charging document shall
certify the correctness of the information required by this section by signing
his/her name to the charging document to be issued.
   C.   Compliance with subsections A and B of this section shall establish a
prima facie case.
   D.   A charging document issued shall also set forth:
      1.   The date, time and place of the adjudicatory hearing to be held with
respect to the violation(s) alleged in the charging document; and
      2.   The legal authority and jurisdiction under which the hearing will be
held.
   E.   The hearing shall be scheduled with reasonable promptness, provided
that for hearings scheduled in all nonemergency situations, the respondent
shall have at least fifteen (15) days after service of the charging document to
prepare for a hearing, if requested by the respondent. For purposes of this
subsection, "nonemergency situation" means any situation that does not
reasonably constitute a threat to the public interest, safety or welfare.
   F.   The respondent named in a charging document shall be given notice of
the date of the adjudicatory hearing which may appear on the face of the notice
of violation, citation, or other charging document. Notice of the hearing date
may also be given in any of the following ways:
      1.   By first class mail or by overnight or two-day commercial delivery
service at the respondent's last known address or if the respondent is a
business entity, at any address identified for its registered agent or at its
principal place of business; or
      2.   By personal service; or
      3.   By posting upon the property that is the site of the alleged
violation(s) when the respondent is the owner or person in control of the
property; or
      4.   By any other means permitted by law for service of civil summons.
   G.   If service is provided by first class mail or by overnight or two-day
commercial delivery service, the 15-day period shall begin to run on the day
that the notice is deposited in the mail or given to the commercial delivery
service, as applicable.
   H.   The original or a legible copy of the notice of violation, citation, or
other charging document shall be filed with the Office of administrative
hearings as soon as practicable at the place and in the manner as the
administrative hearings' supervisor directs. Upon receiving the original or
legible copy of the charging document, the administrative hearings supervisor
shall select a hearing date and give respondent notice of the date, time, and
place of the hearing in the manner set forth in this section, unless the
charging document sets forth the date, time, and location of the hearing and
was served on the respondent as provided in this section.
   G.   Parties to an adjudicatory hearing may be represented by an attorney
(retained at their own expense) and present witnesses. (Ord. 23-2060, 1-24-
2023)
1-15-8: REPRESENTATION AT HEARINGS:
   A.   Village. The case for the village may be presented by a village
employee, or by an attorney designated by the village attorney or his or her
designee.
   B.   Respondent. The case for the respondent may be presented by the
respondent or by an attorney or agent of the respondent, retained at
respondent's sole expense. An attorney or agent appearing at an adjudicatory
hearing on behalf of a respondent shall present the administrative hearing
officer with a signed appearance form stating, on oath or affirmation, that he
or she has been authorized by the respondent to represent the respondent at the
hearing. (Ord. 23-2060, 1-24-2023)
1-15-9: DEFAULT:
   A.   If at the time set for hearing, the respondent, or his/her attorney or
agent of record, fails to appear, the administrative hearing officer may enter
a default judgment of liability against the respondent and impose fines and
assess costs. A copy of the order of default shall be served in any manner
permitted by this chapter and applicable to the violation. The order shall
advise the respondent of the procedure for setting aside the default judgment
and shall also apprise the respondent of the availability of an appeal of the
default judgment to the circuit court of Will County. The default judgment
shall be servedpromptly uponthe respondent as provided in this chapter. The
default judgment constitutes a final determination for purposes of judicial
review and is subject to review under the Illinois Administrative Review Act.
   B.   A respondent against whom a default judgment has been entered may file
a motion with the Office of administrative hearings to set aside the default
judgment and request a new hearing. A motion to set aside a default judgment
may be filed at any time if the respondent alleges lack of subject matter or
personal jurisdiction. In all other cases, the motion must be filed within 21
days of entry of the default judgment. A motion to set aside a default judgment
shall set forth the reason(s) the respondent failed to appear on the original
hearing date. The administrative hearing officer shall hear and rule on the
motion. If the administrative hearing officer grants the motion, a hearing will
be held immediately on the alleged Code violation(s) set forth in the charging
document unless the respondent requests another hearing date and presents good
cause for continuing the hearing.
   C.   If any default judgment is set aside pursuant to this section, the
administrative hearing officer shall have authority to enter an order
extinguishing any lien which has been recorded for any debt due and owing the
village as a result of the vacated default judgment. (Ord. 23-2060, 1-24-2023)
1-15-10: FINES; COMPLIANCE BOND:
   A.   All fines and other payments must be made within ten calendar days from
the date of the final determination.
   B.   If the administrative hearing officer issues an order of compliance,
the administrative hearing officer may order the respondent to post either a
cash bond or other security bond to ensure respondent's timely compliance. Any
noncash security bond shall name the village as beneficiary and shall be in the
amount specified by the administrative hearing officer. If the respondent fails
to timely remedy the Code violation(s) for which a bond has been issued and the
village undertakes remediation or otherwise expends funds related to the Code
violation(s), the administrative hearing officer, after giving the parties
notice and opportunity to be heard, may issue an order permitting the village
to draw against the bond in an appropriate amount. The administrative hearing
officer shall order the bond amount, less the reasonable costs incurred by the
village, to be returned to the respondent upon proof of compliance. Upon
failure to achieve compliance, the administrative hearing officer shall, upon
written petition of the village, increase the assessed fine by ten percent
(initial fine amount, not compounding) for each day beyond the original
compliance date that compliance has not been achieved. (Ord. 23-2060, 1-24-
2023)
1-15-11: ENFORCEMENT OF ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING OFFICER'S ORDER:
   A.   Any fine and any administrative, enforcement, or compliance costs
imposed by an administrative hearing officer's order that remain unpaid after
the exhaustion of, or the failure to exhaust, judicial review procedures,
unless stayed by a court of competent jurisdiction, shall be a debt due and
owing the village and may be collected in accordance with applicable law.
   B.   After the expiration of the period for which judicial review may be
sought 35 days after issuance of the administrative hearing officer's final
order), unless stayed by a court of competent jurisdiction, the determination
of liability of an administrative hearing officer may be enforced in the same
manner as a judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction. At such
time, the administrative hearings supervisor shall send a notice of final
determination of liability to respondent.
   C.   Any fine, penalty, and/or cost remaining unpaid after the notice of
final determination of liability is sent shall constitute a debt due and owing
the village. Failure of the respondent to pay such fine or penalty will result
in such remedies as may be available by law, including the denial of the
issuance or renewal of licenses or permits from the village.
   D.   In any case in which a respondent fails to comply with an
administrative hearing officer's order to correct a Code violation, any
expenses incurred by the village to enforce the administrative hearing
officer's order, including, but not limited to, attorney fees, court costs and
costs related to property demolition, enclosure, remediation or foreclosure,
shall be a debt due and owing the village. Prior to any expenses being fixed by
an administrative hearing officer pursuant to this subsection, the respondent
shall be provided with notice that directs the respondent to appear at a
hearing before an administrative hearing officer to determine whether the
respondent has failed to comply with the administrative hearing officer's
order. The notice shall set the place and the time for the hearing, which shall
not be less than seven days from the date the notice is served. Notice may be
served on respondent by personal service, first class mail or by an overnight
or two-day commercial delivery service and the seven-day period shall begin to
run on the date that the notice was personally served, deposited in the mail or
placed with the overnight or commercial delivery service.
   E.   Nothing in this section shall prevent the village from enforcing or
seeking to enforce any order of an administrative hearing officer in any manner
provided by law. (Ord. 23-2060, 1-24-2023)
1-15-12: ELECTION OF REMEDIES:
   A.   In no case may an administrative hearing officer conduct an
adjudicatory hearing for an alleged Code violation where the remedy is a
punishment of imprisonment.
   B.   Nothing in this chapter, however, shall preclude the village from
petitioning a court of competent jurisdiction to adjudicate any ordinance
violation or an ordinance violation which provides the remedy of imprisonment,
or from petitioning a court of competent jurisdiction to impose the remedy of
imprisonment for failure to comply with an order of an administrative hearing
officer. (Ord. 23-2060, 1-24-2023)
1-15-13: FINES FOR OFFENSES:
Fines for offenses prosecuted pursuant to the Administrative Adjudication
System shall be established from time to time by the President and the Board of
Trustees. (Ord. 23-2060, 1-24-2023)
CHAPTER 16
RULES FOR PUBLIC COMMENT
SECTION:
1-16-1: Policy
1-16-2: Speaker Rules
1-16-3: Time Limits
1-16-4: Responses
1-16-5: Decorum
1-16-1: POLICY:
It shall be the policy of the Village of Shorewood, that any person shall be
allowed to address public officials at any board, committee, or commission
meeting subject to the Illinois Open Meetings Act. These comments may pertain
to items on the agenda or can be more general.
The following rules shall apply to all such public comment periods.
(Ord. 25-2147, 6-10-2025)
1-16-2: SPEAKER RULES:
   A.   Any person wishing to speak during any portion of an open meeting shall
sign in before the meeting's starting time, stating their name, resident
status, and topic to be discussed. Residents will be called first to speak
during public comment time. Failure to identify resident status or topic will
not bar a person from speaking.
   B.   No person shall be permitted to speak until being recognized by the
presiding officer of the meeting. All comments shall be received from the
podium and addressed to the presiding officer of the meeting.
   C.   Speakers must identify themselves by name. If they choose, speakers may
also give their residential address.
   D.   Speakers will refrain from repeating comments that have previously been
provided to the governing board. Whenever possible, groups of residents shall
consolidate their comments and avoid repetition through the use of
representative speakers. It is acceptable for speakers to state that they
agree/disagree with previously provided comments to avoid repetition.
   E.   Speakers may not use public comment to harass board or commission
members or staff. Public comment is not for asking questions of officials or
staff or engaging in a dialogue or debate. Profanity will not be tolerated.
(Ord. 25-2147, 6-10-2025)
1-16-3: TIME LIMITS:
   A.   All individuals shall be limited to a maximum of three (3) minutes each
and may speak only once, unless extended by the majority of the board/
committee.
   B.   No speaker may give their allotted minutes to another person.
   C.   Time limits shall not apply to public hearings. (Ord. 25-2147, 6-10-
2025)
1-16-4: RESPONSES:
Members of the governing body are not required to answer questions or to
otherwise respond to public comments. Comments may be taken under advisement
and may be referred to the appropriate staff member for response outside the
meeting. (Ord. 25-2147, 6-10-2025)
1-16-5: DECORUM:
   A.   All speakers, and the audience, shall respect the presiding officer's
directions in furtherance of maintaining proper order, respect, and decorum
during the meeting.
   B.   Members of the audience shall refrain from noisy outbursts or other
distracting actions such as applauding, cheering, or booing during or at the
conclusion of any remarks made by any speaker, staff member, or village
official.
   C.   Any person who violates these rules or who otherwise disrupts the order
and decorum of the meeting may be removed. (Ord. 25-2147, 6-10-2025)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
BOARD OF LOCAL IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
2-1-1: State Laws Adopted
2-1-2: Board Created; Membership; Term of Office
2-1-3: Powers and Duties
2-1-1: STATE LAWS ADOPTED:
The provisions of chapter 65, article 9, division 2 of the Illinois Compiled
Statutes as the same may from time to time be amended are hereby adopted by and
for the Village. (Ord. 0-179, 8-14-73; 1994 Code)
2-1-2: BOARD CREATED; MEMBERSHIP; TERM OF OFFICE:
There is hereby created a Board of Local Improvements for the Village. The
members of the Board of Local Improvement shall be the President of the
Village, who shall be the president of such Board, and the Village Engineer and
the Superintendent of Streets of the Village; provided, however, that in the
event at the effective date hereof or at any time subsequent hereto the offices
of Village Engineer and/or Superintendent of Streets of the Village are not
provided for or filled, then President of the Village shall appoint one member
of the Village Board of Trustees to fill each vacancy so resulting on the Board
of Local Improvements, which appointment shall be with the consent of the Board
of Trustees and the member so appointed. Any member of the Board of Trustees so
appointed shall serve as a member of the Board of Local Improvements so long as
he shall remain a member of the Board of Trustees or until the vacancy in the
office of Village Engineer or Superintendent of Streets, in whose stead he was
appointed to serve on the Board of Local Improvements, is filled. (Ord. 0-179,
8-14-73; 1994 Code)
2-1-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The Board of Local Improvements created by this Chapter is hereby authorized to
proceed according to law pursuant to the provisions of chapter 65, article 9,
division 2, Illinois Compiled Statutes, hereby adopted in all matters regarding
local improvements within and without the Village which are properly within the
jurisdiction of said Board of Local Improvements. (Ord. 0-179, 8-14-73)
CHAPTER 2
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY
SECTION:
2-2-1: Establishment
2-2-2: Coordinator
2-2-3: Functions
2-2-4: Service as Mobile Support Team
2-2-5: Agreements with Other Political Subdivisions
2-2-6: Emergency Action
2-2-7: Compensation
2-2-8: Reimbursement by State
2-2-9: Purchases and Expenditures
2-2-10: Oath
2-2-11: Office
2-2-12: Appropriation; Levy of Taxes
2-2-1: ESTABLISHMENT:
   A.   There is hereby created the Shorewood EMA to prevent, minimize, repair
and alleviate injury or damage resulting from disaster caused by enemy attack,
sabotage or other hostile action or from natural or man-made disaster, in
accordance with the "Illinois Emergency Management Agency Act" 1 .
   B.   This EMA shall consist of the Coordinator and such additional members
as may be selected by the Coordinator. (Ord. 0-248, 4-26-71; 1994 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 20 ILCS 3305/1.
2-2-2: COORDINATOR:
The Coordinator of the Village EMA shall be appointed by the Village President
with the advice and consent of the Village Board of Trustees and shall serve
until removed by same. He shall have direct responsibility for the
organization, administration, training and operation of the EMA, subject to the
direction and control of the Village President as provided by statute. In the
event of the absence, resignation, death or inability to serve as the
Coordinator, the Village President or any person designated by him shall be and
act as Coordinator until a new appointment is made as provided in this Chapter.
(Ord. 0-248, 4-26-77; 1994 Code)
2-2-3: FUNCTIONS:
The Village EMA shall perform such EMA functions within the Village as shall be
prescribed in and by the State EMA Plan and Program prepared by the Governor
and such orders, rules and regulations as may be promulgated by the Governor
and, in addition, shall perform such duties outside the corporate limits as may
be required pursuant to any mutual aid agreement with any other political
subdivision, municipality or quasi-municipality entered into as provided by the
"State EMA Act". (Ord. 0-248, 4-26-77; 1994 Code)
2-2-4: SERVICE AS MOBILE SUPPORT TEAM:
All or any members of the Village EMA organization may be designated as members
of a mobile support team created by the Director of the State EMA as provided
by law. The leader of such mobile support team shall be designated by the
Coordinator of the Village EMA organization. Any member of a mobile support
team who is a Village employee or officer while serving on call to duty by the
Governor or the State Director shall receive the compensation and have the
powers, duties, rights and immunities incident to such employment or office.
Any such member who is not a paid officer or employee of the Village, while so
serving, shall receive from the State reasonable compensation as provided by
law. (Ord. 0-248, 4-26-77; 1994 Code)
2-2-5: AGREEMENTS WITH OTHER POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS:
The Coordinator of EMA may negotiate mutual aid agreements with other cities or
political subdivisions of the State, but no such agreement shall be effective
until it has been approved by the Village President and by the State Director
of EMA. (Ord. 0-248, 4-26-77; 1994 Code)
2-2-6: EMERGENCY ACTION:
If the Governor proclaims that a disaster emergency exists in the event of
actual enemy attack upon the United States or the occurrence within the State
of a major disaster resulting from enemy sabotage or other hostile action, or
from man-made or natural disaster, it shall be the duty of the Village EMA to
cooperate fully with the State EMA and with the Governor in the exercise of
emergency powers as provided by law. (Ord. 0-248, 4-26-77; 1994 Code)
2-2-7: COMPENSATION:
Members of the EMA who are paid employees of the Village, if called for
training by the State Director of EMA, shall receive for the time spent in such
training the same rate of pay as is attached to the position held; members who
are not such Village employees or officers shall receive for such training time
such compensation as may be established by the Village President. (Ord. 0-248,
4-26-77; 1994 Code)
2-2-8: REIMBURSEMENT BY STATE:
The Village Treasurer may receive and allocate to the appropriate fund any
reimbursement by the State to the Village for expenses incident to training
members of the EMA as prescribed by the State Director of EMA, compensation for
such services and expenses of members of a mobile support team while serving
outside the Village in response to a call by the Governor or State Director of
EMA, as provided by law, and any other reimbursement made by the State incident
to EMA activities as provided by law. (Ord. 0-248, 4-26-77; 1994 Code)
2-2-9: PURCHASES AND EXPENDITURES:
   A.   The Village President may, on recommendation of the Village Coordinator
of EMA, authorize any purchase of contracts necessary to place the Village in a
position to combat effectively any disaster resulting from the explosion of any
nuclear or other bomb or missile and to protect the public health and safety,
protect property and provide emergency assistance to victims in the case of
such disaster or from man-made or natural disaster.
   B.   In the event of enemy-caused or other disaster, the Village Coordinator
of EMA is authorized, on behalf of the Village, to procure such services,
supplies, equipment or material as may be necessary for such purposes, in view
of the exigency without regard to the statutory procedures or formalities
normally prescribed by law pertaining to Village contracts or obligations, as
authorized by "The State EMA Act"; provided, that if the Village President
meets at such time, he shall act subject to the directions and restrictions
imposed by that body. (Ord. 0-248, 4-26-77; 1994 Code)
2-2-10: OATH:
Every person appointed to serve in any capacity in the Village EMA organization
shall, before entering upon his duties, subscribe to the following oath, which
shall be filed with the Coordinator:
I,                      do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support and
defend and bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of the United
States and the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and the territory,
institutions, and facilities thereof, both public and private, against all
enemies, foreign and domestic; that I take this obligation freely, without any
mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and that I will well and faithfully
discharge the duties upon which I am about to enter. And I do further swear (or
affirm) that I do not advocate, nor am I nor have I been a member of any
political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the government
of the United States or of this State by force or violence; and that during
such time as I am affiliated with the Shorewood EMA organization, I will not
advocate nor become a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this State
by force or violence. (Ord. 0-248, 4-26-77; 1994 Code)
2-2-11: OFFICE:
The Village President is authorized to designate space in a Village building,
or elsewhere, as may be provided for by the Village President for the Village
EMA as its office. (Ord. 0-248, 4-26-77; 1994 Code)
2-2-12: APPROPRIATION; LEVY OF TAXES:
The Village President may make an appropriation for EMA purposes in the manner
provided by law and may levy, in addition, for EMA purposes only, a tax not to
exceed five cents ($0.05) per one hundred dollars ($100.00) of the assessed
value of all taxable property in addition to all other taxes as provided by the
"State EMA Act"; however, that amount collectable under such levy shall in no
event exceed twenty five cents ($0.25) per capita. (Ord. 0-248, 4-26-77; 1994
Code)
CHAPTER 3
BOARD OF FIRE AND POLICE COMMISSIONERS
SECTION:
2-3-1: Board Created; Appointment; Terms of Office; Vacancies
2-3-2: Qualifications of Board Members; Oath; Bond; Removals
2-3-3: Organization
2-3-4: Appointment of Police and Fire Department Members
2-3-5: Qualifications of Applicants to Police and Fire Departments
2-3-6: Examination of Applicants
2-3-7: Preferences
2-3-8: Register of Eligibles
2-3-9: Temporary Appointments
2-3-10: Fingerprints Required
2-3-11: Removals; Discharges; Retirement of Department Members
2-3-12: Reduction in Department Forces
2-3-13: Disability or Military Leaves
2-3-14: Annual Report and Budget Request
2-3-15: Rooms and Funds for Operation
2-3-16: Compensation
2-3-1: BOARD CREATED; APPOINTMENT; TERMS OF OFFICE; VACANCIES:
   A.   There is hereby created a Board of Fire and Police Commissioners
(hereafter "Board") consisting of three (3) members whose terms of office shall
be three (3) years until their respective successors are appointed and have
qualified; except, that the term of the first three (3) members appointed shall
be: one of the members shall be appointed to serve until the end of the then
current Municipal fiscal year, another to serve until the end of the Municipal
fiscal year next ensuing and the third to serve until the end of the Municipal
fiscal year second next ensuing. The Board members shall elect a chairman to
serve during each Municipal fiscal year.
   B.   Members of the Board shall be appointed by the Village President with
the consent of the Board of Trustees; provided, that no appointment shall be
made by the President within thirty (30) days before the expiration of his term
of office. Vacancies on the Board shall be filled in the same manner as the
original appointment of the member whose office is vacant. (Ord. 85-389, 3-12-
85)
2-3-2: QUALIFICATIONS OF BOARD MEMBERS; OATH; BOND; REMOVALS:
   A.   Oath and Bond: The members of the Board shall be considered officers of
the Municipality and shall file an oath and a fidelity bond in such amount as
may be required by the governing body of the Municipality.
   B.   Qualifications:
      1.   No person holding an office under a Municipality shall be a member
of the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners or the secretary thereof. The
acceptance of any such office by a member of the Board shall be treated as a
resignation of his office as a member of the Board or the secretary thereof.
      2.   No person shall be appointed a member of the Board of Fire and
Police Commissioners who is related, either by blood or marriage up to the
degree of first cousin, to any elected official of the Municipality.
      3.   No more than two (2) members of the Board shall belong to the same
political party existing in the Municipality at the time of such appointments
and as defined in section 5/10-2 of the Illinois Election Code 1 . If only one
or no political party exists in such Municipality at the time of such
appointments, then State or national political party affiliations shall be
considered in making such appointments. Party affiliation shall be determined
by affidavit of the person appointed as a member of the Board.
   C.   Removal from Office: Members shall not be subject to removal, except
for cause, upon written charges and after an opportunity to be heard within
thirty (30) days in their own defense before a regular meeting of the governing
body of the Municipality for which they have been appointed. A majority vote of
the elected members of such governing body shall be required to remove any such
member from office. (Ord. 85-389, 3-12-85)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 10 ILCS.
2-3-3: ORGANIZATION:
   A.   Secretary: The Board may employ a secretary or may designate one of its
own members to act as secretary. The secretary shall:
      1.   Keep the minutes of the Board's proceedings.
      2.   Be the custodian of all records pertaining to the business of the
Board.
      3.   Keep a record of all examinations held.
      4.   Be custodian of the Seal of the Board, if one is adopted, and the
Board is hereby authorized to adopt an Official Seal and to prescribe the form
thereof by resolution of the Board.
      5.   Perform all other duties the Board prescribes.
   B.   Attorney for Board: The Municipal Attorney, in the event there is a
separate attorney designated as a prosecutor for the Municipality, shall
represent the Board unless the Board is authorized by the Municipality to
employ its own attorney, and such attorney shall handle prosecutions before the
Board, but in the event that the Municipal Attorney shall both represent the
Municipality and be prosecutor in such Municipality, then, and in such event,
the governing body is hereby authorized to employ an attorney of its own
choosing to represent the Board.
   C.   Rules:
      1.   The Board shall make rules a) to carry out the purposes set forth in
this Chapter and provided by State law and b) for appointments and removals in
accordance with the provisions of this Chapter and State law. The Board, from
time to time, may make changes in its rules.
      2.   All rules and changes therein shall be printed immediately for
distribution. The Board shall give notice a) of the places where the printed
rules may be obtained and b) of the date, not less than ten (10) days
subsequent to the time of publication, when the rules or changes therein shall
go into operation. This notice shall be published in one or more newspapers
published in the Municipality or, if no newspaper is published therein, in one
or more newspapers with a general circulation within the Municipality.
      3.   The rules of the Board shall apply only to the conduct of
examinations for original appointments, for promotions and to the conduct of
hearings on charges brought against a member of the Police or Fire Department.
No such rules shall be made by the Board to govern the operation of the Police
or Fire Department or the conduct of its members.
   D.   Quorum: A majority of the Board constitutes a quorum for the conduct of
all business. (Ord. 85-389, 3-12-85)
2-3-4: APPOINTMENT OF POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENT MEMBERS:
   A.   The Board shall appoint all officers and members of the Fire and Police
Departments of the Municipality excluding the Chief of Police and the Chief of
the Fire Department.
   B.   The Chief of Police and the Chief of the Fire Department shall be
appointed by the Village Administrator which shall be approved by majority vote
of the President and Board of Trustees 1 .
   C.   If a member of the Department is appointed Chief of Police or Chief of
the Fire Department prior to being eligible to retire on pension, he shall be
considered as on furlough from the rank he held immediately prior to his
appointment as Chief. If he resigns as Chief or is discharged as Chief prior to
attaining eligibility to retire on pension, he shall revert to and be
established in such prior rank and, thereafter, be entitled to all the benefits
and emoluments of such prior rank, without regard as to whether a vacancy then
exists in such rank.
   D.   All appointments to each Department other than that of the lowest rank
however, shall be from the rank next below that to which the appointment is
made.
   E.   The sole authority to issue certificates of appointment shall be vested
in the Board, and all certificates of appointments issued to any officer or
member of the Fire or Police Department shall be signed by the chairman and
secretary, respectively, of the Board upon appointment of such officer or
member of the Fire and Police Department by action of the Board. (Ord. 85-389,
3-12-85)
 
Notes
1 1. See also Section
  5-1-2 of this Code.
2-3-5: QUALIFICATIONS OF APPLICANTS TO POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS:
   A.   Generally: All applicants for a position in either the Fire or Police
Department of the Village shall be under thirty five (35) years of age, shall
be subject to an examination which shall be public, competitive and free to all
applicants, unless the Board of Trustees, by ordinance, limits applicants to
electors of the Village, and shall be subject to reasonable limitations as to
residence, health, habits and moral character. No person with a record of
misdemeanor convictions, except those under sections 5/11-6, 5/11-7, 5/11-9, 5/
11-14, 5/11-15, 5/11-17, 5/11-18, 5/11-19, 5/12-2, 5/12-6, 5/14-4, 5/16-1, 5/
21.1-3, 5/24-3.1, 5/24-5, 5/25-1, 5/28-3, 5/31-1, 5/31-4, 5/31-6, 5/31-7, 5/32-
1, 5/32-2, 5/32-3, 5/32-4, 5/32-8 and subsections 1, 6 and 8 of section 5/24-
1 of the Illinois Criminal Code 1 , or arrested for any cause but not convicted
thereon, shall be disqualified from taking the examination to qualify for a
position in the Fire Department on grounds of habits or moral character. The
foregoing age limitation does not apply to any person previously employed as a
policeman or fireman.
   B.   Residency: The Board of Trustees may, by ordinance, provide that
persons residing outside the Municipality are eligible to take the examination.
   C.   Age Requirements:
      1.   Applicants who are twenty (20) years of age and who have
successfully completed two (2) years of law enforcement studies at an
accredited college or university may be considered for appointment to active
duty with the Police Department. Any such applicant who is appointed to active
duty shall not have power of arrest nor shall be permitted to carry firearms
until he reaches twenty one (21) years of age.
      2.   Applicants who are eighteen (18) years of age and who have
successfully completed two (2) years of study in fire techniques, amounting to
a total of four (4) high school credits, within a cadet program may be
considered for appointment to active duty with the Fire Department of any
municipality.
   D.   Mental, Physical and Moral Requirements:
      1.   No person shall be appointed to the Police or Fire Department if he
does not possess a high school diploma or an equivalent high school education.
      2.   The examinations shall include tests of physical qualifications and
health. No person shall be appointed to the Police or Fire Department if he has
suffered the amputation of any limb unless the applicant's duties will be only
clerical or as a radio operator.
      3.   No applicant shall be examined concerning his political or religious
opinions or affiliations.
      4.   No person who is classified by his local selective service draft
board as a conscientious objector or who has ever been so classified may be
appointed to the Police Department.
      5.   No person shall be appointed to the Police or Fire Department unless
he is a person of good character, not a habitual drunkard, gambler or a person
who has been convicted of a felony or a crime involving moral turpitude.
However, no person shall be disqualified from appointment to the Fire
Department because of such person's record of misdemeanor convictions except
those under sections 5/11-6, 5/11-7, 5/11-9, 5/11-14, 5/11-15, 5/11-17, 5/11-
18, 5/11-19, 5/12-2, 5/12-6, 5/14-4, 5/16-1, 5/21.1-3, 5/24-3.1, 5/24-5, 5/25-
1, 5/28-3, 5/31-1, 5/31-4, 5/31-6, 5/31-7, 5/32-1, 5/32-2, 5/32-3, 5/32-4, 5/
32-8 and subsections 1, 6 and 8 of section 5/24-1 of the Illinois Criminal Code
2  or arrested for any cause without conviction thereon. Any such person who is
in the Department may be removed on charges brought and after a trial as
hereinafter provided. (Ord. 85-389, 3-12-1985; amd. 1994 Code)
   E.   Application Fee: All applicants for a position in the Police Department
of the Village shall pay an application fee of twenty dollars ($20.00). The
application fee shall be submitted with the application. (Ord. 99-960, 10-26-
1999, eff. 11-1-1999)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 720 ILCS.
2 1. 720 ILCS.
2-3-6: EXAMINATION OF APPLICANTS:
   A.   Conduct And Content: The examinations shall be conducted by the Board
as hereinafter provided and shall be practical in character and relate to those
matters which will fairly test the capacity of the persons examined to
discharge the duties of the positions to which they seek appointment.
   B.   Notice Of Examination: Notice of the time and place of every
examination shall be given by the Board by a publication at least two (2) weeks
preceding the examination in one or more newspapers published in the
Municipality or, if no newspaper is published therein, then in one or more
newspapers with a general circulation within the Municipality; except, on
promotional examinations, notice may be waived, in writing, by all members of
the Fire and Police Departments for which the promotional examination is to be
given.
   C.   Exemption From Examination: Any full-time member of the Police
Department shall become a member of the Police Department in the position held
by him at the effective date hereof without examination. (Ord. 85-389, 3-12-
1985)
2-3-7: PREFERENCES:
   A.   Original Appointments:
      1.   Persons who have successfully completed two (2) years of study in
fire techniques or two (2) years of police cadet training within the cadet
program established under the rules of the Board and persons who were engaged
in the military or naval service of the United States for a period of at least
one year and who were honorably discharged therefrom or who are now or may
hereafter be on inactive or reserve duty in such military or naval service (not
including, however, in the case of offices, positions and places of employment
in the Police Department, persons who were convicted by court-martial of
disobedience of orders, where such disobedience consisted in the refusal to
perform military service on the ground of religious or conscientious objections
against war) shall be preferred for appointments to offices, positions and
places of employment in the Fire and Police Departments.
      2.   The Board shall give preference for original appointment to persons
designated in this subsection whose names appear on any register of eligibles
resulting from an examination for original entrance in the classified service
of the Fire and Police Departments by adding to the final grade average which
they receive or will receive as the result of any examination held for original
entrance, five (5) points. The numerical result thus attained shall be applied
by the Board in determining the position of such persons on any eligibility
list which has been created as the result of any examination for original
entrance for purposes of preference in certification and appointment for such
eligibility list. The Board shall strike off the names of candidates for
original appointment after such names have been on the list for more than two
(2) years.
   B.   Promotional Preferences:
      1.   Every member of the classified service of the Fire or Police
Department who was engaged in a military or naval service of the United States
at any time for a period of one year and who was honorably discharged
therefrom, who is now or who may hereafter be on inactive or reserve duty in
such military or naval service (not including, however, persons who were
convicted by court-martial of disobedience of orders where such disobedience
consisted in the refusal to perform military service on the ground of alleged
religious or conscientious objections against war) and whose name appears on
the existing promotional eligibility registers or any promotional eligibility
register that may hereafter be created shall be preferred for promotional
appointments of the Fire and Police Departments.
      2.   The Board shall give preference for promotional appointment to
persons designated in subsection B1 of this Section whose names appear on
promotional eligibility registers by adding to the final grade average which
they will receive as a result of any promotional examination seven-tenths (0.7)
of one point for each six (6) months or fraction thereof of military or naval
service not exceeding thirty (30) months. The numerical result thus attained
shall be applied by the Board determining the position of such persons on any
eligibility list as the result of any promotional examination held for purposes
of preference in certification and appointment from such eligibility list.
      3.   The Board, by its rules, shall provide for promotion in the Fire and
Police Departments on the basis of ascertained merit and seniority in service
and examination and shall provide, in all cases where it is practicable, that
vacancies shall be filled by promotion. All examinations for promotion shall be
competitive among such members of the next lower rank as desire to submit
themselves to examination. All promotions shall be made from the three (3)
having the highest rating, and where there are less than three (3) names on the
promotional eligible register, as originally posted, or remaining thereon after
appointments have been made therefrom, appointments to fill existing vacancies
shall be made from those names or name remaining on the promotional register.
The method of examination and the rules governing examinations for promotion
shall be the same as provided for applicants for original appointment; except,
that original appointments only shall be on probation, as provided by the
rules. The Board shall strike off the names of candidates for promotional
appointment after they have remained thereon for more than three (3) years,
provided there is no vacancy existing which can be filled from the promotional
register.
   C.   Time for Allowing Preference: No person entitled to preference or
credit for military or naval service shall be required to claim military credit
for service in the armed forces before any examination held under the
provisions of this Chapter, but such preference shall be given after the
posting or publication of the eligibility list or register at the request of
such person before any certification or appointments are made from the
eligibility register, upon the furnishing of evidence of an honorable discharge
from and proof of such service. (Ord. 85-389, 3-12-85)
2-3-8: REGISTER OF ELIGIBLES:
   A.   The Board shall prepare and keep a register of persons whose general
average standing, upon examination, is not less than the minimum fixed by the
rules of the Board, and who are otherwise eligible. These persons shall take
rank upon the register as candidates in the order of their relative excellence
as determined by examination without reference to priority of time of
examination.
   B.   Within sixty (60) days after each examination, an eligibility list
shall be posted by the Board, which shall show the final grades of the
candidates without reference to priority of time of examination and subject to
claim for military credit. Candidates who are eligible for military credit
shall make a claim, in writing, within ten (10) days after the posting of the
eligibility list or such claim shall be deemed waived. Appointment shall be
subject to a final physical examination.
   C.   If a person is placed on an eligibility list and becomes overage before
he is appointed to a Police or a Fire Department, he remains eligible for
appointment until the list is abolished pursuant to authorized procedures.
Otherwise, no person who has attained the age of thirty six (36) years shall be
inducted as a member of a Police Department, and no person who has attained the
age of thirty five (35) years shall be inducted into a Fire Department, except
as otherwise provided in this Chapter. (Ord. 85-389, 3-12-85)
2-3-9: TEMPORARY APPOINTMENTS:
In order to prevent a stoppage of public business, to meet extraordinary
exigencies or to prevent material impairment of either the Police or Fire
Department, the Board may make temporary appointments, to remain in force until
regular appointments may be made, but never to exceed sixty (60) days. No
temporary appointment of any one person shall be made more than twice in any
calendar year. (Ord. 85-389, 3-12-85)
2-3-10: FINGERPRINTS REQUIRED:
A classifiable set of fingerprints of every person who is now employed, or who
hereafter becomes employed, as a full-time member of the Fire or Police
Department, whether with or without compensation, shall be furnished to the
Illinois Department of Law Enforcement and to the Federal Bureau of
Investigation by the Board or other appropriate appointing authority, as the
case may be. (Ord. 85-389, 3-12-85)
2-3-11: REMOVALS; DISCHARGES; RETIREMENT OF DEPARTMENT MEMBERS:
Except as hereinafter provided, no officer or member of the Fire or Police
Department shall be removed or discharged except for cause, upon written
charges, and after and opportunity to be heard in his own defense.
   A.   Chiefs of Departments: The Chief of the Fire Department or the Chief of
the Police Department or both of them may be removed or discharged by the
Village Administrator. In such case, the Village Administrator shall file with
the corporate authorities the reasons for such removal or discharge, which
removal or discharge shall not become effective unless confirmed by a majority
vote of the corporate authorities.
   B.   Hearing:
      1.   The Board of Fire and Police Commissioners shall conduct a fair and
impartial hearing of the charges, to be commenced within thirty (30) days of
the filing thereof, which hearing may be continued from time to time.
      2.   In case an officer or member is found guilty, the Board may
discharge him or may suspend him, not exceeding thirty (30) days, without pay.
The Board may suspend any officer or member pending the hearing with or without
pay, but not to exceed thirty (30) days. If the Board determines that the
charges are not sustained, the officer or member shall be reimbursed for all
wages withheld, if any.
      3.   In the conduct of this hearing, each member of the Board shall have
power to administer oaths and affirmations, and the Board shall have power to
secure by its subpoena both the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the
production of books and papers relevant to the hearing.
      4.   All such hearings shall be attended by a certified court reporter
who shall take and transcribe all proceedings.
   C.   Appeals: The provisions of the Administrative Review Law of Illinois
and all amendments and modifications thereof 1  and the rules adopted pursuant
thereto shall apply to and govern all proceedings for the judicial review of
final administrative decisions of the Board.
   D.   Short-Term Suspensions: Nothing in this Section shall be construed to
prevent the Chief of the Fire Department or the Chief of the Police Department
from suspending, without pay, a member of his Department for a period of not
more than five (5) days, but he shall notify the Board, in writing, of such
suspension. Any policeman or fireman so suspended may appeal to the Board for a
review of the suspension within twenty four (24) hours after such suspension,
and upon such appeal, the Board may sustain the action of the Chief of the
Department, may reverse it with instructions that the man receive his pay for
the period involved or may suspend the officer for an additional period of not
more than thirty (30) days or discharge him, depending upon the facts
presented.
   E.   Retirement: The age for retirement of policemen and firemen is sixty
five (65) years, unless the Board of Trustees shall, by ordinance, provide for
an earlier retirement age of not less than sixty (60) years. (Ord. 85-389, 3-
12-85)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 735 ILCS 5/3-101.
2-3-12: REDUCTION IN DEPARTMENT FORCES:
   A.   When the force of the Fire Department or of the Police Department is
reduced and positions displaced or abolished, seniority shall prevail, and the
officers and members so reduced in rank or removed from the service of the Fire
Department or of the Police Department shall be considered furloughed without
pay.
   B.   If any positions which have been vacated because of reduction in forces
or displacement and abolition of positions are reinstated, such members and
officers of the Fire Department or of the Police Department as are furloughed
from said positions shall be notified by the Board by registered mail of such
reinstatement of positions and shall have prior right to such positions if
otherwise qualified, and in all cases, seniority shall prevail. Written
application for such reinstated position must be made by the furloughed person
within thirty (30) days after notification as above provided, and such person
may be required to submit to examination by physicians of both the Board and
the appropriate pension board 1  to determine his physical fitness. (Ord. 85-
389, 3-12-85)
 
Notes
1 1. See Chapter 4 of this Title for Police Pension Board.
2-3-13: DISABILITY OR MILITARY LEAVES:
   A.   Granted: A person holding a position in a Fire or Police Department who
is injured while in the performance of his duties and, because of such injury,
is temporarily unable to continue to perform his duties or who enters the
military or naval service of the United States because of a war in which the
United States is a party belligerent or as required by any act of Congress
shall, upon written application to the Board, be granted a disability or
military leave, as the case may be.
   B.   Return to Active Duty: A person who has been on disability or military
leave granted by the Board and who wishes to return to active duty in his
certified position shall be credited with seniority for the period of such
leave and, if otherwise qualified, shall be reinstated to his certified
position at the rank or grade held at the start of the leave, not more than
sixty (60) days after his written request for reinstatement is filed with the
Board. Such request shall be filed not more than thirty (30) days after
termination of the disability or military or naval service. (Ord. 85-389, 3-12-
85)
2-3-14: ANNUAL REPORT AND BUDGET REQUEST:
Annually, at any time the corporate authorities may provide, the Board shall
submit to the President a report of its activities and of the rules in force
and the practical effect thereof. In this report the Board may make suggestions
which the Board believes would result in greater efficiency in the Fire or
Police Department. The Board shall also submit an annual budget request to the
Municipal governing body prior to the end of the fiscal year. The President
shall transmit the report to the Board of Trustees. (Ord. 85-389, 3-12-85)
2-3-15: ROOMS AND FUNDS FOR OPERATION:
The corporate authorities shall provide suitable rooms for the Board and shall
allow reasonable use of public buildings for holding examinations by the Board
and shall further provide adequate funds in the annual appropriation ordinance
for the operation of the Board. (Ord. 85-389, 3-12-85)
2-3-16: COMPENSATION:
The secretary may be paid a reasonable compensation for his services, to be
fixed by the corporate authorities. The corporate authorities may also fix the
compensation to be paid to the members of the Board, but until the corporate
authorities make provision therefor, the members of the Board shall serve
without compensation. (Ord. 85-389, 3-12-85)
CHAPTER 4
POLICE PENSION FUND BOARD OF TRUSTEES
SECTION:
2-4-1: Board Established; Membership; Residency
2-4-2: Appointment and Election; Terms of Office
2-4-3: Powers and Duties
2-4-4: Annual Report
2-4-5: Compensation
2-4-6: Application of State Law
2-4-1: BOARD ESTABLISHED; MEMBERSHIP; RESIDENCY:
There is hereby established a Board of Trustees of the Police Pension Fund,
which Board shall be composed of five (5) members, the majority of whom shall
be residents of the Municipality, and which Board shall have all the powers,
rights, duties and obligations as provided by the applicable Illinois Compiled
Statutes 1  and shall administer the Police Pension Fund 2  and designate the
beneficiaries thereof. The Board shall be known as "Board of Trustees of the
Police Pension Fund of Shorewood, Illinois". (Ord. 0-208, 4-22-75)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 40 ILCS 5/3-132 through 5/3-140.1.
2 2. See Section
   5-1-7 of this Code.
2-4-2: APPOINTMENT AND ELECTION; TERMS OF OFFICE:
Two (2) members of the Board of Trustees of the Police Pension Fund shall be
appointed by the President of the Board of Trustees. The third and fourth
members of the Board shall be elected from the regular police force by the
active members thereof. The fifth member shall be elected by and from among the
beneficiaries of the Fund. One of the Board members appointed by the President
shall serve for one year beginning on May 13, 1975. The other Board member
appointed by the President shall serve for two (2) years beginning May 13,
1975. The successors to each such appointed Board members shall serve for two
(2) years each or until their successors are appointed and qualified. The third
and fourth members of the Board shall be elected by the active members of the
regular police force biennially on the third Monday of April or as near
thereafter as possible in accordance with the State statutes 1 . All members of
the regular police force shall be entitled to vote only for police force
members of the Board. All beneficiaries of legal age shall be entitled to vote
only for the member chosen from among the beneficiaries. No person shall be
entitled to cast more than one ballot at such election. The members elected by
the active members of the police force and by the beneficiaries of the Fund
shall be elected for a term of two (2) years commencing May 13, 1975. Upon the
death, resignation or inability to act of any member of the Board elected under
this Section, his successor shall be elected for the unexpired term at a
special election to be called by the Board and conducted in the same manner as
the regular biennial election. (Ord. 0-208, 4-22-75)
 
Notes
1 3. S.H.A. 40 ILCS 5/3-128.
2-4-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The Board of Trustees of the Police Pension Fund shall have the powers and
duties stated in 40 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-132 to 5/3-140.0 as the same
may be, from time to time, hereinafter amended, and shall have such other
powers and duties as, from time to time, may be provided by the legislature of
the State. (Ord. 0-208, 4-22-75)
2-4-4: ANNUAL REPORT:
The Board of Trustees of the Police Pension Fund shall report to the Village
Board of Trustees on the condition of the Police Pension Fund. The report shall
be made prior to the meeting of the Village Board of Trustees held for levying
of taxes for the year for which such report is made. The Board of Trustees of
the Police Pension Fund shall certify to the Village Board of Trustees the
assets in its custody at such time, the estimated receipts during the next
succeeding calendar year from deductions from the salaries of policemen and
from all other sources, and the estimated amount required during said calendar
year to a) pay all pensions and obligations provided by State law, and b)
maintain the reserve fund as provided by State law. (Ord. 0-208, 4-22-75)
2-4-5: COMPENSATION:
Members of the Board of Trustees of the Police Pension Fund shall not receive
or have any right to receive any money or monies from the Police Pension Fund
as salary for services performed as a member of such Board. (Ord. 0-208, 4-22-
75)
2-4-6: APPLICATION OF STATE LAW:
In the event any provision or part of a provision of this Chapter shall at any
time be in conflict with the statutes of the State, the latter shall govern,
and all portions of this Chapter not so in conflict shall remain in full force
and effect. (Ord. 0-208, 4-22-75)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Word Construction
3-1-2: Certificates Of Registration, License And Registration, And Contractor's
Registration Required
3-1-3: Application For License
3-1-3-1: Application For Certificate Of Registration
3-1-4: Investigation Of Applicant
3-1-5: Granting And Issuance Of License
3-1-5-1: Restaurants, Bars And Taverns
3-1-6: Required Business Licenses And Schedule Of Fees
3-1-6-1: Certificate Of Registration Required
3-1-7: Term Of License Or Registration; Fee Adjustments And Rebates
3-1-8: Bond
3-1-9: Nontransferability Of License Or Registration
3-1-10: Renewal Of Licenses And Certificates Of Registration; Duplicates
3-1-11: Business Licenses And Certificates Of Registration; More Than One
Business Per Premises
3-1-12: License To Be Posted
3-1-13: Additional Registration Required For Certain Businesses
3-1-14: Tampering With License, Certificate Of Registration Or Insignia
3-1-15: Building And Premises Requirements
3-1-16: Contractor's License For All Persons Engaged In Contractor Work In The
Village (Rep. by Ord. 19-1925, 1-22-2019, eff. 2-1-2019)
3-1-17: Compliance With State Laws
3-1-18: Inspections And Analyses
3-1-19: Revocation Or Suspension Of License
3-1-20: Enforcement
3-1-21: Violation And Penalty
3-1-1: WORD CONSTRUCTION:
Whenever the licensing regulations of this chapter require a person to obtain a
license as a prerequisite to "doing", "conducting", "engaging in",
"maintaining", "operating", "carrying on" or "managing" a business, occupation
or activity, such terms, or one or more of such terms, shall include any person
who holds himself forth as being engaged in the business, occupation or
activity, or who solicits patronage therefor, either actively or passively, or
who performs or attempts to perform any part of such business, occupation or
activity in the Village, and the omission of one or more of these terms shall
not be deemed to exclude the activities described by the other terms where such
activities are in fact carried on by such person. (Ord. 84-374, 7-10-1984)
3-1-2: CERTIFICATES OF REGISTRATION, LICENSE AND REGISTRATION, AND CONTRACTOR'S
REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
Every business, occupation and activity shall obtain a certificate of
registration from the Village. Further, except as otherwise provided herein, it
shall be unlawful for any person to conduct, engage in, maintain, operate,
carry on or manage a business, occupation, trade or activity, either by himself
or through an agent, employee or partner, for which a license is required by
any provision of this chapter without first having obtained a license for such
business, occupation, trade or activity. Every business license shall include a
certificate of registration and shall be titled "License and Registration", and
the holder of a business license shall not be required to obtain a separate
certificate of registration unless additional registration is required by
section
 3-1-13 of this chapter. (Ord. 08-1517, 11-11-2008)
3-1-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   All applications for licenses of any character whatsoever, except those
licenses specifically excepted, shall be made, in writing, to the Village Clerk
on a form provided for that purpose, accompanied by the applicable license fee.
Each application should be made prior to thirty (30) days before the same is
required to allow a period for proper examination and investigation to allow
proper determination of whether the application should be granted.
   B.   Every application for a license shall contain:
      1.   The name, residence address, phone number and social security or
employer's identification number of the applicant.
      2.   State whether the applicant is an individual, partnership or
corporation, and if a partnership, the names and residence addresses of the
general partners, and if a corporation, the names and residence addresses of
its principal officers, and if closely held, its principal stockholders.
      3.   The type or kind of license desired.
      4.   The location or proposed location of the business.
      5.   The occupation or activity for which the license is sought.
      6.   The Illinois State Sales Tax number of the applicant.
      7.   The fee to be paid.
      8.   Such other information as may be required.
   C.   The Village Clerk shall be the custodian of all applications for
licenses which, under the provisions of this chapter, are required to be made
to the Clerk. (Ord. 08-1517, 11-11-2008)
3-1-3-1:   APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION:
   A.   All applications for certificates of registration shall be made, in
writing, to the Village Clerk on a form provided for that purpose, accompanied
by the applicable registration fee. Each application should be made prior to
thirty (30) days before it is required in order to allow a period for proper
examination, verification and processing.
   B.   Every application for a certificate of registration shall contain:
      1.   The name, residence address, and phone number of the owner or the
applicant. If the applicant is a partnership, then state the names, residence
addresses and phone numbers of the general partners, and if the applicant is a
corporation, then state the names, residence addresses and phone numbers of its
principal officers and if closely held, its principal stockholders.
      2.   The type of business, occupation or activity which is to be
registered.
      3.   The location or proposed location of the business, occupation or
activity to be registered.
      4.   An affirmation that the business, occupation or activity is in
compliance with all fire prevention, building, and zoning regulations.
      5.   A copy of any registrations, certificates, licenses, permits or
other approvals which are required to be obtained from the State in connection
with the operation of the business, occupation or activity which is to be
registered.
      6.   The Illinois State Sales Tax number of the applicant.
      7.   The name of the owner of the property, and if the owner is a
different person than the applicant, then state the residence address and phone
number of the property owner. If the property owner is a partnership, then
state the names, residence addresses and phone numbers of the general partners,
and if the property owner is a corporation, then state the names, residence
addresses and phone numbers of its principal officers and if closely held, its
principal stockholders.
      8.   The name, address and phone number of a person or persons who can be
contacted during a response from police, paramedics, the Fire Department, or
other emergency responders which involves the registrant.
      9.   Any other information about the registrant or the property where the
registrant is located which would be important information for police,
paramedics, the Fire Department or other emergency responders to know during a
response involving the registrant.
      10.   The fee to be paid.
   C.   The Village Clerk shall be the custodian of all applications for
certificates of registration which, under the provisions of this chapter, are
required to be made to the Clerk. (Ord. 08-1517, 11-11-2008)
3-1-4: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT:
   A.   License Investigator: The license investigator shall be designated and
appointed by the Village Board and shall report all investigations to the
Village President.
   B.   Investigation Of Applicant:
      1.   It shall be the duty of the license investigator to examine or cause
to be examined all persons and places of business subject to license for the
purpose of ascertaining whether or not such licenses should be issued.
      2.   The Chief of Police shall conduct a thorough examination into the
background and experience of all persons seeking licenses under the provisions
of this chapter. If such examination results in findings of fact which the
Chief of Police believes may disqualify the applicant as a licensee, he shall
report his findings to the Village President. If the Village President shall
find that the license applicant should not be issued a license, he shall notify
the applicant of this fact. The Village President may instruct the Village
Clerk not to issue a license for any one of the following reasons:
         a.   That the applicant lacks good character and reputation in the
community, which character and reputation may be determined by previous arrest
record, association with persons known to lack good moral character, open and
notorious adultery or other acts of moral turpitude or other conduct contrary
to good morals.
         b.   That the applicant has previously been charged and convicted with
a violation of other ordinances of the Village or the Statutes of the State,
except for traffic violations.
         c.   That the applicant has outstanding judgments against him or is
otherwise determined to be not financially able to carry out the activities for
which a license is sought.
         d.   All licensees under this chapter using scales and devices in
their business shall comply with all applicable Statutes of the State dealing
with weights and measures 1 , and all such devices requiring certification by
the State must at all times bear such certification. A violation of this
subsection shall be cause for revoking the license of such licensee.
         e.   All licensees must possess proof of current inspection by the
Will County Health Department, if appropriate. (Ord. 84-374, 7-10-1984)
 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 470/1.
3-1-5: GRANTING AND ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
In all cases where licenses are to be obtained and ordinance compliance is met,
such license shall be granted by the Village President and shall bear the Seal
of the Village, the name and business address of the licensee, the nature or
kind of business, occupation or activity licensed, the amount of fee paid, the
license term and such other material information as is required. All licenses
shall be subject to the provisions of the ordinance which may be in force at
the time of the issuance thereof or which may subsequently be passed by the
Village Board of Trustees. (Ord. 84-374, 7-10-1984)
3-1-5-1:   RESTAURANTS, BARS AND TAVERNS:
All restaurant, bar and tavern windows and doors are required to be closed from
the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. until eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. all
days of the week. During such times no amplified sound or live music is
permitted on the exterior of the business including but not limited to patios,
decks, outdoor seating areas, parking lots and entryways.
Any person or other entity who violates any of the terms or provisions of this
section shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each violation. Each day upon which a
violation exists shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 17-1857, 9-26-2017)
3-1-6: REQUIRED BUSINESS LICENSES AND SCHEDULE OF FEES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in or operate any business, trade
or occupation named in this section without first obtaining a business license
and registration and paying the license fee listed below. Such fees, upon
collection, shall become part of the General Corporate Fund.
LICENSE AND REGISTRATION FEES
Classification Fee
Classification                   Fee
General Business License (includes retail, offices, industrial,
warehousing, restaurants, laundry):
 Up to 3,000 square feet        $ 75.00
 3,001 - 10,000 square feet     $150.00
 10,001 - 30,000 square feet    $225.00
 Over 30,000 square feet        $500.00
Gas centers:                     $250.00
Hotels, motels, nursing homes,   $500.00
retirement homes:
In home business                 $35.00
Massage establishments:
 Administrative processing fee  $100.00
 License fee                    See General business license fees above
 Fingerprint fee                Actual cost
Mobile home parks:               $3,000.00
Peddlers, solicitors, canvassers, and door to door salesmen:
 First person                   $50.00
 Each additional person         $35.00
Scavenger refuse service         $200.00
Mini-warehouses and self-storage $500.00
 
(Ord. 08-1517, 11-11-2008; amd. Ord. 16-1807, 5-24-2016; Ord. 19-1925, 1-22-
2019, eff. 2-1-2019; Ord. 22-2055, 10-11-2022)
3-1-6-1:   CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
Every business, occupation and activity must be registered with the Village.
Registration shall be included in all business licenses issued by the Village
and a business license holder does not need to apply for a separate certificate
of registration unless additional registration is required by section
3-1-13 of this chapter. Any business, occupation or activity not required to be
licensed by the Village shall apply for a certificate of registration. The fee
for a certificate of registration is thirty five dollars ($35.00). Registration
fees shall become part of the General Corporate Fund upon collection. (Ord. 08-
1517, 11-11-2008; amd. January 31, 2023; Ord. 22-2055, 10-11-2022)
3-1-7: TERM OF LICENSE OR REGISTRATION; FEE ADJUSTMENTS AND REBATES:
   A.   Term Of License Or Registration; Fees Adjusted: All licenses and
registrations required by this chapter shall be for a full year, and the term
of each shall commence on January 1, or thereafter if it is first granted on a
date thereafter, whichever may be the case, and shall expire the following
December 31, unless otherwise specified or previously revoked, and the full fee
shall be paid at the time of application in the case of all renewals. In the
case of first licenses and registrations for which application is made in the
first quarter of the term, the full fee shall be paid; for those made in the
second quarter of the term, three-fourths (3/4) of the fee shall be paid; for
those made in the third quarter of the term, one-half (1/2) of the fee shall be
paid; and for those made in the last quarter of the term, one-fourth (1/4) of
the fee shall be paid.
   B.   Rebate Of Fee: In no event shall any rebate or refund be made of any
license or registration fee or part thereof by reason of the death of the
licensee or registrant or by reason of nonuse of such license or registration
or by reason of a change in the location of the business, occupation or
activity of such licensee or registrant; provided, however, that the provisions
of this subsection shall not be construed to prevent the Village Clerk from
authorizing a refund of a fee or a portion thereof where the fee was collected
through an error or where a business is forced to close before the expiration
of the license or registration period by reason of the taking over of the
licensed premises by the United States or the State or an agency thereof. In
the event an application shall be denied, the fee accompanying such application
shall be immediately refunded.
   C.   Recalculation Of Fee: When any licensee, by increasing the number of
his employees or the amount of business done by him or the size of his plant or
the number or size of his vehicles or by making any change of any kind in his
business, occupation or activity, places himself in a class where the
provisions of this chapter require him to pay a higher license fee, he shall
pay the additional license fee based on the annual license fee prorated monthly
to the nearest full month for the balance of the license period and shall be
entitled to receive a supplemental license.
   D.   Renewal Of Business Licenses Purchased Prior To September 23, 2008: For
business licenses purchased prior to September 23, 2008, which are paid in full
through March 31, 2009 (hereinafter referred to as "preexisting business
licenses"), renewals shall be made on or before December 31, 2008, however,
only three-fourths (3/4) of the applicable license fee shall be due. The term
of the renewed license shall begin on January 1, 2009, and expire December 31,
2009. All preexisting business licenses which are not renewed by December 31,
2008, shall expire on March 31, 2009. (Ord. 08-1517, 11-11-2008)
3-1-8: BOND:
In case the license requested shall be for an activity of a transitory nature
including, but not limited to, circuses, carnivals, street shows or other
activities which, in the judgment of the Village President, with the advice of
the license investigator, may cause the accumulation of litter, debris or other
undesirable accumulation of material on the site after the conclusion of the
activity, the Village President may, in addition to the other requirements of
this chapter, require the posting of a bond in an amount of not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00)
sufficient to guarantee the cleanup and restoration of the site following the
conclusion of such activities. Such bond shall be approved by the Village
President and filed with the Village Clerk. (Ord. 84-374, 7-10-1984)
3-1-9: NONTRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSE OR REGISTRATION:
No licensee or registrant may assign, sell or transfer his or her license or
registration to any other person, even if such other person intends to conduct
the same business, occupation or activity as the licensee or registrant at the
location used by the licensee or registrant. Such other person must apply and
pay the fee for a new license or certificate of registration in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 08-1517, 11-11-2008)
3-1-10: RENEWAL OF LICENSES AND CERTIFICATES OF REGISTRATION; DUPLICATES:
   A.   Renewal Of License And Registration, Certificate Of Registration And
Contractor's Registration:
      1.   Notice Of Renewal And Investigation: The Village Clerk shall send
written notification of renewal and investigation to be received by licensee or
registrant prior to December 1.
      2.   Application For Renewal: For renewal of licenses and registrations
issued pursuant to the terms of this chapter, written applications are required
in the same manner, form and content as applications for original licenses and
registrations. (Ord. 08-1517, 11-11-2008)
      3.   Failure To Comply With Renewal And Penalties: Renewal of business
license and registration is due annually by December 31. Failure to comply with
renewal by January 1 shall result in a penalty of twenty five dollars ($25.00)
being added to the invoiced renewal fee. Failure to comply with renewal by
January 15 shall result in a penalty of the twenty five dollars ($25.00) plus
ten dollars ($10.00) per day in addition to the invoiced renewal fee.
Noncompliance by February 1 shall result in a ticket and fine of not less than
fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) per
day, in addition to incurred penalties and invoiced fees and/or loss of
license. (Ord. 14-1760, 11-25-2014)
   B.   Duplicates; Fee: In case any licensee or registrant who has been
furnished a license, certificate of registration or license insignia in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, shall lose the same, it shall
be within the discretion of the Village Clerk to authorize the issuance of a
duplicate license, certificate or insignia upon the making of an affidavit of
loss by such person and the payment of a fee of one dollar ($1.00) to the
Village Clerk. (Ord. 08-1517, 11-11-2008)
3-1-11: BUSINESS LICENSES AND CERTIFICATES OF REGISTRATION; MORE THAN ONE
BUSINESS PER PREMISES:
Except as otherwise expressly provided in this chapter to the contrary, if any
person holding a business license under this chapter engages in any other
business, occupation or activity on the licensed premises in connection with
the licensed business, occupation or activity (hereinafter referred to as
"additional business, occupation or activity"), the licensee will not be
required to obtain or pay for an additional business license therefor; provided
that the fee paid for the licensed business, occupation or activity is at least
equal in the amount to the highest license fee required for such additional
business, occupation or activity, and provided that the additional business,
occupation or activity obtains a certificate of registration, which shall be
issued at no charge. This section shall not be construed so as to relieve any
person from complying with any other regulations applicable to either business.
This exemption shall not apply to any person engaging in the sale of
cigarettes, cigars and tobacco, at retail, or in the sale of alcoholic
beverages, the sale of drug paraphernalia or to vending machines, jukeboxes and
any other devices so specified pursuant to ordinance, and such dealer shall be
required to purchase a license for such cigarette, cigar, tobacco and alcoholic
beverage business and vending machines, jukeboxes and any other device so
specified pursuant to ordinance, notwithstanding the fact that such person may
be engaging in some other business, occupation or activity for which a license
was obtained hereunder. (Ord. 08-1517, 11-11-2008)
3-1-12: LICENSE TO BE POSTED:
Every license issued hereunder shall be posted by the licensee in a conspicuous
place, and no license shall be permitted to remain posted after the period of
such license has expired. (Ord. 84-374, 7-10-1984)
3-1-13: ADDITIONAL REGISTRATION REQUIRED FOR CERTAIN BUSINESSES:
   A.   It shall be the duty of all construction and construction trades
contractors and peddlers, solicitors, canvassers and door to door salesmen to
be licensed as herein provided and, in addition thereto, to register their
names, job and job locations or sales programs and sales areas, as the case may
be, with the Village Clerk in the Municipal building for each construction
project or sales program in which they engage within the Village corporate
limits.
   B.   The Superintendent of Streets is hereby directed to post appropriate
signs at the limits of the Village with the following language:
      SOLICITORS, PEDDLERS, CANVASSERS, DOOR TO DOOR SALESMEN AND CONTRACTORS
MUST BE LICENSED AND REGISTERED AT THE SHOREWOOD MUNICIPAL BUILDING.
(Ord. 08-1517, 11-11-2008)
3-1-14: TAMPERING WITH LICENSE, CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION OR INSIGNIA:
No person shall:
   A.   Add to, alter, deface, forge or counterfeit any license, certificate of
registration, official sticker or other insignia which has been or is being
issued by the Village.
   B.   Destroy, obliterate, take, remove or carry away without the consent of
the owner any license, certificate of registration, official sticker or other
insignia which has been issued by the Village; except, that said license,
certificate, sticker or other insignia may be removed after the licensed
business, occupation or activity has been discontinued or the licensed or
registered premises has been abandoned. (Ord. 08-1517, 11-11-2008)
3-1-15: BUILDING AND PREMISES REQUIREMENTS:
No license or registration shall be issued for the conduct of any business,
occupation or activity if the premises and building to be used for such purpose
do not fully comply with all applicable provisions of all other ordinances of
the Village and fire district, including fire prevention, building and zoning
regulations 1 . (Ord. 08-1517, 11-11-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. See titles 8 and 10 of this Code.
3-1-16: CONTRACTOR'S LICENSE FOR ALL PERSONS ENGAGED IN CONTRACTOR WORK IN THE
VILLAGE:
(Rep. by Ord. 19-1925, 1-22-2019, eff. 2-1-2019)
3-1-17: COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAWS:
   A.   It shall be the duty of each licensee and registrant to comply with all
applicable Statutes of the State pertaining to the business, activity or
occupation, and failure to so comply shall be cause, in addition to other
causes set forth herein, for revocation of a Village issued business license of
such licensee failing to so comply.
   B.   All licensees and registrants under this chapter using scales and
devices in their businesses shall comply with all applicable Statutes of the
State dealing with weights and measures, and all such devices requiring
certification by the State must at all times bear such certification. A
violation of this subsection shall be cause for revoking the license of such
licensee. (Ord. 08-1517, 11-11-2008)
3-1-18: INSPECTIONS AND ANALYSES:
   A.   Wherever inspections of the premises, vehicles, equipment or methods of
operation used in conducting a licensed business, occupation or activity are
authorized or required by this chapter or are reasonably necessary to secure
compliance with any provision hereof or to detect violations hereof, it shall
be the duty of the licensee or person in charge of such premises, vehicles,
equipment or methods of operation to permit, at any reasonable time, any
officer or employee of the Village who is authorized or directed to make such
inspections to be admitted to such premises to have access to such vehicles or
equipment and to observe such methods of operation for the purpose of making
said inspections.
   B.   Whenever an analysis of any commodity or material is reasonably
necessary to secure conformance with any provision of this chapter or to detect
violations hereof, it shall be the duty of the licensee, upon request, to give
any authorized officer or employee of the Village requesting the same
sufficient samples of such material or commodity for such analysis.
   C.   In addition to any other penalty which may be provided, the Village
President may revoke the license of any licensee who refuses to permit any such
officer or employee to make such inspections or take such samples of materials
or commodities or who interferes with such officer or employee while in the
performance of this duty in making such inspections; provided, however, that no
license shall be revoked for such cause unless written demand is made upon the
licensee or person in charge of the premises, in the name of the Village,
stating that such inspection or sample is desired at the time it is sought to
make the inspection or to obtain the sample.
   D.   Wherever inspections of the premises, vehicles, equipment used in
conducting a registered business or occupation are reasonably necessary to
verify compliance with fire protection, zoning and building regulations, the
registrant or person in charge of such premises, vehicles, or equipment shall
permit, at any reasonable time, any officer or employee of the Village who is
authorized or directed to make such inspections to be admitted to such premises
or to have access to such vehicles or equipment for the purpose of making said
inspections. (Ord. 08-1517, 11-11-2008)
3-1-19: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE:
If the Chief Building Official or any official of the Village shall have cause
to believe that a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter have
occurred which would be grounds for revocation, suspension or refusal to renew
a license, a written notice shall be sent to the last known place of business
of the licensee informing of the alleged violations, what action will be taken
if the licensee does not respond within ten (10) days of the date of the letter
and giving an opportunity to have a hearing before the President and Board of
Trustees. In the event a situation exists that is dangerous to the health,
safety and welfare of the citizenry, the said inspector shall apply to the
President for an immediate order suspending the license. A letter shall be sent
advising of the action taken, why it was taken and that it will be a permanent
action unless within ten (10) days the licensee should apply for a hearing
before the President and Board of Trustees seeking reinstatement of the
privileges. (1994 Code; amd. Ord. 20-1982, 8-25-2020)
3-1-20: ENFORCEMENT:
It shall be the duty of the head of the department or official of the Village
charged with the enforcement of any regulatory provision of this chapter, other
than the mere procurement of a license, to take such action to the extent
permitted by law as shall be necessary to compel compliance with said
regulatory provision. Such department head or official shall have authority to
call upon the Police Department for aid in the enforcement of said regulatory
provision, and it shall be the duty of the Chief of Police, when called upon,
to act according to the instructions of such department head or official and to
perform such duties as may be required of him in order to enforce or put into
effect said regulatory provision. (Ord. 08-1517, 11-11-2008)
3-1-21: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate the provisions of this title shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day the violation continues shall be considered a
separate violation. For failure to apply for a required license or registration
and/or failure to pay a required license or registration fee, the Village shall
send notice of the violation via certified mail, return receipt requested, or
via hand delivery and shall inform the person in violation that they have
thirty (30) days in which to come into compliance; if the violation is not
cured within thirty (30) days after such notice is sent, then the fine shall be
the amount of the fee due and owing plus one hundred dollars ($100.00) and each
day after that in which the violation continues there shall be a fine of ten
dollars ($10.00) per day; these fines are in addition to any other penalty
allowed by Federal, State, County or local law, or otherwise provided in this
chapter. (Ord. 08-1517, 11-11-2008)
CHAPTER 2
OCCUPATION TAXES
SECTION:
3-2-1: Utilities Tax
3-2-2: Hotel And Motel Accommodations Tax
3-2-3: Utilities Tax; Electricity
3-2-4: Home Rule Municipal Retailers' And Service Occupation Taxes
3-2-5: Village Privilege Tax On The Purchase Of Motor Fuel
3-2-1: UTILITIES TAX:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section the following definitions
shall apply:
   GROSS RECEIPTS: The consideration received for the transmission of messages
or for distributing, supplying, furnishing or selling gas or electricity for
use or consumption and not for resale, as the case may be, and for all services
rendered in connection therewith valued in money, whether received in money or
otherwise, including cash, credit, services and property of every kind and
material and for all services rendered therewith deduction on account of the
cost of transmitting said messages, without any deduction on account of the
cost of the service, product or commodity supplied, the cost of materials used,
labor or service cost or any other expenses whatsoever.
   PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, municipal
corporation or political subdivision of this state or a receiver, trustee,
conservator or other representative appointed by order of any court.
   TRANSMITTING MESSAGES: In addition to the usual and popular meaning of
person to person communication, shall include the furnishing, for a
consideration, of services or facilities (whether owned or leased) or both to
persons in connection with the transmission of messages where such persons do
not, in turn, receive any consideration in connection therewith, but shall not
include such furnishing of services or facilities to persons for the
transmission of messages to the extent that any such service or facilities for
the transmission of messages are furnished for a consideration by such persons
to other persons for the transmission of messages. (Ord. 99-948, 7-13-1999)
   B.   Tax Imposed: A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the following
occupations or privileges:
      1.   Persons engaged in the business of transmitting messages by means of
electricity or radio magnetic waves, or fiber optics, at the rate of five
percent (5%) of the gross receipts from such business originating within the
corporate limits of Shorewood; provided however, that such tax shall not apply
to prepaid telephone calling arrangements as defined in section 2-27 of the
Illinois retailers occupation tax act;
      2.   Persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling gas for use or consumption within the corporate limits of
Shorewood, Illinois, and not for resale, at the rate of five percent (5%) of
the gross receipts therefrom. (Ord. 02-1091, 3-12-2002, eff. 5-1-2002)
   C.   Exemptions From Tax: No tax is imposed by this section with respect to
any transaction in interstate commerce or otherwise to the extent to which such
business may not, under the constitution and statutes of the United States, be
made subject to taxation by this state or any political subdivision thereof,
nor shall any persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling gas or electricity or engaged in the business of
transmitting messages be subject to taxation under the provisions of this
section for such transactions as are or may become subject to taxation under
the provisions of the "municipal retailer's occupation tax act" 1  authorized
by section 5/8-11-1 et seq., of the Illinois municipal code approved May 29,
1961, as amended 2 . (Ord. 99-948, 7-13-1999)
   D.   Tax Is Additional: Such tax shall be in addition to the payment of
money or value of products or services furnished to this municipality by the
taxpayer as compensation for the use of its streets, alleys or other public
places or installation and maintenance therein, thereon or thereunder of poles,
wires, pipes or other equipment used in the operation of the taxpayer's
business.
   E.   Tax Returns; Payment Of Tax:
      1.   On or before December 31, 1967, each taxpayer shall make a return to
the village treasurer for the months of August, September and October 1967,
stating:
         a.   His name.
         b.   His principal place of business.
         c.   His gross receipts during those months upon the basis of which
the tax is imposed.
         d.   Amount of tax.
         e.   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
      2.   On or before the last day of each third month thereafter, each
taxpayer shall make a like return to the village treasurer for each
corresponding three (3) month period.
      3.   The taxpayer making the return herein provided for shall, at the
time of making such return, pay to the village treasurer the amount of tax
herein imposed; provided, that in connection with any return, the taxpayer may,
if he so elects, report and pay an amount based upon his total billings of
business subject to the tax during the period for which the return is made
(exclusive of any amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of later
payments based upon any differences between such billings and the taxable gross
receipts.
   F.   Overpayments: If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid
which was not due under the provisions of this section, whether as the result
of a mistake of fact or any error of law, then such amount shall be credited
against any tax due, or to become due, under this section from the taxpayer who
made the erroneous payment; provided, that no amounts erroneously paid more
than three (3) years prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be so
credited.
   G.   Time Limit On Collection Of Tax: No action to recover any amount of tax
due under the provisions of this section shall be commenced more than three (3)
years after the due date of such amount.
   H.   Effect Of Provisions: This section shall take effect after publication,
and the tax provided for herein shall be based on the "gross receipts", as
herein defined, actually paid to the taxpayer for services billed on or after
August 1, 1967.
   I.   Violation And Penalty: Any taxpayer who fails to make a return or who
makes a fraudulent return or who wilfully violates any other provision of this
section is guilty of a violation of this title, and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code and, in addition, shall be liable in a civil action for the
amount of tax due. (Ord. 0-194, 7-23-1974, eff. 8-1-1974; amd. 1994 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
2 2. 65 ILCS.
3-2-2: HOTEL AND MOTEL ACCOMMODATIONS TAX:
   A.   Tax Established: There is hereby established a hotel and motel
accommodations tax in the village.
   B.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, whenever any of the
following words, terms or definitions are used herein, they shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
   DIRECTOR OF FINANCE OR DIRECTOR: The village administrator of the village of
Shorewood.
   HOTEL ACCOMMODATIONS; MOTEL ACCOMMODATIONS: A room or rooms in any building
or structure kept, used, maintained, advertised or held out to the public to be
an inn, motel, hotel, apartment hotel, lodging house, dormitory or place where
sleeping, rooming, office, conference or exhibition accommodations are
furnished for lease or rent, whether with or without meals.
   PERMANENT RESIDENT: Any normal person who occupies or has the right to
occupy any room or rooms in a hotel or motel for at least thirty (30)
consecutive days.
   PERSON: Any natural person, receiver, administrator, executor, conservator,
assignee, trust in perpetuity trust, estate, firm, copartnership, joint
venture, club, company, business trust, domestic or foreign corporation,
association, syndicate, society or any group of individuals acting as a unit,
whether mutual, cooperative, fraternal, nonprofit or otherwise. Whenever the
term "person" is used in any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the
term as applied to associations shall mean the owners or part-owners thereof,
and as applied to corporations, the officers thereof.
   C.   Tax Imposed; Exemption:
   1.   There is hereby imposed and shall immediately accrue and be a collected
a tax upon the rental or leasing of any hotel or motel accommodation in the
Village at the rate of ten percent (10 %) percent of the gross rental or
leasing charge.
      2.   The tax imposed under this section shall not apply to the renting or
leasing of any hotel or motel accommodations to permanent residents. If hotel
or motel accommodations are provided for both permanent residents and other
guests, the rental obtained from the permanent residents shall not be included
in the computation of the tax due.
   D.   Liability For Payment Of Tax: The ultimate incidence of and liability
for payment of said tax shall be borne by the lessee or tenant of any such
hotel or motel accommodations. The tax herein levied shall be in addition to
any and all other taxes, and it shall be the duty of every owner, manager or
operator of hotel and motel accommodations to secure said tax from the lessee
or tenant of said hotel or motel accommodations and pay over to the village
said tax under rules and regulations prescribed by the director of finance and
as otherwise provided by this section.
   E.   Collection Of Tax: The tax herein levied shall be secured by the hotel
owner, manager or operator from the lessee or tenant when collecting the price,
charge or rent to which it applies. Every lessee or tenant shall be given a
bill, invoice, receipt or other statement or memorandum of the price, charge or
rent payable upon which the hotel or motel accommodations tax shall be stated,
charged and shown separately.
   F.   Tax Return; Payment Of Tax: Every owner, manager or operator of a hotel
or motel accommodation within the Village shall file on a monthly basis with
the Finance Director a form prescribed by the Director showing tax receipts
collected with respect to the hotel or motel accommodation during the preceding
month. At the time of the filing, the owner, manager or operator of the hotel
or motel accommodation shall pay to the Village all taxes due with respect to
that month. The form shall be filed and the taxes paid on or before the 20th of
each month.
   G.   Failure To Pay Tax:
      1.    If for any reason the tax is not paid or required forms are not
filed on a timely basis, the Village shall proceed with the procedures as set
forth in Title 1 Chapter 13 (1-13-1 et. seq.) entitled "Locally Imposed and
Administered Tax Rights and Responsibilities".
      2.   The Finance Director may direct the Village Attorney to bring any
action necessary to enforce the payment and filing requirements of this
Section.
      3.   If the village administrator shall find that any person has wilfully
avoided payment of the tax imposed by this section, said administrator shall
cause a written notice to be sent to the last known place of business of such
licensee informing him that his village license will be suspended or revoked
within ten (10) days of the date of the notice unless the tax is paid in full.
If the taxpayer feels he has reason to protest such action, he shall be given
an opportunity to be heard before the president and board of trustees, such
hearing to be applied for, in writing, within ten (10) days of the date of the
notice of such license revocation or suspension. The village board shall set a
hearing date and time within thirty (30) days from the date of receiving the
request for hearing, and notify said aggrieved licensee of such hearing time
and date. The suspension or revocation of any license shall not release or
discharge the owner, manager or operator of hotel or motel accommodations from
his civil liability for the payment of the tax nor for prosecution of such
offense.
   H.   Records Kept: Every owner, manager or operator of hotel accommodations
in the village shall keep books and records showing the prices, rents or
charges made or charged and occupancies taxable under this section. The
director of finance or his designate shall, at all reasonable times, have full
access to said books and records.
   I.   Disposition Of Proceeds Of Tax: The proceedings resulting from the
imposition of the tax under this section shall be paid into treasury of the
Village and shall be credited to the Corporate Fund to be used for any lawful
purpose.
   J.   Penalties: Any person found guilty of violating, disobeying, omitting,
neglecting or refusing to comply with or resisting or opposing the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this section, except when otherwise specifically
provided, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 90-539, 5-8-1990; amd. 1994 Code; Ord. 01-1056, 6-12-
2001; Ord. 24-2102, 4-23-2024)
3-2-3: UTILITIES TAX; ELECTRICITY:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section the following definitions
shall apply:
   EXEMPT PURCHASER: A unit of local government or school district.
   PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint adventure, corporation, limited
liability company, municipal corporation, the state or any of its political
subdivisions, any state university created by statute, or a receiver, trustee,
conservator or other representative appointed by order of any court.
   PERSON MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE: Any person having or
maintaining within this state, directly or by a subsidiary or other affiliate,
an office, generation facility, distribution facility, transmission facility,
sales office or other place of business, or any employee, agent or other
representative operating within this state under the authority of the person or
its subsidiary or other affiliate, irrespective of whether such place of
business or agent or other representative is located in this state permanently
or temporarily, or whether such person, subsidiary or other affiliate is
licensed or qualified to do business in this state.
   PURCHASE AT RETAIL: Any acquisition of electricity by a purchaser for
purposes of use or consumption, and not for resale, but shall not include the
use of electricity by a public utility, as defined in section 8-11-2 of the
Illinois municipal code 1 , directly in the generation, production,
transmission, delivery or sale of electricity.
   PURCHASER: Any person who uses or consumes, within the corporate limits of
the village of Shorewood, electricity acquired in a purchase at retail, other
than an exempt purchaser.
   TAX COLLECTOR: The person delivering electricity to the purchaser. (Ord. 99-
942, 5-25-1999)
   B.   Tax Imposed: Pursuant to section 8-11-2 of the Illinois municipal code
2  and any and all other applicable authority, a tax is imposed upon the
privilege of using or consuming electricity acquired in a purchase at retail
and used or consumed within the corporate limits of the village of Shorewood at
the following rates, calculated on a monthly basis for each purchaser:
      1.   For the first 2,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month;
0.559 cents per kilowatt-hour;
      2.   For the next 48,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month;
0.375 cents per kilowatt-hour;
      3.   For the next 50,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month;
0.363 cents per kilowatt-hour;
      4.   For the next 400,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month;
0.254 cents per kilowatt-hour;
      5.   For the next 500,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month;
0.225 cents per kilowatt-hour;
      6.   For the next 2,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month;
0.200 cents per kilowatt-hour;
      7.   For the next 2,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month;
0.175 cents per kilowatt-hour;
      8.   For the next 5,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month;
0.150 cents per kilowatt-hour;
      9.   For the next 10,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month;
0.125 cents per kilowatt-hour; and
      10.   For all electricity used or consumed in excess of 20,000,000
kilowatt-hours in a month; 0.100 cents per kilowatt-hour. (Ord. 02-1090, 3-12-
2002, eff. 5-1-2002)
   C.   Tax Is Additional: Such tax is in addition to all taxes, fees, and
other revenue measures imposed by the village, the state or any other political
subdivision in the state.
   D.   Effective Date: The tax shall be imposed with respect to the use or
consumption of electricity by residential customers beginning with the first
bill issued on or after August 1, 1999; and with respect to the use or
consumption of electricity by nonresidential customers beginning with the first
bill issued to such customers for delivery services in accordance with section
16-104 of the public utilities act 3 , or the first bill issued to such
customers on or after January 1, 2001, whichever issuance occurs sooner.
   E.   Constitutional Provisions: Notwithstanding any other provision of this
Section, the tax shall not be imposed if and to the extent that imposition or
correction of the tax would violate the Constitution or statutes of the United
States or the constitution of the State of Illinois.
   F.   Collection:
      1.   Subject to the provisions of subsection H of this Section regarding
the delivery of electricity to resellers, the tax imposed under this Section
shall be collected from purchasers by the person maintaining a place of
business in this State who delivers electricity to such purchasers. This tax
shall constitute a debt of the purchaser to the person who delivers the
electricity to the purchaser and is recoverable at the same time and in the
same manner as the original charge for delivering the electricity.
      2.   Any tax required to be collected by this Section, and any tax in
fact collected, shall constitute a debt owed to the Village by the person
delivering the electricity, provided, that the person delivering electricity
shall be allowed credit for such tax related to deliveries of electricity, the
charges for which are written off as uncollectible, and provided further, that
if such charges are thereafter collected, the delivering supplier shall be
obligated to remit such tax.
      3.   Persons delivering electricity shall collect the tax from the
purchaser by adding such tax to the gross charge for delivering the
electricity. Persons delivering electricity shall also be authorized to add to
such gross charge an amount equal to three percent (3%) of the tax they collect
to reimburse them for their expenses incurred in keeping records, billing
customers, preparing and filing returns, remitting the tax and supplying data
to the Village upon request. For purposes of this Chapter, any partial payment
of a billed amount not specifically identified by the purchaser shall be deemed
to be for the delivery of electricity.
   G.   Remittance And Return:
      1.   Every tax collector shall on a monthly basis file a return in a form
prescribed by the Village Administrator. The return and accompanying remittance
shall be due on or before the last day of the month following the month during
which the tax is collected or is required to be collected under subsection F of
this Section.
      2.   If the person delivering electricity fails to collect the tax from
the purchaser or is excused from collecting the tax under subsection H5 of this
Section, then the purchaser shall file a return in a form prescribed by the
Village Administrator and pay the tax directly to the Village on or before the
last day of the month following the month during which the electricity is used
or consumed.
   H.   Resales:
      1.   Electricity that is delivered to a person in the Village shall be
considered to be for use and consumption by that person unless the person
receiving the electricity has an active resale number issued by the Village
Administrator and furnishes that number to the person who delivers the
electricity, and certifies to that person that the sale is either entirely or
partially nontaxable as a sale for resale.
      2.   If a person who receives electricity in the Village claims to be an
authorized reseller of electricity, that person shall apply to the Village
Administrator for a resale number. The applicant shall state facts showing why
it is not liable for the tax imposed by this Section on any purchases of
electricity and shall furnish such additional information as the Village
Administrator may reasonably require.
      3.   Upon approval of the application, the Village Administrator shall
assign a resale number to the applicant and shall certify the number to the
applicant.
      4.   The Village Administrator may cancel the resale number of any person
if the person fails to pay any tax payable under this Section for electricity
used or consumed by the person, or if the number: a) was obtained through
misrepresentation, or b) is no longer necessary because the person has
discontinued making resales.
      5.   a. If a reseller has acquired electricity partly for use or
consumption and partly for resale, the reseller shall pay the tax imposed by
this Section directly to the Village Administrator pursuant to subsection G2 of
this Section on the amount of electricity that the reseller uses or consumes
and shall collect the tax pursuant to subsection F of this Section and remit
the tax pursuant to subsection G1 of this Section on the amount of electricity
delivered by the reseller to a purchaser.
         b.   Any person who delivers electricity to a reseller having an
active resale number and complying with all other conditions of this subsection
shall be excused from collecting and remitting the tax on any portion of the
electricity delivered to the reseller, provided that the person reports to the
Village Administrator the total amount of electricity delivered to the
reseller, and such information that the Village Administrator may reasonably
require.
   I.   Books And Records: Every tax collector and every taxpayer required to
pay the tax imposed by this Section, shall keep accurate books and records of
its business or activity, including contemporaneous books and records denoting
the transactions that gave rise, or may have given rise, to any tax liability
under this Section. The books and records shall be subject to and available for
inspection at all times during business hours of the day.
   J.   Credits And Refunds: Notwithstanding any other provision of this
Section, in order to permit sound fiscal planning and budgeting by the Village,
no person shall be entitled to a refund of, or credit for, a tax imposed under
this Section unless the person files a claim for refund or credit within one
year after the date on which the tax was paid or remitted.
   K.   Overpayment And Credit: If a taxpayer under this Section is unable to
use a credit authorized by this Section solely because the tax imposed by this
Section has been replaced by the tax imposed under the kilowatt hour tax, then
the taxpayer may apply such credits against any tax due under the kilowatt hour
tax. (Ord. 99-942, 5-25-1999)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2.
2 1. 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2.
3 1. 220 ILCS 5/16-104.
3-2-4: HOME RULE MUNICIPAL RETAILERS' AND SERVICE OCCUPATION TAXES:
   A.   Home Rule Municipal Retailers' Occupation Tax Imposed: Effective
January 1, 2016, a tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the
business of selling tangible personal property, other than an item of tangible
personal property titled or registered with an agency of the state of Illinois,
at retail in the village of Shorewood at the rate of 1.75 percent (1.75%) on
the gross receipts from these sales made in the course of such business. Such
"home rule municipal retailers' occupation tax" shall not be applicable to the
sales of food for human consumption that is to be consumed off the premises
where it is sold (other than alcoholic beverages, soft drinks and food that has
been prepared for immediate consumption) and prescription and nonprescription
medicines, drugs, medical appliances and insulin, urine testing materials,
syringes and needles used by diabetics. The imposition of this home rule tax is
pursuant to the provisions of section 8-11-1 of the Illinois municipal code 1 .
   B.   Home Rule Municipal Service Occupation Tax Imposed: Effective January
1, 2016, a tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the village of
Shorewood in the business of making sales of service, at the rate of 1.75
percent (1.75%) of the selling price of all tangible personal property
transferred by such serviceman, either in the form of tangible personal
property or in the form of real estate, as an incident to a sale of service.
Such "home rule municipal service occupation tax" shall not be applicable to
the sales of food for human consumption which is to be consumed off the
premises where it is sold (other than alcoholic beverages, soft drinks and food
which has been prepared for immediate consumption) and prescription and
nonprescription medicines, drugs, medical appliances and insulin, urine testing
materials, and syringes and needles used by diabetics. The imposition of this
home rule tax is pursuant to the provisions of section 8-11-5 of the Illinois
municipal code 2 .
   C.   Collection By State: The taxes hereby imposed and all civil penalties
that may be assessed as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by
the department of revenue of the state of Illinois. (Ord. 15-1789, 8-11-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/8-11-1, as amended.
2 1. 65 ILCS 5/8-11-5, as amended.
3-2-5: VILLAGE PRIVILEGE TAX ON THE PURCHASE OF MOTOR FUEL:
   A.   Entitlement: This subchapter shall be known and cited as the "Village
Privilege Tax on the Purchase of Motor Fuel at Retail Subchapter" and the tax
herein imposed shall be known as the "Village Privilege Tax on the Purchase of
Motor Fuel."
   B.   Definitions: For purposes of this chapter, the following words and
phrases shall have the following meanings:
   DIESEL FUEL: A motor fuel used for internal combustion in diesel engines.
   MOTOR FUEL: All volatile and inflammable liquids produced, blended, or
compounded for the purpose of, or which are suitable or practicable for,
operating motor vehicles.
   PERSON: Any natural person, receiver, administrator, executor, conservator,
assignee, trust in perpetuity, trust, estate, firm, partnership, joint venture,
club, company, business trust, domestic or foreign corporation, association,
syndicate, society or any group of individuals acting as a unit, whether
mutual, cooperative, fraternal, nonprofit or otherwise. Whenever the term
PERSON is used in any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the term as
applied to associations shall mean the owners or part owners thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers thereof.
   PURCHASER: Any natural person, receiver, administrator, executor,
conservator, assignee, trust in perpetuity, trust, estate, firm, partnership,
joint venture, club, company, business trust, domestic or foreign corporation,
association, syndicate, society or any group of individuals acting as a unit,
whether mutual, cooperative, fraternal, nonprofit or otherwise, but does not
include any unit of local government.
   RETAIL: The sale for any good and valuable consideration to a person for use
as a consumer.
   RETAILER: Any person, firm or corporation engaged in the business of selling
Motor Fuel or Diesel Fuel at retail, and not for resale.
   C.   Tax Imposed. There is hereby imposed and levied within the Village a
tax upon the retail purchase of Motor Fuel at the rate of five cents ($0.05)
per gallon and Diesel Fuel at the rate of eight cents ($0.08) per gallon. This
tax shall be in addition to any and all other taxes.
   D.   Liability For Payment. The ultimate incidence and liability for payment
of such tax shall be upon the retail Purchaser of motor fuel. Nothing herein
shall be construed to impose a tax upon the occupation of selling motor fuel.
It shall be the duty of every Retailer to secure the tax from each Purchaser
and pay over to the Village the tax under rules and regulations prescribed by
the Village Administrator and as otherwise provided in this subchapter.
   E.   Collection Of Tax. Every Retailer required to collect the tax levied by
this subchapter shall secure the tax from the Purchaser at the time they
collect payment for the fuel.
   F.   Filing Of Return. On the 20th day of each month the Retailer shall
transmit a report of sale of motor fuel in the previous month to the village
using the Illinois Department of Revenue's Sales and Use Tax Form - ST-1 and
any such other forms, and in such manner, as prescribed by the Village
Administrator. Each report of sale of motor fuel shall be accompanied by a
remittance of the appropriate amount of tax applicable to the sale reported.
   G.   Rules And Regulations. The Village Administrator may promulgate rules
and regulations not inconsistent with the provisions of this subchapter
concerning the enforcement and application of this subchapter. The term "Rules
and Regulations" includes, but is not limited to, a case by case determination
of whether or not the tax imposed herein applies.
   In addition, this Chapter shall be applied and enforced in accordance with
the provisions of the Village's Locally Imposed and Administered Tax Rights and
Responsibility Ordinance, Title 1, Chapter 13, as applicable.
   H.   Failure To Pay Tax. If for any reason any tax is not paid when due, the
Retailer shall pay a penalty as provided in the Village's Locally Imposed and
Administered Tax Rights and Responsibility Ordinance, Title 1, Chapter 13,
Section
1-13-11.
   I.   Records.
      1.   Each Retailer shall keep books and/or records which minimally
include:
         a.   The number of gallons of motor fuel sold at retail each day in
the village; and
         b.   The actual motor fuel tax collected for each day.
      2.   The Village Administrator or his/her designate shall at all
reasonable times have full access to the records.
      3.   To protect the Retailer's right to privacy, the financial records of
any Retailer submitted pursuant to this subchapter or any rule and regulation
promulgated hereunder shall not be available for public inspection.
      4.   The records required by this section shall state separately the
number of gallons of Diesel Fuel and the number of gallons of other Motor Fuels
sold at retail each day in the Village.
   J.   Suspension Or Revocation Of License For Failure To Pay Tax; Hearing. If
after a hearing, as provided herein, the Village President finds that any
person has willfully avoided payment of the tax imposed by this subchapter, the
President may suspend or revoke all village licenses held by such person. The
Village President shall provide written notice to the Retailer of any hearing
to be conducted pursuant to this subchapter, the notice shall be mailed by
regular mail not less than five business days prior to the hearing date and
shall be addressed to the Retailer's last known place of business. The Retailer
shall have an opportunity to be heard at such hearing and may be represented by
Counsel. The suspension or revocation of any license shall be in addition to
and not in lieu of any action to recover monies due the village or prosecution
under village ordinances.
   K.   Disposition Of Proceeds Of Tax. All proceeds resulting from the
imposition of the tax under this subchapter, including penalties, shall be paid
into the treasury of the village and shall be expended only for those purposes
authorized by the Safe Roads Amendment to the Illinois Constitution, Article
IX, Section 11. (Ord. 20-1968, 3-10-2020)
CHAPTER 3
LIQUOR CONTROL
SECTION:
3-3-1: Interpretation
3-3-2: Definitions
3-3-3: Local Liquor Control Commissioner
3-3-4: License And Compliance Required
3-3-5: Application For License
3-3-6: Restrictions On Issuance Of License
3-3-7: Classification Of Licenses And Live Entertainment Restrictions
3-3-8: Issuance Of License And Determination Of The Number, Classification And
Fees
3-3-9: Number Of Licenses; Fees
3-3-10: Term Of License; Fee Adjustments, Rebates And Disposition
3-3-11: License Renewals
3-3-12: Nontransferability Of License
3-3-13: Closing Hours
3-3-14: Conditions Of License; Conduct Of Business
3-3-15: Building And Location Restrictions
3-3-16: Sanitary Conditions
3-3-17: Liquor Sales On Public Property; Fairs
3-3-18: Sales To Certain Persons Prohibited; Minors
3-3-19: Fashion Shows, Adult Entertainment And Sale Of Clothing Prohibited
3-3-20: Record Of Licenses
3-3-21: Entry Powers
3-3-22: Suspension Or Revocation Of License
3-3-23: Appeal And Review
3-3-24: Penalties
3-3-25: Tasting Of Alcoholic Liquors
3-3-26: Sealing And Removal Of Open Wine Bottles From A Restaurant
3-3-27: Delivery And Carry Out Permitted For Licensees Holding B, B-1, B-2 and
B-3 Licenses
3-3-1: INTERPRETATION:
This chapter shall be liberally construed, to the end that the health, safety
and welfare of the inhabitants of the village shall be protected and temperance
in the consumption of alcoholic liquor shall be fostered and promoted by sound
and careful control and regulation of the sale and distribution of alcoholic
liquors. (Ord. 09-1561, 11-24-2009, eff. 1-1-2010)
3-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context otherwise requires, the words and phrases herein defined are
used in this chapter in the sense given them in the following definitions:
   ALCOHOL: The product distillation of any fermented liquid whether rectified
or diluted, whatever may be the origin thereof, and includes ethyl alcohol. It
does not include denatured alcohol or wood alcohol.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR AND ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES: Includes alcohol, spirits, wine,
beer, ale and every other liquid or solid containing more than one-half (1/2)
of one percent (1%) of alcohol by volume which is capable of being consumed as
a beverage by human beings.
   APPLICANT: Includes any natural person or business entity which requests a
license hereunder and any natural person or business entity which owns more
than five percent (5%) of any business entity which requests such license.
   BAR: A counter over and upon which alcoholic drinks are prepared from the
area where consumers of alcoholic beverages sit or stand to receive and/or
consume such beverages.
   BEER: Any beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
concoction of barley or other grain, malt and hops in water and includes, among
other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter and the like.
   CLUB: An organization, association, corporation or other entity organized
under the laws of this state, not for pecuniary profit, solely for the
promotion of some common object other than the sale and consumption of
alcoholic liquors kept, used, and maintained by its members through the payment
of annual dues, and owning, hiring or leasing a building or space in a building
of such extent and character as may be suitable and adequate for the reasonable
and comfortable use and accommodation of its members and their guests and
provided with suitable and adequate kitchen and dining room space and equipment
and maintaining a sufficient number of servants and employees for cooking,
preparing and serving food and meals for its members and guests; provided, that
such "club" files with the village president at the time of its application for
a license under this chapter two (2) copies of a list of names and residences
of its members and similarly files within ten (10) days of the election of any
additional member of his name and address; and provided, that its affairs and
management are conducted by a board of directors, executive committee or
similar body chosen by the members at their annual meeting, and that no member
or any officer, agent or employee of the "club" is paid or directly receives,
in the form of salary or other compensation, any profits from the distribution
or sale of alcoholic liquor to the club or its members or its guests introduced
by members beyond the amount of such salary as may be fixed and voted at any
annual meeting of the members or by its board of directors or other governing
body out of the general revenue of the club.
   GIFT BASKET: A decorative gift container which may be constructed of wood,
metal, plastic, woven rope, decorative paper or plastic bag or such similar
material the purpose of which is to hold the gift bottle arrangement.
   HOTEL OR MOTEL: Every building or other structure kept, used, maintained,
advertised and held out to the public to be a place where food is actually
served and consumed and sleeping accommodations are offered for adequate pay to
the traveler and guests, whether transient, permanent or residential, in which
twenty five (25) or more rooms are used for the sleeping accommodations and
including rooms being conducted in the same building or buildings, structure or
structures being provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room
equipment and capacity.
   LICENSED PREMISES: The building, portion of the building, place or location
described in a local liquor license/permit where alcoholic liquor may be
stored, displayed, consumed, or offered for sale by the licensee, pursuant to
the terms of their license/permit. Not included in this definition are
sidewalks, streets, parking areas and grounds adjacent to any such building,
place or location unless approved as a Class G or L License.
   LICENSEE: Any person, firm, corporation, partnership or club holding a
license under the provisions of this chapter.
   LIVE ENTERTAINMENT: A performance of music, vaudeville, acting, singing,
dancing, including dancing contests, playing an instrument, disc jockey, and/or
offering karaoke or otherwise performing in person, whether the same be for
compensation or not. Live entertainment does not include playing prerecorded
music through a jukebox, radio, satellite or digital reception, or television
programming.
   LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER: An office held by the village president.
As used in this chapter, reference to the liquor control commissioner includes
any person who may be appointed by the village president to serve as a
designated agent of the liquor control commissioner.
   OUTING: A temporary event at which alcoholic liquor is sold or offered for
sale for consumption only on the dates and only at the location designated on
the special event retail liquor license.
   RESTAURANT: Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out
to the public primarily as a place where meals are served, where meals are
served as the primary business purpose, where there are no sleeping
accommodations, where there is adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room
space and equipment, where dining capacity equals at least three-fourths (3/4)
of the square footage of floor space accessible to the general public, where
there are a sufficient number of employees to prepare, cook and serve suitable
meals to its guests, and where the sale of alcoholic liquor is incidental to
the sale of meals for consumption on the premises.
   SELL AT RETAIL AND SALE AT RETAIL: Refer to sales for use and consumption
and not for resale in any form.
   SELL/SALE: Any transfer, exchange or barter in any manner or by any means
whatsoever for a consideration and includes all sales made by any person
whether principal, proprietor, agent, servant or employee.
   SERVICE BAR: A counter over and upon which any alcoholic liquor is served
separating the area within which alcoholic liquor drinks are prepared from the
area where a waitress or other employee of the dramshop receives said alcoholic
liquor for delivery to customers seated at tables or elsewhere within the
dramshop.
   SPIRITS: Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by distillation, mixed
with water or other substance in solution, and includes brandy, rum, whiskey,
gin, or other spirituous liquors, and such liquors when rectified, blended or
otherwise mixed with alcohol or other substances.
   TO SELL: Includes a sale, to solicit or receive an order for or keep or
expose for sale and to keep with intent to sell.
   WINE: Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
contents of fruits or vegetables containing sugar, including such beverages
when fortified by the addition of alcohol or spirits, as defined in the
Illinois liquor control act of 1934 1  (the "liquor control act"). (Ord. 09-
1561, 11-24-2009, eff. 1-1-2010; Ord. 19-1444, - - 2019)
 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS 5/1-3.01 et seq.
3-3-3: LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER:
The village president is hereby designated the local liquor control
commissioner and is charged with the administration of the liquor control act,
as the same now exists or may be hereafter amended, and of such ordinances and
resolutions relating to alcoholic liquor as may be adopted by the village. The
local liquor control commissioner shall have such obligations, power and
authority as are prescribed by such liquor control act and the ordinances of
the village. The village president may appoint a person or persons to assist
him in the exercise of the power and performances of the duties provided for
such local liquor control commissioner. (Ord. 09-1561, 11-24-2009, eff. 1-1-
2010)
3-3-4: LICENSE AND COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale, at retail, in
the village any alcoholic liquor without having a liquor license, or in
violation of the terms of such license or in violation of the provisions of
this chapter. (Ord. 09-1561, 11-24-2009, eff. 1-1-2010)
3-3-5: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Application Form: Any application for a liquor license shall be made on
a form as prescribed by the local liquor commissioner.
   B.   Fingerprints Required; Application Fee: Every application for license
made pursuant to this chapter shall be accompanied by a set of inked
fingerprints of each individual required to be investigated on a form as may,
from time to time, be prescribed by the liquor control commissioner and an
application fee in the amount of fifty six dollars ($56.00) for each person
fingerprinted.
   C.   Consent To Investigation: Every applicant and individual listed on such
application for license shall be deemed, upon the filing of an application
required herein, to have consented and authorized the chief of police or his
designee to make an investigation of the statements made in such application.
Each such applicant shall submit an authorization and release in the following
form with the application:
The undersigned applicant for a retail liquor license in the Village of
Shorewood, Will County, Illinois, do(es) hereby authorize the Liquor Control
Commissioner of said Village to make or cause to be made an investigation of
the statements made in the application, including the submission of information
to such agencies as may be necessary for an investigation of the applicant's
criminal history.
The undersigned do(es) hereby release the Liquor Control Commissioner, the
Village of Shorewood, its Trustees, employees and agents from any and all
claims, actions and causes of action which result or may result from said
investigation or the utilization of such information in the evaluation of the
application for license.
(Ord. 09-1561, 11-24-2009, eff. 1-1-2010)
3-3-6: RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
   A.   No such license shall be issued to:
      1.   A natural person who is not a resident of the village.
      2.   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the
community in which he resides.
      3.   A person who is not a citizen of the United States unless such
prohibition is prohibited by the federal law or the United States constitution.
      4.   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any federal or
state law unless the liquor control commissioner determines that such person
has been sufficiently rehabilitated to warrant the public trust after
considering matters set forth in such person's application and the
commissioner's investigation. The burden of proof of sufficient rehabilitation
is on the applicant.
      5.   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper of or is keeping
a house of ill fame.
      6.   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality.
      7.   A person whose license issued under the laws of the state or this
chapter has been revoked for cause.
      8.   A person who, at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder, would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application.
      9.   A copartnership unless all of the members owning at least five
percent (5%) of such copartnership shall be qualified to obtain a license for
any reason other than residency in the village.
      10.   A corporation or limited liability company if any member, officer,
manager or director thereof, or any stockholder or stockholders owning in the
aggregate more than five percent (5%) of the stock of such corporation, would
not be eligible to receive a license hereunder for any reason other than
citizenship and residence within the village.
      11.   A corporation unless it is incorporated in Illinois or unless it is
a foreign corporation which is qualified under the Illinois business
corporation act 1  to transact business in Illinois.
      12.   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent
unless the manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required by the
licensee.
      13.   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or
state law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor
subsequent to the effective date hereof or has forfeited his bond to appear in
court to answer charges for any such violations.
      14.   A person who does not beneficially own the premises for which a
license is sought or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for
which the license is to be issued.
      15.   A person who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be
operated by the licensee.
      16.   A person who has been convicted of a gambling offense as proscribed
by any of subsections (a)(3) through (a)(11) of section 5/28-1, or as
proscribed by section 5/28-3 of the Illinois criminal code 2 , as heretofore or
hereafter amended or as proscribed by a statute replaced by or replacing any of
the aforesaid statutory provisions.
      17.   A person or entity to whom a federal wagering stamp has been issued
by the federal government unless the person or entity is eligible to be issued
a license under the Illinois raffles act or the Illinois pull tabs and jar
games act or other state law.
      18.   Any person or entity which does not present evidence of dramshop
insurance, in the form of a certificate of insurance, issued by an insurance
company authorized to do business in Illinois and insuring the applicant, and
the owner or lessor of the premises, in at least the amounts recoverable under
the Illinois liquor control act. Further, said certificate of insurance must
contain an affirmative statement that the village will be notified upon the
cancellation, revocation, or suspension of said policy of insurance.
      19.   Any applicant not eligible for a state issued liquor license.
      20.   Any applicant who has not submitted a copy of all fingerprints and
the total fingerprinting and background check fee required by this chapter.
      21.   Any applicant who has failed to provide information or
documentation required pursuant to the application or requested by the liquor
control commissioner, provided false or misleading information, or who has
attempted to obstruct the village's gathering of information during the review,
investigation, and/or processing of the application.
      22.   When issuing such license would be detrimental to the public
health, safety or welfare.
      23.   Any law enforcing public official, including any president of the
village board of trustees, any member of the village board of trustees or other
person prohibited by the liquor control act and no such official shall have a
direct interest in the manufacture, sale, or distribution of alcoholic liquor,
except that a license may be granted to such official in relation to premises
that are not located within the village and a member of a village board of
trustees other than the president may have direct interest in the manufacture,
sale, or distribution of alcoholic liquor as long as he or she does not
participate in meetings, hearings, or decisions on matters impacting the
manufacture, sale, or distribution of alcoholic liquor.
   B.   No license shall be issued for the purpose of selling or offering for
sale, at retail, any intoxicating liquor in any dwelling, house, flat or
apartment building. (Ord. 09-1561, 11-24-2009, eff. 1-1-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. 805 ILCS 5/1.01.
2 1. 720 ILCS.
3-3-7: CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSES AND LIVE ENTERTAINMENT RESTRICTIONS:
Liquor licenses shall be divided into the following classes. Every person
engaged in the retail sale of alcoholic liquor in the village shall pay an
annual license fee based on the license classification as follows: (Ord. 09-
1561, 11-24-2009, eff. 1-1-2010)
Class A   Tavern permitting live entertainment
Class A-1 Tavern prohibiting live entertainment
Class B   Restaurants with bar serving spirits; live entertainment prohibited
Class B-1 Restaurants with bar serving beer and wine only
Class B-2 Restaurants without bar serving alcoholic liquor; live entertainment
          prohibited
Class B-3 Restaurant or tavern with banquet facilities permitting live
          entertainment
Class C   Banquet facilities permitting live entertainment
Class D   Full service package liquor store
Class D-1 Package liquor store: beer and wine only
Class E   Club license
Class F   Wine and champagne basket sales
Class G   Outing permits
Class H   Tasting room selling beer and wine only
Class I   Live entertainment
Class J   Salon selling beer and wine only
Class K   Craft beer and wine sales
Class L   Outdoor patio; live entertainment prohibited
Class M   Sale of alcohol for off-premises consumption license
 
   A.   Class A - Tavern Permitting Live Entertainment: Class A licenses shall
authorize the retail sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption upon the
specified premises at or over a bar, a service bar and/or at tables. Live
entertainment is not permitted without a Class I license.
   B.   Class A-1 - Tavern Prohibiting Entertainment: Class A-1 licenses shall
authorize the retail sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption upon the
specified premises at or over a bar, a service bar and/or at tables. Live
entertainment is expressly prohibited.
   C.   Class B - Restaurants With Bar Serving Spirits; Live Entertainment
Prohibited: Class B licenses shall authorize the retail sale upon the specified
premises of alcoholic liquor in conjunction with the operation of a restaurant.
Sales at or over a bar, service bar and/or at tables are permitted. Live
entertainment is expressly prohibited.
   D.   Class B-1 - Restaurants With Bar Serving Beer And Wine Only: Class B-
1 licenses shall authorize the retail sale of beer and wine in conjunction with
a restaurant. The sale of alcoholic beverages other than beer and wine is
expressly prohibited. The sale of any alcoholic beverages across a bar and the
sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption off the premises (carryouts) are
expressly prohibited. A service bar(s) is permitted.
   E.   Class B-2 - Restaurants Without Bar Serving Alcoholic Liquor At Tables;
Live Entertainment Prohibited: Class B-2 licenses shall authorize the retail
sale of alcoholic liquor in conjunction with a restaurant. The sale of
alcoholic beverages across a bar or the sale of alcoholic beverages for
consumption off the premises (carryouts) is expressly prohibited. Live
entertainment is expressly prohibited. A service bar or service bars is
permitted.
   F.   Class B-3 - Restaurant Or Tavern With Indoor Banquet Facilities
Permitting Live Entertainment: Class B-3 licenses shall authorize the retail
sale and dispensing of alcoholic liquor for consumption within the building of
the licensed premises at or over a bar or bars, service bar or bars and at
tables in businesses operating as a tavern or restaurant with banquet
facilities for private parties scheduled in advance including, but not limited
to, wedding receptions, political and charitable fundraisers, club gatherings,
bowling and other sports banquets, anniversary parties, reunions, holiday
parties, appreciation gatherings, company parties and similar events. Live
entertainment is permitted without the necessity of obtaining an additional
Class I license, however, licensee must comply with the noise regulations and
separation requirements set forth below for a Class I license. Public customer
parking for the licensed facilities must be strictly controlled by the licensee
and limited exclusively to a private parking lot owned or operated by the
licensee. No parking on the street or neighborhood parking is permitted.
   G.   Class C - Banquet Facilities Permitting Live Entertainment: Class C
licenses shall authorize the retail sale and dispensing of alcoholic liquor for
consumption upon the specified premises at or over a bar or bars, service bar
or bars and/or at tables for businesses operating as banquet facilities only
for private parties scheduled in advance including, but not limited to, wedding
receptions, political and charity fundraisers, club gatherings, bowling and
other sports banquets, anniversary parties, reunions, holiday parties,
appreciation gatherings, company parties and the like. Live entertainment is
permitted without the necessity of obtaining an additional Class I license,
however, licensee must comply with the noise regulations and separation
requirements set forth below for a Class I license.
   H.   Class D - Full Service Package Liquor Store: Class D licenses shall
authorize the retail sale of alcoholic liquor in their original package, with
seals unbroken, for consumption at places other than upon the licensed
premises. The consumption of alcoholic beverages upon such premises is
expressly prohibited. Alcoholic liquor shall not be sold or delivered through a
drive-through window.
   I.   Class D-1 - Package Liquor Store Selling Beer And Wine Only: Class D-
1 licenses shall authorize the sale of beer and wine in their original packages
with seals unbroken for consumption at places other than upon the licensed
premises. The sale of alcoholic beverages other than beer and wine is expressly
prohibited. Alcoholic liquor shall not be sold or delivered through a drive-
through window.
   J.   Class E - Club License: Class E licenses shall authorize the retail
sale of alcoholic liquor on the specified premises of, and for sale by, a club,
to members of the club, to not for profit organizations which are conducting
dances or other public gatherings upon the premises and to such organizations'
invitees, to private persons conducting private gatherings and their invitees.
The sale of alcoholic beverages to members of the general public is expressly
forbidden.
   K.   Class F - Wine/Champagne Basket Sales License: Class F licenses shall
authorize the retail sale of bottled wine or champagne to be sold exclusively
as part of an arrangement in a gift basket. A Class F license shall only be
issued to persons who can demonstrate that they are operating a bona fide wine/
champagne gift basket business. The wine and champagne shall be sold in sealed
packages only and consumption on the premises where sold is not permitted.
   L.   Class G - Outing Permits: Class G licenses shall authorize the
temporary retail sale of alcoholic beverages only on the date and at the place
specified in the outing permit. Each outing license shall be valid for a period
of time between one (1) and three (3) days, and the number of days shall be
specified on the outing permit. Outings include, but are not limited to,
picnics, festivals, fundraisers, tournaments, sporting events, fairs, rallies,
off premises events for holders of other classes of licenses, and other special
events, whether public or private, at which alcoholic liquor is sold. (Ord. 09-
1561, 11-24-2009, eff. 1-1-2010)
   M.   Class H - Tasting Room Selling Beer And Wine Only: Class H licenses
shall authorize the sale of beer and wine in their original packages with seals
unbroken for consumption at places other than upon the licensed premises. It
shall also authorize the service of wine and beer for consumption upon the
licensed premises. The sale of alcoholic beverages other than beer and wine is
expressly prohibited. Alcoholic liquor shall not be sold or delivered through a
drive-through window. (Ord. 14-1720, 1-28-2014)
   N.   Class I - Live Entertainment; Live Entertainment Regulations,
Generally:
      1.   No live entertainment may occur outdoors. If the licensed premises
is within one hundred feet (100') or less of a residentially zoned lot, then
the noise from the entertainment must not be audible outside of the building in
which the live entertainment is occurring, or in the case of a business located
more than one hundred feet (100') from all residentially zoned lots but which
is located on a parcel that contains other businesses which are not all owned
by the licensee, the noise must not be audible outside of the building during
the operating hours of any of the other businesses located on the parcel,
otherwise, the noise from the live entertainment must not be audible at the
property line of the licensed premises. For the purpose of this section,
measurements shall be taken from the closest point of the property line of the
licensed premises to the closest point of the property line of the nearest
residentially zoned lot. The fee for a Class I license shall be paid annually
in addition to the primary liquor license fee. A violation of Class I license
requirements shall be grounds for the same penalties as a violation of the
primary liquor license, and both licenses may be suspended or revoked
accordingly for a violation of Class I regulations.
      2.   A Class I license is required if live entertainment is offered on
any premises where the class of license held does not expressly permit live
entertainment. Class I licenses will not be issued for any premises where the
class of license held expressly prohibits live entertainment. The fee for a
Class I license shall be paid annually in addition to the primary liquor
license fee. Please refer to the definition of "live entertainment" in this
chapter. (Ord. 09-1561, 11-24-2009, eff. 1-1-2010)
   O.   Class J - Salon Selling Beer And Wine Only: Class J license authorizes
the sale of beer and wine for consumption on the premises of a salon. Customers
and patrons may only be served beer or wine during the period of time that the
customer/patron actually receives salon services. No person shall be served
more than three (3) alcoholic drinks in a twenty four (24) hour period. For
purposes of this section, a "salon" means an establishment which offers
services such as cosmetic advice and application, pedicures, manicures and
related services, but does not provide full body massages and does not provide
services in private rooms or areas. (Ord. 14-1730, 4-8-2014)
   P.   Class K - Craft Beer And Wine Sales: Class K license shall authorize
the: 1) production and storage of craft beer for retail sale on the licensed
premises; 2) storage of craft beer produced by regional craft brewers other
than the licensee, provided such storage is for the sole purpose of on-site
consumption of the craft beer pursuant to the terms of this license; 3) sales
of craft beer for consumption off the licensed premises; 4) distribution of not
more than two hundred thirty two thousand five hundred (232,500) gallons per
year of the licensee's craft beer to other retail licensees provided the
licensee has obtained the required State self- distribution exemption; 5) on-
site consumption of craft beer; and 6) wine sold by the glass for consumption
on the licensed premises. For purposes of a Class K license, the sale of craft
beer for consumption off the licensed premises shall only be permitted in a
pre-packaged bottle(s), can(s), keg(s) and/or growler(s). For purposes of a
Class K license, "growler" shall be defined as a refillable, sealed container
sold on the licensed premises by the licensee, containing craft beer for
consumption off the licensed premises and clearly marked to identify the
license and content information. (Ord. 17-1848, 6-13-2017; amd. Ord. 18-1880,
4-10-2018)
Each Class K licensee must, prior to the issuance of a Class K license, comply
with and adhere to all applicable Federal, State and local regulations,
including but not limited to procurement of a Federal Brewer's Notice, Illinois
manufacturer's (brewer's) liquor license, State of Illinois craft brewer's
license, State of Illinois self-distribution exemption, and any other requisite
license or permit for the manufacture, packaging, storing, sale and/or
distribution of alcoholic beverages.
The volume of craft beer produced on the licensed premises shall not exceed
four hundred sixty five thousand (465,000) gallons per year. The portion of the
licensed premises dedicated to the manufacture of craft beer shall be
segregated from the remainder of the licensed premises and shall not generally
be accessible to the public. The licensee shall maintain accurate records as to
the total volume of craft beer manufactured on the licensed premises and the
volume of craft beer sold for consumption off the licensed premises. Upon
demand, licensee shall immediately produce said records to the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner.
Not more than seventy five percent (75%) of the total gross square footage area
of the licensed premises shall be designated to the retail sale of craft beer.
Under no circumstances shall the total gross square footage of the retail space
exceed three thousand (3,000) square feet.
The production and sale of craft beer for consumption on the licensed premises
is pursuant to the following conditions:
      1.   Consumption is permitted only during the licensee's authorized
retail sale hours and may only occur on that portion of the licensed premises
dedicated to consumption, which area shall be segregated from the manufacturing
area of the licensed premises.
      2.   A price may be set for such consumption.
      3.   All applicable taxes including Sales Tax shall be collected and paid
on all revenue realized from such consumption.
      4.   All consumption shall be attended and supervised by a BASSET-
certified site manager.
      5.   Consumption shall be subject to all other terms and conditions
regulating this license classification and to such further regulations as
deemed necessary from time to time by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner.
The licensee may provide for off-site sampling of the craft beer pursuant to
the following conditions:
      1.   The licensee must obtain prior approval from the Liquor Control
Commission for off-site sampling, including the date, time, type and amount of
craft beer which will be available to sample.
      2.   Craft beer may be served to any person at least twenty one (21)
years of age for sampling purposes.
      3.   Up to three (3) samples, consisting of no more than two (2) ounces
of beer may be served to a consumer in one day.
   Q.   Class L - Outdoor Patio; Live Entertainment Prohibited:
   Class L licenses authorize the retail sale of alcoholic liquor in a confined
outdoor space that is adjacent to the licensed premises. The fee for a Class L
license shall be paid annually in addition to the primary liquor license fee. A
violation of Class L Liquor License requirements shall be grounds for the same
penalties as a violation of the primary liquor license, and both licenses may
be suspended or revoked accordingly for a violation of Class L regulations. A
Class L license shall not be granted unless:
      1.   The premises has sufficient indoor restrooms and walk ways to
accommodate the potential increased traffic from patrons using the Outdoor
Patio;
      2.   Noise emitting from the Outdoor Patio or other areas outside the
building does not unreasonably disturb the surrounding community;
      3.   Live Entertainment is not permitted outdoors, and if there is Live
Entertainment indoors on the licensed premises, then the doors leading to the
Outdoor Patio shall remain closed and the noise from the Live Entertainment
contained indoors is not audible from the property line of the licensed
premises, or, the noise from Live Entertainment is not audible from a closer
distance, if a closer distance for noise restriction is stated on the permit;
      4.   The Outdoor Patio is clearly identified using physical barriers,
such as fencing and/or vegetation with signage at all exit points indicating
"no alcohol beyond";
      5.   The floor of the Outdoor Patio is a hard surface, such as concrete,
asphalt, brick, or another commonly used and commercially available material.
Gravel, sand or other loose aggregate materials shall not be allowed in any
outdoor seating area;
      6.   The outdoor space complies with all other Village codes, including
but not limited to, the zoning and building codes.
   R.   Class M - Sale of Alcohol for Off-Premises Consumption: Class M
licenses authorize the sale of alcohol for off-premises consumption as a
supplemental license in accordance with Section
3-3-27.
      1.   No Class M license shall be issued for any premises unless the
applicant holds a valid Class B, B-1, B-2, or B-3 liquor license for the
premises.
      2.   All Class M licenses shall automatically expire on January 3, 2024,
unless extended by the State.
      3.   The fee for a Class M license shall be paid annually in addition to
the primary liquor license fee.
      4.   A violation of Class M Liquor License requirements shall be grounds
for the same penalties as a violation of the primary liquor license, and both
licenses may be suspended or revoked accordingly for a violation of Class M
regulations.
      5.   Applications for a Class M Liquor License shall include a detailed
operations plan for the sale and delivery of liquor for off-premises
consumption. (Ord. 09-1561, 11-24-2009, eff. 1-1-2010; amd. Ord. 14-1720, 1-28-
2014; Ord. 14-1730, 4-8-2014; Ord. 17-1848, 6-13-2017; Ord. 18-1880, 4-10-2018;
Ord. 19-1444, - - 2019; Ord. 22-2033, 1-25-2022)
3-3-8: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE AND DETERMINATION OF THE NUMBER, CLASSIFICATION AND
FEES:
The President, as the Liquor Control Commissioner, or his or her designee,
shall receive and approve or deny liquor license applications. If an
application is approved, the applicant shall be issued a license upon the
payment, in advance, of the required fee, which license shall be in writing
over the name and under the Seal of the Village and executed by the Village
President and attested by the Village Clerk. The Village President and the
Board of Trustees shall determine the number, classification, kind, and fees of
liquor licenses available for issuance in the Village. (Ord. 09-1561, 11-24-
2009, eff. 1-1-2010)
3-3-9: NUMBER OF LICENSES; FEES:
   A.   There shall be issued in the Village not more than the following number
of licenses:
Class Number Fees
Class Number                                                     Fees
A     3                                                          $1,825.00/year
A-1   0                                                          1,575.00/year
B     6                                                          1,390.00/year
B-1   4                                                          1,325.00/year
B-2   7                                                          1,125.00/year
B-3   1                                                          1,750.00/year
C     1                                                          1,575.00/year
D     11                                                         1,325.00/year
D-1   5                                                          1,125.00/year
E     0                                                          250.00/year
F     0                                                          125.00/year
      Unlimited, but issuance is entirely within the reasonable
G     discretion of the Liquor Commissioner (Maximum of four (4) 50.00/day
      outing permits shall be allowed per licensee per calendar
      year)
H     0                                                          1,125.00/year
I     6                                                          500.00/year
J     2                                                          1,125.00/year
K     2                                                          1,200.00/year
L     Unlimited, but issuance is within the reasonable           0.00/day
      discretion of the Liquor Commissioner
      Equal to the number of Class B, B-1, B-2 and B-3 Licenses
M     from time to time issued with issuance within the          100.00/year
      reasonable discretion of the Liquor Commissioner
 
   B.   If an application is submitted for a liquor license in a class which
the number of outstanding licenses is at the maximum allowable for the class,
the request for a license shall be presented to the Village Board for possible
action pursuant to the provisions of section
3-3-8 of this chapter. (Ord. 09-1561, 11-24-2009, eff. 1-1-2010; amd. Ord. 10-
1591, 9-14-2010; Ord. 11-1606, 1-11-2011; Ord. 11-1609, 1-25-2011; Ord. 11-
1617, 4-12-2011; Ord. 14-1720, 1-28-2014; Ord. 14-1730, 4-8-2014; Ord. 14-1740,
8-12-2014; Ord. 14-1747, 10-14-2014; Ord. 15-1788, 8-11-2015; Ord. 15-1795, 10-
27-2015; Ord. 16-1802, 3-22-2016; Ord. 16-1815, 7-26-2016; Ord. 17-1833, 2-14-
2017; Ord. 17-1844, 5-23-2017; Ord. 17-1848, 6-13-2017; Ord. 17-1849, 6-13-
2017; Ord. 17-1856, 9-12-2017; Ord. 17-1858, 9-26-2017; Ord. 17-1859, 9-26-
2017; Ord. 18-1886, 5-22-2018; Ord. 18-1890, 6-26-2018; Ord. 19-1444, - -2019;
Ord. 19-1948, 10-8-2019; Ord. 20-1975, 6-23-2020; Ord. 20-1990, 9-22-2020; Ord.
21-2007, 4-13-2021; Ord. 6-8-2021; Ord. 21-2020, 8-24-2021; Ord. 24-2096, - -
2024; Ord. 25-2135, 2-25-2025; Ord. 25-2151, 8-26-2025)
3-3-10: TERM OF LICENSE; FEE ADJUSTMENTS, REBATES AND DISPOSITION:
   A.   Term Of License: No license, except Class G, shall be issued under this
chapter for a period of less than one (1) calendar year unless the same is
issued pursuant to application made subsequent to January 1 of any calendar
year, in which event, the license shall be issued for the remaining period of
the year, and no license shall be issued for a period of more than one (1)
year. All licenses issued hereunder shall expire on December 31 of each year.
   B.   Fee Adjustments, Credits And Rebates: The fee for all licenses other
than Class G, outing permits, shall be the full annual fee set forth herein in
the case of all renewals of existing licenses and in the case of all new
licenses applied for during the first quarter of any calendar year, three-
fourths (3/4) of the annual fee set forth for new licenses applied for during
the second quarter of any calendar year, one-half (1/2) of the annual fee set
forth for new licenses applied for during the third quarter of any calendar
year and one-fourth (1/4) of the annual fee set forth for new licenses applied
for during the last quarter of any calendar year. In the event any licensee
shall voluntarily surrender a liquor license prior to the expiration of its
term, and a subsequent liquor license of any class shall be issued to any other
person for the same premises during the same calendar year, the Village shall
give a credit upon the required second license fee in the amount of one-fourth
(1/4) of the annual fee paid by the former licensee if the first license is
surrendered in the third quarter of such calendar year, one- half (1/2) of the
annual fee paid by the former licensee if the first license is surrendered in
the second quarter of the calendar year and three-fourths (3/4) of the annual
fee paid by the former licensee if the first license is surrendered in the
first quarter of the calendar year. There shall be no rebate of any license
fees, and no credit shall be given in the event a first license for any given
premises is revoked during any portion of any calendar year.
   C.   Payment Of Fees; Disposition: All license fees shall be paid to the
Local Liquor Control Commissioner at the time the application is made and shall
be forthwith turned over to the Village Treasurer. In the event the license
applied for is denied, the fee shall be returned to the applicant. If the
license is granted, then the fee shall be deposited in a general corporate fund
or in such other fund as shall have been designated by the Village Board by
proper action. (Ord. 09-1561, 11-24-2009, eff. 1-1-2010)
3-3-11: LICENSE RENEWALS:
   A.   Any licensee may apply to renew its license at the expiration thereof,
provided the licensee is then qualified to receive a license, and the premises
for which such renewal license is sought is suitable for such purpose, and
provided further, that the renewal privilege herein provided for shall not be
construed as a vested right which shall in any case prevent the Village
President and Board of Trustees from decreasing the number of licenses to be
issued within the Village. However, when the number of applications made for a
liquor license or for any class of license exceeds the number of licenses
permitted under this chapter, prior licensees shall be given preference over
new applicants, provided they otherwise qualify for such license.
   B.   All applications for renewal of existing licenses issued under this
chapter shall be in writing and shall in all respects conform to and comply
with the provisions regarding applications for original licenses 1  and shall
be filed with the Village Clerk not less than twenty (20) days prior to the
expiration of the term of the existing license for which renewal is requested.
(Ord. 09-1561, 11-24-2009, eff. 1-1-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  3-3-5 of this chapter.
3-3-12: NONTRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSE:
A license shall be purely a personal privilege, valid for a period not to
exceed one (1) year, unless sooner revoked as in this chapter provided, and the
same shall not constitute property nor shall it be subject to attachment,
garnishment or execution nor shall it be alienable or transferable, voluntarily
or involuntarily, or be subject to being encumbered or hypothecated. Such
license shall cease upon the death or dissolution of the licensee and shall not
descend by the laws of testate or intestate devolution; provided, that
executors or administrators of the estate of any deceased licensee and the
trustee of any insolvent or bankrupt licensee, which such estate consists in
part of alcoholic liquor, may continue the business of the sale of alcoholic
liquor under the order of the appropriate court and may exercise the privileges
of the deceased or insolvent or bankrupt licensee after the death of such
decedent or dissolution of a business entity or such insolvency or bankruptcy
until the expiration of such license but not longer than six (6) months after
the death, dissolution, bankruptcy or insolvency of such license. A refund
shall be made of that portion of the license fee paid for any period in which
the licensee shall be prevented from operating under the license in accordance
with the provisions of this section. (Ord. 09-1561, 11-24-2009, eff. 1-1-2010)
3-3-13: CLOSING HOURS:
   A.   Hours Established: The President and Board of Trustees determine that
the public health, safety and welfare require that none of the following
licenses shall allow its place of business to remain open or sell or offer for
sale or give away on any licensed premises any alcoholic liquor during the
following hours: (Ord. 17-1837, 2-14-2017)
      1.   Classes A, A-1, B, B-3 And C: Between the hours of two o'clock (2:
00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on any day. (Ord. 16-1813, 7-26-2016, eff.
1-1-2017)
      2.   Classes B-1 And B-2: Between the hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M.,
and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on each of the days Monday through Friday and
between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on
each Saturday and Sunday.
      No licensee shall permit patrons or guests to enter the premises on
Saturday and Sunday during the one (1) hour period of time prior to closing
times as designated above.
      3.   Classes D, D-1, H And J: Between the hours of two o'clock (2:00)
A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on any day. (Ord. 17-1837, 2-14-2017)
      4.   Classes E And G: By the passage of this chapter, the President and
Board of Trustees determine that the public good and convenience require that
Class E and G licenses shall specify a required closed time, and no licensee of
Class E and G shall remain on the premises beyond the time indicated on the
license issued by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner. (Ord. 10-1591, 9-14-
2010; amd. Ord. 16-1813, 7-26-2016, eff. 1-1-2017)
      5.   Class K: It shall be unlawful for the holder of a Class K license to
provide for consumption or sale of craft beer or wine before the hour of eleven
o'clock (11:00) A.M. or after the hour of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. on any
Sunday; or before the hour of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. or after the hour of
eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. any Monday through Saturday. (Ord. 18-1880, 4-10-
2018)
   B.   Persons Not Permitted On Premises After Closing:
      1.   Members of the general public must leave the licensed premises no
later than the closing time as specified in this section. The Local Liquor
Control Commissioner and the Village Board, acting jointly, may, in their
discretion, further reasonably restrict the above general hours during which
any licensee may keep open or allow his place of business to remain open or
sell, offer for sale or give away any alcoholic liquor on any licensed premises
when, in their joint judgment, a further restriction would be in the best
interest of the public and the Village and in furtherance of the general
welfare and safety thereof. Any license so further restricted as to time,
shall, when issued, indicate on the face thereof the hours during which the
licensee thereunder may keep open or allow his place of business to remain open
as aforesaid.
      2.   No member of the general public shall remain in or upon the licensed
premises after the closing time as provided in this section; provided, that in
the case of licensed establishments whose principal business is other than the
retail sale of liquor, such establishments may be kept open during such hours,
but no alcoholic liquor may be sold to or consumed during such hours on such
premises.
      3.   Nothing herein shall be construed to prevent the licensee and/or his
employees from remaining upon the licensed premises after the aforesaid closing
hours. No alcoholic liquor shall be consumed after the time required for
closing. Should any person other than the licensee, members of his family or
his employees, agents or servants be found leaving the licensed premises after
closing, the Village shall have the right to presume that such person was
served alcoholic beverage after the required closing time, and such presumption
may be raised in any court in a proceeding for violation of the terms of this
chapter or at any hearing concerning the revocation of the license issued to
the licensee of the premises in question. (Ord. 09-1561, 11-24-2009, eff. 1-1-
2010)
3-3-14: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE; CONDUCT OF BUSINESS:
   A.   License To Be Posted: The license issued pursuant to this chapter shall
be posted in a prominent place within the licensed premises.
   B.   Conduct Of Business, Generally: The licensee and his or her associates,
members, representatives, agents, officers and employees shall, at all times,
be personally responsible for the proper operation of the business, including
compliance with the provisions of this chapter and the observation of all laws
and regulations applicable thereto.
   C.   Live Entertainment; Disorderly Persons: No licensee hereunder shall
permit live entertainment unless specifically authorized by its license, or
permit loitering, any disorderly conduct or disturbance of the peace thereon.
It is the responsibility of the licensee or an employee acting in his behalf to
immediately notify the Shorewood Police Department in the case of any
disturbance. Failure to make a timely notification is a violation of the terms
of this chapter.
   D.   Gambling Devices: It shall be unlawful to keep, have, use or permit to
be used in any premises in the Village used for the retail sale of alcoholic
liquor any slot machine, pinball machine or other instrument or device upon
which money is staked or hazarded or upon the result of the action of which
money or other valuable thing is staked, bet, hazarded, won or lost, absent a
charitable gaming license issued by the State of Illinois or video gaming as
permitted by State law and provided that the Village does not by resolution or
ordinance "opt out" of such video gaming.
   E.   Discrimination: No licensee licensed under the provisions of this
chapter shall deny or permit his agents and employees to deny any person the
full and equal enjoyment of the accommodations, advantagements, facilities and
privileges on any premises in which alcoholic liquors are authorized to be sold
subject only to the conditions and limitations established by law and
applicable alike to all citizens. (Ord. 09-1561, 11-24-2009, eff. 1-1-2010)
3-3-15: BUILDING AND LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Location Restrictions: No license shall be issued for the sale at
retail of any alcoholic liquor within one hundred feet (100') of any church,
school other than an institution of higher learning, hospital, home for aged or
indigent persons or for veterans, their spouses or children or any military or
naval station; provided, that this prohibition shall not apply to hotels
offering restaurant service, clubs or to restaurants, food shops or other
places where the sale of alcoholic liquor is not the principal business carried
on, nor shall this prohibition apply to the renewal of a license for the sale
at retail of alcoholic liquor on premises within one hundred feet (100') of any
church or school where the church or school has been established within such
one hundred feet (100') since the issuance of the original license nor shall
this prohibition apply to the renewal of a license for a premises located
within one hundred feet (100') of any of the above listed sensitive uses if the
sensitive use was established after the issuance of the original liquor
license. In the case of a church, the distance of one hundred feet (100') shall
be measured to the nearest part of any building used for worship services or
educational programs and not to property boundaries. In all other cases, this
distance shall be measured from property boundary to property boundary.
   B.   Stores Selling School Supplies: No license shall be issued to any
person for the sale, at retail, of any alcoholic liquor at any store or other
place of business where the majority of customers are minors of school age or
where the principal business transacted consists of schoolbooks, school
supplies, food, lunches or drinks for such minors.
   C.   Change Of Location: Licenses issued hereunder shall permit the sale of
alcoholic liquor only in the premises described in the application for license.
Such location may be changed only upon the written permit to make such change,
issued by the local liquor control commissioner. No change of location shall be
permitted unless the proposed new location is a proper one for the retail sale
of alcoholic liquor under the laws of the state and the ordinances of the
village.
   D.   Exception: Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the issuance of a
license to a church or private school to sell at retail alcoholic liquor if any
such sales are limited to periods when groups are assembled on the premises
solely for the promotion of some common object other than the sale or
consumption of alcoholic liquor.
   E.   State Owned Or Controlled Buildings: No alcoholic liquors shall be sold
or delivered in any building belonging to or under the control of the state of
Illinois or any political subdivision thereof except as provided in the liquor
control act. (Ord. 09-1561, 11-24-2009, eff. 1-1-2010)
3-3-16: SANITARY CONDITIONS:
   A.   Premises:
      1.   All premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor or for the
storage of such liquor for such sale shall be kept in a clean and sanitary
condition and shall be kept in full compliance with the laws, ordinances and
regulations regulating the condition of premises used for the storage or sale
of food for human consumption.
      2.   Every person licensed to sell alcoholic beverages, at retail, who
shall sell any alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises of such
licensee shall keep and maintain the licensed premises equipped with running
hot and cold water and adequate sanitary washing facilities for the cleansing
of glasses and service utensils and shall provide adequate toilet facilities.
      3.   The local liquor control commissioner can require, at the time the
application is made, a statement from the Will County health department on the
adequacy of the sanitation facilities.
   B.   Employees: It shall be unlawful for any person who is afflicted with,
or who is a carrier of, any contagious or infectious disease or to knowingly
engage in any way in the handling, preparation or distribution of liquor for a
customer, and for any person to knowingly employ, use, or retain such a person
to handle, prepare or distribute liquor for a customer. (Ord. 09-1561, 11-24-
2009, eff. 1-1-2010)
3-3-17: LIQUOR SALES ON PUBLIC PROPERTY; FAIRS:
   A.   Liquor Sales Prohibited; Exceptions: No alcoholic liquors or beer shall
be sold and delivered in any building or upon any lands belonging to or under
the control of the village except as provided in subsection B of this section
or in conformance with the liquor control act.
   B.   Permit For Fairs:
      1.   Permit Required:
         a.   Notwithstanding subsection A of this section, the village board
of trustees may, upon application, in writing, grant written permits on lands
owned or under the control of the village for the purpose of a state or county
fair or a village fair or similar activity sponsored by the village.
         b.   No person shall have in his possession, custody or control, or
consume any alcoholic liquors or beer in any building or upon any lands
belonging to or under the control of the village, including parks and other
places of recreation, without having in his possession a permit for the same.
      2.   Granting Or Denial Of Permit; Conditions: Upon application, in
writing, the village president and the village administrator may grant written
permits to individuals and groups for the purpose of possessing and consuming
alcoholic liquors or beer on village owned lands used for the purposes of parks
or other places of recreation, which permit shall state the name of the person
or group to whom the same is issued, the place where consumption and possession
of alcoholic liquors and beer are permitted and the dates or time period such
permit shall be in effect. In the event the application for a permit under this
subsection B2 is denied by the village president or village administrator, the
applicant may further apply before the village board of trustees which may
reverse the denial and grant the permit. Permits issued under this subsection
B2 shall not allow the sale or delivery of alcoholic liquors or beer.
      3.   Restrictions On Issuance Of Permit: Neither the village
administrator nor the village president nor the board of trustees shall grant
any permit under the provisions of subsection B2 of this section in the event
of any of the following:
         a.   The applicant is not a person of good moral standing.
         b.   The applicant has previously been issued a permit and has
violated any of the terms of the former permit.
         c.   The applicant has previously violated any provision of this
section within one year of the application.
         d.   The application is for a group the size of which is greater than
the park or recreation site can accommodate.
         e.   The park or recreation site for which the permit is requested is
otherwise reserved for another purpose during the date, dates or time period
requested in the application.
   C.   Penalty: Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter
shall, upon conviction, be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 09-1561, 11-24-2009, eff. 1-1-2010)
3-3-18: SALES TO CERTAIN PERSONS PROHIBITED; MINORS 1 :
   A.   Sales Prohibited; Identification:
      1.   No licensee nor any officer, associate, member, representative,
agent or employee of such licensee shall sell, give or deliver alcoholic liquor
to any person under the age of twenty one (21) years or to any intoxicated
person or to any person known by him to be a habitual drunkard, spendthrift,
insane, mentally ill, mentally deficient or in need of mental treatment. No
person shall sell alcoholic liquor to a person under the age of twenty one (21)
years, and no person shall give or deliver alcoholic liquor to a person under
the age of twenty one (21) years, except as provided in this chapter. For the
purpose of preventing violation of this subsection, any licensee or his agent
or employee may refuse to sell or serve alcoholic beverages to any person who
is unable to produce adequate written evidence of identity and of the fact that
he is over the age of twenty one (21) years.
      2.   Adequate written evidence of age and identity of the person is a
document issued by a federal, state, county or municipal government or
subdivision or agency thereof including, but not limited to, a motor vehicle
operator's license, a registration certificate issued under the federal
selective service act or an identification card issued to a member of the armed
forces. Proof that the defendant, licensee or his employees or agent demanded,
was shown and reasonably relied upon such written evidence in any transaction
provided by this subsection is competent evidence and may be considered in any
criminal prosecution therefor or to any proceedings for the suspension or
revocation of any license based thereon.
      3.   Any person who sells, gives or furnishes to any person under the age
of twenty one (21) years any false or fraudulent written, printed or
photostatic evidence of the age and identity of such person or who sells, gives
or furnishes to any person under the age of twenty one (21) years evidence of
age and identification of any other person is guilty of a violation of this
chapter. Any person under the age of twenty one (21) years who presents or
offers to any licensee, his agent or employee any written, printed or
photostatic evidence of age and identity which is false, fraudulent or not
actually his own for the purpose of ordering, purchasing, attempting to
purchase or otherwise procuring or attempting to procure, the sale of any
alcoholic beverage or who has in his possession any false or fraudulent
written, printed or photostatic evidence of age and identity is guilty of a
violation of this chapter. Any person under the age of twenty one (21) years
who has any alcoholic beverage in his or her blood, on his or her breath, or in
his or her possession is guilty of a violation of this chapter unless the minor
consumed the alcohol as provided in subsection B2 of this section. Whoever
violates provisions of this subsection shall be guilty of a violation of this
chapter.
   B.   Purchase And Consumption By Persons Under The Age Of Twenty One;
Identification And Age Verification Training Required:
      1.   Any person to whom the sale, gift or delivery of any alcoholic
liquor is prohibited because of age shall not purchase or accept a gift of such
alcoholic liquor. The licensee and/or his or her agents and employees shall,
before making a sale or delivery of alcoholic liquor, demand presentation of
some form of positive identification containing proof of age issued by a public
officer in the performance of his duties. No person shall transfer, alter or
deface such an identification card, use the identification card of another,
carry or use a false identification card or obtain an identification card by
means of false information. No person shall purchase, accept delivery or have
possession of alcoholic liquor in violation of this subsection. The consumption
of alcoholic liquor by any person under the age of twenty one (21) years is
forbidden. Whoever violates provisions of this subsection shall be guilty of a
violation of this chapter.
      2.   Possession and dispensing or consumption by a person under the age
of twenty one (21) years of alcoholic liquor in a performance of religious
service or ceremony or under the direct supervision and approval of the parent
or parents of such person in the privacy of a home, is not prohibited by this
subsection.
   C.   Warning To Minors: In every place in the village where alcoholic liquor
is sold, there shall be displayed at all times in a prominent place a printed
card which shall read substantially as follows:
WARNING TO MINORS: You are subject to a fine up to five hundred dollars
($500.00) under the ordinance of the Village of Shorewood if you purchase
alcoholic liquor, or misrepresent your age for the purpose of unlawfully
purchasing or obtaining alcoholic liquor.
   D.   Minors On Liquor Premises:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any holder of a retail liquor license or
his agent or employee to suffer or permit any minor to be or remain in any room
or compartment adjoining or adjacent to or situated in the room or place where
such licensed premises is located; provided, that this subsection shall not
apply to any minor who is accompanied by his parent or guardian or to any
licensed premises which derives its principal business from the sale or service
of commodities other than alcoholic liquor.
      2.   In addition to all other fines and penalties, the local liquor
control commissioner may suspend or revoke the retail liquor dealer's license
for any violation of this subsection.
   E.   Employment Of Persons Under Twenty One Years Of Age: It shall be
unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one (21) years to attend any
bar or to draw, pour or mix any alcoholic liquor in any licensed premises or
for any person to employ, retain or use any person under twenty one (21) years
of age to mix, draw or pour any alcoholic liquor on the premises or area
described in any liquor license issued under this chapter, with the exception
that restaurants may employ, retain or use persons who are eighteen (18) years
of age or older to serve and sell alcoholic liquor if it is sold incidentally
to food sales and only if such minor has received a certificate in training in
an alcohol servicing training program such as TIPS or BASSET or a similarly
state certified program relating to the law requiring verification of the age
of customers and detection of false identifications, however, in no event shall
a person under twenty one (21) years of age mix, draw or pour alcoholic liquor
for restaurant patrons or guests. Except for restaurants as previously stated,
the prohibition against persons under the age of twenty one (21) selling
alcoholic liquor shall include, but is not limited to, cashiers or other
individuals who obtain money in exchange for the sale of alcoholic liquor such
as is customary in package stores and retail package stores, however, persons
under twenty one (21) work as cashiers in grocery stores as long as age
verification of any customer purchasing alcoholic liquor is made by a manager
or supervisor who is over twenty one (21) years old. Any person required to
have a TIPS or BASSET or other certificate shall be given ninety (90) days from
the effective date to obtain such certification. (Ord. 09-1561, 11-24-2009,
eff. 1-1-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  5-5-1 of this code.
3-3-19: FASHION SHOWS, ADULT ENTERTAINMENT AND SALE OF CLOTHING PROHIBITED:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the words and phrases
used herein shall have the following meanings unless otherwise clearly
indicated by the context:
   ADULT ORIENTED BUSINESS OR SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS: Shall have the
meaning as set forth in the business and license regulations of this code 1 .
   FASHION SHOW: Any entertainment, modeling, demonstration or any other
activity at which male or female undergarments, bathing suits or lingerie are
displayed on a human body.
   B.   Adult Oriented Business/Sexually Oriented Business And Fashion Shows
Prohibited: No licensee or other person shall offer or permit any adult
oriented business/sexually oriented business or fashion show on any portion of
the licensed premises.
   C.   Sale Of Clothing Prohibited: No licensee or other person shall sell or
offer for sale or offer as a prize for a raffle any clothing that constitutes
male or female undergarments, bathing suits or lingerie on any portion of the
licensed premises. (Ord. 09-1561, 11-24-2009, eff. 1-1-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  3-17-2 of this title.
3-3-20: RECORD OF LICENSES:
The local liquor control commissioner shall keep or cause to be kept a complete
record of all such licenses issued by him and shall furnish the village clerk,
the village treasurer and the chief of police each with a copy thereof upon the
issuance of any new license and shall notify each of the said officers, in
writing, upon the issuance of any new licenses or revocation of any old
licenses within forty eight (48) hours of its issuance or revocation. (Ord. 09-
1561, 11-24-2009, eff. 1-1-2010)
3-3-21: ENTRY POWERS:
The local liquor control commissioner is hereby given the power to enter or to
authorize any law enforcing officer to enter at any time upon any premises
licensed hereunder to determine whether any of the provisions of village
ordinance or state law, or any rules or regulations adopted by him or by the
state liquor commissioner have been or are being violated and at such time to
examine the premises of said licensee in connection therewith. (Ord. 09-1561,
11-24-2009, eff. 1-1-2010)
3-3-22: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The local liquor control commissioner may fine, suspend for not more than
thirty (30) days 1  or may revoke for cause any license issued by him if he
determines that the licensee has violated any of the provisions of law or
ordinance or any rule or regulation established by the local liquor control
commissioner or state liquor commissioner, which is not inconsistent with law,
all in the manner and as provided by law. (Ord. 09-1561, 11-24-2009, eff. 1-1-
2010)
 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS 5/4-4.
3-3-23: APPEAL AND REVIEW:
All hearings conducted before the liquor commission shall be recorded verbatim
by a certified court reporter. The appeal of any decision of the liquor control
commissioner shall be solely on the record of the proceedings conducted before
said liquor control commissioner. No new or additional evidence shall be
presented to the state liquor commission. (Ord. 09-1561, 11-24-2009, eff. 1-1-
2010)
3-3-24: PENALTIES:
In addition to, and not in lieu of, any other penalties or remedies which may
exist, any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, in
addition to suspension or revocation of license as above provided, be subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 09-1561, 11-24-2009, eff. 1-1-2010)
3-3-25: TASTING OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUORS:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this code, those classes of licenses
which prohibit on premises consumption of alcoholic liquor may permit
"tastings" which are at no charge or for a nominal fee for the purpose of
product promotion or consumer education. (Ord. 09-1561, 11-24-2009, eff. 1-1-
2010)
3-3-26: SEALING AND REMOVAL OF OPEN WINE BOTTLES FROM A RESTAURANT:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, a restaurant licensed
hereunder may permit a patron to remove one unsealed and partially consumed
wine bottle for off premises consumption provided that the patron has purchased
a meal and consumed a portion of the bottle of wine with the meal on the
restaurant premises. A partially consumed bottle of wine that is to be removed
from the premises prior to this section shall be securely sealed by the
licensee or its agent and placed in a transparent onetime use tamperproof paper
bag. The licensee or agent shall provide a dated receipt for the bottle to the
patron. Wine that is resealed in accordance with this section and not tampered
with and transported in accordance with the restrictions of the Illinois
vehicle code shall not be deemed to violate section 11-502 of the vehicle code
or the similar local ordinance. (Ord. 09-1561, 11-24-2009, eff. 1-1-2010)
3-3-27: DELIVERY AND CARRY OUT PERMITTED FOR LICENSEES HOLDING B, B-1, B-2 AND
B-3 LICENSES:
   A.   The words and phrases herein defined are used in this Section in the
sense given them in the following definitions:
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: As defined in Sec.
3-3-2 in this Chapter.
COCKTAIL or MIXED DRINK: Any beverage obtained by combining ingredients
alcoholic in nature, whether brewed, fermented, or distilled, with ingredients
non-alcoholic in nature, such as fruit juice, lemonade, cream, or a carbonated
beverage.
ORIGINAL CONTAINER:
      1.   A container that is filled, sealed, and secured by a retail
licensee's employee at the retail licensee's location with a tamper-evident lid
or cap, or;
      2.   A container filled and labeled by the manufacturer and secured by
the manufacturer's seal unbroken.
SEALED CONTAINER: a rigid container that contains a mixed drink or a single
serving of wine, is new, has never been used, has a secured lid or cap designed
to prevent consumption without removal of the lid or cap, and is tamper-
evident. "Sealed container" includes a manufacturer's original container as
defined in this subsection. "Sealed container" does not include a container
with a lid with sipping holes or openings for straws or a container made of
plastic, paper, or polystyrene foam.
TAMPER-EVIDENT: A lid or cap that has been sealed with tamper-evident covers,
including, but not limited to, wax dip or heat shrink wrap.
   B.   A cocktail, mixed drink or single serving of wine placed in a sealed
container by a retail licensee at the retail licensee's location or an
alcoholic beverage in the manufacturer's original container may be transferred
and sold for off-premises consumption if the following requirements are met:
      1.   The licensee holds a Class M liquor license from the Village of
Shorewood.
      2.   The cocktail, mixed drink or single serving of wine or an alcoholic
beverage in the manufacturer's original container is transferred within the
licensed premises, by a curbside pickup, or by delivery by an employee of the
retail licensee who:
         a.   Has been trained in accordance with Section 6-27.1 of the
Illinois Compiled Statues (235 ILCS 5/6-27.1) with respect to responsible
alcohol server training at the time of the sale;
         b.   Is at least 21 years of age; and
         c.   Upon delivery, verifies the age of the person to whom the
cocktail, mixed drink or single serving of wine or an alcoholic beverage in the
manufacturer's original container is being delivered.
      3.   If the employee delivering the cocktail, mixed drink or single
serving of wine or an alcoholic beverage in the manufacturer's original
container, is not able to safely verify a person's age or level of intoxication
upon delivery, the employee shall cancel the sale of alcohol and return the
product to the retail license holder.
      4.   The sealed container is placed in the trunk of the vehicle or if
there is no trunk, in the vehicle's rear compartment that is not readily
accessible to the passenger area.
      5.   Except for a manufacture's original container, a container fixed and
sealed at a retail licensee's location shall be affixed with a label or tag
that contains the following information:
         a.   The cocktail or mixed drink ingredients, type, and name of the
alcohol;
         b.   The name, license number, and address of the retail licensee that
filled the original container and sold the product;
         c.   The volume of the cocktail, mixed drink or single serving of wine
in the sealed container; and
         d.   The sealed container was filled less than 7 days before the date
of sale.
      6.   A manufacture's original container shall be affixed with a label or
tag that contained the name, license number and address of the licensee that
sold the product.
   C.   Third-party delivery services are not permitted to deliver cocktails
and mixed drinks or an alcoholic beverage in the manufacturer's original
container, under this Section.
   D.   Delivery or carry out of a cocktail, mixed drink or single serving of
wine or an alcoholic beverage in the manufacturer's original container is
prohibited if:
      1.   A third party delivers the cocktail, mixed drink or single serving
of wine or an alcoholic beverage in the manufacturer's original container;
      2.   A container of a cocktail, mixed drink or single serving of wine is
not tamper-evident and sealed;
      3.   A container of a cocktail, mixed drink or single serving of wine is
transported in the passenger area of a vehicle;
      4.   The cocktail, mixed drink or single serving of wine or an alcoholic
beverage in the manufacturer's original container is delivered by a person or
to a person who is under the age of 21;
      5.   The person delivering a cocktail, mixed drink or single serving of
wine or an alcoholic beverage in the manufacturer's original container fails to
verify the age of the person to whom the cocktail, mixed drink or single
serving of wine or an alcoholic beverage in the manufacturer's original
container is being delivered;
      6.   The licensee does not possess the State Liquor License required to
allow delivery or carry out; or
      7.   The licensee does not possess a Class M Liquor License from the
Village of Shorewood.
   E.   Violations of this Section shall be subject to any applicable
penalties, under the Village code, including, but not limited to, the penalties
specified under Section 11-502 of the Vehicle Code.
   F.   Delivery of alcoholic beverages is not authorized where prohibited by
law.
   G.   This Section is repealed on January 3, 2024, unless extended by the
State. (Ord. 22-2033, 1-25-2022)
CHAPTER 4
AMUSEMENTS
ARTICLE A. AMUSEMENT DEVICES
SECTION:
3-4A-1: Word Construction
3-4A-2: License Required
3-4A-3: License Fee; Number of Devices
3-4A-4: Issuance of License; Contents
3-4A-5: Term of License; Fee Adjustments and Rebates
3-4A-6: Nontransferability of License
3-4A-7: Renewal of License; Duplicates
3-4A-8: Tampering with License Certificate or Insignia
3-4A-9: Conditions of License
3-4A-10: Building and Premises Requirements
3-4A-11: Penalty
3-4A-12: Video Gaming Licensing
3-4A-13: Amusement Tax On Video Gaming
3-4A-13-1: Definitions
3-4A-13-2: Push Tax
3-4A-13-3: Tax Additional
3-4A-13-4: Registration
3-4A-13-5: Collection, Payment, And Accounting
3-4A-13-6: Rules And Regulations; Authorized
3-4A-13-7: Violations; Penalties
3-4A-1: WORD CONSTRUCTION:
Whenever the licensing regulations of this Article require a person to obtain a
license as a prerequisite to "doing", "conducting", "engaging in",
"maintaining", "operating", "carrying on" or "managing" a business, occupation
or activity, such terms, or one or more of such terms, shall include any person
who holds or who solicits patronage therefor, either actively or passively, or
who performs or attempts to perform any part of such business, occupation or
activity in the Village. (Ord. 82-337, 7-27-82)
3-4A-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
Except as otherwise provided, it shall be unlawful for any person to conduct,
engage in, maintain, operate, carry on or manage a business, occupation or
activity wherein the principal or primary objective is the operation and
maintenance of electronic coin- or token-operated amusement devices for use by
the general public, either by himself or through an agent, employee or partner,
for which a license is required by any provision of this Article without first
having obtained a license for such activity. (Ord. 82-337, 7-27-82)
3-4A-3: LICENSE FEE; NUMBER OF DEVICES:
The license fee shall be as provided in Section
3-1-6 of this Title. In no event shall there be more than eight (8) such
devices, exclusive of juke boxes, per licensed premises. (Ord. 91-599, 8-13-91)
3-4A-4: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; CONTENTS:
In all cases where licenses are to be obtained and ordinance compliance is met,
such license shall originally be granted by the Village Board of Trustees and
shall bear the name and business address of the licensee, the nature or kind
and the number of electronic coin- or token-operated amusement devices, the
amount of fee paid, the license term and such other material information as is
required. (Ord. 82-337, 7-27-82)
3-4A-5: TERM OF LICENSE; FEE ADJUSTMENTS AND REBATES:
   A.   Term of License; Fee Adjustments: All licenses required by this Article
shall be for a full year commencing January 1, unless otherwise specifically
provided, and the full license fee shall be paid, unless at the time the first
application is made there are less than six (6) months in the license year
remaining, in which case, the fee shall be one-half (1/2) the annual fee
prescribed herein. All licenses required by this Article, unless the specified
licensing ordinance shall otherwise provide, shall expire on December 31 next
after issuance, unless previously revoked.
   B.   Rebate of Fee: In no event shall any rebate or refund be made of any
license fee or part thereof by reason of the death of the licensee or by reason
of nonuse of such license or by reason of a change in the location of the
business, occupation or activity of such licensee. (Ord. 82-337, 7-27-82)
3-4A-6: NONTRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSE:
No licensee may assign, sell or transfer his license to any other person, even
if such other person intends to conduct the same business, occupation or
activity as the licensee at the location used by the licensee. The license is
issued to the premises described therein and for no other location. Such other
person may apply and pay the fee for a new license in accordance with the
provisions of this Article. (Ord. 81-337, 7-27-82)
3-4A-7: RENEWAL OF LICENSE; DUPLICATES:
   A.   License Renewals:
      1.   The licensee shall apply, in writing, for license renewal and
investigation, to be received by the Village prior to December 1 for the
following year. Investigation for license renewal will be made from December 1
through December 15 of current year.
      2.   The Village Clerk is authorized to issue the license requested
hereunder if the investigation reveals there is no change in status,
circumstance or disqualification for the preceding year. If the investigation
reveals any change from the prior year, the Village Board of Trustees shall
determine if a license renewal should issue.
   B.   Loss of License Certificate or Insignia: In case any licensee who has
been furnished a license certificate or license insignia in accordance with the
provisions of this Article shall lose the same, it shall be within the
discretion of the Village Clerk to authorize the issuance of a duplicate
certificate or insignia upon the making of an affidavit of loss by such person
and the payment of a fee of one dollar ($1.00) to the Village Clerk. (Ord. 82-
337, 7-27-82)
3-4A-8: TAMPERING WITH LICENSE CERTIFICATE OR INSIGNIA:
No person shall:
   A.   Add to, alter, deface, forge or counterfeit any license certificate or
sticker or other insignia which has been or is being issued by the Village.
   B.   Destroy, obliterate, take, remove or carry away without the consent of
the owner any license certificate or sticker or other insignia which has been
issued by the Village; except, that said certificate or said sticker or other
insignia may be removed after the licensed business, occupation or activity has
been discontinued or the licensed premises have been abandoned. (Ord. 82-337,
7-27-82)
3-4A-9: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
It shall be unlawful for any person licensed under this Article to conduct any
business or activity upon the licensed premises other than that specifically
allowed in the license, and it shall further be unlawful for any licensee to
provide or permit any live entertainment dancing or parties at the licensed
premises or elsewhere in promotion of the licensee's business. (Ord. 82-337, 7-
27-82)
3-4A-10: BUILDING AND PREMISES REQUIREMENTS:
No license shall be issued for the conduct of any such business, occupation or
activity if the premises and building to be used for such purpose do not fully
comply with all applicable provisions of all other ordinances of the Village,
including the fire prevention and building and zoning regulations 1 . (Ord. 82-
337, 7-27-82)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 8 and Title 10, respectively, of this Code for building and
  zoning regulations.
3-4A-11: PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any provision of this Article shall, upon
conviction, be subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 82-337, 7-27-82; 1994 Code)
3-4A-12: VIDEO GAMING LICENSING:
All matters with respect to the licensing of video gaming shall be as provided
for in Title 3, Chapter 18 of the Code of Ordinances. (Ord. 21-2025, 10-12-
2021)
3-4A-13: AMUSEMENT TAX ON VIDEO GAMING:
3-4A-13-1: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Terminal operator: Any individual, partnership, corporation, or limited
liability company that is licensed under the Video Gaming Act, 230 ILCS 40/1 et
seq., and that owns, services, and maintains video gaming terminals for
placement in licensed establishments as permitted by this code.
   B.   Person: Any natural individual that participates in an amusement,
including a firm, organization, society, foundation, institution, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint venture, limited liability company,
public or private corporation, receiver, executor, trustee or other
representative appointed by order of any court, or any other entity recognized
by law.
   C.   Play: Each individual push of the video gaming terminal which initiates
the simulation provided by the video gaming terminal. Play shall not include
the push of individual wager amounts, selection of types of games on the video
gaming terminal or entry of any information or printing of winning receipts.
   D.   Video gaming terminal: Any electronic video game machine licensed and/
or authorized under the State of Illinois Video Gaming Act, that upon insertion
of cash, electronic cards or vouchers, or any combination thereof, is available
to play or simulate the play of a video game, including but not limited to
video poker, line up, and blackjack, as authorized by the Illinois Gaming Board
utilizing a video display and microprocessors in which the player may receive
free games or credits that can be redeemed for cash. The term does not include
a machine that directly dispenses coins, cash, or tokens or is for amusement
purposes only. A video gaming terminal is an amusement device which also
provides a gambling component. (Ord. 21-2025, 10-12-2021)
3-4A-13-2: PUSH TAX:
A tax is imposed upon any person who participates in the play of a video gaming
terminal that takes place within the jurisdictional boundaries of the Village,
the rate of the tax shall be equal to one cent ($0.01) per play on a video
gaming terminal.
The terminal operator of a video gaming terminal shall be responsible for
itemizing and collecting from each person who plays a video gaming terminal,
and shall further be responsible for delivering the payment of said tax to the
Village for each calendar month following the effective date of this article.
Said payment shall be made by the 15th day of the month following the month the
tax was incurred. Said payment shall be accompanied by the documentation
submitted to the state reflecting the activity and use of each video game
machine to verify the payment being made. The Village finance director shall
proscribe a video game tax return that shall be returned to the Village
together with the payment. (Ord. 21-2025, 10-12-2021)
3-4A-13-3: TAX ADDITIONAL:
The tax imposed in this chapter is in addition to all other taxes imposed by
the State of Illinois or any municipal corporation or political subdivision
thereof. (Ord. 21-2025, 10-12-2021)
3-4A-13-4: REGISTRATION:
Every terminal operator of a video gaming terminal(s) located in the Village
shall apply for registration as a tax collector with the Village no later than
thirty (30) days after commencing such business or thirty (30) days after the
effective date of this Chapter imposing the push tax, whichever occurs later.
The application shall be submitted to the Village on the forms provided by the
Village and contain such information as reasonably required by the Village to
impose, collect, and audit all amounts related to the push tax. (Ord. 21-2025,
10-12-2021)
3-4A-13-5: COLLECTION, PAYMENT, AND ACCOUNTING:
It shall be the duty of every terminal operator of a video gaming terminal(s)
to secure from each person participating in the play of a video gaming terminal
the push tax imposed by this Chapter. For purposes of this Chapter, it shall be
presumed that the amount of the push tax imposed on each person, unless the
taxpayer or tax collector provides otherwise with books, records, or other
documentary evidence, has been collected from the person by the terminal
operator.
Every terminal operator of a video gaming terminal who is required to collect
the push tax by this chapter shall be considered a tax collector for the
Village. All push tax amounts collected shall be held by the terminal operator
as trustee for and on behalf of the Village. The failure of the operator to
collect the tax shall not excuse or release the person from the obligation to
pay the tax. The ultimate incidence of the push tax shall remain on the person
and shall never be shifted to the terminal operator.
As a business or entity required to collect the Push Tax, the terminal operator
of any video gaming terminal(s) is considered a “Taxpayer” pursuant to the
Village Code provisions with respect to Locally Imposed and Administered
Taxpayer Rights and Responsibilities provision in Title 1, Chapter 13 of the
Code of Ordinances and they are subject to the benefits and burdens of this
Chapter. It shall be unlawful for any terminal operator and/or person to
prevent, hinder, or interfere with the
Village’s officials, employees, and/or agents designated to discharge their
respective duties in the performance and enforcement of the provisions of this
chapter. It is the duty of every terminal operator of a video gaming terminal
(s) to keep accurate and complete books and records to which the Village’s
officials, employees, and/or agents will at all times have full access. (Ord.
21-2025, 10-12-2021)
3-4A-13-6: RULES AND REGULATIONS; AUTHORIZED:
The Village is authorized to adopt, promulgate, and enforce any additional
rules and regulations pertaining to the interpretation, collection,
administration, and enforcement. (Ord. 21-2025, 10-12-2021)
3-4A-13-7: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
It shall be a violation of this Chapter for a terminal operator to fail to file
a report within the time prescribed in this chapter.
A terminal operator who falsely reports or fails to report the amount of push
tax due required by this chapter shall be in violation of chapter and is
subject to a fine, suspension and/or revocation of their terminal operator
license. Interest shall be as provided in Title 1, Chapter
1-13-11. Fines, suspensions, and revocations of licenses for any violations of
this Article shall be as provided in Title 3, Chapter 18 (3-18-1 et seq.).
(Ord. 21-2025, 10-12-2021)
ARTICLE B. CARNIVALS
SECTION:
3-4B-1: Definition
3-4B-2: Permit Required; Conditions
3-4B-3: Application for Permit
3-4B-4: Insurance
3-4B-5: Investigation of Applicant
3-4B-6: Grant or Denial of Permit
3-4B-7: Contents of Permit; Enforcement
3-4B-8: Duty to Provide Extra Police
3-4B-9: Violation and Penalty
3-4B-1: DEFINITION:
The word "carnival" means and includes circuses or any aggregation of
attractions, whether shows, acts, games, vending devices or amusement devices,
whether conducted under one or more managements or independently, which are
temporarily set up or conducted in a public place or upon any private premises
accessible to the public, with or without admission fee, and which, from the
nature of the aggregation, attracts attendance and causes intermingling of
persons. (Ord. 0-154, 8-8-72)
3-4B-2: PERMIT REQUIRED; CONDITIONS:
No carnival shall be set up, run, operated or conducted within the Village
unless a written permit from the Village Board of Trustees has been issued,
setting forth the conditions under which the carnival shall be operated. The
permit shall be granted upon the condition that there shall not be set up or
operated any gambling device, lottery, number or paddle wheel, number board,
punchboard or other game of chance or any lewd, lascivious or indecent show or
attraction making an indecent exposure of the person or suggesting lewdness or
immorality and on the condition that the provisions of this Article be
observed. (Ord. 0-154, 8-8-72)
3-4B-3: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
   A.   Application for a permit required by this Article shall be made, in
writing, to the Village Clerk.
   B.   The Village Clerk shall, upon receipt of an application for a permit
required by this Article, perform the following acts:
      1.   Ascertain that the application is in order.
      2.   Ascertain that the applicant has paid the appropriate license fee 1
.
      3.   Forward one copy of the application to each of the following: the
Chief of Police, the Village President, each Trustee, the Chief Building
Official.
      4.   Retain sufficient copies of the application for use by the Village
Board of Trustees. (Ord. 0-154, 8-8-72; amd. Ord. 20-1982, 8-25-2020)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  3-1-6 of this Title.
3-4B-4: INSURANCE:
Prior to the issuance of any permit under this Article, the applicant shall
deposit with the Village Clerk sufficient evidence that the applicant has
general liability insurance with coverage for bodily injury in at least the sum
of two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000.00) and for property damage in at
least the sum of twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00), with the Village
named a party insured, which evidence of insurance shall be approved by the
Village Attorney prior to the issuance of any permit hereunder. (Ord. 0-154, 8-
8-72)
3-4B-5: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT:
   A.   Upon receipt of a copy of an application for a permit required by this
Article, the following recipients of the copies shall take the following action
expeditiously:
      1.   The Chief Building Official shall determine whether the applicant
has or will comply with the zoning and setback laws of the Village 2 .
      2.   The Chief of Police shall determine traffic-control requirements and
whether the laws of the Village relevant to gambling and other laws of the
Village shall be observed.
   B.   After the Chief of Police and the Chief Building Official, to whom a
copy has been sent of an application required by this Article, have made the
findings required by this Section, the Officers shall make their findings and
recommendations, in writing, to the Board of Trustees. In the alternative, the
Village Clerk may devise checklist forms for the findings and recommendations
required by this Section which, when complete, shall be forwarded to the Board
of Trustees for action. (Ord. 0-154, 8-8-72; amd. Ord. 20-1982, 8-25-2020)
 
Notes
2 2. See Title 10 of this Code.
3-4B-6: GRANT OR DENIAL OF PERMIT:
   A.   Upon the receipt of all the recommendations and findings required by
this Article, the Board of Trustees shall either grant the permit required by
this Article or refuse the application. Reasons for refusing the application
shall appear in the Village Board records.
   B.   The permit required by this Article shall be issued in duplicate, one
copy of which shall be retained by the Village Clerk and the other copy
delivered to the permittee. The copy delivered to the permittee shall be kept
in the possession of the manager of the carnival and shall be produced and
shown to any sheriff, police officer or citizen, upon request. (Ord. 0-154, 8-
8-72)
3-4B-7: CONTENTS OF PERMIT; ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   The permit issued by the Board of Trustees shall contain such
restrictions as to location, manner of operation, hours of operation and any
other matters as the Board of Trustees may prescribe at the time the permit is
granted. The expiration date of the permit shall be prescribed by the Board of
Trustees.
   B.   The permit shall also provide that all sheriffs and police officers
shall have free access to the grounds, at all times, and it shall be the duty
of the law enforcement officers present to enforce the provisions of this
Article and all other laws of the Village relevant to carnival operations.
(Ord. 0-154, 8-8-72)
3-4B-8: DUTY TO PROVIDE EXTRA POLICE:
The Village shall not be required to provide, other than its usual police
protection, any supervision in regard to the conduct or operation of any
carnival. The Board of Trustees may, as a condition of the granting of the
permit, require the permittee to provide additional police or sheriff deputies
at his own expense. (Ord. 0-154, 8-8-72)
3-4B-9: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this Article shall, upon conviction, be
fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 0-154, 8-8-72; 1994 Code)
CHAPTER 5
JUNK DEALERS
SECTION:
3-5-1: Definitions
3-5-2: License Required
3-5-3: Application for License
3-5-4: License Fee; Issuance
3-5-5: Regulations
3-5-6: Revocation of License
3-5-7: Penalty
3-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, the following terms shall be construed as indicated
below:
   JUNK DEALER: Includes every person who shall, in the Village, engage in the
retail or wholesale junk business for the collection, receiving, buying,
selling or bartering of any junk, rags and any secondhand article whatsoever
and shall maintain a yard, building or other place for storage of the same.
   JUNK, RAGS AND ANY SECONDHAND ARTICLE: Any and all secondhand materials,
metals, cloth, iron, motor vehicles, paper and the like regardless of the form,
condition or character thereof.
   JUNK YARD: Means and includes any area of land, including the building and
improvements thereto, upon and/or within which a person conducts all or a
portion of his business as a dealer in junk, rags and any secondhand article
whatsoever and upon which the same are stored or kept.
   PERSON: Includes an individual, a corporation or other legal entity, a
partnership and any unincorporated association and shall include both single
and plural. (Ord. 0-57, 3-22-66)
3-5-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall engage in the business of purchasing, trading in or dealing in
junk, rags or of any secondhand article whatsoever within the Village without
first obtaining a license therefor. (Ord. 0-57, 3-22-66)
3-5-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Applications for such licenses shall be filed with the Village Clerk and shall
be directed to the proper officer and it shall be accompanied by the amount of
the fee for the issuance of the license 1 . The application shall set forth,
among other things, the name, residential address and phone number of the
applicant and, if the applicant is a corporation, partnership or other joint
venture, the names and residential addresses of all persons who have an
interest in, are owners of or partners of the applicant, the exact legal and
common address of the premises upon which the business of the applicant is to
be conducted and a general description of the nature of the junk, rags and
secondhand articles in which the applicant deals. (Ord. 0-57, 3-22-66; 1994
Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  3-1-6 of this Title.
3-5-4: LICENSE FEE; ISSUANCE:
The annual fee for such license shall be as provided in Section
3-1-6 of this Title, and no such license shall be issued except on direction of
the Village President and Board of Trustees. (Ord. 0-57, 3-22-66)
3-5-5: REGULATIONS:
In the conducting of the business a dealer in junk, rags and any secondhand
article whatsoever within the Village, all of the following shall be fully
complied with:
   A.   Property Description and Maintenance: All property upon which junk,
rags or any secondhand article may be stored, processed or sold shall be
described in the application and shall be kept and maintained in an orderly,
clean manner so as not to create a nuisance or create a menace to the public
health, safety or welfare.
   B.   Nuisance Conditions Prohibited: No junk, rags or any secondhand article
whatsoever shall be processed, cleansed or disposed of by burning or in any
other manner whatsoever which results in the emission of noxious or offensive
fumes, smoke, odors, gases or the like.
   C.   Inspections: The places of business of every person licensed hereunder
shall be open to inspection to the Village Police Department and the Village's
elected officials, their agents and representatives. (Ord. 0-57, 3-22-66)
3-5-6: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Any license issued under the provisions of this Chapter may be revoked by the
President and Board of Trustees for any violation of any law or ordinance
pertaining to the conducting of the business of a dealer in junk, rags and any
secondhand article whatsoever. (Ord. 0-57, 3-22-66)
3-5-7: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this Chapter shall, upon conviction, be
subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 0-57, 3-22-66; 1994 Code)
CHAPTER 6
REFUSE DISPOSAL CONTRACTORS 1
SECTION:
3-6-1: Definition
3-6-2: License Required
3-6-3: Application for License
3-6-4: License Fee and Term
3-6-5: Bond and Insurance Requirements
3-6-6: Issuance of License
3-6-7: Number of Licenses
3-6-8: Conduct of Business
3-6-9: Disposal of Refuse
3-6-10: Vehicle Requirements
3-6-11: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 4, Chapter 1 of this Code for garbage and refuse regulations.
3-6-1: DEFINITION:
The term "refuse", as used herein, shall include garbage, such as all animal
debris, fruit or vegetable matter, and all other substances capable of decay,
fermentation or putrefaction, leaves, grass, paper, wastepaper, rags, floor
sweepings, tin cans, glassware, crockery, bottles, ashes, cinders, clinkers and
other household waste, with the exception of stone, dirt or waste material
resulting from landscaping and the remodeling of old or construction of new
buildings.
The recital of illustrative inclusions under the above definition are by way of
example rather than limitation. (Ord. 0-54, 8-24-65)
3-6-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to engage in the business of refuse disposal contracting
without first having obtained a license therefor. (Ord. 0-54, 8-24-65)
3-6-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Every application for a license hereunder shall be made in writing to
the Village Clerk on a form provided for that purpose. Such application shall
contain the name of the person desiring the same and the place of business of
the applicant. If the applicant is a partnership or firm, the application shall
contain the names and addresses of each of its members; if a limited
partnership, the names and residence addresses of each general partner thereof;
and if a corporation, the names and addresses of the principal officers.
   B.   The application shall also state the number and description of vehicles
which the applicant intends to use or operate in said business and the method
of disposal, the place where the applicant intends to dump and a written
authorization to use said facilities by a reputable dump operator that has been
in business for several years. (Ord. 0-54, 8-24-65)
3-6-4: LICENSE FEE AND TERM:
   A.   The annual fee for any license issued hereunder shall be as provided in
Section
3-1-6 of this Title.
   B.   Every license granted hereunder shall be in force for the term of one
year, beginning on October 1 and continuing to September 30 of the following
year. The annual fees provided herein shall be paid irrespective of when the
license is issued, and no such fees shall be prorated or refunded. (Ord. 0-54,
8-24-65)
3-6-5: BOND AND INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Bond: Every licensee hereunder shall execute a bond to the Village,
with good and sufficient sureties thereon as may be approved by the Village
Board of Trustees, in the penal sum of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) or
such other sum as the Board of Trustees may, from time to time, prescribe, for
the term of the license issued hereunder, or any renewal thereof, conditioned
upon the faithful performance by the licensee of all duties imposed by law or
under any agreement made with the Village. In lieu of the bond aforesaid, the
licensee may deposit cash or direct general obligation securities of the United
States of America with the Village Treasurer; such deposit to be refunded upon
full compliance by the licensee with the conditions aforementioned.
   B.   Insurance:
      1.   Every applicant hereunder shall submit satisfactory proof in the
form of a certificate or certificates of insurance issued by an insurer
authorized to transact business in the State showing that the applicant has
procured comprehensive public liability insurance fully protecting the Village
against any loss, damage or liability that may result from the applicant's
proposed operations in the Village. Such insurance shall provide for limits of
coverage of not less than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for bodily
injury to any one person, not less than three hundred thousand dollars
($300,000.00) for bodily injury to any group of persons resulting from any one
accident and not less than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) for injuries to
property resulting from any one accident.
      2.   The applicant shall also furnish proper proof in the form of a
certificate or certificates of insurance issued by an insurer authorized to
transact business in the State evidencing that said applicant has obtained
workmen's compensation and occupational disease insurance fully protecting the
Village against any and all claims of employees, subcontractors and other
persons by reason of bodily injury or death that may result from the
applicant's proposed operations in the Village.
      3.   The applicant shall also furnish evidence of the expiration dates of
the insurance coverages required herein and shall duly certify that such
coverages shall not be cancelled or modified except upon ten (10) days' prior
written notice given to the Village. Upon the cancellation, expiration or
modification of any coverages required herein without prior consent of the
Village, any license issued hereunder to said applicant shall become void.
(Ord. 0-54, 8-24-65)
3-6-6: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
   A.   Every application herein shall be transmitted by the village clerk to
the board of trustees, and no license shall be granted to any applicant
therefor, excepting upon approval of the board of trustees.
   B.   Every license so approved shall be issued by the village clerk and
shall be made subject expressly to all the provisions of this chapter and such
additional requirements as the board of trustees may impose. (Ord. 0-54, 8-24-
1965)
3-6-7: NUMBER OF LICENSES:
There shall be no limitation on the number of licenses issued hereunder for
which proper application is made, it being in the best interest of the public
health and welfare of the citizens of the village that no limit in the number
of such licenses be enforced hereunder at any one time. (Ord. 0-215, 6-28-1975)
3-6-8: CONDUCT OF BUSINESS:
   A.   Licensee: It shall be the duty of the licensee to comply fully with the
provisions of this chapter and the terms and conditions of any agreement made
by said licensee with the village respecting the collection, removal and
disposal of garbage, "refuse" and ashes as herein defined.
   B.   Refuse Disposal Contractor: It shall be the duty of every refuse
disposal contractor and his agents or employees to do his work with dispatch
and in every particular in a manner as cleanly and free from offense and with
as little danger or prejudice to life and health as possible, and also to
perform the work in such a way that no nuisance will be created thereby. (Ord.
0-54, 8-24-1965)
   C.   Commercial Disposal Restrictions: No collection of commercial waste,
refuse, and recyclable materials shall be allowed between the hours of ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. (Ord. 16-1806, 5-24-2016)
3-6-9: DISPOSAL OF REFUSE:
The garbage, refuse or ashes collected and removed by any refuse disposal
contractor licensed hereunder shall, under no circumstances, be disposed of any
place in the village or within one mile of the corporate limits thereof
excepting by approval of the board of trustees and subject to all applicable
requirements of the ordinances, rules and regulations of the village and the
agencies and instrumentalities thereof. (Ord. 0-54, 8-24-1965)
3-6-10: VEHICLE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Any person owning or controlling any vehicle used for the collection
and removal of garbage, refuse and ashes in the village shall cause all such
vehicles and all implements used in connection with the loading and unloading
thereof, when not in use, to be stored and kept in such place or places and in
such manner as not to create a nuisance and shall cause all such vehicles and
implements to be thoroughly disinfected and put in an inoffensive condition
when so stored and not in use.
   B.   Vehicles used for the collection of garbage, refuse and ashes must be
of the all metal and totally enclosed type, and such vehicles and implements
shall be thoroughly disinfected at least once each week, whether in use or not,
unless the same shall not have been used since the last disinfection thereof.
   C.   No person owning or controlling any vehicle used for the collection and
removal of garbage, refuse and ashes in the village shall cause or permit any
such vehicle to be so loaded, to be in such defective condition, to be so out
of repair, to be of such faulty construction or to be so improperly driven or
managed that any garbage, refuse or ashes (with which such vehicle is loaded)
shall drop or fall out on any public way or other place in the village 1 . Such
vehicle, and any box, can or other receptacle carried therein or thereon shall
be so constructed as to be strong and virtually airtight and watertight so as
to prevent any such garbage, refuse or ashes from emitting any odor and so as
to prevent any part of the contents or load thereof from falling, leaking or
spilling therefrom. It shall be the duty of every person in possession or
control of any such vehicle to replace at once on or in such vehicle any part
of the contents thereof which shall or may have fallen, dropped or spilled from
such vehicle or from any box or receptacle conveyed thereon upon any public way
or other place whatever. (Ord. 0-54, 8-24-1965)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 6, exhibit A, sections 11-1413 and 15-109 of this code.
3-6-11: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter, in any case
where a penalty is not otherwise specifically provided herein, shall be subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 0-54, 8-24-1965; amd. 1994 Code)
CHAPTER 7
TAXICABS
SECTION:
3-7-1: Definition
3-7-2: License Required; Application
3-7-3: Restrictions on Issuance of License
3-7-4: License Fee; Vehicle Sticker
3-7-5: Insurance
3-7-6: Taxicab Drivers
3-7-7: Rates of Fare; Payment
3-7-8: Operation of Taxicabs
3-7-9: Cabstands
3-7-10: Vehicle Requirements
3-7-11: Failure to Use Taxicab
3-7-12: Exemptions for Limousines
3-7-13: Penalty
3-7-1: DEFINITION:
The term "taxicab", as used in this Chapter, shall mean and include any vehicle
used to carry passengers for hire but not operating on a fixed route. (Ord. 0-
147, 3-28-72)
3-7-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION:
It shall be unlawful to engage in the business of operating a taxicab in the
Village without first having secured a license therefor. Applications for such
licenses shall be made, in writing, to the Clerk and shall state thereon the
name of the applicant, the intended place of business and the number of cabs to
be operated. If the applicant is a corporation, the names and addresses of the
president and secretary thereof shall be given. (Ord. 0-147, 3-28-72)
3-7-3: RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
   A.   Qualifications of Applicant: No such license shall be issued to or held
by any person who is not a person of good character or who has been convicted
of a felony nor shall such license be issued to or held by any corporation if
any officer thereof would be ineligible for a license under the foregoing
conditions.
   B.   Need for Service: No license to operate a taxicab in the Village shall
be issued unless and until the Board of Trustees shall find that the public
need for taxicab service requires the additional service to be rendered by the
applicant. In deciding this question, the Board of Trustees shall consider the
need of the public for taxicab service, the number of cabs in operation and the
anticipated future demands. (Ord. 0-147, 3-28-72)
3-7-4: LICENSE FEE; VEHICLE STICKER:
   A.   The annual fee, payable in advance, for such licenses shall be as
provided in Section
3-1-6 of this Title.
Whenever the number of cabs so operated shall be increased during the license
year, the licensee shall notify the Clerk of such change and shall pay the
additional fee.
   B.   Such fee shall be in lieu of any other vehicle fee required by
ordinance, and the Clerk shall issue suitable tags or stickers for the number
of cabs covered by each license. Such tag or sticker shall be displayed in a
prominent place on each taxicab while it is in use and may be transferred to
any taxicab put into service to replace one withdrawn from service.
   C.   The licensee shall notify the Clerk of the motor number and State
license number of each cab operated and of the corresponding Village tag or
sticker number. (Ord. 0-147, 3-28-72)
3-7-5: INSURANCE:
No taxicab shall be operated unless it is covered by a public liability policy
with bodily injury coverage not less than one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000.00) per person and three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) per
accident and property damage coverage not less than twenty five thousand
dollars ($25,000.00) written by a company authorized to do business in the
State. (Ord. 0-147, 3-28-72)
3-7-6: TAXICAB DRIVERS:
   A.   Chauffeur's License Required: No person shall drive a taxicab or be
hired or permitted to do so unless he is duly licensed as a chauffeur by the
State.
   B.   Conduct: It shall be unlawful for any driver of a taxicab while on duty
to drink any intoxicating liquor, to use any profane or obscene language, to
shout or call to prospective passengers or to disturb the peace in any way.
(Ord. 0-147, 3-28-72)
3-7-7: RATES OF FARE; PAYMENT:
   A.   The charges for taxicab service shall not exceed those as may be, from
time to time, prescribed by the Board of Trustees of the Village. No extra
charge shall be made for baggage or parcels the size of which permits them to
be carried in the cab.
   B.   Upon paying his fare, each passenger shall, upon request, be given a
receipt showing the amount so paid and the name of the company or person
operating the cab, together with the number of the cab if such company or
person operates more than one taxicab in the Village.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for a passenger to fail or refuse to pay the
lawful fare at the termination of a trip. (Ord. 0-147, 3-28-72)
3-7-8: OPERATION OF TAXICABS:
   A.   Obedience to Traffic Rules: It shall be the duty of every driver of a
taxicab to obey all traffic rules established by statute or ordinance.
   B.   Unlawful Use of Taxicabs: It shall be unlawful to knowingly permit any
taxicab to be used in the perpetration of a crime or misdemeanor.
   C.   Passengers:
      1.   It shall be the duty of the driver of any taxicab to accept as a
passenger any person who seeks to so use the taxicab, provided such person is
not intoxicated and conducts himself in an orderly manner. No person shall be
admitted to a taxicab occupied by a passenger without the consent of the
passenger.
      2.   The driver shall take his passenger to his destination by the most
direct available route from the place where the passenger enters the cab. (Ord.
0-147, 3-28-72)
3-7-9: CABSTANDS:
   A.   Cabstands on public streets shall be only in such locations as may,
from time to time, be prescribed by the Village Board of Trustees.
   B.   Each cabstand shall be appropriately marked by signs erected under the
supervision of the Chief of Police, and it shall be unlawful to park any
vehicle, other than a licensed taxicab, in any cabstand.
   C.   A licensed taxicab may be parked in any cabstand while such taxicab is
in the charge of its driver on duty awaiting a fare. (Ord. 0-147, 3-28-72)
3-7-10: VEHICLE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   State License; Vehicle Equipment: No taxicab shall be operated unless
it bears a State license duly issued, and no such cab shall be operated unless
it is equipped with proper brakes, lights, tires, horn, muffler, rear vision
mirror and windshield wiper in good condition.
   B.   Name of Licensee; Number of Cab: Each taxicab, while operated, shall
have on each side, in letters readable from a distance of twenty feet (20'),
the name of the licensee operating it. If more than one cab is operated by a
licensee, each cab shall be designated by a different number, and such number
also shall so appear on each side of such cab.
   C.   Inspections: It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to inspect
every taxicab so often as may be necessary to see to the enforcement of the
provisions of this Section. (Ord. 0-147, 3-28-72)
3-7-11: FAILURE TO USE TAXICAB:
If any licensee on whose behalf a license has been issued shall fail to operate
all or any of the taxicabs covered by such license for a period of six (6)
consecutive days, the certificate may be revoked or modified by the Board of
Trustees so as to cover and authorize only the number of cabs actually
operated. (Ord. 0-147, 3-28-72; 1994 Code)
3-7-12: EXEMPTIONS FOR LIMOUSINES:
The Board of Trustees may, upon request of an applicant for a license under
this Chapter for the operation of a taxicab or taxicabs which will be used
solely as a limousine or limousine for hire, on motion duly made and passed by
said Board, exempt said applicant from compliance with the provisions of
Sections
3-7-8C,
3-7-10B and
3-7-11 of this Chapter. (Ord. 78-276, 6-13-78)
3-7-13: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this Chapter shall, upon conviction, be
subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 0-147, 3-28-72; 1994 Code)
CHAPTER 8
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND CANVASSERS 1
SECTION:
3-8-1: Definitions
3-8-2: License Required
3-8-3: Application For License
3-8-4: Restrictions On Issuance Of License
3-8-5: Term Of License; Number; Nontransferability
3-8-6: Registration Of Certain Peddlers And Solicitors
3-8-7: Conditions Of License
3-8-8: Notice Regulating Soliciting, Peddling And Canvassing
3-8-9: Signs At Village Limits (Rep. by Ord. 08-1517, 11-11-2008)
3-8-10: Charitable Solicitations
3-8-11: Highway Solicitation
3-8-12: Fraud
3-8-13: Revocation Of License
3-8-14: Penalty
3-8-15: License Fee
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection
  4-6-1A2g of this code prohibiting shouting.
3-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
   BUSINESS ENTITY: Any person, firm, partnership or corporation who has or
engages peddlers, solicitors or canvassers in its behalf.
   CANVASSER: Any person, business entity, firm or corporation who, going from
place to place without prior appointment or prearrangement, meets with persons,
firms or corporations for the purpose of soliciting funds or donations of
property or for conducting surveys or for conducting polls or for obtaining
endorsements for any product, service, group or association.
   CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION: Any patriotic, philanthropic, social service,
welfare, athletic, political, benevolent, education, civic or fraternal
organization which was organized and exists as a not for profit entity.
   PEDDLER: Any person, business entity, firm or corporation who, going from
place to place, shall, at retail, sell, offer for sale, sell and deliver,
barter or exchange any goods, products or services. It shall not include a
serviceman who is responding to a prior call.
   PERSON: Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation or entity who is over
eighteen (18) years of age.
   SOLICITOR: Any person, business entity, firm or corporation who goes from
place to place, without prior appointment or prearrangement with the customer,
to take orders for future delivery, at retail, of any merchandise or other
article or thing or any service.
   VILLAGE: The village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois. (Ord. 89-516, 6-
27-1989; amd. Ord. 02-1135, 11-12-2002)
3-8-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No business entity or person shall cause or engage in the business or activity
of a peddler, solicitor or canvasser within the village without first obtaining
a license therefor as provided in this chapter; provided, that no such license
shall be required for peddlers and solicitors dealing only in books,
periodicals and publications. However, such persons shall be registered as
provided in section
 3-8-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 89-516, 6-27-1989)
3-8-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
An application for a peddler's, solicitor's or canvasser's license shall be
made by each business entity, as well as person, causing or intending to
solicit, peddle or canvass within the village to the village clerk in
conformity with the general requirements of village ordinances relating to the
application for license 1 . The application herein required shall be fully
completed and signed under oath and contain the following information:
   A.   Business Entity Application: The application for the business entity
which shall be completed under oath and signed by an officer or executive shall
include:
      1.   Full name, address and telephone number of the business entity.
      2.   Number of years in existence.
      3.   Names, addresses and titles of all officers of the entity.
      4.   Whether the business entity is a charitable organization and, if so,
whether it is recognized as such by the internal revenue service and the state.
      5.   Name, addresses and telephone numbers of person(s) representing the
entity who will directly supervise the peddlers, canvassers or solicitors in
the village.
      6.   A description of the merchandise or goods to be peddled or offered
for sale or order, or the purpose and nature of the materials to be canvassed.
      7.   Whether a license to the business entity has ever been suspended or
revoked.
      8.   A written representation by the business entity that it has
instructed persons conducting the peddling, soliciting and canvassing on its
behalf not to perform such activities at any residence or business which has a
sign posted in the following or similar words:
No Solicitors, Peddlers or Canvassers
      9.   Names, addresses, telephone, social security and driver's license
numbers and date of birth of all persons who will be conducting the
solicitation, canvassing or peddling on behalf of the business entity in the
village.
      10.   A written statement which is specifically designated to be relied
upon by the village and its residents that, within a month prior to submitting
its application, the business entity has personally and fully conducted an
investigation on the background of each person the entity proposes to conduct
the canvass, solicitation or peddling on its behalf, and that each such person
is a law abiding person of good moral character and has not been convicted of a
felony or crime of moral turpitude within ten (10) years from the date of this
application.
      11.   Three (3) consecutive days the business entity would like to
solicit in the village of Shorewood.
         First choice      
         Second choice      
         Third choice      
         with no date less than three (3) days from the date the completed
application is submitted.
   B.   Application For Individual (Person):
      1.   The application for the person who will peddle, solicit or canvass
shall be completed and signed under oath by the applicant and shall include:
         a.   The name, address, date of birth, social security and driver's
license numbers of the applicant.
         b.   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant's
employer and the name and address of applicant's supervisor.
         c.   The kind of merchandise or goods to be peddled or offered for
sale or order, or the purpose and nature of the matters to be canvassed.
         d.   The number and description, including make, model and license
plate numbers of vehicles, if any, intended to be operated in the village by
the person in the course of soliciting, canvassing or peddling.
         e.   The name of all cities, villages or towns where applicant has
engaged in peddling, soliciting or canvassing.
         f.   Whether the applicant, or his employer, principal or the entity
which is represented by the applicant, has ever had a peddler's, solicitor's or
canvasser's license revoked and/or been convicted of violating any statute or
ordinance relating to the same.
         g.   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of a felony or
crime of moral turpitude including fraud, forgery, theft, or deceptive
practices and if so, the case disposition, case number, offense charged,
offense convicted of and date and place of such conviction.
         h.   An acknowledgment that there shall be no canvassing, peddling or
soliciting at any business or residence which has signs posted in the following
or similar words:
            No Solicitors, Peddlers or Canvassers
      2.   The applicant, if not working in conjunction with a business entity,
shall state the exact specific consecutive dates he desires to peddle, solicit
or canvass, not in excess of three (3) consecutive days, and the license, if
issued, shall be limited to only those dates specified. (Ord. 89-516, 6-27-
1989)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  3-1-3 of this title.
3-8-4: RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
No license shall be issued to any person who has been convicted of a felony or
any offense which involves fraud, forgery, moral turpitude, theft or deceit
within the last ten (10) years. (Ord. 89-516, 6-27-1989)
3-8-5: TERM OF LICENSE; NUMBER; NONTRANSFERABILITY:
   A.   All licenses issued to business entities and persons hereunder shall be
for a specified term of not to exceed three (3) consecutive days.
   B.   Not more than one peddler's, solicitor's or canvasser's license shall
be issued to any person or business entity during any calendar year and any
license issued under this chapter shall be nontransferable. (Ord. 89-516, 6-27-
1989)
3-8-6: REGISTRATION OF CERTAIN PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS:
No business entity or person shall engage in the business or activity of a
peddler or solicitor of books, periodicals and publications within the village
without first registering with the village clerk. Such registration shall
include the name, address and social security and driver's license numbers of
such person, the name and address of the employer and supervisor of such
person, the name and address of the publisher and the names of the books,
periodicals and publications involved. Such registration shall be valid for a
period of not more than three (3) consecutive days. The times for such
activities are regulated by subsection
 3-8-7A of this chapter. (Ord. 89-516, 6-27-1989)
3-8-7: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   Hours Of Operation: No soliciting, peddling or canvassing shall be
permitted before the hour of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. or after the hour of nine
o'clock (9:00) P.M. within the village. (Ord. 02-1135, 11-12-2002)
   B.   Licenses To Be Carried: A copy of the license issued pursuant to this
chapter shall be carried with the licensee while he is engaged in peddling,
soliciting or canvassing within the village. (Ord. 89-516, 6-27-1989)
3-8-8: NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING, PEDDLING AND CANVASSING:
   A.   The occupant of any premises shall give notice to the licensee of the
determination not to allow any solicitors, peddlers or canvassers in the
following manner: A weatherproof notice, at least three inches by four inches
(3" x 4") in size, shall be exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to
the residence indicating the determination by the occupant, containing the
following or similar words:
      NO SOLICITORS, PEDDLERS OR CANVASSERS ALLOWED
   B.   The letters of this notice shall be at least one-third inch (1/3") in
height. For the purpose of uniformity, the notices shall be provided by the
village clerk to persons so requesting, at the cost thereof. Such notices so
exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any solicitor, peddler or
canvasser of the determination of the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
   C.   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any business entity or
person, whether licensed or not, to engage in the activities of soliciting,
canvassing or peddling at any residence displaying the aforesaid notice in
conformity with the provisions herein. (Ord. 89-516, 6-27-1989)
3-8-9: SIGNS AT VILLAGE LIMITS:
(Rep. by Ord. 08-1517, 11-11-2008)
3-8-10: CHARITABLE SOLICITATIONS:
   A.   List Of Organizations: The village clerk shall compile and maintain a
list of charitable or service organizations for which charitable solicitations
shall be permitted without further registration. (Ord. 80-314, 9-9-1980)
   B.   Liability Of Organization: The charitable or service organization shall
be liable for any injuries to any agent, person or property during the
solicitation which is causally related to an act of ordinary negligence of the
soliciting agent. (Ord. 80-314, 9-9-1980; amd. Ord. 89-516, 6-27-1989)
3-8-11: HIGHWAY SOLICITATION:
No person shall stand on any street or highway for the purpose of soliciting
contributions from the occupant of any vehicle except as follows:
   A.   The person must be soliciting on behalf of an organization registered
with the Illinois Attorney General as a charitable organization as provided by
625 LCS 5/11-1006.
   B.   The charity must be engaged in a statewide fundraising activity.
   C.   The organization must be liable for any injuries to any person or
property during the solicitation activity which is causally related to an act
of ordinary negligence of the person soliciting.
   D.   Each person soliciting must be at least 18 years of age.
   E.   Each person soliciting must wear a high visibility vest.
   F.   The person soliciting shall not disrupt traffic.
   G.   There shall be no interference with traffic control devices.
   H.   The organization requesting to solicit must file an application with
the Village to conduct the highway solicitation.
   I.   The agency must provide a certificate of general liability insurance
with a minimum of One Million Dollars ($1,000,000.00) coverage per occurrence
and naming the Village together with its officers, employees and agents as a
primary non-contributory additional insured.
   J.   No highway solicitation shall occur during the months of November
through April inclusive.
   K.   Not more than one agency is permitted to solicitation in any calendar
month.
   L.   Applications for highway solicitation must be received between January
1 and April 1 to be issued for a given calendar year.
   M.   In the event of multiple requests for any given calendar month
preference shall be given to those applicants which were granted a permit in
the prior calendar year.
   N.   The agency and persons soliciting must comply with all applicable laws
and ordinances.
   O.   A permit for highway solicitation shall not be valid for more than two
(2) consecutive days. (Ord. 11-1619, 5-10-2011)
3-8-12: FRAUD:
It shall be unlawful for any peddler, solicitor or canvasser to cheat, deceive
or fraudulently misrepresent, whether through himself or through an employee or
agent, while acting as a peddler, solicitor or canvasser in the village or to
barter, sell or peddle any goods, merchandise or wares or to solicit funds,
take surveys or polls other than those specified in his application for a
license. (Ord. 89-516, 6-27-1989)
3-8-13: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Any license or registration may be revoked by the village president
because of any violation of this chapter or whenever the licensee or registrant
shall cease to possess the qualifications required in this chapter for the
original license or registration.
   B.   Upon receipt of information that the licensee has violated this chapter
or no longer possesses the requisite qualifications to be licensed hereunder,
the village president shall immediately suspend said license and give the
licensee written notice by certified mail of such suspension. The notice shall
contain a statement of the facts upon which the village president has acted in
suspending the permit. The licensee shall have the right to demand a hearing to
be held within five (5) business days of the village's receipt of the
licensee's demand for hearing. Upon the filing of such a demand with the
village clerk, the village president shall affix a time and place for hearing.
At the hearing, the licensee and any other interested person shall have the
right to present evidence as to the facts upon which the village president
based the suspension of the license and any other facts which may aid the
village president in determining whether this chapter has been violated. If,
after such hearing, the village president finds that this chapter has been
violated or the information set forth in the application has been
misrepresented, he shall, within two (2) days after the hearing, file with the
village clerk for public inspection and serve upon the licensee and all
interested persons participating in the hearing a written statement of the
facts upon which he bases such finding and shall immediately revoke the permit.
If, after such hearing, the village president finds that this chapter has not
been violated and has not been misrepresented, he shall, within two (2) days
after the hearing, give to the licensee a written statement canceling the
suspension of the license. (Ord. 89-516, 6-27-1989)
3-8-14: PENALTY:
Any person or business entity violating the provisions of this chapter shall be
fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each violation, and each day such violation shall continue shall
be deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 89-516, 6-27-1989)
3-8-15: LICENSE FEE:
The fee for any peddler's, solicitor's or canvasser's license hereunder shall
be fifty dollars ($50.00) for the first person licensed, and thirty five
dollars ($35.00) for each additional person licensed, provided, however, that
no fee shall be charged for any charitable organization. (Ord. 02-1135, 11-12-
2002)
CHAPTER 9
MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
3-9-1: Definitions
3-9-2: Massage Business Commissioner
3-9-3: Massage Establishment License Required
3-9-4: Exemptions
3-9-5: Application For Massage Establishment License
3-9-6: Fees
3-9-7: Processing Of Application
3-9-8: Standards For Issuance Or Denial Of Massage Establishment License
3-9-9: Inspections By The Village
3-9-10: General Regulations
3-9-11: Additional Regulations Applicable To Licensed Massage Establishments
3-9-12: Licensee's Responsibility For Employees
3-9-13: Revocation Or Suspension
3-9-14: Administrative Record
3-9-15: Recordkeeping By Licensee
3-9-16: Penalty
3-9-17: Nuisance Declared
3-9-18: Transfer; Changes In Ownership Or Management
3-9-19: Pending/Existing Massage Establishments
3-9-20: Expiration Of Massage Establishment License; Renewal
3-9-21: Alcoholic Beverages Prohibited
3-9-22: Building Permit Required
3-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the particular provision or context requires otherwise, the definitions
and provisions contained in this section shall govern the construction, meaning
and application of words and phrases used in this chapter.
   APPROVED MASSAGE SCHOOL: A school which has received certification from the
Illinois state board of education as a massage therapy school and has presented
evidence of such certification to the village massage business commissioner.
   CODE: The village of Shorewood municipal code, as from time to time amended.
   EXISTING MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT: A massage establishment for which a license
has been issued under a prior version of this chapter as of May 24, 2016.
   LICENSED PREMISES: The place or location described in a massage
establishment license where a massage establishment is authorized to operate.
   MASSAGE BUSINESS COMMISSIONER: The village administrator, or such person's
designee.
   MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT: Any business entity, in any form, including, but not
limited to, any person, corporation, sole proprietorship, joint venture,
association, firm, partnership, limited liability corporation or any other
form, having a source of income or compensation derived from the practice of
massage and which has a fixed place of business where any person, corporation,
sole proprietorship, joint venture, association, firm, partnership, limited
liability corporation or any other entity engages in or carries on any of such
activities.
   MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT EMPLOYEE: Any person who works in or at, or renders
any services directly related to the operation of, a massage establishment;
provided, however, that this definition shall not include persons only
delivering goods, materials, food and beverages, or performing maintenance or
repairs, to the licensed premises.
   MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT LICENSE: A massage establishment license as provided
in this chapter.
   MASSAGE OR MASSAGE THERAPY: A system of structured palpation or movement of
the soft tissue of the body. The system may include, but is not limited to,
techniques such as effleurage or stroking and gliding, petrissage or kneading,
tapotement or percussion, friction, vibration, compression and stretching
activities as they pertain to massage therapy. These techniques may be applied
by a licensed massage therapist with or without the aid of lubricants, salt or
herbal preparations, hydromassage, thermal massage or a massage device that
mimics or enhances the actions possible by human hands, under such
circumstances that it is reasonably expected that the person to whom treatment
is provided, or some third party on such person's behalf, will pay money or
give other consideration or any gratuity therefor.
   MASSAGE PATRON: Any individual who received a massage in a licensed
premises.
   MASSAGE THERAPIST: Any person who, for any consideration whatsoever, engages
in the practice of massage.
   NUDE OR STATE OF NUDITY: A state of dress or undress that exposes to view:
a) less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic region,
anus, or female breast below a point immediately above the top of the areolae,
but not including any portion of the cleavage of the female breast exhibited by
a dress, blouse, shirt, leotard, bathing suit, or other wearing apparel,
provided that the areolae is not exposed; or b) human male genitals in a
discernibly turgid state, even if completely and opaquely covered, or any
device covering that simulates male genitals in a discernibly turgid state.
   PENDING MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT: A massage establishment for which a properly
completed application for license under a prior version of this chapter is
pending as of May 24, 2016.
   REFLEXOLOGY: The application of steady, deep and light pressure over the
human feet for the purpose of producing healing and relaxation in all parts of
the body.
   SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACT: Any unlawful lewd, indecent, or immoral conduct,
including specifically, but without limitation, any of the lewd, indecent, or
immoral criminal acts specified in any of the following statutes or similar
local ordinances, or such amended or successor statutes as may from time to
time be adopted:
   A.   Article 11 of the Illinois criminal code (sex offenses).
   B.   Section 26-4 of the Illinois criminal code, 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/26-4 (unauthorized videotaping).
   C.   Section 33D-1 of the Illinois criminal code, 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/12C-30 (contributing to the criminal delinquency of a minor).
   D.   The wrongs to children act, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 150/0.01 et
seq.
   E.   The improper supervision of children act, 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 640/0.01 et seq.
   F.   The sale of immoral publications to children act, 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 670/0.01 et seq.
   G.   The cannabis control act, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 550/1 et seq.
   H.   The Illinois controlled substance act, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes
570/100 et seq.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES: Any of the following:
   A.   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks, anus, or female breasts.
   B.   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, or sodomy.
   C.   Masturbation, actual or simulated.
   D.   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation, arousal, or
tumescence.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF A MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT: Any of the
following:
   A.   The sale, lease, or sublease of the business;
   B.   The transfer of stock or other similar instruments which constitute a
controlling interest in the business, whether by sale, exchange, or similar
means; or
   C.   The establishment of a trust, gift, or other similar legal device which
transfers the ownership or control of the business.
   D.   Any person not previously listed as an applicant pursuant to section
 3-9-5 of this chapter acquires an ownership interest in the business of twenty
percent (20%) or more. (Ord. 16-1807, 5-24-2016)
3-9-2: MASSAGE BUSINESS COMMISSIONER:
The massage business commissioner shall have the following powers and duties:
   A.   To administer and rule upon the applications for, and the issuance,
renewal, suspension, and revocation of, massage establishment licenses as set
forth in this chapter.
   B.   To conduct or provide for such inspections of massage establishments as
shall be necessary to determine and ensure compliance with the provisions of
this chapter and other applicable provisions of law.
   C.   To periodically review the provisions of this chapter and the conduct
and operation of massage establishments, and to make such related reports and
recommendations to the village board as the massage business commissioner shall
deem necessary.
   D.   To conduct such hearings, studies, and reports on massage
establishments, and the regulations relating thereto, as the massage business
commissioner shall deem necessary.
   E.   As required, to establish written rules and regulations implementing
the provisions of this chapter, including, but not limited to, rules related to
the content and processing of any application, and the conduct of any hearing.
   F.   To take such further actions as the massage business commissioner shall
deem necessary to carry out the purposes and intent of this chapter and to
exercise such additional powers in furtherance thereof as are implied or
incident to those powers and duties expressly set forth in this chapter. (Ord.
16-1807, 5-24-2016)
3-9-3: MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   Massage Establishment License Required: A massage establishment license
shall be required to establish, operate, or maintain a massage establishment
within the village. No person shall engage in the business of operating a
massage establishment in the village without a valid and current massage
establishment license therefor issued by the village pursuant to the terms of
this chapter. A separate massage establishment license shall be required for
each massage establishment location regardless of whether such multiple
establishments are operated by the same person. A massage establishment license
is required in addition to any other required license or registration.
   B.   Operation In Violation Of This Chapter Prohibited: It shall be unlawful
for any person to establish, operate, or maintain a massage establishment
within the village except in the manner authorized by, and in compliance with,
the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 16-1807, 5-24-2016)
3-9-4: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   No massage establishment license shall be required for any hospitals,
nursing homes and persons holding an unrevoked certificate to practice the
healing arts under the laws of the state, or to those working under the
direction of any such persons in any such establishments.
   B.   No massage establishment license shall be required for any barber,
cosmetologist, nail technician or related occupation and lawfully carrying on
their respective businesses. Provided, this exemption is only intended to
permit normal and customary barber, cosmetologist, nail technician or related
services which involve incidental physical contact, such as manicures, scalp
rubs and facials, which would otherwise qualify as massage activities. This
exemption is not intended, and does not permit, general massage activities as
part of any barber, cosmetologist or related business beyond that authorized by
their state license or certification.
   C.   Where massage services are actually performed at the patron's premises,
including the patron's place of business or residence, a massage establishment
license shall not be required for such patron's premises. (Ord. 16-1807, 5-24-
2016)
3-9-5: APPLICATION FOR MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT LICENSE:
   A.   Required Form: An application for a massage establishment license, or
the renewal thereof, shall be made in writing to the massage business
commissioner on a form prescribed by the massage business commissioner and
shall be signed: 1) by the applicant, if the applicant is an individual; 2) by
at least one of the persons entitled to share in the profits of the
organization and having unlimited personal liability for the obligations of the
organization and the right to bind all other such persons, if the applicant is
a partnership (general or limited), joint venture, or any other type of
organization where two (2) or more persons share in the profits and liabilities
of the organization; 3) by a duly authorized agent, if the applicant is a
corporation; or 4) by the trustee, if the applicant is a trust. The application
shall also be signed by the fee simple owner of the proposed licensed premises.
The application shall be verified by oath or affidavit as to all statements
made on or in connection with the application and any attachments thereto. Each
application shall specifically identify the applicant, the licensed premises
and the owner of the licensed premises for which a massage establishment
license is sought. Each initial or renewal application shall be accompanied by
seven (7) identical copies.
   B.   Fee: Any fee as provided by this chapter.
   C.   Required Information And Documents: Each application shall include the
following information and documents:
      1.   a. Individuals: The applicant's legal name, all of the applicant's
aliases, the applicant's business address and social security number, written
proof of the applicant's age, the citizenship and place of birth of the
applicant and, if a naturalized citizen, the time and place of the applicant's
naturalization.
         b.   Corporations: The applicant's complete name and official business
address; the legal name, all aliases, and the ages, business addresses, and
social security numbers of all the directors, officers, and managers of the
corporation and every person owning or controlling more than twenty percent
(20%) of the voting shares of the corporation; the corporation's date and place
of incorporation and the object for which it was formed; proof that the
corporation is a corporation in good standing and authorized to conduct
business in the state of Illinois; and the name of the registered corporate
agent and the address of the registered office for service of process.
         c.   Limited liability corporations: The applicant's complete name and
official business address; the legal name, all aliases, and the ages, business
addresses, and social security numbers of all the directors, officers, and
managers of the corporation and every person owning or controlling more than
twenty percent (20%) of the voting shares of the corporation; the corporation's
date and place of incorporation and the object for which it was formed; proof
that the corporation is a corporation in good standing and authorized to
conduct business in the state of Illinois; and the name of the registered
corporate agent and the address of the registered office for service of
process.
         d.   Organizations: Partnerships (general or limited), joint ventures,
or any other type of organization where two (2) or more persons share in the
profits and liabilities of the organization: The applicant organization's
complete name and official business address; the legal name, all aliases, and
the ages, business addresses, and social security numbers of each partner
(other than limited partners) or any other person entitled to share in the
profits of the organization, whether or not any such person is also obligated
to share in the liabilities of the organization.
         e.   Trusts: The applicant's complete name; the legal name, all
aliases, and the business address of the trustee of the trust; the legal name,
all aliases, and the ages, businesses addresses, and social security numbers of
each beneficiary of the trust and the specific interest of each such
beneficiary in the trust; and the interest, if any, that the land trust holds
in the licensed premises.
      2.   If a corporation or partnership or other entity is an interest
holder that must be disclosed, then such interest holders shall disclose the
information required with respect to their interest holders.
      3.   A description of the manner in which the proposed massage
establishment will be conducted.
      4.   The length of time that the applicant has been in the massage
business.
      5.   The location, including street address and legal description, and
telephone number, of the premises for which the massage establishment license
is sought.
      6.   The specific name of the business that is to be operated under the
massage establishment license.
      7.   The name, address and telephone number of each fee simple owner of
the licensed premises. If the applicant is not the fee simple owner of the
licensed premises, a copy of the applicant's lease shall be provided.
      8.   A diagram showing the internal and external configuration of the
licensed premises, including all doors, windows, entrances, exits, the fixed
structural internal features of the licensed premises, plus the interior rooms,
walls, partitions, stages, performance areas, and restrooms. A professionally
prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer's or architect's blueprint shall
not be required; provided, however that each diagram shall be oriented to the
north or to some designated street or object and shall be drawn to a designated
scale or with marked dimensions to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches
(±6") and sufficient to show clearly the various interior dimensions of all
areas of the licensed premises and to demonstrate compliance with the
provisions of this chapter. The requirements of this paragraph shall not apply
for renewal applications if the applicant adopts a diagram that was previously
submitted for the license sought to be renewed and if the licensee certifies
that the licensed premises has not been altered since the immediately preceding
issuance of the license and that the previous diagram continues to accurately
depict the exterior and interior layouts of the licensed premises. The approval
or use of the diagram required pursuant to this paragraph shall not be deemed
to be, and shall not be interpreted or construed to constitute, any other
village approval otherwise required pursuant to applicable village ordinances
and regulations.
      9.   The names of each governmental body which, within five (5) years
immediately prior to the date of the present application, the applicant, or any
of the individuals identified in the application pursuant to this chapter has
applied for, received or been denied a license or other authorization to
conduct or operate a business: a) substantially the same as a massage
establishment, and the names and addresses of each such business; b) requiring
a federal, state, or local liquor license; or c) requiring a federal, state, or
local gaming license.
      10.   The specific type or types of massage establishment(s) that the
applicant proposes to operate in the licensed premises.
      11.   A copy of each massage establishment license, liquor license, and
gaming license from any governmental entity and currently held by the
applicant, or any of the individuals identified in the application pursuant to
this chapter.
      12.   Whether the applicant, or any of the individuals identified in the
application pursuant to this chapter, has been, within five (5) years
immediately preceding the date of the application, convicted of, or pleaded
nolo contendere to, any specified criminal act. As to each conviction, the
applicant or other individual shall provide the conviction date, the case
number, the nature of the misdemeanor or felony violation(s) or offense(s), and
the name and location of the court.
      13.   Whether the applicant, or any of the individuals identified in the
application pursuant to this chapter, has had a license or other authorization
to conduct or operate a business substantially the same as a massage
establishment or any business requiring either a liquor or gaming license,
revoked or suspended by any governmental entity, and, if so, the date and
grounds for each such revocation or suspension, and the name and location of
the establishment at issue.
      14.   The name of the individual or individuals who shall be the day to
day, on site managers of the proposed massage establishment. If the manager is
other than the applicant, the applicant shall provide, for each manager, all of
the information required pursuant to this chapter.
      15.   For the individual or individuals executing the application
pursuant to this chapter, and the individual or individuals identified pursuant
to this chapter, a fully executed waiver on a form prescribed by the village to
obtain criminal conviction information pursuant to the Illinois uniform
conviction information act.
      16.   The applicants shall submit their fingerprints to be used in
completing the investigation. Applicants are required to present themselves for
fingerprints to be taken by the Shorewood police department as provided by the
massage business commissioner. If the applicant is a limited liability company
or corporation, fingerprints shall be required of each of the applicant's
officers, members, directors or person owning in the aggregate more than twenty
percent (20%) of the entity. If the applicant is a partnership, fingerprints
shall be required of all general partners, and any limited partner owning more
than twenty percent (20%) of the aggregate limited partner interest in such
partnership. Applicant shall pay the fingerprint fee for each person required
to submit fingerprints. Provided, in the case of a renewal application,
fingerprints and the fingerprint fee shall not be required from a renewal
applicant whose fingerprints are on file unless the massage business
commissioner determines that there may be reason to believe that the renewal
applicant may have unreported convictions.
   D.   Incomplete Applications: Any application for a massage establishment
license that does not include all of the information and documents required
pursuant to this section, as well as any fee, shall be deemed to be incomplete
and shall not be acted on or processed by the village. The massage business
commissioner shall, within ten (10) days of such submittal, return the
incomplete application to the applicant along with a written explanation of the
reasons why the application is incomplete. (Ord. 16-1807, 5-24-2016)
3-9-6: FEES:
   A.   Administrative Processing Fee: From and after May 24, 2016, every
applicant for a new (nonrenewal) massage establishment license shall pay an
administrative processing fee as shown in section
3-1-6 of this title. The administrative processing fee shall be nonrefundable.
   B.   License Fee: Every applicant for a massage establishment license, or
for the renewal of an existing massage establishment license, shall pay an
annual license fee in the amount as shown in section
 3-1-6 of this title to the village at the time of filing such application. The
license fee shall be refunded in the event the license application is denied.
   C.   Fingerprint Fee: A fingerprint fee assessed by the village as shown in
section
3-1-6 of this title. The fingerprint fee shall be nonrefundable. (Ord. 16-1807,
5-24-2016)
3-9-7: PROCESSING OF APPLICATION:
   A.   Review: Within five (5) days after receipt of a complete application
for a massage establishment license that includes all the information,
documents and fees, the massage business commissioner shall commence the
application review process.
   B.   Massage Business Commissioner Review: The massage business commissioner
may conduct such inspections and investigations as the massage business
commissioner shall deem reasonably necessary to verify the information set
forth in the application and to determine whether the proposed massage
establishment and licensed premises comply with the requirements of this
chapter and other applicable laws, code, ordinances, rules, and regulations.
   C.   Reliance On Diagram: In the event that the licensed premises has not
yet been constructed or reconstructed to accommodate the proposed massage
establishment, the massage business commissioner shall base his respective
written reports, investigations, and inspections to the extent necessary, on
the diagram submitted pursuant to this chapter. Any massage establishment
license issued prior to the construction or reconstruction necessary to
accommodate the proposed massage establishment shall be subject to the
condition that the massage establishment shall not open for business until the
licensed premises has been inspected and determined to be in substantial
compliance with the diagram submitted with the application.
   D.   Applicant Cooperation Required: An applicant for massage establishment
license shall cooperate fully in the inspections and investigations conducted
by the massage business commissioner and the reviewing departments. The
applicant's failure or refusal: 1) to give any information reasonably relevant
to the investigation of the application; 2) to allow the licensed premises to
be inspected; 3) to appear at any reasonable time and place for examination
under oath regarding the application; or 4) to otherwise cooperate with the
investigation and inspection required by this chapter, shall constitute an
admission by the applicant that the applicant is ineligible for a massage
establishment license and shall be grounds for denial of the license by the
massage business commissioner.
   E.   Issuance Or Denial, Massage Establishment License: The massage business
commissioner shall, within forty five (45) days after submittal of a properly
completed application, or within such other period of time as the village and
the applicant shall otherwise agree, either issue or deny issuance of a massage
establishment license pursuant to this chapter. Provided, if after forty five
(45) days a criminal history background investigation has not been completed,
such period shall be extended. (Ord. 16-1807, 5-24-2016)
3-9-8: STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT LICENSE:
   A.   Issuance: The massage business commissioner shall issue a massage
establishment license to an applicant if, but only if, the massage business
commissioner finds and determines all of the following, based on the reports,
investigations, and inspections conducted by the massage business commissioner
and the reviewing departments and on any other credible information on which it
is reasonable for the massage business commissioner to rely:
      1.   All information and documents required for issuance of a massage
establishment license have been properly provided and the material statements
made in the application are true and correct.
      2.   All persons identified in the application are at least eighteen (18)
years of age.
      3.   No person identified in the application has been convicted of, or
pleaded nolo contendere to, any specified criminal act within five (5) years
immediately preceding the date of the application.
      4.   No person identified in the application has been convicted of, or
pleaded nolo contendere to, any violation of a provision of this chapter within
five (5) years immediately preceding the date of the application.
      5.   No person identified in the application is overdue on payment to the
village of taxes, fees, fines, or penalties assessed against, or imposed on,
any such individual in connection to any massage establishment.
      6.   No person identified in the application is residing with, or married
to, a person: a) who has been denied a massage establishment license within
twelve (12) months immediately preceding the date of the application, b) whose
massage establishment license has been revoked within twelve (12) months
immediately preceding the date of the application, or c) whose massage
establishment license is under suspension at the time of application.
      7.   The massage establishment and the licensed premises, and the
proposed operation of the massage establishment, comply with all then
applicable building, health, and life safety codes and regulations, have clean
toilet and sink facilities, and have received all necessary zoning approvals
required pursuant to the then applicable provisions of the village zoning
ordinance.
      8.   No massage establishment license shall be issued to any person for
premises for which a liquor license or adult oriented business license has been
issued.
      9.   When a massage establishment license shall have been revoked or
surrendered following notice of hearing as provided in section
3-9-13 of this chapter, no license shall be granted to any person for the
period of one year thereafter for the conduct of a massage establishment in the
premises described in the revoked license.
      10.   The applicant has confirmed in writing and under oath as part of
the application that the applicant had read this chapter and all provisions of
the village zoning ordinance applicable to massage establishments, that the
applicant is familiar with their terms and conditions, and that the licensed
premises and the proposed massage establishment and its proposed operation are
and shall be in compliance therewith.
   B.   Denial: If the massage business commissioner determines that the
applicant has not met any one or more of the conditions set forth in subsection
A of this section, then the massage business commissioner shall deny issuance
of the massage establishment license and shall give the applicant a written
notification and explanation of such denial. The massage business
commissioner's notice of denial shall be delivered in person or by certified
U.S. mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, addressed to the
applicant's address as set forth in the application. The massage establishment
license shall be deemed denied on the day that the notice of denial is
delivered in person or three (3) days after it is placed in the U.S. mail as
provided in this subsection. The applicant shall be advised of its right to
appeal pursuant to law. (Ord. 16-1807, 5-24-2016)
3-9-9: INSPECTIONS BY THE VILLAGE:
   A.   Authority: The massage business commissioner and other village
representatives and departments with jurisdiction shall periodically inspect
all licensed massage establishments as shall be necessary to determine
compliance with the provisions of this chapter and all other applicable law.
   B.   Licensee Cooperation: A licensee shall permit representatives of the
village to inspect the licensed premises and the licensed massage establishment
for the purpose of determining compliance with the provisions of this chapter
and all other applicable law at any time during which the licensed premises is
occupied or the massage establishment is open for business.
   C.   Interference Or Refusal Illegal: It shall be unlawful for the licensee,
any massage establishment employee, or any other person to prohibit, interfere
with, or refuse to allow, any lawful inspection conducted by the village
pursuant to this chapter or any other authority.
   D.   Suspension Or Revocation: Any such prohibition, interference, or
refusal shall be grounds for suspension or revocation of the massage
establishment license pursuant to this chapter.
   E.   Change In Information: During the pendency of any application for, or
during the term of, any massage establishment license, the applicant or
licensee shall promptly notify the massage business commissioner in writing: 1)
of any change in any material information given by the applicant, licensee or
permittee in the application for such license, including specifically, but
without limitation, any change in designation of the massage establishments
where a massage therapist is providing massage services, any change in the
identification of massage therapists at any massage establishment, and any
change in the managers of the massage establishment or in the individuals
identified in the application; or 2) if any of the events constituting grounds
for suspension or revocation pursuant this chapter occur. (Ord. 16-1807, 5-24-
2016)
3-9-10: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   General Compliance: All massage establishments shall comply with the
provisions of this chapter; all other applicable village ordinances,
resolutions, rules, and regulations, and all other applicable federal, state,
and local laws.
   B.   Massage Establishment Employees: Massage establishment employees must
wear clean, nontransparent outer garments covering the sexual and genital areas
which shall include the genitals, pubic area, buttocks, anus or perineum of any
person or the vulva or breasts of a female.
   C.   Covering Of Patrons: The sexual or genital areas of massage
establishment patrons must be covered by towels, cloths or undergarments when
in the presence of a massage establishment employee.
   D.   Hand And Body Placement: No massage establishment employee or any other
person at any massage establishment, shall knowingly place his or her hand
upon, or touch with any part of his or her body, with intent to fondle in any
manner, a sexual or genital area of any other person.
   E.   Inappropriate Acts: No massage establishment employee or any other
person at any massage establishment, shall perform, offer or agree to perform
any act which would require the touching of the patron's genital or sexual
area.
   F.   Skin Conditions: No massage establishment employee or any other person
at any massage establishment, shall administer a massage to any part of a
patron's body which exhibits any skin fungus, skin infection, skin inflammation
or skin eruption, unless a physician duly licensed by the state determines that
such persons may be safely massaged, prescribing the conditions thereof.
   G.   Specified Sexual Activities: No massage establishment employee or any
other person at any massage establishment shall perform or conduct any
specified sexual activity with or for any massage establishment patron or any
other massage establishment employee or any other person. No massage
establishment patron or any other person at any massage establishment shall
perform or conduct any specified sexual activity with or for any massage
establishment employee or any other massage establishment patron or any other
person.
   H.   Gambling And Related Devices Prohibited: No massage establishment shall
contain any video, pinball, slot, bagatelle, pigeonhole, pool, or any other
games, machines, tables, or implements.
   I.   Alcohol Prohibition: No alcoholic liquor shall be delivered, received,
sold, purchased, provided or consumed by any massage establishment employee at
any massage establishment.
   J.   Copy Of License: No massage therapist may perform any massage without
having sent a copy of his/her state license to the village. (Ord. 16-1807, 5-
24-2016)
3-9-11: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO LICENSED MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS:
   A.   Animals: No animals, except only for seeing eye dogs to assist the
blind, shall be permitted at any time at or in any licensed massage
establishment.
   B.   Restrooms: All restrooms in a licensed massage establishment shall be
equipped with standard toilets, sinks, and other traditional lavatory
facilities.
   C.   Restricted Areas: No massage patron shall be permitted at any time to
enter into any of the nonpublic portions of any licensed massage establishment,
including specifically, but without limitation, any storage areas or dressing
or other rooms provided for the benefit of massage establishment employees.
This subsection shall not apply to persons delivering goods and materials, food
and beverages, or performing maintenance or repairs to the licensed premises;
provided, however, that any such persons shall remain in such nonpublic areas
only for the purposes and to the extent and time necessary to perform their job
duties.
   D.   Display Of License: Every massage establishment licensee shall cause
the massage establishment license to be framed, covered by glass, and hung at
all times in plain view in a conspicuous place on the massage establishment
licensed premises so that it can be easily seen and read at any time by any
person entering the massage establishment licensed premises.
   E.   Manager Present: At all times during the hours of operation of a
licensed massage establishment there shall be present a manager of the licensed
massage establishment who shall be not less than eighteen (18) years of age.
   F.   Persons With Specified Criminal Acts Prohibited: No massage
establishment licensee shall permit any person to remain in or upon massage
establishment licensed premises who commits any specified criminal act.
   G.   Massage Therapist Permit Required: Except for approved massage schools,
no massage establishment licensee shall employ as a massage therapist any
person unless said person has obtained and has in effect a massage therapist
permit issued pursuant to state law.
   H.   Residency Prohibited: No portion of a licensed massage establishment
shall be designed, modified, equipped or used as a residence or for residential
purposes. No person shall reside, board or otherwise use a licensed massage
establishment as a residence. (Ord. 16-1807, 5-24-2016)
3-9-12: LICENSEE'S RESPONSIBILITY FOR EMPLOYEES:
Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of any of
the provisions of this chapter, by any officer, director, manager, massage
therapist or other agent or massage establishment employee of any massage
establishment licensee, shall be deemed and held to be the act of such
licensee, and said licensee shall be punishable in the same manner as if said
act or omission had been committed or omitted by the licensee personally.
Accordingly, any such act or omission of any such persons constituting a
violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed, for purposes of
determining whether the licensee's massage establishment license shall be
issued, revoked, suspended, or renewed, to be the act or omission of the
licensee. (Ord. 16-1807, 5-24-2016)
3-9-13: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION:
   A.   Grounds: Pursuant to the procedures set forth herein, the massage
business commissioner may suspend for not more than thirty (30) days, or
revoke, any massage establishment license if the massage business commissioner,
based upon credible and reasonably reliable information and evidence,
determines that any one or more of the following has occurred:
      1.   The licensee has violated any of the provisions or requirements of
this chapter, the massage establishment license issued pursuant hereto, or the
provisions of the village zoning ordinance applicable to the licensed premises.
      2.   The licensee: a) knowingly or negligently furnished false or
misleading information or withheld information on any application or other
document submitted to the village for issuance or renewal of any massage
establishment license or b) knowingly or negligently caused or suffered any
other person to furnish or withhold any such information on the licensee's
behalf.
      3.   The licensee or any massage therapist practicing at the licensed
premises has committed a felony, specified criminal act, or specified sexual
activities on the licensed premises.
      4.   The licensee authorizes, approves, or, as a result of the licensee's
negligent failure to supervise the licensed premises or the massage
establishment, allows, a massage establishment employee, a massage
establishment patron, or any other person to: a) violate any of the provisions
or requirements of this chapter or the provisions or requirements of the
massage establishment license issued pursuant hereto, b) commit any felony or
specified criminal act on the licensed premises, or c) commit any specified
sexual activity.
      5.   The licensee, or any person identified pursuant to section
 3-9-5 of this chapter becomes disqualified for the issuance of a license.
      6.   The licensee is delinquent in payment to the village for taxes or
utility charges related to the massage business.
      7.   Any massage therapist practicing at the licensed establishment
commits any act in violation of state or local laws on the premises.
   B.   Procedure: A massage establishment license may be suspended for not
more than thirty (30) days, or revoked, pursuant to the terms and conditions
set forth in this section.
      1.   Notice: Upon determining that one or more of the grounds for
suspension or revocation under this section may exist, the massage business
commissioner shall serve a written notice on the licensee in person or by
certified U.S. mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, addressed to
the licensee's address as set forth in their application. A copy of this notice
shall also be sent to the fee simple owner of the licensed premises as shown on
licensee's application. The written notice shall, at a minimum: a) state that
massage business commissioner has determined that the massage establishment
license may be subject to suspension or revocation; b) identify the specific
grounds for the massage business commissioner's determination; and c) set a
date for a hearing regarding the massage business commissioner's determination
as to the possibility of suspension or revocation of the massage establishment
license. The date of the hearing shall be no less than five (5) days after
service of the massage business commissioner's notice, unless an earlier or
later date is agreed to by the licensee and the massage business commissioner.
      2.   Suspension Of Massage Business Pending Hearing: The massage business
commissioner may order the immediate suspension of all massage activities at
any massage establishment or by any massage therapist pending the hearing set
forth herein where the massage business commissioner determines that there is
an immediate danger to the public health, safety or welfare, or where the
license had been suspended within the previous forty eight (48) months. In
addition, the massage business commissioner may condition any continuance of
the hearing upon suspension of massage business at any massage establishment or
by any massage therapist.
      3.   Hearing: The hearing shall be conducted by the massage business
commissioner. At the hearing, the licensee may present and submit evidence and
witnesses to refute the grounds cited by the massage business commissioner for
suspending or revoking the license and the village and any other persons may
submit evidence to sustain such grounds. The administrative record compiled on
the massage establishment license pursuant to this chapter shall be made part
of the hearing record. Provided, the massage business commissioner may
designate a hearing officer to schedule, convene and conduct the public
hearing. In such case, the hearing officer shall have the same powers as the
massage business commissioner to conduct the hearing. Where such designation
has been made, the hearing officer shall submit proposed findings and
recommendations to the massage business commissioner within seven (7) days of
the close of the hearing. Within fourteen (14) days after the close of the
hearing, the massage business commissioner shall, having considered the record
made at the hearing, render a decision in writing, setting forth the reasons
for the decision.
      4.   Notice And Effective Date Of Suspension Or Revocation: The massage
business commissioner's written decision shall be posted at the office of the
massage business commissioner and shall be served on the licensee in person or
by certified U.S. mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, addressed to
the licensee's address as set forth in their application. In addition, a copy
of such order shall be mailed to the fee simple owner of the licensed premises.
Any suspension or revocation, as the case may be, shall take effect on the day
that the massage business commissioner's written decision is delivered in
person or three (3) days after it is placed in the U.S. mail as provided in
this section.
      5.   Surrender Of License: Upon the suspension or revocation of a massage
establishment license pursuant to this chapter, the massage business
commissioner shall take custody of the suspended or revoked license. (Ord. 16-
1807, 5-24-2016)
3-9-14: ADMINISTRATIVE RECORD:
The massage business commissioner shall cause to be kept in the massage
business commissioner's office an accurate record of every massage
establishment license application received and acted on, together with all
relevant information and material pertaining to such administrative application
and the massage establishment. (Ord. 16-1807, 5-24-2016)
3-9-15: RECORDKEEPING BY LICENSEE:
The licensee of every massage establishment shall maintain a register of all of
its massage establishment employees. For each such employee, the register shall
include the following information:
   A.   Legal name.
   B.   Any and all aliases.
   C.   Date of birth.
   D.   Gender.
   E.   Social security number.
   F.   Date of commencement of employment.
   G.   Date of employment termination, if applicable.
   H.   Specific job or employment duties.
   I.   A copy of any massage therapist permit issued to such employee pursuant
to state law. The register shall be maintained for all current employees and
all employees employed at any time during the preceding thirty six (36) months.
The licensee shall make the register of its massage establishment employees
available for inspection by the village immediately upon demand at all
reasonable times. (Ord. 16-1807, 5-24-2016)
3-9-16: PENALTY:
Any person who violates, neglects, refuses to comply with, or assists or
participates in any way in the violation of, any of the provisions or
requirements of this chapter or of any of the provisions or requirements of any
massage establishment license, shall be fined as provided in this code.
Provided, this provision shall not limit the authority of the massage business
commissioner to suspend or revoke any license. (Ord. 16-1807, 5-24-2016)
3-9-17: NUISANCE DECLARED:
   A.   Any massage establishment established, operated, or maintained in
violation of any of the provisions or requirements of this chapter or of any
massage establishment license shall be, and the same is, declared to be
unlawful and a public nuisance. The village may, in addition to or in lieu of
any other remedies set forth in this chapter, commence an action to enjoin,
remove, or abate such nuisance in the manner provided by law and shall take
such other steps and apply to such court or courts as may have jurisdiction to
grant such relief as will abate or remove such public nuisance, and restrain
and enjoin any person from establishing, operating, or maintaining a massage
establishment contrary to the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 16-1807, 5-24-
2016)
3-9-18: TRANSFER; CHANGES IN OWNERSHIP OR MANAGEMENT:
   A.   Any massage establishment license issued pursuant to this chapter shall
be applicable only to the specific massage establishment licensee and location
designated, and may not be sold, transferred, or otherwise assigned.
   B.   A transfer in the ownership or control of a massage establishment shall
constitute a change in the massage establishment licensee and the existing
massage establishment license shall be deemed surrendered and extinguished. A
new application and massage establishment license application shall be filed
and processed as provided in this chapter. Any transfer in the ownership or
control of a massage establishment in violation of this section shall
constitute operation of such business without a massage establishment license.
   C.   Notice shall be provided prior to any change of the designated manager
conducting business for the massage establishment licensee. The new manager
must be qualified to operate the massage establishment as provided herein. The
massage establishment licensee shall, not less than ten (10) business days
before such change is to take effect, give the massage business commissioner
written notice of such change. The notice shall include any information
concerning the new manager which is required in section
3-9-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 16-1807, 5-24-2016)
3-9-19: PENDING/EXISTING MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS:
   A.   An application for a pending massage establishment shall be reviewed
and, if in compliance with regulations in effect at the time of application,
approved subject to the following conditions:
      1.   The applicant shall submit an amended application in accordance with
the terms of this chapter for a massage establishment license not later than
August 31, 2016. The purpose of this submittal is to provide the village with
information required under this chapter but not included in the original
application. Provided, no license or application fees shall be required.
      2.   The applicant shall be subject to and comply with the provisions of
this chapter.
   B.   An existing massage establishment may continue to operate subject to
the following conditions:
      1.   Not later than August 31, 2016, the owner of existing massage
establishment shall submit a supplemental application in accordance with the
terms of this chapter for a massage establishment license. The purpose of this
submittal is to provide the village with information required under this
chapter but not included in the original application. Provided, no license or
application fees shall be required.
      2.   The existing massage establishment shall be subject to and comply
with all provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Renewals for any pending or existing massage establishments shall be in
conformance with this chapter. (Ord. 16-1807, 5-24-2016)
3-9-20: EXPIRATION OF MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT LICENSE; RENEWAL:
   A.   Each massage establishment license shall expire on December 31 of each
year and may be renewed only by making application as provided in this chapter.
Provided, in lieu of full submittal, an applicant may, on forms provided by the
village, certify that the information previously provided remains true and
valid. This renewal application shall be processed as provided in this chapter.
Application for renewal shall be made at least thirty (30) days before the
expiration date.
   B.   Before the massage business commissioner denies renewal of a massage
establishment license, notice and a hearing shall be provided as set in section
3-9-13 of this chapter. Such denial shall be equivalent to a revocation. (Ord.
16-1807, 5-24-2016)
3-9-21: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES PROHIBITED:
No alcoholic beverages shall be possessed or consumed upon the licensed
premises at any time. (Ord. 16-1807, 5-24-2016)
3-9-22: BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED:
No building permit shall be issued for a proposed licensed premises unless or
until a massage business license is issued. (Ord. 16-1807, 5-24-2016)
CHAPTER 10
SALE OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA 1
SECTION:
3-10-1: License Required
3-10-2: Application For License; Fee
3-10-3: Records Kept
3-10-4: Sales To Minors Prohibited
3-10-5: Exemptions From Provisions
3-10-6: Penalties
 
Notes
  1. See sections
1 5-3-4 and
  5-3-4-2 of this code.
3-10-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person, as principal, clerk, agent or servant, to
sell any items, effect, paraphernalia, accessory or thing which is designed or
marketed for use with illegal cannabis or drugs, as defined by Illinois
Compiled Statutes 1 , without obtaining a license therefor. Such licenses shall
be in addition to any or all other licenses held by applicant. (Ord. 82-335, 6-
22-1982)
 
Notes
1 2. 720 ILCS 550/3 and 570/102.
3-10-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FEE:
   A.   Application to sell any item, effect, paraphernalia, accessory or thing
which is designed or marketed for use with illegal cannabis or drugs shall, in
addition, to requirements of the ordinances of the village, be accompanied by
affidavits by the applicant and each and every employee authorized to sell such
items that such person has never been convicted of a drug-related offense.
   B.   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as provided
in section
3-1-6 of this title. (Ord. 82-335, 6-22-1982)
3-10-3: RECORDS KEPT:
Every licensee must keep a record of every item, effect, paraphernalia,
accessory or thing which is designed or marketed for use with illegal cannabis
or drugs which is sold, and this record shall be open to the inspection of any
police officer and any elected village officer at any time during the hours of
business. Such record shall contain the name and address of the purchaser, the
name and quantity of the product, the date and time of the sale and the
licensee or agent of the licensee's signature. Such records shall be retained
for not less than two (2) years. (Ord. 82-335, 6-22-1982)
3-10-4: SALES TO MINORS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful to sell or give items as described in section
3-10-1 of this chapter in any form to any male or female child under eighteen
(18) years of age. (Ord. 82-335, 6-22-1982)
3-10-5: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
This chapter shall not apply to any sale of any items, effect, paraphernalia,
accessory or thing intended for use in relation or conjunction with any drugs
for which a prescription has been issued by a medical doctor, physician or
dentist licensed by the state nor shall this chapter apply to the sale of the
same to any hospital, medical or dental clinic licensed by the state. (Ord. 82-
335, 6-22-1982)
3-10-6: PENALTIES:
Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall be fined not
less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) for the first such violation and five hundred dollars ($500.00) for
each subsequent violation. Each day that a violation of this chapter may
continue shall be deemed a separate violation hereof. (Ord. 82-335, 6-22-1982)
CHAPTER 11
GARAGE SALES
SECTION:
3-11-1: Regulation Of Number Of Garage Sales And Items Sold
3-11-1: REGULATION OF NUMBER OF GARAGE SALES AND ITEMS SOLD 1 :
Any owner or occupant of a dwelling unit may conduct not more than a total of
two (2) garage sales (also known as patio sales, basement sales, yard sales,
rummage sales, driveway sales, craft sales, etc.) during any twelve (12)
consecutive months. Participation in the villagewide garage sale, sponsored by
the parks and recreation committee, is permitted in addition to the two (2)
garage sales. Any sale permitted by this section shall extend not more than
three (3) days and shall be limited to household goods and furnishings which
have been in use in the dwelling unit located on the premises on which the
sales are conducted or which have been in use in another dwelling unit on the
same block and crafts made in such dwelling unit. No merchandise purchased for
intentional sale or resale at a profit may be sold at a garage sale, except for
crafts made on site. (Ord. 03-1182, 9-23-2003)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  8-4-2 of this code for garage sale sign regulations.
CHAPTER 12
TATTOO AND BODY PIERCING ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
3-12-1: Definitions
3-12-2: Prohibition
3-12-3: Exemptions
3-12-4: Tattooing
3-12-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
   BODY PIERCING: Any procedure whereby a part or parts of the human body are
pierced by a sharp instrument in order to allow insertion of a piece or pieces
of jewelry, a ring(s), or other ornamental device(s) through the orifice(s)
thus created.
   OPERATOR: Any individual, firm, company, corporation, or association that
owns or operates an establishment where tattooing or body piercing is
performed, and any individual who performs or practices the art of tattooing or
body piercing upon other human beings.
   TATTOO, TATTOOED, OR TATTOOING: Any method of placing designs, letters,
scrolls, figures, symbols, or any other marks upon or under the skin by aid of
needles or other instruments designed to touch or puncture the skin. (Ord. 02-
1112, 7-23-2002)
3-12-2: PROHIBITION:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to maintain and
operate a body piercing establishment. (Ord. 02-1112, 7-23-2002; amd. Ord. 20-
1988, 9-22-2020)
3-12-3: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   he provisions of this chapter shall not apply to licensed medical
doctors, doctors of osteopathic medicine or dentists who perform body piercing
while in the course of their medical practice.
   B.   The piercing of ears shall be exempt from the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 02-1112, 7-23-2002; amd. Ord. 20-1988, 9-22-2020)
3-12-4: TATTOOING:
Tattoo establishments are commercial enterprises with unique qualities which
differentiate them from other permitted uses and, as such, require the
imposition of certain specific regulations intended to promote the public
health, safety, comfort, morals and convenience by ensuring that such uses are
compatible with neighboring property and only minimally impact the area roadway
network.
   A.   General Regulations:
      1.   All tattoo establishments must comply with Title 77: Public Health,
Part 707 Body Art Code, Section 797.1200 Establishment Certificate of
Registration Requirements.
      2.   Hours of operation shall be limited from 10:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.
      3.   The main entrance shall be visible from the public street and shall
remain unlocked at all times during hours of business.
      4.   Any windows or doors into the lobby or waiting area shall not be
covered. The lobby or waiting area must be clearly visible and not obstructed
unless designed otherwise and approved by the Village of Shorewood.
      5.   No person, while on the premises of any tattoo establishment shall
possess, sell, dispense, provide, give, keep or maintain any alcoholic
beverage. (Ord. 20- 1988, 9-22-2020)
CHAPTER 13
FIREWORKS REGULATION
SECTION:
3-13-1: Definitions
3-13-2: Sales Regulation
3-13-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
   FIREWORKS: Any explosive composition or any substance or combination of
substances, or article prepared for the purpose of producing a visible or
audible effect of a temporary exhibitional nature by explosion, combustion,
deflagration or detonation. (Ord. 05-1282, 2-22-2005)
3-13-2: SALES REGULATION:
All fireworks shall be sold in enclosed buildings that are properly constructed
and maintained in good condition so as to prevent fires, explosions, or other
hazards to the safety of persons and property in the vicinity thereof.
Combustible materials shall be kept away from heating and other equipment with
open flames so as to prevent fires or other hazards to the safety of persons
and property in the vicinity thereof. No smoking shall be permitted in close
proximity to such materials and "No Smoking" signs shall be conspicuously
displayed in such areas. Each business storing such materials shall be equipped
with one or more fire extinguishers as needed as well as a fire protection
sprinkler system located throughout the building. (Ord. 05-1282, 2-22-2005)
CHAPTER 14
CABLE AND VIDEO CUSTOMER PROTECTION LAW
SECTION:
3-14-1: Customer Service And Privacy Protection Law
3-14-2: Enforcement
3-14-3: Penalties
3-14-4: Customer Credits
3-14-1: CUSTOMER SERVICE AND PRIVACY PROTECTION LAW:
   A.   Adoption: The regulations of 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/70-501
are hereby adopted by reference and made applicable to the cable or video
providers offering services within the village's boundaries.
   B.   Amendments: Any amendment to the cable and video customer protection
law that becomes effective after the effective date of this chapter shall be
incorporated into this chapter by reference and shall be applicable to cable or
video providers offering services within the municipality's boundaries.
However, any amendment that makes its provisions optional for adoption by
municipalities shall not be incorporated into this chapter by reference without
formal action by the corporate authorities of the village. (Ord. 08-1456, 1-8-
2008)
3-14-2: ENFORCEMENT:
The village does hereby, pursuant to law, declare its intent to enforce all of
the customer service and privacy protection standards of the cable and video
protection law with respect to complaints received from residents within the
village. (Ord. 08-1456, 1-8-2008)
3-14-3: PENALTIES:
The village, pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/70-501(r)(1), does
hereby provide for a schedule of penalties for any material breach of the cable
and video protection law by cable or video providers in addition to the
penalties provided in the law. The monetary penalties shall apply on a
competitively neutral basis and shall not exceed seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each day of the material breach, and shall not exceed twenty five
thousand dollars ($25,000.00) for each occurrence of a material breach per
customer.
   A.   "Material breach" means any substantial failure of a cable or video
provider to comply with service quality and other standards specified in any
provision of the law.
   B.   The village shall give the cable or video provider written notice of
any alleged material breaches of the law and allow such provider at least
thirty (30) days from the receipt of the notice to remedy the specified
material breach.
   C.   A material breach, for the purposes of assessing penalties, shall be
deemed to occur for each day that a material breach has not been remedied by
the cable or video service provider after the notice in subsection B of this
section. (Ord. 08-1456, 1-8-2008)
3-14-4: CUSTOMER CREDITS:
The village hereby adopts the schedule of customer credits for violations.
Those credits shall be as provided for in the provisions of 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/70-501(s) and applied on the statement issued to the
customer for the next billing cycle following the violation or following the
discovery of the violation. The cable or video provider is responsible for
providing the credits and the customer is under no obligation to request the
credit. (Ord. 08-1456, 1-8-2008)
CHAPTER 15
CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE AND PEG ACCESS SUPPORT FEE
SECTION:
3-15-1: Definitions
3-15-2: Cable/Video Service Provider Fee Imposed
3-15-3: PEG Access Support Fee Imposed
3-15-4: Applicable Principles
3-15-5: No Impact On Other Taxes Due From Holder
3-15-6: Audits Of Cable/Video Service Provider
3-15-7: Late Fees/Payments
3-15-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
   CABLE SERVICE: That term as defined in 47 USC section 522(6).
   COMMISSION: The Illinois commerce commission.
   GROSS REVENUES: All consideration of any kind or nature, including, without
limitation, cash, credits, property, and in-kind contributions received by the
holder for the operation of a cable or video system to provide cable service or
video service within the holder's cable service or video service area within
the village.
   A.   Gross revenues shall include the following:
      1.   Recurring charges for cable or video service.
      2.   Event based charges for cable service or video service, including,
but not limited to, pay per view and video on demand charges.
      3.   Rental of set top boxes and other cable service or video service
equipment.
      4.   Service charges related to the provision of cable service or video
service, including, but not limited to, activation, installation, and repair
charges.
      5.   Administrative charges related to the provision of cable service or
video service, including, but not limited to, service order and service
termination charges.
      6.   Late payment fees or charges, insufficient funds check charges, and
other charges assessed to recover the costs of collecting delinquent payments.
      7.   A pro rata portion of all revenue derived by the holder or its
affiliates pursuant to compensation arrangements for advertising or for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services derived from the operation
of the holder's network to provide cable service or video service within the
village. The allocation shall be based on the number of subscribers in the
village divided by the total number of subscribers in relation to the relevant
regional or national compensation arrangement.
      8.   Compensation received by the holder that is derived from the
operation of the holder's network to provide cable service or video service
with respect to commissions that are received by the holder as compensation for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services on the holder's network,
such as a "home shopping" or similar channel, subject to subsection A9 of this
definition.
      9.   In the case of a cable service or video service that is bundled or
integrated functionally with other services, capabilities, or applications, the
portion of the holder's revenue attributable to the other services,
capabilities, or applications shall be included in the gross revenue unless the
holder can reasonably identify the division or exclusion of the revenue from
its books and records that are kept in the regular course of business.
      10.   The service provider fee permitted by 220 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/21-801(b).
   B.   Gross revenues do not include any of the following:
      1.   Revenues not actually received, even if billed, such as bad debt,
subject to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(c)(1)(vi).
      2.   Refunds, discounts, or other price adjustments that reduce the
amount of gross revenues received by the holder of the state issued
authorization to the extent the refund, rebate, credit, or discount is
attributable to cable service or video service.
      3.   Regardless of whether the services are bundled, packaged, or
functionally integrated with cable service or video service, any revenues
received from services not classified as cable service or video service,
including, without limitation, revenue received from telecommunication
services, information services, or the provision of directory or internet
advertising, including yellow pages, white pages, banner advertisement, and
electronic publishing or any other revenues attributed by the holder to
noncable service or nonvideo service in accordance with the holder's books and
records and records kept in the regular course of business and any applicable
laws, rules, regulations, standards, or orders.
      4.   The sale of cable services or video services for resale in which the
purchaser is required to collect the service provider fee from the purchaser's
subscribers to the extent the purchaser certifies in writing that it will
resell the service within the village and pay the fee permitted by 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(b) with respect to the service.
      5.   Any tax or fee of general applicability imposed upon the subscribers
or the transaction by a city, state, federal, or any other governmental entity
and collected by the holder of the state issued authorization and required to
be remitted to the taxing entity, including sales and use taxes.
      6.   Security deposits collected from subscribers.
      7.   Amounts paid by subscribers to "home shopping" or similar vendors
for merchandise sold through any home shopping channel offered as part of the
cable service or video service.
   C.   Revenue of an affiliate of a holder shall be included in the
calculation of gross revenues to the extent the treatment of the revenue as
revenue of the affiliate rather than the holder has the effect of evading the
payment of the fee permitted by 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(b)
which would otherwise be paid by the cable service or video service.
   HOLDER: A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or
provide cable or video service from the commission pursuant to 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/21-401.
   PEG: Public, education and governmental.
   PEG ACCESS SUPPORT FEE: The amount paid under this chapter and 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(d) by the holder to the village for the service
areas within its territorial jurisdiction.
   SERVICE: The provision of "cable service" or "video service" to subscribers
and the interaction of subscribers with the person or entity that has received
authorization to offer or provide cable or video service from the commission
pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-401.
   SERVICE PROVIDER FEE: The amount paid under this chapter and 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/21-801 by the holder to a village for the service areas
within its territorial jurisdiction.
   VIDEO SERVICE: Video programming and subscriber interaction, if any, that is
required for the selection or use of such video programming services, and which
is provided through wireline facilities located at least in part in the public
right of way without regard to delivery technology, including internet protocol
technology. This definition does not include any video programming provided by
a commercial mobile service provider defined in 47 USC section 332(d) or any
video programming provided solely as part of, and via, service that enables
users to access content, information, electronic mail, or other services
offered over the public internet. (Ord. 08-1462, 1-22-2008)
3-15-2: CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE IMPOSED:
   A.   Fee Imposed: A fee is hereby imposed on any holder providing cable
service or video service in the village.
   B.   Amount Of Fee: The amount of the fee imposed hereby shall be five
percent (5%) of the holder's gross revenues.
   C.   Notice To The Village: The holder shall notify the village at least ten
(10) days prior to the date on which the holder begins to offer cable service
or video service in the village.
   D.   Holder's Liability: The holder shall be liable for and pay the service
provider fee to the village. The holder's liability for the fee shall commence
on the first day of the calendar month following thirty (30) days after receipt
of the ordinance adopting this chapter by the holder. The ordinance adopting
this chapter shall be sent by mail, postage prepaid, to the address listed on
the holder's application notice sent pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/21-401(b)(6) to the village.
   E.   Payment Date: The payment of the service provider fee shall be due on a
quarterly basis, forty five (45) days after the close of the calendar quarter.
If mailed, the fee is considered paid on the date it is postmarked. Each
payment shall include a statement explaining the basis for the calculation of
the fee.
   F.   Exemption: The fee hereby imposed does not apply to existing cable
service or video service providers that have an existing franchise agreement
with the village in which a fee is paid.
   G.   Credit For Other Payments: An incumbent cable operator that elects to
terminate an existing agreement pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
21-301(c) with credit for prepaid franchise fees under that agreement may
deduct the amount of such credit from the fees that operator owes under
subsection B of this section. (Ord. 08-1462, 1-22-2008)
3-15-3: PEG ACCESS SUPPORT FEE IMPOSED:
   A.   PEG Fee Imposed: A PEG access support fee is hereby imposed on any
holder providing cable service or video service in the village in addition to
the fee imposed pursuant to section
3-15-2 of this chapter.
   B.   Amount Of Fee: The amount of the PEG access support fee imposed hereby
shall be one percent (1%) of the holder's gross revenues or, if greater, the
percentage of gross revenues that incumbent cable operators pay to the village
or its designee for PEG access support in the village.
   C.   Payment: The holder shall pay the PEG access support fee to the village
or to the entity designated by the village to manage PEG access. The holder's
liability for the PEG access support fee shall commence on the date set forth
in subsection
3-15-2D of this chapter.
   D.   Payment Due: The payment of the PEG access support fee shall be due on
a quarterly basis, forty five (45) days after the close of the calendar
quarter. If mailed, the fee is considered paid on the date it is postmarked.
Each payment shall include a statement explaining the basis for the calculation
of the fee.
   E.   Credit For Other Payments: An incumbent cable operator that elects to
terminate an existing agreement pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
21-301(c) shall pay, at the time they would have been due, all monetary
payments for PEG access that would have been due during the remaining term of
the agreement had it not been terminated pursuant to that section. All payments
made by an incumbent cable operator pursuant to the previous sentence may be
credited against the fees that that operator owes under subsection B of this
section. (Ord. 08-1462, 1-22-2008)
3-15-4: APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES:
All determinations and calculations under this chapter shall be made pursuant
to generally accepted accounting principles. (Ord. 08-1462, 1-22-2008)
3-15-5: NO IMPACT ON OTHER TAXES DUE FROM HOLDER:
Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to exempt a holder from
any tax that is or may later be imposed by the village, including any tax that
is or may later be required to be paid by or through the holder with respect to
cable service or video service. A state issued authorization shall not affect
any requirement of the holder with respect to payment of the village's
simplified municipal telecommunications tax or any other tax as it applies to
any telephone service provided by the holder. A state issued authorization
shall not affect any requirement of the holder with respect to payment of the
local unit of government's 911 or E911 fees, taxes or charges. (Ord. 08-1462,
1-22-2008)
3-15-6: AUDITS OF CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER:
   A.   Audit Requirement: The village will notify the holder of the
requirements it imposes on other cable service or video service providers to
submit to an audit of its books and records. The holder shall comply with the
same requirements the village imposes on other cable service or video service
providers in its jurisdiction to audit the holder's books and records and to
recompute any amounts determined to be payable under the requirements of the
village. If all local franchises between the village and cable operator
terminate, the audit requirements shall be those adopted by the village
pursuant to the local government taxpayers' bill of rights act, 50 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 45/1 et seq. No acceptance of amounts remitted should be
construed as an accord that the amounts are correct.
   B.   Additional Payments: Any additional amount due after an audit shall be
paid within thirty (30) days after the village's submission of an invoice for
the sum. (Ord. 08-1462, 1-22-2008)
3-15-7: LATE FEES/PAYMENTS:
All fees due and payments which are past due shall be governed by ordinances
adopted by this village pursuant to the local government taxpayers' bill of
rights act, 50 Illinois Compiled Statutes 45/1 et seq. (Ord. 08-1462, 1-22-
2008)
CHAPTER 16
TOBACCO PRODUCTS AND ELECTRONIC CIGARETTES
SECTION:
3-16-1: Definitions
3-16-2: Administration
3-16-3: License Required
3-16-4: Annual Fee
3-16-5: Prohibited Acts
3-16-6: Possession By Persons Under Twenty-One Years Of Age Is Prohibited
3-16-7: Proximity To Certain Institutions
3-16-8: Use Of Identification Cards
3-16-9: Warning To Persons Under Twenty-One Years Of Age
3-16-10: Licensee Reporting
3-16-11: Responsibility For Agents And Employees
3-16-12: Penalties
3-16-13: Procedure For Suspension Or Revocation Of Licenses
3-16-1: DEFINITIONS:
BIDI CIGARETTE: A product that contains tobacco that is wrapped in temburni or
tendu leaf or that is wrapped in any other material identified by rules of the
department of public health that is similar in appearance or characteristics to
the temburni or tendu leaf.
ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE:
   A.   Any device that employs a battery or other mechanism to heat a solution
or substance to produce a vapor or aerosol intended for inhalation;
   B.   Any cartridge or container of a solution or substance intended to be
used with or in the device or to refill the device; or
   C.   Any solution or substance, whether or not it contains nicotine,
intended for use in the device.
Electronic cigarette includes, but is not limited to, any electronic nicotine
delivery system, electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe,
electronic hookah, vape pen, or similar product or device, and any component,
part, or accessory of a device used during the operation of the device, even if
the part or accessory was sold separately. Electronic cigarette does not
include: cigarettes, as defined in section 1 of the cigarette tax act (35 ILCS
130/1); any product approved by the United States food and drug administration
for sale as a tobacco cessation product, a tobacco dependence product, or for
other medical purposes that is marketed and sold solely for that approved
purpose; any asthma inhaler prescribed by a physician for that condition that
is marketed and sold solely for that approved purpose; any device that meets
the definition of cannabis paraphernalia under section 1-10 of the cannabis
regulation and tax act (410 ILCS 705/1-10); or any cannabis product sold by a
dispensing organization pursuant to the cannabis regulation and tax act (410
ILCS 705/1-1 et seq.) or the compassionate use of medical cannabis program act
(410 ILCS 130/1 et seq.).
LICENSE: A tobacco license issued by the village.
PERSON: Any natural person, corporation, partnership, limited liability
company, association, or other legal entity.
SMOKING HERBS: All substances of plant origin and their derivatives, including,
but not limited to, broom, calea, California poppy, damiana, hops, ginseng,
lobelia, jimson weed, and other members of the Datura genus, passionflower, and
wild lettuce, which are processed or sold primarily for use as smoking
materials.
TOBACCO ACCESSORIES: Cigarette papers, pipes, holders of smoking materials of
all types, cigarette rolling machines and other items designed primarily for
the smoking or ingestion of tobacco products or of substances made illegal
under any statute or of substances whose sale, gift, barter, or exchange is
made unlawful under this chapter. For purposes of this article, cigarette paper
shall not include any paper that is incorporated into a product to which a tax
stamp must be affixed under the cigarette tax act, or the cigarette use tax
act.
TOBACCO DEALER: Any owner of a tobacco store, stand, booth, concession or other
place at which sale or delivery of electronic cigarettes, tobacco products and/
or tobacco accessories are made to consumers. A person selling or delivering
tobacco products for sale at wholesale shall not be included within the meaning
of the term tobacco dealer.
TOBACCO PRODUCT: Any product containing or made from tobacco that is intended
for human consumption, whether smoked, heated, chewed, absorbed, dissolved,
inhaled, snorted, sniffed, or ingested by any other means, including, but not
limited to, cigarettes, cigars, little cigars, chewing tobacco, pipe tobacco,
snuff, snus, and any other smokeless tobacco product which contains tobacco
that is finely cut, ground, powdered, or leaf and intended to be placed in the
oral cavity. Tobacco product includes any component, part, or accessory of a
tobacco product, whether or not sold separately. Tobacco product does not
include: an alternative nicotine product as defined in section 675/1(a-9) of
the tobacco use by persons under twenty-one (21) years of age and sale and
distribution of tobacco products act; or any product that has been approved by
the United States food and drug administration for sale as a tobacco cessation
product, as a tobacco dependence product, or for other medical purposes, and is
being marketed and sold solely for that approved purpose.
VENDING MACHINE: Any mechanical or electronic device used or intended to be
used for retail sales of electronic cigarettes, tobacco products, and/or
tobacco accessories.
VILLAGE: The Village of Shorewood, Illinois. (Ord. 25-2138, 3-11-2025)
3-16-2: ADMINISTRATION:
The village president shall be responsible for administering the provisions of
this chapter. The village president may delegate his or her responsibilities to
another as he or she deems appropriate. (Ord. 25-2138, 3-11-2025)
3-16-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, deliver, or offer for sale
or delivery electronic cigarettes, tobacco products, or tobacco accessories
without first having obtained a license issued by the village. A separate
license shall be required for each point of sale.
   B.   Each application for a license shall be on a form provided by the
village clerk and signed by the applicant. The license period shall be from
January 1st to December 31st.
   C.   The license issued under this chapter authorizes the licensee to
display for sale, sell, offer for sale, and deliver electronic cigarettes,
tobacco products, and tobacco accessories at the premises designated in the
license, subject to the provisions of this chapter.
   D.   A license shall not be issued or renewed to the following:
      1.   A person who is not a resident of the village unless that person has
appointed a registered agent for the purpose of receiving summons, mail, and
notices. The registered agent must be eligible to receive a license under this
chapter.
      2.   A person who is not a citizen or legal resident of the United
States.
      3.   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the
community in which he/she resides. The phrase not of good character and
reputation includes, but is not limited to, the situations described in
subparagraphs (5) and (6) below.
      4.   A person who is indebted to the village and is more than thirty (30)
days delinquent in the payment of the debt at the time the application for a
license or license renewal is filed.
      5.   A person who has been convicted of a felony under federal or state
law, unless the village president determines that such person has been
sufficiently rehabilitated to public trust after considering matters set forth
in such person's application and further investigation by the village's police
department. The burden of proof of sufficient rehabilitation shall be on the
applicant.
      6.   A person who has been convicted or placed on court supervision for a
violation of any federal, state, or municipal law concerning the possession or
sale of electronic cigarettes, tobacco products, tobacco accessories, or
smoking herbs.
      7.   A person who has been convicted of a gambling offense under section
5/28-1(a)(3) through (a)(10) or section 5/28-3 of the criminal code of 2012 or
a similar local ordinance.
      8.   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is sought
or does not have a lease thereon for the entire term of the license sought.
      9.   A person who seeks a license for a location within one hundred (100)
feet of any public or private school, freestanding childcare facility, or other
building used for education or recreational programs typically attended by
persons under the age of eighteen (18) years. This distance shall be measured
by a straight line from the nearest point of the licensed premises to the
nearest lot line of the school property and shall include the public right-of-
way.
      10.   A person whose license issued under this chapter has been revoked
for cause.
      11.   A co-partnership or limited liability company unless all of the
members of such co-partnership or limited liability company shall be qualified
to obtain a license.
      12.   A corporation if any officer, manager, or director thereof, or any
stockholder(s) owning in the aggregate more than five percent (5%) of the stock
of such corporation, would not be eligible to receive a license under this
chapter for any reason other than citizenship, legal residence, or residence
within the village.
      13.   A corporation unless it is incorporated in Illinois or unless it is
a foreign corporation which is qualified under the business corporation act of
1983 to transact business in Illinois.
      14.   A person whose business is conducted by a manager or agent unless
that manager or agent is eligible to receive a license under this chapter.
      15.   A person who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be
operated by the licensee. (Ord. 25-2138, 3-11-2024)
3-16-4: ANNUAL FEE:
The annual fee for a license under this chapter shall be two hundred and fifty
dollars ($250.00). Each application shall be accompanied by payment of the
annual fee. All monies paid shall be deposited by the village treasurer in the
corporate fund of the village. (Ord. 25-2138, 3-11-2025)
3-16-5: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Sale to persons under twenty-one (21) years of age. No person shall
sell, barter, exchange, deliver or give away or cause or permit or procure to
be sold, bartered, exchanged, delivered, or given away electronic cigarettes,
tobacco products, tobacco accessories, or smoking herbs to any person under
twenty-one (21) years of age. It shall be the responsibility of the licensee to
verify age by examining a state-issued identification establishing that the
individual seeking to obtain tobacco accessories, tobacco products, electronic
cigarettes, or smoking herbs is at least twenty-one (21) years of age.
   B.   Sale by persons under twenty-one years of age. No person under twenty-
one (21) years of age shall sell, barter, exchange, deliver or give away or
cause or permit or procure to be sold, bartered, exchanged, delivered, or given
away electronic cigarettes, tobacco products, tobacco accessories, or smoking
herbs.
   C.   Sale of bidi cigarettes. No person shall sell, barter, exchange,
deliver, or give away a bidi cigarette to another person, nor shall a person
cause or permit or procure a bidi cigarette to be sold, bartered, exchanged,
delivered, or given away to another person.
   D.   Sale of cigarette paper. No person shall offer, sell, barter, exchange,
deliver or give away cigarette paper or cause, permit, or procure cigarette
paper to be sold, offered, bartered, exchanged, delivered, or given away except
from places where other tobacco products are sold.
   E.   Vending machines. It shall be unlawful for any person to offer, sell,
barter, exchange, deliver, or give away electronic cigarettes, tobacco
products, tobacco accessories, or smoking herbs, or cause, permit, or procure
electronic cigarettes, tobacco products, tobacco accessories, or smoking herbs
to be sold, offered, bartered, exchanged, delivered, or given away by use of a
vending machine, unless the machine or device was in place prior to June 8,
2008. Such machines or devices must be in view of a licensee or its agent,
director, manager, employee, officer, or representative.
   F.   Self-service sales. It shall be unlawful to sell, offer for sale, give
away, or display electronic cigarettes, tobacco products, tobacco accessories,
or smoking herbs for sale at any location where the consumer can acquire those
items through self-service. All tobacco products, electronic cigarettes, and
tobacco accessories shall be displayed from behind a sales/service counter so
no consumer can access such items without assistance from an employee of the
business.
   G.   It shall be unlawful to distribute free electronic cigarettes, tobacco
products, tobacco accessories, or smoking herbs, or coupons for such products
at any place open to the public, except upon premises that hold a valid
license.
   H.   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer cigarettes that
are not contained within the manufacturer's packaging. Such packaging must
include all required health warnings and a tax stamp verifying that the
cigarettes have been legally taxed. (Ord. 25-2138, 3-11-2025)
3-16-6: POSSESSION BY PERSONS UNDER TWENTY-ONE YEARS OF AGE IS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of twenty-one (21) years to
possess any electronic cigarettes, tobacco products, tobacco accessories, or
smoking herbs. This provision does not prohibit the possession of tobacco
products, tobacco accessories, electronic cigarettes, or smoking herbs by a
person under the age of twenty-one (21) years under the direct supervision of
the parent or guardian of such person while in the privacy of the parent's or
guardian's home. (Ord. 25-2138, 3-11-2025)
3-16-7: PROXIMITY TO CERTAIN INSTITUTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale, give away, or
deliver electronic cigarettes, tobacco products, tobacco accessories, or
smoking herbs within one hundred (100) feet of any public or private school,
freestanding childcare facility, or other building used for education or
recreational programs for persons under the age of eighteen (18) years. (Ord.
25-2138, 3-11-2025)
3-16-8: USE OF IDENTIFICATION CARDS:
No person attempting to obtain electronic cigarettes, tobacco products, tobacco
accessories, or smoking herbs shall display or use a false or forged
identification card or transfer, alter, or deface an identification card. (Ord.
25-2138, 3-11-2025)
3-16-9: WARNING TO PERSONS UNDER TWENTY-ONE YEARS OF AGE:
Any person operating a place of business where tobacco accessories or smoking
herbs are sold or offered for sale shall post in a conspicuous place upon the
premises a sign upon which there shall be imprinted the following statement,
"SALE OF TOBACCO ACCESSORIES AND SMOKING HERBS TO PERSONS UNDER 21 YEARS OF AGE
OR THE MISREPRESENTATION OF AGE TO PROCURE SUCH A SALE IS PROHIBITED BY LAW."
The sign shall be printed on a white card in red letters at least one-half (½)
inch in height. (Ord. 25-2138, 3-11-2025)
3-16-10: LICENSEE REPORTING:
Any licensee who has been convicted of or sentenced to a term of court
supervision for a violation of any federal, state, or municipal law concerning
the possession or sale of tobacco products, tobacco accessories, electronic
cigarettes, or smoking herbs shall notify the village president in writing of
such disposition within thirty (30) days of sentencing. (Ord. 25-2138, 3-11-
2025)
3-16-11: RESPONSIBILITY FOR AGENTS AND EMPLOYEES:
Every act or omission constituting a violation of this chapter by any officer,
director, manager, agent, or employee of any person shall be deemed and held to
be the act of such person; and such person shall be punishable in the same
manner as if such act or omission had been done or omitted by the person. (Ord.
25-2138, 3-11-2025)
3-16-12: PENALTIES.
   A.   A violation of this chapter constitutes a petty offense and is
punishable by a fine of not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) and
not more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense, not
including court assessments. Each day's violation constitutes a separate and
distinct offense. Each sale or transaction constitutes a separate and distinct
offense.
   B.   Notwithstanding the imposition of any other penalty for a violation of
this chapter, and notwithstanding any other provision of this code, a violation
of this chapter constitutes grounds for the suspension or revocation of a
tobacco license, liquor license, or business license issued by the village. The
suspension or revocation of a liquor or business license shall conform to the
procedures set forth in the applicable provisions of this code.
   C.   Notwithstanding the imposition of any other penalty for a violation of
this chapter, the village is expressly authorized to seek injunctive relief
(including a temporary restraining order, preliminary injunction, and permanent
injunction) to prevent ongoing violations of this chapter. (Ord. 25-138, 3-11-
2025)
3-16-13: PROCEDURE FOR SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSES:
   A.   The village administrator or his/her designee may seek the suspension
or revocation of a license by filing charges with the village president
alleging a violation of this chapter.
   B.   Before any suspension or revocation order is issued, the village shall
notify the licensee of the charges against it and of its right to a hearing
before the village president. Notice shall be served upon the licensee at least
seven (7) days prior to the hearing date by first class or express mail,
overnight carrier, or personal service.
   C.   At the hearing, the licensee may be represented by counsel, cross-
examine witnesses, and present evidence and witnesses in their defense. The
village attorney or his/her designee shall bear the burden of proving a
violation of this chapter by a preponderance of the evidence. The strict rules
of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings shall not apply to hearings
under this section.
   D.   The record of each hearing shall include: (1) a record of the testimony
presented at the hearing by a certified court reporter or other appropriate
means; (2) any document presented at the hearing; and (3) a copy of the written
notice of hearing that was served.
   E.   Following the hearing, the village president shall issue a written
determination as to whether a violation occurred. If a violation is found, the
village president may suspend the license for a period of up to thirty (30)
days or revoke the license.
   F.   The licensee may seek administrative review of a suspension or
revocation order in a court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 25-2138, 3-11-
2025)
CHAPTER 17
ADULT ORIENTED BUSINESSES
SECTION:
3-17-1: Purpose And Findings
3-17-2: Definitions
3-17-3: Classification
3-17-4: License Required
3-17-5: Issuance Of A License
3-17-6: Fees
3-17-7: Additional Duties Of All Licensees Under This Chapter
3-17-8: Inspection
3-17-9: Expiration Of License
3-17-10: Suspension
3-17-11: Revocation
3-17-12: Hearings And Appeals
3-17-13: License Is Not Transferable
3-17-14: Separation From Sensitive Uses, Compliance With Zoning Ordinances, And
Continued Permitted Use
3-17-15: Adult Bookstores, Adult Novelty Stores And Adult Video Stores
3-17-16: Adult Arcades And/Or The Exhibition Of Sexually Explicit Media Or Live
Entertainment In Viewing Rooms
3-17-17: Escorts And Escort Agencies
3-17-18: Nude Model Studios
3-17-19: Public Nudity, Adult Entertainers And Adult Cabarets
3-17-20: Adult Motels Prohibited
3-17-21: Adult Massage Prohibited
3-17-22: Sexual Encounter Centers Prohibited
3-17-23: Children Present On Premises Prohibited
3-17-24: Hours Of Operation
3-17-25: Alcoholic Beverages Prohibited
3-17-26: Exemptions
3-17-27: Injunction And Penalties
3-17-28: Scienter Necessary To Prove Liability
3-17-29: Failure Of Village To Meet Deadline
3-17-1: PURPOSE AND FINDINGS:
   A.   It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate adult oriented businesses
(sometimes referred to hereafter as "sexually oriented businesses") in order to
promote the health, safety, comfort, convenience, morals, and general welfare
of the citizens of the village, and to establish reasonable and uniform
regulations to prevent the deleterious location and concentration of adult
oriented businesses within the village. It is neither the purpose nor the
intent of this chapter to suppress the content of any lawful communicative
materials or services, including sexually oriented, or adult oriented,
materials. Similarly, it is neither the purpose nor the intent of this chapter
to restrict or deny adults access to adult oriented materials, items, or
exhibitions protected by the first amendment, or to deny distributors and
exhibitors of lawful sexually oriented, or adult oriented, entertainment access
to their intended market. Further, it is neither the purpose nor the intent of
this chapter to condone or legitimize distribution or provision of obscene
material, items, or services.
   B.   The board finds that:
      1.   Adult oriented businesses, as a category of commercial uses, are
associated with a wide variety of adverse secondary effects, including, but not
limited to, personal and property crimes, prostitution, potential spread of
disease, lewdness, public indecency, obscenity, illicit drug use and drug
trafficking, negative impacts on property values, urban blight, litter and
sexual assault and exploitation.
      2.   Adult oriented businesses should be separated from sensitive land
uses to minimize the impact of their secondary effects upon such uses, and
should be separated from other adult oriented businesses, to minimize the
secondary effects associated with an unnecessary concentration of adult
oriented businesses in one area.
      3.   Each of the foregoing negative secondary effects constitutes a harm
in which the village has a substantial government interest in preventing and
abating. This substantial government interest in preventing secondary effects
exists independent of any comparative analysis between adult oriented and
nonadult oriented businesses. Additionally, the village's interest in
regulating adult oriented businesses extends to preventing future secondary
effects of either current or future adult oriented businesses that may locate
in the village. The cases and documentation on which this chapter relies are
relevant to the secondary effects referenced above.
   C.   The board's findings are based on evidence of the adverse secondary
effects of adult oriented businesses presented in formal reports, findings,
interpretations and narrowing constructions incorporated in case law including,
but not limited to: City of Los Angeles v. Alameda Books, Inc., 535 U.S. 425
(2002); City of Erie vs. Pap's A.M., 529 U.S. 277 (2000); City of Renton v.
Playtime Theatres, Inc., 475 U.S. 41 (1986); Barnes v. Glen Theatre, Inc., 501
U.S. 560 (1991); Blue Canary Corp. v. City of Milwaukee, 270 F.3d 1156 (7th
Cir. 2001); Schultz v. City of Cumberland, 228 F.Supp.3d 831 (7th Cir. 2000);
Matney v. County of Kenosha, 86 F.3d 692 (7th Cir. 1996); Berg v. Health &
Hospital Corp., 865 F.2d 797 (7th Cir. 1989); DiMa Corp. v. Town of Hallie, 185
F.3d 823 (7th Cir. 1999); Graff v. City of Chicago, 9 F.3d 1309 (7th Cir.
1993); North Avenue Novelties, Inc. v. City of Chicago, 88 F.3d 441 (7th Cir.
1996); Chulchian v. City of Indianapolis, 633 F.2d 27 (7th Cir. 1980); Illinois
vs. Hill, 333 Ill. App. 3d 783, (Ill. Ct. App. 2nd Dist. 2002); County of Cook
v. Renaissance Arcade and Bookstore, 122 Ill. 2d 123 (1988) (including cases
cited therein); Ben's Bar, Inc. v. Village of Somerset, 316 F.3d 702 (7th Cir.
2003); City of Littleton v. Z.J. Gifts D-4, L.L.C., 541 U.S. 774 (2004); H and
A Land Corp v. City of Kennedale, Texas, 480 F.3d 336 (5th Cir. 2007); Young v.
American Mini Theatres, 426 U.S. 50 (1976); Rising Sun Entertainment, Inc. vs.
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, Bureau of Liquor Control Enforcement, 829 A.2d
1214 (PA 2003); Matney v. County of Kenosha, 86 F.3d 692 (7th Cir. 1996); Bigg
Wolf Discount Video v. Montgomery County, 256 F. Supp. 2d 385 (D. Md. 2003);
World Wide Video of Washington, Inc. v. City of Spokane, 227 F.Supp.2d 1143
(E.D. Wash. 2002); World Wide Video of Washington, Inc. v. City of Spokane, 368
F.3d 1186 (9th Cir. 2004), as well as reports concerning secondary effects
occurring in and around adult oriented businesses, including, but not limited
to: final report to the city of Garden Grove: "The Relationship Between Crime
And Adult Business Operations On Garden Grove Boulevard" (October 23, 1991);
"Study Of The Effects Of The Concentration Of Adult Entertainment
Establishments In The City Of Los Angeles" (June 1977); staff report amendment
to zoning regulations adult businesses in C-2. . . (January 9, 1978); city of
Austin report on "Adult Oriented Businesses In Austin" (May 19, 1986); "Adult
Business Study", city of Phoenix (May 25, 1979); U.S. department of justice,
"An Analysis Of The Relationship Between Adult Entertainment Establishments,
Crime, And Housing Value" (October 1980); Houston city council "Sexually
Oriented Business Ordinance Revision Committee Legislative Report" (January 7,
1997); "Adult Entertainment Businesses In Indianapolis, An Analysis" (1984);
city of Oklahoma City "Adult Entertainment Businesses In Oklahoma City A Survey
Of Real Estate Appraisers" (March 3, 1986); "An Analysis Of The Effects Of SOBs
On The Surrounding Neighborhoods" in Dallas, Texas (April 1997); "Regulation Of
Adult Entertainment Establishments" in St. Croix County, Wisconsin (September
1993); "Newport News, Virginia Adult Use Study" (March 1996); "Report On
Secondary Effects Of The Concentration Of Adult Use Establishments In The Times
Square Area" (April 1994); "Report On The Attorney General's Working Group On
The Regulation Of Sexually Oriented Businesses", state of Minnesota (June 6,
1989); "Public Morals Division Surveillance Report", Gary, Indiana (August
2000); and "Strip Clubs According To Strippers" by freedom and justice center
for prostitution resources, Minneapolis, Minnesota; "Crime-Related Secondary
Effects Of Sexually-Oriented Businesses: Report To The City Attorney" (Richard
McCleary, May 6, 2007); "Do 'Off-Site' Adult Businesses Have Secondary Effects?
Legal Doctrine, Social Theory, And Empirical Evidence" (Richard McCleary And
Alan C. Weinstein). (Ord. 09-1549, 9-22-2009)
3-17-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
   ADULT ARCADE: Any place where the public is permitted or invited where coin
operated, slug operated, or otherwise in exchange for any form of
consideration, electronically, electrically, or mechanically controlled still
or motion picture machines, projectors, video or laser disc players, any other
image producing devices are maintained to show images to five (5) or fewer
persons per machine at any one time, and where the images displayed, or the
source of the images displayed, constitute sexually explicit media.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE: A commercial establishment in which thirty percent (30%) or
more of the square footage of the floor space in the public area of the store
where merchandise is displayed is used for the sale, rental or exchange of the
materials listed below, or thirty percent (30%) or more of the merchandise
offered for sale, rental, or exchange, for any form of consideration, includes
the materials listed below:
Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter or photographs which are
characterized by an emphasis on the depiction or description of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT CABARET: A nightclub, bar, restaurant, or similar commercial
establishment which features:
   A.   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or seminudity; or
   B.   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of specified
anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities; or
   C.   The showing of sexually explicit media.
   ADULT ENTERTAINER: Any person who engages in actual or simulated acts,
displays, or other performances primarily intended to arouse sexual senses in
connection with another adult oriented business, including dancing (hereinafter
sometimes referred to only as "entertainer").
   ADULT MASSAGE: Any place that offers treatment of the body, including
superficial parts of the body, or otherwise offers services, by rubbing,
stroking, kneading, tapping, pounding, vibrating or stimulating the body with
hands or any instrument, or by the application of air, liquid or vapor baths of
any kind whatsoever where:
   A.   Any employee in the establishment is in a state of nudity or
seminudity; or
   B.   The massage involves touching of specified anatomical areas other than
the buttocks or is done in a manner intended to bring about a sensual state or
a state of sexual arousal.
   ADULT MOTEL: A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment which:
   A.   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of consideration;
provides patrons with sexually explicit media, including closed circuit
television transmissions and/or photographic reproductions, and has a sign
visible from the public right of way which advertises the availability of such
media, television transmissions or photographic reproductions; or
   B.   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less than
ten (10) hours; or
   C.   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to sublet the room for a
period of time that is less than ten (10) hours; or
   D.   Offers sexually explicit media as one of its primary business purposes.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER: A commercial establishment where, in exchange
for any form of consideration, sexually explicit media is shown in a room
designed and configured to accommodate six (6) or more people.
   ADULT NOVELTY STORE: A commercial establishment which displays, sells, rents
or exchanges, for any form of consideration, instruments, devices, or
paraphernalia designed for use in connection with specified sexual activities.
For medical purposes, a commercial establishment which sells birth control
devices, personal lubricants, and/or rings which fit over male genitalia shall
not be defined as an adult novelty store if no other instruments, devices, or
paraphernalia designed for use in connection with specified sexual activities
are displayed or offered for sale.
   ADULT ORIENTED BUSINESS OR SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS: An adult arcade,
adult bookstore, adult cabaret, adult entertainer, adult massage, adult motel,
adult motion picture theater, adult novelty store, adult theater, adult video
store, escort, escort agency, nude model studio, sexual encounter center, or
any other business which defines itself in its name or advertising using the
letters "XXX", or the words "adult", "sex", or "erotic", or any variations
thereof.
   ADULT THEATER: A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features persons who appear in a state of nudity
or seminudity, or live performances which are characterized by an emphasis on
the exposure of specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities.
   ADULT VIDEO STORE: A commercial establishment in which thirty percent (30%)
or more of the square footage of the floor space in the public area of the
store where merchandise is displayed is used for the sale, rental or exchange
of sexually explicit media, or thirty percent (30%) or more of the merchandise
offered for sale, rental, or exchange, for any form of consideration,
constitutes sexually explicit media.
   EMPLOYEE: A person who performs any service on the premises of an adult
oriented business on a full time, part time or contract basis, whether or not
the person is denominated an employee, independent contractor, agent or
otherwise, and whether or not said person is paid a salary, wage or other
compensation by the operator of said business. Employee does not include a
person exclusively on the premises for repair or maintenance of the premises or
equipment on the premises, or for the delivery of goods to the premises.
   ENTERTAINER: See definition of Adult Entertainer.
   ESCORT: A person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide, or date for another person, or who agrees, offers or
advertises to privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for
another person or persons, or to privately perform a dance for another person
or persons that involves actual or simulated acts or displays primarily
intended to arouse sexual senses.
   ESCORT AGENCY: A person or business association who furnishes, agrees,
offers or advertises to furnish an escort for a fee, tip, or the exchange of
other consideration as at least one of its business purposes.
   ESTABLISHMENT: Means and includes any of the following, either singularly or
in combination thereof:
   A.   The opening or commencement of any adult oriented business as a new
business;
   B.   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not an adult
oriented business, to any adult oriented business;
   C.   The addition of any adult oriented business to any other existing adult
oriented business; or
   D.   The relocation of any adult oriented business.
   LICENSEE: A person in whose name a license to operate an adult oriented
business has been issued, as well as the individual listed as an applicant on
the application for a license.
   MEDIA: See definition of Sexually Explicit Media.
   NUDE MODEL STUDIO: Any place where a person appears seminude, in a state of
nudity, or displays specified anatomical areas to be observed, sketched, drawn,
painted, sculptured, photographed, or similarly depicted by other persons in
exchange for money or any other form of consideration. Nude model studio shall
not include a place that is owned, rented, or being used by: a proprietary
school licensed by the state of Illinois or a college, junior college or
university supported entirely or in part by public taxation; a private college
or university which maintains and operates educational programs in which
credits are transferable to a college, junior college, or university supported
entirely or partly by taxation; or a corporation that qualifies as a tax exempt
organization under section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code.
A "nude model studio" shall not include a structure:
   A.   That has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and no
other advertising that indicates a nude or seminude person is available for
viewing; and
   B.   Where in order to participate in a class a student must enroll at least
three (3) days in advance of the class; and
   C.   Where no more than one nude or seminude model is on the premises at any
one time.
   NUDITY OR STATE OF NUDITY: The showing of the human genitals, pubic area,
vulva, anus, anal cleft or cleavage with less than a fully opaque covering, the
showing of the female breast with less than a fully opaque covering of any part
of the nipple, or the showing of the covered male genitals in a noticeably
distended state.
   PERSON: An individual, and for the purposes of this chapter, the term
"person" includes any and all proprietorships, partnerships, corporations,
associations, or other legal entity.
   SEMINUDE OR SEMINUDE CONDITION: The showing of the female breast below a
horizontal line across the top of the areola at its highest point or the
showing of the male or female buttocks. This definition shall include the
entire lower portion of the human female breast, but shall not include any
portion of the cleavage of the human female breast, exhibited by a dress,
blouse, shirt, leotard, bathing suit, or other wearing apparel provided the
areola is not exposed in whole or in part.
   SENSITIVE USES: Other adult oriented businesses, residences or residentially
zoned districts, religious institutions, schools, daycare or childcare
businesses, cemeteries and public parks and recreation areas.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER: A business or commercial enterprise that has at
least one principal business purpose of offering any of the following in
exchange for any form of consideration:
   A.   Physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between persons
of the opposite sex; or
   B.   Activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the same
sex when one or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or seminude.
   SEXUALLY EXPLICIT MEDIA: Any film, motion picture, videocassette, video
reproduction, slide, DVD, digital image, digital sound, any other means to view
or listen to live or previously recorded images or sounds, any means by which
live images or sounds may be presently recorded, or any other photographic or
still picture reproductions which are characterized by an emphasis on the
depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREA: Means:
   A.   The human male genitals, or any model or depiction thereof, in a
noticeably distended state, even if completely and opaquely covered; or
   B.   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks or a female breast below a point immediately above the top of the
areola.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES: Any of the following:
   A.   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks, anus, or female breasts, or the fondling or other erotic touching of
objects or depictions of human genitals, pubic regions, the buttocks, an anus,
or female breasts or paraphernalia designed for use in sexual activity;
   B.   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, masturbation, or sodomy; or
   C.   Actual or depicted excretory functions as part of, or in connection
with, any of the activities set forth in subsection A or B of this definition.
   STATE OF NUDITY: See definition of Nudity.
   SUBSTANTIAL ENLARGEMENT OF AN ADULT ORIENTED BUSINESS: An increase in floor
areas occupied by the business by more than twenty five percent (25%) from the
floor areas that existed on the date when the current license was issued.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF AN ADULT ORIENTED BUSINESS: Means and
includes any of the following:
   A.   The sale, lease, or sublease of the business;
   B.   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest in
the business, whether by sale, exchange, or similar means; or
   C.   The establishment of a trust, gift, or other similar legal device which
transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer by
bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing the
ownership or control. (Ord. 09-1549, 9-22-2009)
3-17-3: CLASSIFICATION:
The following are classified as adult oriented businesses:
   Adult arcades;
   Adult bookstores, adult novelty stores, and adult video stores;
   Adult cabarets;
   Adult entertainers;
   Adult massage establishments (prohibited);
   Adult motels (prohibited);
   Adult motion picture theaters;
   Adult theaters;
   Escort agencies;
   Escorts;
   Nude model studios; and
   Sexual encounter centers (prohibited). (Ord. 09-1549, 9-22-2009)
3-17-4: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   Required: It is unlawful for any person to do the following without
first obtaining an adult oriented business license issued by the village
pursuant to this chapter:
      1.   Operate an adult oriented business;
      2.   Manage an adult oriented business;
      3.   Become an employee of an adult oriented business;
      4.   Engage in escort services; or
      5.   Perform as an adult entertainer.
Further, it is unlawful to employ a person to work, or contract a person to
work, in an adult oriented business who does not have a valid adult oriented
business license issued by the village pursuant to this chapter. It shall be
the duty of the operator and manager to ensure that all persons employed or
contracted to perform work at, for, or in connection with the business, provide
proof of current, valid adult oriented business licensure from the village of
Shorewood.
   B.   Application Form: An application for an adult oriented business license
must be made on a form provided by the village and must include all documents
which are required by this chapter to be attached.
   C.   Qualifications: All applicants must be qualified according to the
provisions of this chapter. The application may request, and the applicant
shall provide, such information as to enable the village to determine whether
the applicant meets the qualifications established in this chapter.
   D.   Operator: A person who wishes to operate an adult oriented business
must complete and sign an application for a license. If an entity, or person
other than an individual, wishes to operate an adult oriented business, then
all individuals who own the entity, and all other individuals who would be
legally responsible for the operations of the adult oriented business and/or
who would have ownership and/or the power to control or direct the operations
of the adult oriented business, must sign the license application as an
applicant. Such persons include, but are not limited to, general partners,
corporate officers, corporate directors, and controlling shareholders. Each
application must be qualified under the following section and each applicant
shall be considered a licensee if a license is granted.
   E.   Information Required On Application: The completed application for an
adult oriented business license for an operator, manager, employee or
entertainer shall contain the following information and shall be accompanied by
the following documents:
      1.   If the applicant is:
         a.   An individual, the individual shall state his/her legal name and
submit proof that he/she is eighteen (18) years of age or older;
         b.   A partnership, the partnership shall state its complete name, and
the names of all partners, whether the partnership is general or limited, and a
copy of the partnership agreement, if any;
         c.   A corporation, the corporation shall state its complete name, the
date of its incorporation, evidence that the corporation is in good standing
under the laws of its state of incorporation, the names of all officers,
directors and controlling stockholders holding five percent (5%) or more
interest, and the name of the registered corporate agent and the address of the
registered office for service of process; or any other type of entity, the
entity shall state its complete name, the type of entity it is, the names of
all persons with ownership interest; and the name and address of the registered
agent for service of process.
      2.   If the applicant intends to operate an adult oriented business under
a name other than that of the applicant, or intends to perform entertainment in
an adult oriented business under a name other than that of the applicant, then
he or she must state:
         a.   The adult oriented business' fictitious name; and
         b.   Submit the required registration documents; or
         c.   The name under which the applicant will be performing, whichever
applies.
      3.   The classification of license for which the applicant is filing
(example: operator, manager, employee, entertainer or escort).
      4.   The location of a proposed new adult oriented business, proposed
place of employment or proposed place where adult entertainment or escort
services will be offered or provided, including the street address and
telephone number(s) for the business.
      5.   Brief description of the products and/or services which will be
provided by the business.
      6.   An operator applicant must provide a sketch or diagram showing the
configuration of the premises, including a statement of total floor space
occupied by the business. The sketch or diagram need not be professionally
prepared, but it must be drawn to a designated scale or drawn with marked
dimensions of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six
inches (±6").
      7.   An operator applicant must provide a certificate and straight line
drawing prepared by a registered land surveyor which was prepared within thirty
(30) days prior to the application. It shall certify:
         a.   That there are no properties containing other adult oriented
businesses, residences or residentially zoned districts, religious
institutions, schools, daycare or childcare businesses, cemeteries or public
parks or recreation areas within three hundred fifty feet (350') of the
property line of the property to be certified. This measurement is to be made
by measuring from the closest points of one property line to the other property
line; or
         b.   The location of property lines of any properties within three
hundred fifty feet (350') of the property line of the property to be certified
which contain any other adult oriented businesses, residences or residentially
zoned districts, religious institutions, schools, daycare or childcare
businesses, cemeteries, or public parks or recreation areas.
      8.   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by each
applicant.
      9.   It is the duty of each licensee to provide the village with updated
information should there be a change in any of the information printed on the
application, or depicted in any diagrams or other exhibits provided in
connection with the application, at any time.
   F.   More Than One Business: If licensee wishes to operate or conduct more
than one adult oriented business on the premises, then licensee must have a
license for each business, except that a business which combines an adult
bookstore and/or an adult video store with an adult novelty store may operate
under a single license for an adult novelty store so long as it complies with
all regulations which apply to adult bookstores and/or adult video stores, or
both, whichever is applicable.
   G.   Posting Of License: The license for each adult oriented business must
be conspicuously posted near the front entrance.
   H.   Preexisting Adult Oriented Businesses: Any adult oriented business in
existence on the effective date hereof need only comply with the requirements
of subsection
 3-17-14D of this chapter. (Ord. 09-1549, 9-22-2009)
3-17-5: ISSUANCE OF A LICENSE:
   A.   Upon the filing of an application for a manager, employee, or adult
entertainer adult oriented business license, the village shall conduct a
preliminary application review and if no disqualifying issues are discovered
relating to the applicant, then within ten (10) business day from receipt of
the application, the village shall issue a temporary license to the applicant
which shall be effective during the application review and investigation
process. The application shall then be referred to the appropriate village
departments for an investigation to be made on such information as is contained
in the application. The village shall issue a license or issue a written letter
of intent to deny the license within thirty (30) days from the date the
completed application is filed. After the investigation, the village shall
issue a license, unless one or more of the following is true:
      1.   Applicant has falsely answered a question or failed to provide
information or materials requested on the application;
      2.   Applicant is under the age of eighteen (18) years old;
      3.   The license is to be used for employment in, contract work at, or
work in connection with, a business which is prohibited by local, state, or
federal law, or otherwise prohibited by a provision of this chapter;
      4.   Any applicable license fee has not been paid;
      5.   Applicant's business has been out of compliance with this chapter;
      6.   Applicant's business is not in compliance with the village's zoning
ordinances;
      7.   Applicant has failed to comply with other county, state, or federal
regulations related to the conduct of the business or license;
      8.   Applicant is delinquent on a debt owed to the village;
      9.   Applicant has allowed criminal activity to occur on the premises.
If the adult oriented business employee license is denied, the temporary
license previously issued is immediately deemed null and void. Denial,
suspension or revocation of a license issued pursuant to this subsection shall
be subject to appeal as set forth in section
3-17-12 of this chapter.
   B.   The village shall issue an adult oriented business operating license or
issue a written letter of intent to deny the license within thirty (30) days
from the date the completed application is filed. The village shall approve the
issuance of a license to an applicant unless one or more of the following is
true:
      1.   The applicant is under eighteen (18) years of age;
      2.   The applicant is overdue in payment to the village of taxes or any
other debt to the village, or owes fees, fines or penalties in relation to any
adult oriented business in any municipality or county;
      3.   The applicant has falsely answered a question or failed to provide
information requested on the application form;
      4.   The premises to be used for the adult oriented business have been
disapproved by the health department, fire department, and/or village building
official as being in violation of health, fire or building codes;
      5.   The license fee required by this chapter has not been paid;
      6.   The premises of the proposed establishment is in violation of or is
not in compliance with any of the provisions of this chapter; or
      7.   The applicant is ineligible for a village business license.
Denial, suspension or revocation of a license issued pursuant to this
subsection shall be subject to appeal as set forth in section
3-17-12 of this chapter.
   C.   The license, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the person
or persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date, whether it is for an
operator, manager, employee, entertainer or escort, the address of the adult
oriented business, and the classification of the business for which the license
is issued pursuant to section
3-17-3 of this chapter.
   D.   A license granted pursuant to this section shall be subject to annual
renewal upon the written application of the applicant, including an attestation
that there have been no acts committed that would constitute denial and that
the licensee has complied with all requirements of this act, and a finding by
the village that the applicant has not committed any act during the existence
of the previous license that would be grounds to deny the initial license
application. The renewal of the license shall be subject to the payment of a
fee as set forth in section
3-17-6 of this chapter.
   E.   The health department, fire department and the building official shall
complete a certification as to whether the premises is in compliance or not
within twenty (20) days of receipt of the application by the village. The
request for certification shall be made by the village. Failure to complete a
certification within such time shall not be a basis for denying a license.
   F.   An adult oriented business license shall be issued for only one
classification listed in section
3-17-3 if this chapter, except as otherwise provided in subsection
3-17-4F of this chapter. (Ord. 09-1549, 9-22-2009)
3-17-6: FEES:
   A.   The following annual fees shall apply to adult oriented business
licenses:
Adult arcades                                                   $1,625.00/year
Adult bookstores, adult novelty stores, and adult video stores, 500.00/year
or any combination thereof
Adult cabarets                                                  1,625.00/year
Adult entertainers                                              250.00/year
Adult motion picture theaters                                   1,625.00/year
Adult theaters                                                  1,625.00/year
Employee                                                        No fee
Escort agencies                                                 1,625.00/year
Escorts                                                         250.00/year
Nude model studios                                              500.00/year
 
   B.   In addition to the above annual fees, every initial application for the
issuance of an adult oriented business operating license shall be accompanied
by an investigation fee of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00). (Ord. 09-1549,
9-22-2009)
3-17-7: ADDITIONAL DUTIES OF ALL LICENSEES UNDER THIS CHAPTER:
   A.   All adult oriented business licenses for operators, managers,
employees, entertainers and escorts shall be posted in a conspicuous place at,
or near, the entrance to the adult oriented business so that each one may be
easily read at any time. In addition, the adult oriented business license of
the manager on duty shall be conspicuously posted at all times in a way so that
the license for the manager currently on duty is easily ascertainable at any
given time.
   B.   Each licensee shall notify the village of Shorewood of any transaction
or formal proposal of a transaction which would transfer ownership or control
of an adult oriented business. (See section
3-17-2 of this chapter for the definition of "transfer of ownership or control
of an adult oriented business".) Licenses are not transferable to any other
person or entity.
   C.   Each licensee who is an operator or manager, or any other licensee who
oversees one or more employees, representatives or agents of an adult oriented
business, has a duty to monitor the premises at all times and exercise
reasonable prudence in the supervision of all employees and patrons on the
premises of the adult oriented business at all times, and shall not knowingly
or recklessly condone, allow, or fail to exercise available supervisory
authority to prevent a violation of this chapter by any employee or other
person contracted to work in the business, or any other person on the premises.
A violation of this chapter by an employee shall be deemed to also be a
violation by the operator, manager, and/or other employee who was authorized to
oversee the employee, if the violation occurred with his or her authorization,
encouragement, or approval, or if the operator, manager and/or other employee
with authority to oversee the conduct was negligent in his or her supervision
over that employee, and shall be considered during any investigation
determining whether to suspend or revoke his or her license.
   D.   No owner, operator, or employee shall engage in, or permit on the
premises, the occurrence of: solicitation for prostitution, prostitution,
masturbation, sexual intercourse, sodomy, or other contact stimulation of the
genitalia, or engage in, or permit the occurrence of, any act constituting the
offense of obscenity under the Illinois criminal code on the premises.
   E.   Each licensee has a duty to immediately report any criminal conduct
occurring on the premises of which he or she is aware, or becomes aware, to the
proper law enforcement agency.
   F.   The operator shall maintain a register of all employees, which are
required to be licensed under this chapter, showing each person's name, age,
birth date, date of employment or date when services were otherwise performed
at the business by the person, date of termination of employment or contractual
relationship, duties of each person, and a copy of each such person's adult
oriented business license. The above information on each employee,
representative, agent or contractor shall be maintained in the register on the
premises for a period of three (3) years following termination or other
discontinuation of employment or contractual relationship. The operator shall
make the register of employees available immediately for inspection by police
upon request by the village or other law enforcement agencies.
   G.   Each owner or operator of an adult oriented business must report to the
village any proposed activity or activities which would substantially enlarge
the business from the size it was when it was last granted a license (see
definition of "substantial enlargement of adult oriented business" in this
chapter). A new survey may be required to determine whether the proposed
substantial enlargement of the business will violate the required separation
from sensitive uses (as required by this chapter) or will violate any other
provision of this chapter or title 10, "Zoning", of this code. (Ord. 09-1549,
9-22-2009)
3-17-8: INSPECTION:
   A.   An applicant or licensee shall permit representatives of the police
department, health department, fire department, zoning department or other
village departments or agencies to inspect the public areas of an adult
oriented business for the purpose of ensuring compliance with this chapter at
any time it is occupied or open for business.
   B.   A person who operates an adult oriented business, his/her employee,
representative, agent, contractor or assign, commits a misdemeanor if he/she
refuses to permit such lawful inspection of the premises at any time it is open
for business. (Ord. 09-1549, 9-22-2009)
3-17-9: EXPIRATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Each license shall expire on December 31 of each year and may be
renewed only by making application as provided in section
3-17-4 of this chapter. Application for renewal shall be made at least sixty
(60) days before the expiration date, and when made less than sixty (60) days
before the expiration date, the expiration of the license will not be affected.
   B.   When the village denies renewal of a license, the license shall expire
on December 31 of the year when it was issued and applicant shall not be issued
a new license within one year from the date of denial, unless subsequent to
denial, the village finds that the basis for denial of the renewed license has
been corrected or abated, in which case, the applicant may be granted a license
if at least ninety (90) days have elapsed since the date of denial. (Ord. 09-
1549, 9-22-2009)
3-17-10: SUSPENSION:
   A.   The village shall issue a written letter of intent to suspend the adult
oriented business license of an operator or manager for a period not to exceed
thirty (30) days if the licensee has knowingly or recklessly violated any part
of this chapter, or has knowingly or recklessly allowed an employee, or person
contracted to work in the business, to violate this chapter.
   B.   The village shall issue a written letter of intent to suspend the adult
oriented business license of an employee, entertainer, or escort if the
licensee has knowingly or recklessly violated this chapter.
   C.   The village may, at its discretion, immediately suspend an adult
oriented license if there exists probable cause that criminal violations have
occurred, or if public health or safety is in jeopardy. (Ord. 09-1549, 9-22-
2009)
3-17-11: REVOCATION:
   A.   The village shall issue a written letter of intent to revoke the adult
oriented business license of an operator, manager, employee, entertainer, or
escort if:
      1.   The licensee has knowingly or recklessly violated this chapter or
has knowingly or recklessly allowed an employee to violate this chapter; and
      2.   The licensee's license has been suspended or revoked within the
previous twelve (12) months.
   B.   The village shall issue a written letter of intent to revoke the adult
oriented business license of an operator, manager, employee, escort, escort
agency, or entertainer if:
      1.   The licensee knowingly or recklessly gave false information in the
application for the license;
      2.   The licensee knowingly or recklessly engaged in, or knowingly or
recklessly allowed the possession, use, solicitation or sale, of controlled
substances by anyone on the premises;
      3.   The licensee knowingly or recklessly engaged in, or knowingly or
recklessly allowed, prostitution, or solicitation for prostitution, by anyone
on the premises;
      4.   The licensee knowingly or recklessly operated an adult oriented
business, or engaged in managerial or other work, including entertainment or
escort services, during a period of time when his/her license was suspended or
revoked; or
      5.   The licensee knowingly or recklessly engaged in, or knowingly or
recklessly allowed, any specified sexual activity on the licensed premises.
   C.   The village may revoke an adult oriented business license if criminal
violations are occurring, or if public health or safety is in jeopardy.
   D.   When the village revokes a license, the revocation shall continue for
two (2) years, and the licensee shall not be eligible for an adult oriented
business license for two (2) years from the date when the revocation became
effective. A new application will be required. (Ord. 09-1549, 9-22-2009)
3-17-12: HEARINGS AND APPEALS:
   A.   When the village issues a written notice of intent to deny, suspend or
revoke a license, the village shall immediately send such notice to the
applicant or licensee (respondent) by personal delivery or certified mail. The
notice shall be directed to the most current business address or other mailing
address the respondent has made available on file at the village. The notice
shall state the specific grounds under this chapter upon which the denial,
suspension or revocation is based and shall specify a hearing date, not less
than ten (10) nor more than twenty (20) days after the date when the notice is
issued.
   B.   The hearing officer shall be a licensed attorney. The village president
shall appoint the hearing officer to adjudicate the merits of a particular
denial, suspension or revocation. Village officers, village employees, the
village attorney, and all members of the village attorney's firm, are
disqualified from serving as the hearing officer.
   C.   At the hearing, respondent shall have an opportunity to present
arguments, present evidence, call witnesses on his/her behalf, and to cross
examine the village's witnesses. Respondent may hire legal representation to
represent respondent at the hearing. The village shall be represented by legal
counsel. The village bears the burden of proving the grounds for the denial,
suspension or revocation of the license. The hearing shall take no longer than
two (2) days, unless one of the parties requests, and is granted, an extension
for good cause. A transcript of the hearing shall be made. The hearing officer
shall issue a written decision, including specific findings which are the basis
for the decision, to the respondent and the village within five (5) days after
the hearing.
   D.   If a hearing officer finds in favor of denial, suspension or revocation
of a license, respondent shall be advised of the right to appeal the hearing
officer's decision to a court of competent jurisdiction. If the hearing officer
finds that no grounds exist for denial, suspension or revocation of the
license, then the hearing officer shall, contemporaneously with the issuance of
the decision, order the village to immediately withdraw its intent to deny,
suspend or revoke the license, and order the village to notify the respondent
in writing by certified mail of such action. If the respondent is not yet
licensed, the village shall contemporaneously therewith issue the license to
the applicant.
   E.   If any court action is initiated to challenge a hearing officer's
decision, the hearing officer shall have a transcript of the hearing sent to
the court within ten (10) days after receiving written notice of the filing of
the court action. The hearing officer shall consent to, and may request,
expedited briefing and/or disposition of the action, shall comply with any
expedited schedule set by the court to the highest extent practicable, and
shall facilitate prompt judicial review of the proceedings. Upon receiving
notice of the filing of any court action to appeal, challenge, restrain or
otherwise enjoin enforcement of a denial of renewal, suspension, or revocation
of a preexisting license, the village shall immediately issue the respondent a
provisional license. The provisional license shall allow the respondent to
continue operation, management, employment or entertainment of or in, the adult
oriented business and will expire upon the court's entry of a judgment on the
respondent's appeal or other action which upholds or reverses the village's
licensing decision. (Ord. 09-1549, 9-22-2009)
3-17-13: LICENSE IS NOT TRANSFERABLE:
An adult oriented business license is not transferable to any other person or
entity. Likewise, no operator shall attempt to operate an adult oriented
business at any location other than the location at the business address as
described and designated in the application. Any attempt to transfer the
license, or any conveyance of ownership or management of the business
automatically revokes the license. Each new owner, operator or manager must
apply for, and qualify for, a new license. (Ord. 09-1549, 9-22-2009)
3-17-14: SEPARATION FROM SENSITIVE USES, COMPLIANCE WITH ZONING ORDINANCES, AND
CONTINUED PERMITTED USE:
   A.   Sensitive Uses: No adult oriented business shall be permitted, and no
person or business entity shall operate or cause to be operated, an adult
oriented business within three hundred fifty feet (350') of the property line
of any property containing any other adult oriented businesses, residences or
residentially zoned districts, religious institutions, schools, daycare or
childcare businesses, cemeteries or public parks or recreation areas, or any
other "sensitive uses" which may be defined in this chapter.
   B.   Measurement Between Properties: For the purposes of this section, the
measurement of distance between properties shall be made in a straight line,
without regard to intervening structures, objects or streets between the
subject properties. The measurement shall begin on the property line of the
property containing the proposed adult oriented business at the point where it
is nearest to the other property being measured for distance; the measurement
shall end on the property line of the property containing a sensitive use at
the point where it is nearest to the property containing the proposed adult
oriented business.
   C.   Zoning Compliance: Adult oriented businesses will only be permitted in
areas which comply with the village's zoning ordinances.
   D.   Preexisting Adult Oriented Businesses; Permitted Continuation And
Maintenance Of Business Operations: Any adult oriented business lawfully
operating prior to and on the effective date hereof ("preexisting adult
oriented business") shall be permitted to continue operation of the business as
a permitted use in the same manner as that which existed prior to the effective
date hereof, including the right to repair and maintain the existing facilities
in the same manner as would have been permitted prior to the enactment of this
chapter, provided however, that if any adult uses other than an adult
bookstore, adult video store or adult novelty store are created or added to the
business, if the business license is voluntarily terminated or voluntarily not
renewed by the licensee, if the business license is revoked or denied renewal
for failure to comply with the village of Shorewood's other ordinances
pertaining to business licenses in general, and/or if the operation is
otherwise discontinued for failure to comply with other laws or regulations of
other regulating bodies, then the use shall not continue thereafter; if there
is a change in ownership other than a transfer of ownership between a
preexisting adult oriented business and one of its parent companies,
affiliates, or subsidiaries, then the use permitted in this subsection shall be
permitted to continue if the new owner complies with the licensing provisions
of this chapter, and shall only be subject to the zoning ordinances which were
in effect prior to the effective date hereof as they may be amended from time
to time, except for zoning amendments which would prohibit the adult use as
permitted in this subsection. (Ord. 09-1549, 9-22-2009)
3-17-15: ADULT BOOKSTORES, ADULT NOVELTY STORES AND ADULT VIDEO STORES:
   A.   No adult bookstore, adult novelty store, or adult video store shall
admit persons under eighteen (18) years of age on the premises.
   B.   Proper measures shall be taken to ensure that sexually explicit media,
sexual advertising, and other sexual merchandise are not visible from the
public right of way, sidewalk, and/or street. (Ord. 09-1549, 9-22-2009)
3-17-16: ADULT ARCADES AND/OR THE EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT MEDIA OR LIVE
ENTERTAINMENT IN VIEWING ROOMS:
   A.   No business shall exhibit sexually explicit media or live entertainment
which depicts specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas on the
premises in a room of less than one hundred fifty (150) square feet of floor
space. Such rooms shall have no doors.
   B.   Any exhibition of sexually explicit media or live entertainment which
depicts specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas shall comply
with the following requirements:
      1.   The application for the adult oriented business license shall be
accompanied by a diagram of the premises which identifies the location of each
and every manager's station, the location of all overhead lighting fixtures and
any portion of the premises in which patrons will not be permitted. The
quantity and location of managers' stations must be sufficient so as to
facilitate prudent observation and monitoring of the entire store and all rooms
at all times. A manager's station may not exceed thirty two (32) square feet of
floor area. The diagram shall also designate the place at which the license
will be conspicuously posted, if granted. A professionally prepared diagram in
the nature of an engineer's or architect's blueprint shall not be required,
however, each diagram should be oriented to the north or to some designated
street or object and should be drawn to a designated scale or with marked
dimensions sufficient to show the various internal dimensions of all areas of
the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches (±6").
The village may waive the foregoing diagram for renewal applications if the
applicant adopts a diagram that was previously submitted and certifies that the
configuration of the premises has not been altered since it was prepared.
      2.   It is the duty of the licensee of the premises to ensure that at
least one licensed employee is on duty and situated in each manager's station
at all times that any patron is present.
      3.   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager's station of every area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding
restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video, digital, or any other form of media
reproduction, or any other type of visual or audio equipment. If the premises
has two (2) or more manager's stations, then the interior of the premises shall
be configured in such a manner that there is an unobstructed view of each area
of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose from at
least one of the manager's stations. The view required in this subsection must
be by direct line of sight from the manager's station.
      4.   It shall be the duty of the licensee to ensure that the view
specified in subsection B3 of this section remains unobstructed by any doors,
curtains, partitions, walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials and,
at all times, to ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of the
premises which has been designated on the application or in the diagrams
provided in connection with the application as an area in which patrons will
not be permitted.
      5.   No viewing room may be occupied by more than one person at any time.
      6.   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than five (5) foot-candles as measured at
the floor level. It shall be the duty of the licensee to ensure that the proper
illumination is maintained at all times.
      7.   No person shall make or attempt to make an opening of any kind
between viewing booths or rooms. No licensee shall allow openings of any kind
to exist between viewing rooms or booths. The licensee shall, during each
business day, regularly inspect the walls between the viewing booths to
determine if any openings or holes exist. It shall be the responsibility of the
licensee to inspect the viewing rooms and take any steps necessary to ensure
that no such openings exist.
      8.   The licensee shall cause all floor coverings in viewing booths to be
nonporous, flat surfaces, with no rugs or carpeting. The licensee shall cause
all wall and ceiling surfaces in viewing booths to be constructed of, or
permanently covered by, nonporous, easily cleanable material. No wood, plywood,
composition board or other porous material shall be used within forty eight
inches (48") of the floor.
      9.   Live entertainment shall not occur in the same room as the viewing
room, it shall be contained in another room with a window which allows for
viewing and shall not feature or depict any specified sexual activities.
      10.   Any person with a duty prescribed in this section who knowingly or
recklessly commits a violation of this section, or knowingly or recklessly
allows an employee or contractor to commit a violation of this section, commits
a misdemeanor.
   C.   Proper measures shall be taken to ensure that sexually explicit media,
entertainment areas, sexual advertising, and other sexual merchandise is not
visible from the outside of the adult oriented business area. (Ord. 09-1549, 9-
22-2009)
3-17-17: ESCORTS AND ESCORT AGENCIES:
   A.   An escort agency shall not employ, or agree to employ, any person under
the age of eighteen (18) years.
   B.   Any person under the age of eighteen (18) commits an offense if he or
she acts as an escort, or agrees to act as an escort.
   C.   At no time shall an escort agree or offer or perform any act which
depicts or engages in any specified sexual activities. (Ord. 09-1549, 9-22-
2009)
3-17-18: NUDE MODEL STUDIOS:
   A.   A nude model studio shall not employ any person under the age of
eighteen (18) years old.
   B.   A nude model studio shall not have a bed, sofa or mattress in any room
on the premises, except that a sofa may be placed in a reception room open to
the public.
   C.   Proper measures shall be taken to ensure that no nudity, including nude
models and possible nudity on advertising, is visible from the outside. (Ord.
09-1549, 9-22-2009)
3-17-19: PUBLIC NUDITY, ADULT ENTERTAINERS AND ADULT CABARETS:
   A.   It shall be a misdemeanor for a person to knowingly or intentionally
appear in a state of nudity in an adult oriented business.
   B.   It shall be a misdemeanor for a person to knowingly or intentionally
appear in a seminude condition in an adult oriented business unless the person
is an adult entertainer licensed by the village of Shorewood.
   C.   Any adult entertainer shall be at least ten feet (10') from any patron
or customer and shall be on a stage which is at least four feet (4') above the
floor at any and all times while seminude.
   D.   Providing adult entertainment or any other services in an adult cabaret
in a private room is prohibited.
   E.   In addition to subsection C of this section, there shall be no live
entertainment or sexually explicit media on the premises of an adult cabaret or
other adult oriented business in a room of less than one hundred fifty (150)
square feet of floor space.
   F.   The adult oriented business license issued by the village shall be
clearly displayed in the adult oriented business for each adult entertainer who
is presently working there.
   G.   It shall be a misdemeanor for any adult entertainer, who, while
seminude in an adult oriented business, solicits any amount of pay or gratuity
in any form from any patron or customer, or for any patron or customer to pay
or give any gratuity to any employee or entertainer, while said employee or
entertainer is seminude in an adult oriented business.
   H.   It shall be a misdemeanor for an adult entertainer, or any other
employee or contractor who regularly appears seminude in one or more adult
oriented business, to knowingly or intentionally touch a customer, even if
through the clothing of a customer, while seminude and/or otherwise working on
the premises of an adult oriented business.
   I.   Proper measures shall be taken to ensure that adult entertainers,
sexually explicit media, or sexual advertising is not visible from outside of
the adult oriented business area. (Ord. 09-1549, 9-22-2009)
3-17-20: ADULT MOTELS PROHIBITED:
   A.   Evidence that a sleeping room in a hotel, motel or a similar commercial
establishment has been rented and vacated two (2) or more times in less than
ten (10) hours creates a rebuttable presumption that the establishment is an
adult motel.
   B.   A person commits a misdemeanor if he or she is the owner, operator,
manager, or otherwise in control of a sleeping room in a hotel, motel or
similar commercial establishment, and he or she rents or subrents a sleeping
room to a person and, within ten (10) hours from the time the room is rented,
he or she rents or subrents the same sleeping room again, and/or if he or she
knowingly or recklessly allows an employee or contractor under his or her
supervision to rent or subrent a sleeping room more than once within ten (10)
hours.
   C.   As used in this section, the terms "rent" or "subrent" mean the act of
permitting a room to be occupied for any form of consideration. (Ord. 09-1549,
9-22-2009)
3-17-21: ADULT MASSAGE PROHIBITED:
A person commits a misdemeanor if he or she engages in adult massage, or is the
owner, operator, manager of an establishment in which adult massage is found to
have occurred and allowed it to occur either knowingly or recklessly. (Ord. 09-
1549, 9-22-2009)
3-17-22: SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTERS PROHIBITED:
A person commits a misdemeanor if he or she engages in a public performance or
display of an actual or simulated sexual encounter at, or is the owner,
operator, manager of, a sexual encounter center. (Ord. 09-1549, 9-22-2009)
3-17-23: CHILDREN PRESENT ON PREMISES PROHIBITED:
A person who knowingly or recklessly allows a person under the age of eighteen
(18) years on the premises of an adult oriented business commits a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 09-1549, 9-22-2009)
3-17-24: HOURS OF OPERATION:
No adult oriented business may remain open at any time other than as follows:
 Open No Earlier Than Close No Later Than
          Open No Earlier Than Close No Later Than
Monday    10:00 A.M.           9:00 P.M.
Tuesday   10:00 A.M.           9:00 P.M.
Wednesday 10:00 A.M.           9:00 P.M.
Thursday  10:00 A.M.           9:00 P.M.
Friday    10:00 A.M.           10:00 P.M.
Saturday  10:00 A.M.           11:00 P.M.
Sunday    1:00 P.M.            5:00 P.M.
 
(Ord. 09-1549, 9-22-2009)
3-17-25: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES PROHIBITED:
The sale, use or consumption of alcoholic beverages on the premises of an adult
oriented business is prohibited. A person who knowingly or intentionally sells,
uses, or consumes an alcoholic beverage on the premises of an adult oriented
business commits a misdemeanor. (Ord. 09-1549, 9-22-2009)
3-17-26: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   It is a defense to prosecution under section
3-17-18 of this chapter that a person appearing in a state of nudity did so in
a modeling class operated:
      1.   By a proprietary school, licensed by the state of Illinois, or a
college, community college or university supported entirely or partly by
taxation;
      2.   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, community
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation, a corporation
that qualifies as a tax exempt organization under section 501(c)(3) of the
internal revenue code; or
      3.   In a structure:
         a.   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and
no other advertising that indicates a nude person is available for viewing; and
         b.   Where, in order to participate in a class, a student must enroll
at least three (3) days in advance of the class; and
         c.   Where no more than one nude model is on the premises at any one
time. (Ord. 09-1549, 9-22-2009)
3-17-27: INJUNCTION AND PENALTIES:
   A.   A person who operates, or causes to be operated, an adult oriented
business without a valid license or in violation of the zoning ordinances of
the village of Shorewood is subject to license suspension, license revocation,
or a suit for injunction as well as prosecution for criminal violations. Such
violations shall be punishable by a fine that is neither less than one hundred
dollars ($100.00) nor more than that allowed by state law. Each day an adult
oriented business operates in violation of these ordinances or other laws shall
constitute a separate offense or violation. (Ord. 09-1549, 9-22-2009)
3-17-28: SCIENTER NECESSARY TO PROVE LIABILITY:
This chapter does not impose strict liability. For the purposes of this
chapter, an act by an employee that constitutes grounds for suspension or
revocation of that employee's license shall be imputed to the adult oriented
business licensee for purposes of finding a violation of this chapter, or for
purposes of license denial, suspension or revocation, only if an officer,
director or general partner, or a person who managed, supervised or controlled
the operation of the business premises, knowingly or recklessly allowed such
act to occur on the premises. It shall be a defense to liability that the
licensee, officer, director or general partner, or the person who managed,
supervised or controlled the operation of the business premises to whom
liability is imputed was powerless to prevent the act. (Ord. 09-1549, 9-22-
2009)
3-17-29: FAILURE OF VILLAGE TO MEET DEADLINE:
In the event that a village official is required to take any action or perform
any duty pursuant to this chapter within a prescribed time, and fails to take
such action or perform such duty within the time prescribed, said failure shall
not prevent the exercise of constitutional rights of an applicant or licensee.
If the act required of the village official under this chapter, and not
completed in the time prescribed, includes approval of condition(s) necessary
for approval by the village of an applicant's or licensee's application for an
adult oriented business license or an adult oriented business employee license
(including a renewal), the license shall be deemed granted and the business or
employee allowed to commence operations or employment the day after the
deadline for the village's action has passed. (Ord. 09-1549, 9-22-2009)
CHAPTER 18
VIDEO GAMING
SECTION:
3-18-1: License Required
3-18-2: License Application Fees
3-18-3: Application
3-18-4: Issuance
3-18-5: Posting
3-18-6: Revocation, Suspension And Fines
3-18-7: Transfer Prohibited
3-18-8: Restrictions On Operation
3-18-9: Number Of Video Gaming Licenses
3-18-10: Licenses Prohibited
3-18-11: Licenses Per Establishment
3-18-12: Penalty
3-18-13: Sign
3-18-14: Prior Licenses
3-18-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person, either as owner, lessee, manager, officer or agent, or in any other
capacity, shall operate or permit to be operated any video gaming terminal as
defined by Title 3, Chapter 4A, Section 13-(A), at any premises within the
Village of Shorewood without first having obtained a license valid in that
calendar year. The license provided for in this chapter shall permit a licensee
to operate video gaming terminals in conformance with the Video Gaming Act
except as provided in this chapter. No license shall be issued for any premises
unless the applicant holds a valid Class A, A-1, or B-3 retail liquor license
for the premises. (Ord. 18-1872, 2-13-2018; amd. Ord. 19-1956, 11-26-2019; Ord.
2021-25, 10-12-2021)
3-18-2: LICENSE APPLICATION FEES:
The applicant for a license or a license renewal under this chapter shall pay
the Village Clerk, prior to filing the application, a nonrefundable fee of one
hundred dollars ($100.00) per video gaming terminal requested. (Ord. 18-1872,
2-13-2018)
3-18-3: APPLICATION:
An application for a license required by this chapter shall be made in writing
to the Village Clerk and shall set forth the following:
   A.   The name of the individual, partnership, corporation, association or
other entity applying for the license;
   B.   The residence, phone number and driver's license number of the
applicant or of each partner; or, if a corporation, association or other
entity, the residence, phone number and driver's license number of each
principal officer;
   C.   The location for which the license is requested;
   D.   A true and accurate photocopy of the State of Illinois license granted
to the applicant under the Video Gaming Act for the applicable premises; and
   E.   Whether the applicant, his or her partners or the principal officers of
the corporation, association or other entity have been convicted of a criminal
offense or ordinance violation (other than traffic or parking offenses) in any
jurisdiction and, if so, a list of such convictions with date and prosecuting
jurisdiction.
   F.   A floor plan depicting the interior of the premises, where terminals
will be located and further demonstrate how the licensee will demonstrate
compliance with the requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 18-1872, 2-13-2018)
3-18-4: ISSUANCE:
The Village President shall approve the license requested specifically for the
"licensed premises" under this chapter unless they shall find:
   A.   That the applicant is under the age of twenty one (21).
   B.   That the applicant or any principal officer therein has held a license
under this chapter or had an interest therein that was revoked for cause.
   C.   That the applicant or any principal officer therein has furnished false
or misleading information on the application.
   D.   That the applicant or any principal officer has ever been convicted of
a felony unless there is evidence presented to demonstrate that the person has
been rehabilitated.
   E.   That the applicant does not possess a valid Class A, A-1, or B-3 liquor
license for the premises where the license is required.
   F.   That the licensee or the proposed location does not meet the
qualifications of this chapter. (Ord. 18-1872, 2-13-2018; amd. Ord. 19-1956,
11-26-2019)
3-18-5: POSTING:
Every license issued under this chapter shall, at all times during the period
for which it is effective, be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the
principal entrance to the premises for which the license is issued. (Ord. 18-
1872, 2-13-2018)
3-18-6: REVOCATION, SUSPENSION AND FINES:
   A.   Any license issued pursuant to this chapter may be revoked or suspended
for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days and/or the licensee be subjected to
a fine of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per offense by the
Village President or his or her designee if the Village President or his or her
designee determines by a preponderance of the evidence:
      1.   That the licensee has violated any of the provisions of this
chapter, the laws of the State, or ordinances of the Village at or involving
the licensed premises.
      2.   That the licensee has knowingly furnished false or misleading
information or withheld relevant information on any application for a license
required by this chapter or any investigation into any such application.
      3.   That the licensee or the licensed premises no longer meet the
requirements of this chapter or the Video Gaming Act.
      4.   Any violation of Title 3, Chapter 4A of the Village Code of
Ordinances.
   B.   The licensee shall be responsible for the acts of his agents, servants
and employees in the operation of any licensed premises.
   C.   A license may be temporarily suspended in the event that circumstances
warrant immediate action. If the licensee desires a hearing on the emergency
suspension, a request must be made within forty eight (48) hours of receipt of
notice of suspension or fine.
   D.   Except as provided in subsection C of this section, prior to fining,
suspending a license or revoking a license, a hearing concerning the question
of whether a license issued pursuant to this chapter shall be revoked or
suspended, or a fine implemented, the Village President or his or her designees
shall give at least ten (10) days' written notice to the licensee setting forth
the alleged violations specifically. The licensee shall be given a reasonable
chance to present evidence at such hearing and cross examine witnesses. (Ord.
18-1872, 2-13-2018; amd. Ord. 21-2025, 10-12-2021)
3-18-7: TRANSFER PROHIBITED:
A license issued pursuant to this chapter may not be transferred, sold or
assigned to any other person, corporation, association or entity; nor shall
such license be transferred to any location other than that listed on the
application. (Ord. 18-1872, 2-13-2018)
3-18-8: RESTRICTIONS ON OPERATION:
   A.   Every licensee shall strictly comply with all of the conditions, rules
and regulations imposed by the State, and by the Village, and specifically
shall comply with the following:
      1.   Each and every video gaming terminal shall be licensed by the State
before placement or operation, and the license for each and every terminal
shall be maintained within the licensed premises where the video gaming
terminal is operated.
      2.   No video gaming terminal may be played except during the legal hours
of operation allowed for the consumption of alcoholic beverages at the licensed
premises.
      3.   No licensee shall cause or permit any person under the age of twenty
one (21) years to use or play a video gaming terminal.
      4.   Video gaming terminals located within any licensed premises must be
within an area of the establishment that is restricted to persons twenty one
(21) years of age and over, separated from other areas by a barrier of at least
thirty six inches (36") in height, the entrance to which restricted area is
within the view at all times of at least one employee of said establishment,
which employee must likewise be twenty one (21) years of age or over. The
physical barrier may consist of a partition, gate, rope, railing or other means
of separation. (Ord. 18-1872, 2-13-2018)
3-18-9: NUMBER OF VIDEO GAMING LICENSES:
Until further determination of the President and Board of Trustees only those
businesses which currently hold an eligible liquor license as set forth in
section
3-18-1 of this chapter within the Village are eligible to obtain a license for
video gaming. (Ord. 18-1872, 2-13-2018)
3-18-10: LICENSES PROHIBITED:
Notwithstanding anything in the Video Gaming Act, no license shall be issued
under this chapter for any premises which does not have a Village liquor
license classification as set forth above. Licenses are specifically prohibited
at "licensed truck stops" as defined by the Video Gaming Act. It is the
specific intent of this chapter that licenses not be issued for businesses
commonly known as gas stations, truck fueling centers, truck stops or at any
other location which does not have a Class A, A-1, or B-3 Village liquor
license which permits and where alcoholic liquor is actually drawn, poured,
mixed or otherwise lawfully served for consumption on the licensed premises.
(Ord. 18-1872, 2-13-2018; amd. Ord. 19-1956, 11-26-2019)
3-18-11: LICENSES PER ESTABLISHMENT:
A licensed establishment may operate up to six (6) video gaming terminals on
its licensed premises at any time. An annual fee of five hundred dollars
($500.00) per terminal shall be paid prior to issuance or renewal of a license.
The amount of the annual fee shall be determined using a prorated basis
determined by the month of issuance. (Ord. 18-1922, 12-11-2018; amd. Ord. 19-
1956, 11-26-2019)
3-18-12: PENALTY:
Any person found liable/guilty by a preponderance of the evidence of a
violation of any section of this chapter in judicial hearing shall be subject
to a fine of not less than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) nor more than
the amount permitted by law for each violation. Each day upon which a violation
occurs shall be considered a separate violation. (Ord. 18-1872, 2-13-2018)
3-18-13: SIGN:
Lighted or illuminated signs advertising video gaming are not permitted when
they are visible from outside the licensed premises. (Ord. 18-1872, 2-13-2018)
3-18-14: PRIOR LICENSES:
It is recognized that Video Gaming Licenses were previously issued pursuant to
this Chapter for holders of a Class B, B1 and B2 Liquor Licenses. Those
existing Video Gaming Licenses may be renewed by the original licensees
provided that all requirements of the Code are met except for the
classification of License. At such time that these Licenses expire, are not
renewed, or are otherwise terminated, this Section 3-18-14 shall automatically
be repealed. (Ord. 19-1956 11-26-2019)
CHAPTER 19
RAFFLES
SECTION:
3-19-1: Definitions
3-19-2: License Required
3-19-3: Application
3-19-4: Investigation
3-19-5: Issuance Or Denial Of License
3-19-6: Eligibility And Restrictions
3-19-7: Limitations
3-19-8: Raffles Manager - Bond
3-19-9: Conduct Of Raffles
3-19-10: Records
3-19-11: Licenses Not Assignable; Unlawful Use
3-19-12: Suspension Or Revocation
3-19-13: Limited Application
3-19-14: Non-Liability Of Village
3-19-15: Persons Under Eighteen
3-19-16: Geographic Limits
3-19-17: License Fee
3-19-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the terms defined in this section have the
meanings given them:
   CHARITABLE: An organization or institution organized and operated to benefit
an indefinite number of the public. The service rendered to those eligible for
benefits must also confer some benefit on the public.
   EDUCATIONAL: An organization or institution organized and operated to
provide systematic instruction in useful branches of learning by methods common
to schools and institutions of learning which compare favorably in their scope
and intensity with the course of study presented in tax-supported schools.
   FRATERNAL: An organization of persons having a common interest, the primary
interest of which is to both promote the welfare of its members and to provide
assistance to the general public in such a way as to lessen the burdens of
government by caring for those that otherwise would be cared for by the
government.
   LABOR: An organization composed of workers organized with the objective of
betterment of the conditions of those engaged in such pursuit and the
development of a higher degree of efficiency in their respective occupations.
   NET PROCEEDS: The gross receipts from the conduct of raffles, less
reasonable sums expended for prizes, local license fees and other reasonable
operating expenses incurred as a result of operating a raffle.
   NON-PROFIT: An organization or institution organized and conducted on a not-
for-profit basis, with no personal profit inuring to anyone as a result of the
operation.
   RAFFLE: A form of lottery conducted by an organization licensed under this
chapter in which:
   A.   The player pays or agrees to pay something of value for a chance,
represented and differentiated by a number or by a combination of numbers or by
some other medium, one or more of which chances is to be designated the winning
chance;
   B.   The winning chance is to be determined through a drawing or by some
other method based on an element of chance by an act or set of acts on the part
of persons conducting or connected with the lottery, except that the winning
chance shall not be determined by the outcome of a publicly exhibited sporting
contest.
   RELIGIOUS: Any church, congregation, society, or organization founded for
the purpose of religious worship.
   VETERANS: An organization or association comprised of members of which
substantially all are individuals who are veterans or spouses, widows, or
widowers of veterans, the primary purpose of which is to promote the welfare of
its members and to provide assistance to the general public in such a way as to
confer a public benefit. (Ord. 17-1860, 10-10-2017)
3-19-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
Except for law enforcement agencies and Statewide associations that represent
law enforcement officials which have a valid license from another jurisdiction,
no person, firm, entity, partnership, limited liability company, corporation or
other entity shall conduct raffles or chances within the Village of Shorewood
without having first obtained a license therefor pursuant to this section. Such
license must specify the area or areas within the Village in which raffle
chances will be sold or issued, the time period during which raffle chances
will be sold or issued, the time of determination of winning chances, and the
location or locations at which winning chances will be determined. Such license
shall be good for only one raffle or for a specified number of raffles to be
conducted during a specified period not exceeding one year. (Ord. 17-1860, 10-
10-2017)
3-19-3: APPLICATION:
   A.   Application for raffle licenses shall be made to the Director of
Finance in writing on a form provided for that purpose. Application forms shall
be made available by the Director of Finance at Village Hall.
   B.   The application for a license must specify the area or areas within the
Village in which raffle chances will be sold or issued, the time period during
which raffle chances will be sold or issued, the time of determination of
winning chances, and the location or locations at which winning chances will be
determined. The application shall also contain a sworn statement attesting to
the not-for-profit character of the prospective licensee organization, signed
by the presiding officer and the secretary of that organization.
   C.   The application shall contain such other information as necessary to
determine eligibility. (Ord. 17-1860, 10-10-2017)
3-19-4: INVESTIGATION:
   A.   Upon the receipt of an application for a license, the Director of
Finance shall refer such application to the proper officer for making
investigation within five (5) days of the time of such receipt. The officer
charged with the duty of making the investigation or inspection shall make a
report thereon, favorable or otherwise, within ten (10) days after receiving
the application or a copy thereof.
   B.   Upon receipt of all related investigative and inspection reports, the
Director of Finance shall forward such reports, together with the application,
to the Village President for final determination. (Ord. 17-1860, 10-10-2017)
3-19-5: ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF LICENSE:
   A.   If, after due consideration of the information contained with the
application and related investigative and inspection reports, the Village
President shall determine that the application is satisfactory, the application
shall be approved. Thereupon, the Village Clerk shall notify the applicant that
his or its application is approved. The license shall be signed by the
President, attested by the Clerk, and then issued to the licensee.
   B.   If, after due consideration of the information contained within the
application and related investigative and inspection reports, the Village
President shall determine that matters concerning the application are
unsatisfactory, the application shall be disapproved, indicating the reasons
therefor. Thereupon, the Village Clerk shall notify the applicant that his or
its application has not been approved and that no license will be issued. The
applicant may appeal the decision of the Village President, within ten (10)
days of receipt thereof, by submitting a petition for appeal, in writing, to
the Board of Trustees. The Board of Trustees may, by vote of a majority of the
Trustees, reverse the decision of the Village President.
   C.   The Village President shall act on a license application within thirty
(30) days from the date of application. (Ord. 17-1860, 10-10-2017)
3-19-6: ELIGIBILITY AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Licenses shall be issued only to bona fide religious, charitable,
labor, fraternal, educational or veterans' organizations that operate without
profit to their members and which have been in existence continuously for a
period of five (5) years immediately before making application for a license
and which have had during that entire five-year period a bona fide membership
engaged in carrying out their objectives or to a non- profit fundraising
organization that is organized for the sole purpose of providing financial
assistance to an identified individual or group of individuals suffering
extreme financial hardship as the result of an illness, disability, accident or
disaster.
   B.   A license may not be issued under this chapter to:
      1.   Any person who has been convicted of a felony;
      2.   Any person who is or has been a professional gambler or gambling
promoter;
      3.   Any person who is not of good moral character;
      4.   Any firm or corporation in which a person defined in subsection B1,
B2 or B3 of this section has a proprietary, equitable or credit interest, or in
which such a person is active or employed;
      5.   Any organization in which a person defined in subsection B1, B2 or
B3 of this section is an officer, director, or employee, whether compensated or
not;
      6.   Any organization in which a person defined in subsection B1, B2 or
B3 of this section is to participate in the management or operation of a raffle
as defined in this chapter. (Ord. 17-1860, 10-10-2017)
3-19-7: LIMITATIONS:
   A.   The maximum aggregate retail value of all prizes or merchandise awarded
by a license in a single raffle shall be one hundred fifty thousand dollars
($150,000.00) unless the applicant follows the procedure as established in
subsection E of this section.
   B.   The maximum retail value of each prize awarded by a licensee in a
single raffle shall be one hundred fifty thousand dollars ($150,000.00) unless
the applicant follows the procedure as established in subsection E of this
section.
   C.   The maximum price which may be charged for each raffle chance issued or
sold shall be two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00).
   D.   The maximum number of days during which chances may be issued or sold
for any raffle shall be three hundred sixty four (364) days.
   E.   Any applicant requesting a license for a raffle in which the maximum
aggregate retail value of all prizes or the maximum retail value of each
individual prize will exceed one hundred fifty thousand dollars ($150,000.00)
must receive prior approval of the Village Board of Trustees. The application
for a raffle in which prizes exceed the value of one hundred fifty thousand
dollars ($150,000.00) shall be made and investigated as outlined in this
chapter. Following the investigation the Village President shall cause the
application to be placed on the meeting agenda for action by the Board of
Trustees prior to the issuance of said license. (Ord. 17-1860, 10-10-2017)
3-19-8: RAFFLES MANAGER - BOND:
   A.   All operation of and conduct of raffles shall be under the supervision
of a single raffles manager designated by the organization. The manager shall
give a fidelity bond in the sum of the aggregate retail value of all prizes or
merchandise to be awarded by the licensee in the raffle, conditioned upon his
honesty in the performance of his duties. Such bond shall be given before the
issuance of a license under this chapter, shall be in the name of the licensee,
and shall be in a form and with a surety acceptable to the Village.
   B.   Terms of the bond shall provide that notice shall be given in writing
to the Village not less than thirty (30) days prior to its cancellation.
   C.   The Mayor shall be authorized to waive the bond requirement and to
include a waiver provision in the license issued to an organization under this
chapter, provided that: 1) all the requirements of this chapter have been met
by the applicant; 2) the applicant has complied with the provisions of 230
Illinois Compiled Statutes 15/5 (section 5 of the Illinois Raffles Act); and 3)
the organization provides a resolution adopted by a unanimous vote of its
Governing Body requesting such a waiver. An appeal of the decision of the Mayor
with regard to waiving bond may be made to the Board of Trustees within five
(5) days of said decision. (Ord. 17-1860, 10-10-2017)
3-19-9: CONDUCT OF RAFFLES:
Raffles licensed by this chapter shall be conducted subject to the following
restrictions:
   A.   The entire net proceeds of any raffle must be exclusively devoted to
the lawful purpose of the organization permitted to conduct that raffle.
   B.   No person except a bona fide member of the sponsoring organization may
participate in the management or operation of the raffle.
   C.   No person may receive any remuneration or profit for participating in
the management of the raffle.
   D.   A licensee may rent a premises on which to determine the winning chance
or chances in a raffle only from an organization which is also licensed under
this chapter. (Ord. 17-1860, 10-10-2017)
3-19-10: RECORDS:
   A.   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles and chances shall keep
records of its gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds for each raffle. All
deductions from gross receipts for each raffle shall be documented with
receipts or other records indicating the amount, a description of the purchased
item or service or other reason for the deduction, and the recipient. The
distribution of net proceeds shall be itemized as to payee, purpose, amount and
date of payment.
   B.   Gross receipts from the operation of raffle programs shall be
segregated from other revenues of the organization. Each organization shall
have separate records of its raffles. The person who accounts for gross
receipts, expenses and net proceeds from the operation of raffles shall not be
the same person who accounts for other revenues of the organization.
   C.   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles shall report monthly to
its membership, and to the Village its gross receipts, expenses and net
proceeds from raffles, and the distribution of net proceeds itemized as
required by this section.
   D.   Records required by this section shall be preserved for three (3)
years, and organizations shall make available their records relating to
operation of raffles for public inspection at reasonable times and places.
(Ord. 17-1860, 10-10-2017)
3-19-11: LICENSES NOT ASSIGNABLE; UNLAWFUL USE:
   A.   No license may be assigned, sold, loaned, transferred, used as
collateral or otherwise encumbered.
   B.   No person, firm or corporation shall alter, deface, forge or
counterfeit any license issued by the Village. (Ord. 17-1860, 10-10-2017)
3-19-12: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION:
   A.   A raffle license issued under the provisions of this chapter may be
revoked or suspended by the Village President if the licensee or raffle manager
has:
      1.   Violated any of the provisions of this chapter;
      2.   Violated any ordinance of the Village or any State law of the State
of Illinois, or any Federal law of the United States, the violation of which
reflects unfavorably on the fitness of the licensee or raffle manager to
continue to conduct the licensed raffle within the Village; or
      3.   The licensing requirements are no longer met.
   B.   Prior to suspension or revocation, the licensee shall be given notice
of the proposed action to be taken and shall have an opportunity to be heard by
the President and Board of Trustees. (Ord. 17-1860, 10-10-2017)
3-19-13: LIMITED APPLICATION:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to authorize the conducting or
operating of any gambling scheme, enterprise, activity or device other than
raffles as provided for herein. (Ord. 17-1860, 10-10-2017)
3-19-14: NON-LIABILITY OF VILLAGE:
The Village of Shorewood expressly assumes no responsibility or liability
whatsoever with regard to the collection of monies, the conduct of, the results
of, or any matter relating to, any raffle conducted pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 17-1860, 10-10-2017)
3-19-15: PERSONS UNDER EIGHTEEN:
A person under the age of eighteen (18) years may participate in the conducting
of raffles or chances only with the permission of a parent or guardian. A
person under the age of eighteen (18) years may be within the area where
winning chances are being determined only when accompanied by his parent or
guardian. (Ord. 17-1860, 10-10-2017)
3-19-16: GEOGRAPHIC LIMITS:
Licenses issued pursuant to this section only permit the sale of raffle tickets
within the corporate limits of the Village of Shorewood, except when the
license is issued for a law enforcement agency or a Statewide association that
represents law enforcement officials and the "key location" (as defined by the
"Act") is situated within the Village of Shorewood. (Ord. 17-1860, 10-10-2017)
3-19-17: LICENSE FEE:
The fee for a raffle license is ten dollars ($10.00) and shall be paid at the
time of application. (Ord. 17-1860, 10-10-2017)
CHAPTER 20
MUNICIPAL CANNABIS RETAILER’S OCCUPATION TAX
SECTION:
3-20-1: Municipal Cannabis Retailer’s Occupation Tax
3-20-1: MUNICIPAL CANNABIS RETAILER’S OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
selling cannabis at retail in the Village, other than cannabis purchased under
the Illinois Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act, 410 ILCS
130/1, et seq., at the rate of three percent (3%) of the gross receipts from
such sales made in the course of that business. Retailers may reimburse
themselves for their tax liability hereunder by separately stating the tax as
an additional charge, which charge may be stated in combination, in a single
amount, with any State tax that retailers are required to collect.
   B.   The imposition of the tax imposed by this Section is in accordance with
the provisions of Section 8-11-23 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-
11-23), as amended, and is in addition to any and all other taxes and charges.
   C.   The tax imposed by this Section and all civil penalties that may be
assessed as an incident thereto, shall be remitted to, collected by and
enforced by the Illinois Department of Revenue in accordance with the
provisions of Section 8-11-23 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-
23), as amended. The Illinois Department of Revenue shall have full power to
administer and enforce the provisions of this Section.
   D.   The failure to timely collect or remit all taxes due pursuant to this
Section is a violation of this Code, and may be subject to the penalties
hereunder. (Ord. 20-1967, 3-10-2020)
CHAPTER 21
MOBILE FOOD VENDING
SECTION:
3-21-1: Mobile Food Vending License Required
3-21-2: Definitions
3-21-3: Types Of Mobile Food Vending Licenses
3-21-4: Application For Mobile Food Vending License
3-21-5: Mobile Food Vendor Location
3-21-6: Restrictions On Use
3-21-7: Sanitation And Inspections
3-21-8: Investigation Of Operators
3-21-9: Insurance Required
3-21-10: License Fees And Terms
3-21-11: Granting And Issuance Of Mobile Food Vending License
3-21-12: Right To Appeal
3-21-13: Revocation Or Suspension Of License
3-21-14: Enforcement
3-21-15: Violation And Penalty
3-21-1: MOBILE FOOD VENDING LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate within the Village a Mobile Food
Vending Unit, as defined in this Chapter, without first having obtained a
license for that purpose. (Ord. 22-2040, 4-26-2022)
3-21-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this Chapter, the following definitions shall apply.
MOBILE FOOD VENDING UNIT: A vehicle establishment that is designed to be
readily moveable from which food is sold, cooked, or served, including
motorized vehicles, trailers, push carts, and tricycle carts. Food trucks, food
trailers, canteen trucks, ice cream trucks, ice cream trailers are examples of
mobile food vending units.
MOBILE FOOD VENDOR: A person or business that owns or operates a Mobile Food
Vending Unit. (Ord. 22-2040, 4-26-2022)
3-21-3: TYPES OF MOBILE FOOD VENDING LICENSES:
Mobile Food Vending Licenses shall be divided into the following types.
   A.   Type A Mobile Food Vending Licenses are designed to accommodate Mobile
Food Vending Businesses that participate in Special Events, such as private
parties, block parties, company picnics, and visits to local businesses.
      1.   Type A1 Licenses are valid for a calendar year.
      2.   Type A2 Licenses are valid for a single day.
   B.   Type B Mobile Food Vending Licenses are designed to accommodate Mobile
Food Vending Businesses that visit multiple locations throughout the day, such
as ice cream trucks and job site canteen trucks.
      1.   Type B1 Licenses are valid for a calendar year.
      2.   Type B2 Licenses are valid for a single day. (Ord. 22-2040, 4-26-
2022)
3-21-4: APPLICATION FOR MOBILE FOOD VENDING LICENSE:
All applications for Mobile Food Vending License, shall be made, to the Zoning
Officer on a form provided for that purpose. Each application should be made
ten (10) business days before the same is required to allow a period for proper
examination and investigation of whether the Mobile Food Vending License should
be granted. (Ord. 22-2040, 4-26-2022)
3-21-5: MOBILE FOOD VENDOR LOCATION:
   A.   A mobile vending unit and all accessory equipment must be located so
that:
      1.   It does not obstruct a public way;
      2.   It does not impair the movement of pedestrians or vehicles;
      3.   It does not pose a hazard to public safety;
      4.   It does not violate any parking regulations;
      5.   It does not cause traffic congestion;
      6.   It does not block a fire hydrant or other public safety equipment;
      7.   It does not block an intersection; and,
      8.   The weight of the unit that can be supported by the paving or street
surface.
   B.   A mobile food vendor may not operate on private property without the
written authorization of the property owner.
   C.   A mobile food vendor may not operate on property owned by the Village
of Shorewood or another government entity without the written authorization of
the Village or entity.
   D.   A mobile food vendor may not operate within 300 feet of a school
without the written authorization of the school administration or school
district.
   E.   A mobile food vendor may not operate within 300 feet of a public park
without the written authorization of the Village.
   F.   A mobile food vendor, with a Type A License, may not operate on public
or private right-of-way without the written permission of the Village. The
Village may grant such permission when mobile food vendors have been invited to
participate in a special event such as a festival or block party. They may be
required to enter into a special event agreement with the Village.
   G.   A mobile food vendor, with a Type B License, may stop briefly on public
or private right-of-way to serve patrons. Stops on right-of-way are only
permitted when conditions are safe and may not exceed a period of fifteen (15)
minutes.
   H.   Mobile food vendors shall obey any lawful order of a police officer to
move to a different location to avoid congestion or obstruction of a public way
or remove the vehicle entirely from the public way if necessary to avoid such
congestion or obstruction. (Ord. 22-2040, 4-26-2022)
3-21-6: RESTRICTIONS ON USE:
The following standards shall apply to mobile food vending units.
   A.   Mobile food vendors may operate between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 9:00
p.m. in residential zoning districts and between the hours of 6:00 am and 9:00
pm in non-residential zoning districts.
   B.   Mobile food vendors shall have all of the necessary health department
permits.
   C.   Mobile food vendors, operating under Type A Mobile Food Vending
Licenses, may sell alcohol pursuant to State and Village liquor licensing
requirements.
   D.   No alcohol may be sold from a mobile food vending unit operating under
a Type B Mobile Food Vending License.
   E.   No mobile food vending units shall be left unattended on a public way.
   F.   No mobile food vending unit shall be parked on a right-of-way or in a
private residential parking space unless it has stopped to sell food in
accordance with the regulations of this chapter. For example, overnight parking
on a street or in a residential driveway is prohibited.
   G.   No mobile food vendor, driver or operator shall drink any alcoholic
beverages, shout or call to prospective customers, or to disturb the peace in
any manner while on duty.
   H.   No mobile food vendor shall install any signs other than those which
are contained within or attached to the vehicle, except with the written
permission of the Village and the property owner.
   I.   No mobile food vendors shall install any tables, chairs, or other
equipment, except with the written permission of the Village and the property
owner.
   J.   No lighting shall be mounted to the mobile food vending unit that may
spill onto adjacent residential property as measured from the property line.
   K.   No mobile food vendor shall use utilities drawn from or across the
public right-of-way, except with the written permission of the Director of
Public Works.
   L.   No mobile food vending unit shall operate a drive-through.
   M.   Mobile food vendors shall prominently display the county health
department permits and the Village of Shorewood Mobile Food Vending License.
   N.   Mobile food vendor shall be responsible for paying all applicable
Illinois retailers taxes.
   O.   Mobile food vendors with Type A Licenses may not operate for more than
10 consecutive days on any property.
   P.   Mobile food vendors with Type A Licenses may operate for a maximum of
52 total days during any calendar year.
   Q.   Certain provisions of this chapter may be waived for mobile food
vendors operating under the terms of a special event agreement with the Village
of Shorewood. (Ord. 22-2040, 4-26-2022)
3-21-7: SANITATION AND INSPECTIONS:
   A.   All mobile food vending units shall be kept in a clean and sanitary
condition. The Zoning Officer, Building Official, Chief of Police, or one of
their designees, bearing proper identification, shall be permitted to enter any
mobile food vending unit at any reasonable time for the purpose of inspecting
to determine whether the vendor has complied with the terms of this title.
Additionally, the vendor shall, on request, provide the Zoning Officer with the
records of the food truck to obtain information pertaining to food and supplies
purchased, received, or used.
   B.   All food storage, preparation and distribution of food, and vehicle
equipment must meet applicable Illinois Department of Public Health and county
health department standards and requirements.
   C.   All waste liquids, garbage, litter and refuse shall be kept in leak-
proof, nonabsorbent containers which shall be kept covered with tight-fitting
lids and properly disposed of at the end of each day. No waste liquids,
garbage, litter or refuse shall be dumped or drained into sidewalks, streets,
gutters, drains, or trash receptacles. A garbage receptacle shall be easily
accessible for customer use. Vendor shall be responsible for all litter and
garbage left by customers. (Ord. 22-2040, 4-26-2022)
3-21-8: INVESTIGATION OF OPERATORS:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to examine or cause to be
examined all owners, drivers and operators of mobile food vending units for the
purpose of ascertaining whether or not such Mobile Food Vending License shall
be issued.
   B.   A criminal background check will be performed by the Police Department
for all applicants, drivers and operators. In the event that fingerprints are
required to confirm investigative results, the applicant will be responsible
for applicable fees.
   C.   No such license shall be issued when any owner, driver or operator:
      1.   has been convicted of a felony under the laws of the State of
Illinois or any other state or federal law of the United States, within the
past five years of the date of the application;
      2.   has been convicted of a violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter or to any person whose business registration or license has previously
been revoked; or
      3.   must register as a sex offender as required by the Sex Offender
Registration Act, ILCS Ch. 730, Act 150. (Ord. 22-2040, 4-26-2022)
3-21-9: INSURANCE REQUIRED:
Prior to the issuance of any permit under this Article, the applicant shall
deposit with the Village of Shorewood sufficient evidence that the mobile food
vendor has insurance that meets the following standards.
   A.   Commercial General Liability: $1,000,000 combined single limit per
occurrence for bodily injury, and property damage and aggregate shall be twice
the required occurrence limit. Minimum General Aggregate shall be no less than
$2,000,000.
   B.   Business Automobile Liability: $1,000,000 combined single limit per
accident for bodily injury and property damage.
   C.   An Umbrella Insurance Policy in an amount not less than $1,000,000 per
occurrence.
   D.   The Village of Shorewood including its officers, employees and agents
shall be named as additionally insured on the insurance policy.
   E.   The insurance policy shall be occurrence-based.
   F.   A license issued pursuant to the provisions of this Section shall be
invalid at any time the insurance required herein is not maintained and
evidence of continuing coverage is not filed with the Village of Shorewood.
(Ord. 22-2040, 4-26-2022)
3-21-10: LICENSE FEES AND TERMS:
   A.   A Type A1 License is valid for a calendar year and costs $75.
   B.   A Type A2 License is valid for a single day and costs $10.
   C.   A Type B1 License is valid for a calendar year and costs $75.
   D.   A Type B2 license is valid for a single day and costs $10.
   E.   The license shall be valid for one (1) vehicle only.
   F.   Only 1 (one) Type A1 license may be issued for a Mobile Food Vending
Unit in any calendar year.
   G.   The license shall not be transferrable from person to person. (Ord. 22-
2040, 4-26-2022)
3-21-11: GRANTING AND ISSUANCE OF MOBILE FOOD VENDING LICENSE:
In all cases where Mobile Food Vending License are to be obtained and ordinance
compliance is met, a Mobile Food Vending License shall be granted by the
Village President. (Ord. 22-2040, 4-26-2022)
3-21-12: RIGHT TO APPEAL:
If a request for a Mobile Food Vending License or a proposed location is
denied, the applicant shall have the right to appeal to the Village
Administrator.
   A.   Any person or entity filing an appeal pursuant to this Section Chapter
shall notify the Village Administrator in writing of the appeal within seven
(7) days after the decision for which the appeal is sought
   B.   The applicant shall have the burden of providing proof to establish
that the decision appealed from should be reversed. (Ord. 22-2040, 4-26-2022)
3-21-13: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE:
If the Zoning Officer or any official of the Village shall have cause to
believe that a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter has occurred
which would be grounds for revocation, suspension or refusal to renew a
license, a written notice shall be sent to the last known place of business of
the licensee informing of the alleged violations, what action will be taken if
the licensee does not respond within ten (10) days of the date of the letter
and giving an opportunity to have a hearing before the Village Administrator.
In the event a situation exists that is dangerous to the health, safety and
welfare of the citizenry, the said inspector shall apply to the Village
Administrator for an immediate order suspending the license. A letter shall be
sent advising of the action taken, why it was taken and that it will be a
permanent action unless within ten (10) days the licensee should apply for a
hearing before the Village Administrator seeking reinstatement of the
privileges. (Ord. 22-2040, 4-26-2022)
3-21-14: ENFORCEMENT:
It shall be the duty of the head of the department or official of the Village
charged with the enforcement of any regulatory provision of this chapter to
take such action to the extent permitted by law as shall be necessary to compel
compliance with said regulatory provision. Such department head or official
shall have authority to call upon the Police Department for aid in the
enforcement of said regulatory provision, and it shall be the duty of the Chief
of Police, when called upon, to act according to the instructions of such
department head or official and to perform such duties as may be required of
him in order to enforce or put into effect said regulatory provision. (Ord. 22-
2040, 4-26-2022)
3-21-15: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate the provisions of this title shall, be subject to
a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day the violation continues shall be considered a
separate violation. For failure to apply for a required license or registration
and/or failure to pay a required license or registration fee, the Village shall
send notice of the violation via certified mail, return receipt requested, or
via hand delivery and shall inform the person in violation that they have
thirty (30) days in which to come into compliance; if the violation is not
cured within thirty (30) days after such notice is sent, then the fine shall be
the amount of the fee due and owing plus one hundred dollars ($100.00) and each
day after that in which the violation continues there shall be a fine of ten
dollars ($10.00) per day; these fines are in addition to any other penalty
allowed by Federal, State, County or local law, or otherwise provided in this
chapter.
(Ord. 22-2040, 4-26-2022)
CHAPTER 22
HEMP-DERIVED THC PRODUCTS PROHIBITED
SECTION:
3-22-1:   Definitions
3-22-2:   Prohibition
3-22-3:   Penalties
3-22-1: DEFINITION S:
For the purposes of this Chapter, the following terms have the meanings
ascribed to them in this Section unless different meanings are plainly
indicated by the context:
HEMP: The plant Cannabis sativa L. and any part of that plant, whether growing
or not, with a delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol concentration of not more than 0.3
percent on a dry weight basis and includes any intermediate or finished product
made or derived from hemp.
HEMP-DERIVED THC PRODUCT: A product that:
   1.   Is used or intended for human consumption;
   2.   Contains: (a) any amount of synthetic cannabinoids of any kind,
inclusive of acid forms, regardless of name, including but not limited to THC-
O, delta-8 tetrahydrocannabinol, and delta-10 tetrahydrocannabinol; (b) a total
tetrahydrocannabinol content concentration level in excess of 0.3% on a dry
weight basis; or (c) a total tetrahydrocannabinol content in excess of 0.5
milligrams per labeled serving or individual unit or 2.5 milligrams per package
regardless of the number of labeled servings or individual units therein; and
   3.   Is not lawfully manufactured, distributed, sold, or possessed in
accordance with the provisions of the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis
Program Act (410 ILCS 130/1, et seq.) or the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act
(410 ILCS 705/1-1, et seq.).
SYNTHETIC CANNABINOID: A cannabinoid-like compound that was produced using
chemical synthesis, chemical modification, or chemical conversion, including in
vitro biosynthesis or other bioconversion of such a method. Synthetic
Cannabinoid includes cannabinoids converted from one chemical structure into
another, such as tetrahydrocannabinol produced by the conversion of
cannabidiol.
TETRAHYDROCANNABINOL or THC: Any naturally occurring or synthetic
tetrahydrocannabinol, including its salts, isomers, and salts of isomers
whenever the existence of such salts, isomers, and salts of isomers is possible
within the specific chemical designation and any preparation, mixture, or
substance containing, or mixed or infused with, any detectable amount of
tetrahydrocannabinol. For the purposes of this definition, "isomer" means the
optical, position, and geometric isomers.
TOTAL TETRAHYDROCANNABINOL: The sum, after the application of any necessary
conversion factor, of the percentage by weight of tetrahydrocannabinol and the
percentage by weight of tetrahydrocannabinolic acid.
(Ord. 25-2129, 1-28-2025)
3-22-2: PROHIBITION:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to process, manufacture, label, sell, distribute,
market, advertise for sale, or possess any Hemp-Derived THC Product within the
Village of Shorewood.
   B.   Paragraph (A) of Section
3-22-2 shall not apply to cannabis or cannabis products lawfully manufactured,
distributed, sold, or possessed in accordance with the Compassionate Use of
Medical Cannabis Program Act (410 ILCS 130/1, et seq.) or the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act (410 ILCS 705/1-1, et seq.).
   C.   Paragraph (A) of Section
3-22-2 shall not apply to the transportation or shipment of hemp or hemp
products produced in accordance with subtitle G of the Agricultural Marketing
Act of 1946 [7 USCS §§ 1639o et seq.] through the Village.
   D.   Paragraph (A) of Section
3-22-2 shall not apply to products that are (i) approved for marketing by the
U.S. Food and Drug Administration and scheduled in the Drug Control Act (§§
54.1-3400 et seq.) or (ii) dispensed pursuant to Article 4.2 (§§ 54.1-3442.5 et
seq.) of Chapter 34 of Title 54.1.
(Ord. 25-2129, 1-28-2025)
3-22-3: PENALTIES:
   A.   Violations of this Chapter constitute a petty offense and are
punishable by a fine of not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) and
not more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). Each day's violation
constitutes a separate and distinct offense. Each sale or transaction
constitutes a separate and distinct offense.
   B.   Notwithstanding the imposition of any other penalty for a violation of
this Chapter, and notwithstanding the requirements of any other provision of
this Code, a violation of this Chapter constitutes grounds for the suspension
or revocation of a business license, tobacco license, and/or liquor license
issued by the Village of Shorewood.
   C.   Notwithstanding the imposition of any other penalty for a violation of
this Chapter, the Village is expressly authorized to seek injunctive relief
(including a temporary restraining order, preliminary injunction, and permanent
injunction) to prevent ongoing violations of this Chapter.
(Ord. 25-2129, 1-28-2025)
CHAPTER 23
GROCERY OCCUPATION TAXES
SECTION:
3-23-1: Municipal Grocery Retailers’ Occupation Tax Imposed
3-23-2: Municipal Grocery Service Occupation Tax
3-23-3: Illinois Department Of Revenue To Administer Both Taxes
3-23-1: MUNICIPAL GROCERY RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX IMPOSED:
A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of selling
groceries at retail in this municipality at the rate of one percent (1%) of the
gross receipts from such sales made in the course of such business while this
chapter is in effect. The imposition of this tax is in accordance with and
subject to the provisions of Section 8-11-24 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65
ILCS 5/8-11-24). (Ord. 25-2144, 5-27-2025)
3-23-2: MUNICIPAL GROCERY SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX:
A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in this municipality in the
business of making sales of service, who, as an incident to making those sales
of service, transfer groceries as an incident to a sale of service. The rate of
this tax shall be the same rate identified in
3-23-1, above. The imposition of this tax is in accordance with and subject to
the provisions of Section 8-11-24 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-
11-24). (Ord. 25-2144, 5-27-2025)
3-23-3: ILLINOIS DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE TO ADMINISTER BOTH TAXES:
The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be assessed as an
incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the Department of Revenue
of the State of Illinois. The Illinois Department of Revenue shall have full
power to administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 25-2144,
5-27-2025)
TITLE 4
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
GARBAGE AND REFUSE
SECTION:
4-1-1: Purpose
4-1-2: Definitions
4-1-3: Prohibited Accumulation
4-1-4: Collection
4-1-5: Additional Waste For Pickup
4-1-6: Removal Of Accumulated Garbage, Refuse, Debris, And Other Waste
4-1-7: Payments For Regular Service
4-1-8: Recycling Collection
4-1-9: Penalty Or Violation Of This Code
4-1-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to regulate and control the accumulation,
removal and disposal of refuse, to eliminate unsanitary and unsightly
conditions in the Village and to provide for the payment and collection of fees
by residents. (Ord. 22-2037, 3-22-2022)
4-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
Definitions as used in this Chapter, unless the context otherwise requires,
words and terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this Section:
ACT: The Environmental Protection Act, ILCS 1993, Chapter 415, Section 5/1 et
seq., as amended from time to time, and applicable rules and regulations
promulgated there under.
AGREEMENT: This Agreement, dated February 8, 2022, by and between the
Municipality and Waste Management of Illinois, Inc., which is on file in the
Office of the Village Clerk for Village of Shorewood and available for public
inspection, as amended from time to time.
BULK ITEMS: Items including, but not limited to, pianos, beds, box springs,
mattresses, sofas, furniture, furnishings, fixtures.
CONTRACTOR: Waste Management of Illinois, Inc., and its successors and
assignees.
CUSTOMERS: All detached single family, duplex, and townhome units situated
within the Village.
EXCLUDED WASTE: Without limitation, any regulated quantity of a Hazardous Waste
or Hazardous Substance as defined by federal, state or local laws or
regulations, containerized wastes, the contents of which are not able to be
identified; sludges; waste from a pollution control process or cleanup of a
spill of a chemical substance or commercial product; waste tires; biohazardous
or regulated medical waste; friable asbestos; construction and demolition
waste, soil; sod, tree ranches and stumps; paint; motor oil; excessive storm
debris or debris resulting from weather events such as hurricanes or tropical
storms; or any item too large or heavy to be contained within a 96-gallon Cart;
or any waste or material that is prohibited from being received, managed or
disposed of at the disposal facility.
E-WASTE: Any “Covered Electronic Device” as defined by the Illinois “Consumer
Electronics Recycling Act” and includes items such as, any computer, computer
monitor, television, printer, electronic key board, facsimile machine, video
cassette recorder, portable digital music players that have memory capability
and is memory powered, digital video disc players, video game consoles, an
electronic mouse, scanner, digital converter box, cable receiver, satellite
receiver, digital video cassette recorder, or a server.
GARBAGE: Waste resulting from handling, processing, cooking and consumption of
food and wastes resulting from the handling, processing, storage and sale of
produce.
HOUSEHOLD HAZARDOUS WASTE: Household hazardous waste includes items such as:
household chemicals, automotive products, paint products, batteries, garden
chemicals, fluorescent light bulbs, thermometers and thermostats, flammable
items such as kerosene, gasoline, solvents and similar items, syringes,
needles, and swimming pool chemicals.
IEPA: The Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
LANDSCAPE WASTE: Items including, but not limited to, grass clippings,
shrubbery cuttings, leaves, tree limbs less than four (4) inches in diameter
bundled a maximum two (2) feet in diameter and three (3) feet in length and
other materials accumulated as a result of the care of lawns, shrubbery, vines
and trees.
OTHER WASTE: Landscape Waste, Recyclable Materials, Bulk Items, White Goods, E-
Waste, household hazardous waste, and any other materials designated by the
Municipality for collection.
RECYCLABLE MATERIALS: Aluminum cans, tin, steel and bi-metal cans, clear, green
and brown glass bottles and jars, newspapers, magazines, mixed papers (junk
mail, chipboard, white and colored paper, brown kraft paper bags): corrugated
cardboard, #1 PETE plastic containers and #2 HPDE plastic containers, aseptic
beverage containers, and any other material or materials which the Municipality
and the Contractor mutually agree to include as a “Recyclable Material”
subsequent to the execution of this Agreement.
REFUSE: All discarded and unwanted biodegradable and non-biodegradable
household and kitchen waste, including, but not limited to, food, food residues
and unwanted materials. (i) combustible trash, including, but not limited to,
paper cartons, boxes, barrels, wood, excelsior, wood furniture, bedding; (ii)
non-combustible trash, including, without limitation, metals, tin cans, metal
furniture, glass, crockery; (iii) other mineral waste and street rubbish,
including, without limitation, contents of litter receptacles. Refuse does not
include any banned material from landfills or which is prohibited from
collection per local, state or federal law, including but not limited to E-
Waste, White Goods, tires, batteries, automobile items (i.e. engines, fenders,
seats) and landscape waste.
SERVICES: The specified waste hauling, collection and disposal services to be
provided by the Contractor pursuant to the Agreement.
STATE: The State of Illinois.
SOLID WASTE: Garbage, Refuse, other general household waste.
WHITE GOODS: White Goods as defined in Section 5/22.28 of the Act. (Ord. 22-
2037, 3-22-2022)
4-1-3: PROHIBITED ACCUMULATION:
No occupant, person, owner, agent of owner, or any premises or property shall
permit Refuse, Garbage, Solid Waste, or Other Waste to accumulate upon any
property except in appropriate containers prepared for pick up as hereafter
provided. (Ord. 22-2037, 3-22-2022)
4-1-4: COLLECTION:
   A.   All Solid Waste and Recyclable Materials shall be placed by the
Customer into carts provided by the Contractor for that purpose. The Village
shall notify the Customers of the Collection Day. All Customers must place
their carts and other materials for pick up at the curb by 6:00 a.m. on
Collection Day. The carts and other materials for pickup must be made
accessible to standard collection of refuse, recycling and landscape waste
trucks.
   B.   Only Solid Waste shall be placed into the Solid Waste carts and only
recyclables shall be placed into the Recyclable carts. There shall be no mixing
of Other Waste into the carts.
   (C)   Residential refuse, recycling and yard waste containers or bags shall
not be stored or kept in the area bounded by the street, side lot lines and the
principal structure for a period of time longer than twenty- four hours before
and/ or after the weekly scheduled pick-up. (Ord. 22-2037, 3-22-2022; amd. Ord.
22-2052, 9-13-2022)
4-1-5: ADDITIONAL WASTE FOR PICK UP:
Bulk items, white goods, e-waste and landscape waste.
   A.   Oversized Bulk Items Collection Service:
The Contractor will furnish Oversized Bulk Items collection service to collect
and dispose of all discarded materials, which are too large and bulky to be
handled by packer-type equipment (i.e. pianos, hot tubs, etc.). The oversized
Bulk Items shall be placed at curbside by a Customer for collection on the
collection day. If more than one (1) bulk item is placed at the curb, a call
must have been made to the Contractor by the resident notifying the Contractor
of the extra Bulk Items collection. There shall be an additional charge for
each Bulk Item more than one (1). On the collection day following the Village-
wide garage sale, unlimited Bulk Items will be picked up without charge and
without prior notice to the Contractor. The additional charge shall be paid to
the Contractor by the Customer.
   B.   White Goods Collection Service:
White Goods shall be collected with prior notice to the Contractor and payment
made by the Customer for the additional charge.
   C.   E-Waste Service and Household Hazardous Waste:
E-Waste and Household Hazardous Waste shall be collected from Customers in
conformance with the AtYourDoor program on a scheduled basis with the customer
arranging pick-up and paying the Contractor.
   D.   Christmas Tree Collection:
Christmas trees will be collected curbside for the first three (3) weeks
following Christmas on the Customer’s regular collection day. All decoration
including tinsel, lights, ornaments and tree stands must be removed. Flocked
trees cannot be recycled and must be disposed of through regular trash service.
Trees must not be wrapped in any plastic or placed inside a plastic bag.
   E.   Landscape Waste Collection Service:
Landscape Waste shall be collected from Customers on their regular pick up day
at no additional charge if the Landscape Waste in bagged in brown paper
recyclable bags and placed at the curb. Customers who want a Landscape Waste
cart may arrange for delivery of the cart and payment directly to the
Contractor. Additionally, tree limbs less than four (4") inches in diameter in
bundles weighing less than fifty (50) pounds, less than two (2') feet in
diameter and secured with string or twine are picked up on the regular
collection day at no additional charge. Unbundled limbs or brush, whole trees,
sod, stumps and dirt will not be picked up.
   F.   Schedule of Extra Costs:
The prices for collection of extra Bulk Items, White Goods, E-Waste, and
Household Hazardous Waste shall be on file with the Village Clerk and posted on
the Village Website. (Ord. 22-2037, 3-22-2022)
4-1-6: REMOVAL OF ACCUMULATED GARBAGE, REFUSE, DEBRIS AND OTHER WASTE:
   A.   Authority: From time to time, as deemed necessary, in the interest of
the public health, safety, and welfare, the Village Administrator may direct
that Garbage, Refuse, Debris, and Other Waste (the “Unlawful Accumulation”) be
removed from private property within the corporate limits of the village.
   B.   Notice To Remove:
      1.   Upon such direction, the Village Administrator shall give written
notice by United States mail to the owner of the property upon which the
Unlawful Accumulation exists, and in the event that the name of the owner of
said property is unable to be determined, the notice shall be given to the last
assessee of the general real estate taxes on said real estate.
      2.   The aforesaid notice shall designate the real estate, the Unlawful
Accumulation thereon to be removed and shall provide that if the same is not
removed from the said real estate within ten (10) days after the mailing of
such notice, the Village will cause the same to be removed and collect the
reasonable cost thereof from the owner of said real estate.
      3.   Removal By Village: Upon the failure, refusal or neglect of the
owner of any real estate upon which Unlawful Accumulation exists to remove the
same within ten (10) days after the mailing of notice as above provided, the
Village Administrator shall notify the appropriate village employees or a
contractor retained by the Village to remove it from the property.
      4.   Billing For Removal Costs: The village shall then bill the owner of
said real estate for the reasonable cost of the removal, posting the same by
United States mail.
   E.   Costs And Lien:
      1.   In the event the owner of any real estate from which Unlawful
Accumulation has been removed pursuant to the provisions of this section fails
to pay the cost thereof by the due date furnished on the invoice to the
customer for the same, the Village shall cause a notice of lien to be filed in
the office of the recorder of deeds of Will County, Illinois, which notice
shall consist of a sworn statement setting out: a) a description of the real
estate sufficient for identification thereof, b) the amount of money
representing the cost and expense incurred or payable for the service, and c)
the date or dates when such cost and expense was incurred by the village, and
d) the property tax payer of record shall be provided with a notice of the
filing of the lien.
      2.   In the event the cost incurred by the village for the removal of any
garbage or
debris from private property pursuant to the terms of this section are not paid
by the owner of said real estate within eighteen (18) months from the date of
filing of the notice of lien therefor, the Village Administrator shall advise
the board of trustees of the same to enable it to designate whether foreclosure
of the lien for the same should be commenced. (Ord. 22-2037, 3-22-2022)
4-1-7: PAYMENTS FOR REGULAR SERVICE:
   A.   The Customer shall be responsible for payment of the fees to the
Village for removal of Solid Waste , Recyclables and properly bagged or bundled
Landscape Waste. The following shall apply:
 
                             4/1/2022 4/1/2023 4/1/2024 4/1/2025 4/1/2026
Regular Monthly Rates        26.81    27.88    29.00    30.16    31.37
Senior and Disabled Veterans 23.81    24.88    26.00    27.16    28.37
 
   B.   Invoice: The village will provide the Customer an invoice on a monthly
basis for billing purposes.
   C.   Senior Citizens and Disabled Veterans’ Discounts: Village residents
that are disabled veterans or sixty-five (65) years of age or older and/or live
alone or with their spouse may qualify for the monthly reductions as set forth
above. The Village will determine those residents that qualify for the senior
and disabled veterans rates which must demonstrate their eligibility to the
Village.
   D.   The monthly invoice is due and payable on the 21st or each month (or
the first business day following the 21st if the 21st fall on a Saturday,
Sunday or legal holiday). ten (10%) percent late fee is assessed to past due
balances. (Ord. 22-2037, 3-22-2022)
4-1-8: RECYCLING COLLECTION:
   A.   Separation of Recyclables:
Placement of Containers for Removal: All recyclable materials shall be prepared
and separated from all other refuse by Customers and placed in village approved
and issued containers. (Ord. 22-2037, 3-22-2022)
4-1-9: PENALTY OR VIOLATION OF THIS CODE:
Unless otherwise provided, any person violating any of the provisions of this
Chapter shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 22-2037, 3-22-2022)
CHAPTER 2
LITTER CONTROL
SECTION:
4-2-1: Definitions
4-2-2: Littering Prohibited Generally; Exemptions
4-2-3: Littering From Vehicle
4-2-4: Accumulation Of Litter
4-2-5: Storage Of Vehicles On Public Or Private Property
4-2-6: Injurious Substances, Cement, Freezing Water
4-2-7: Violations And Penalties
4-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the following
words and terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
   LITTER: Any discarded, used or unconsumed substance or waste. "Litter" may
include, but is not limited to, any garbage, trash, refuse, debris, rubbish,
grass clippings or other lawn or garden waste, newspaper, magazines, glass,
metal, plastic or paper containers or other packaging, construction material,
abandoned vehicle (as defined in section 5/4-100 of the Illinois vehicle code 1
), motor vehicle parts, furniture, oil, carcass of a dead animal, any nauseous
or offensive matter of any kind, any object likely to injure any person or
create a traffic hazard or anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature
which has been discarded, abandoned or otherwise disposed of improperly.
   MOTOR VEHICLE: Has the meaning ascribed to that term in section 5/1-146 of
the Illinois vehicle code 2 .
   PERSON: Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate or any other legal
entity or their legal representative, agent or assigns. (Ord. 84-372, 6-12-
1984)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS.
2 2. 625 ILCS.
4-2-2: LITTERING PROHIBITED GENERALLY; EXEMPTIONS:
No person shall dump, deposit, drop, throw, discard, leave, cause or permit the
dumping, depositing, dropping, throwing, discarding or leaving of litter upon
any public or private property in this village or upon or into any river, pond
or other stream or body of water in this village, unless:
   A.   The property has been designated by the village for the disposal of
litter, and the litter is disposed of on that property in accordance with the
applicable rules and regulations of the state pollution control board;
   B.   The litter is placed into a receptacle or other container intended by
the owner or tenant in lawful possession of that property for the deposit of
litter;
   C.   The person is the owner or tenant in lawful possession of the property
or has first obtained the consent of the owner or tenant in lawful possession
or unless the act is done under the personal direction of the owner or tenant
and does not create a public health or safety hazard, a public nuisance or a
fire hazard;
   D.   The person is acting under the direction of proper public officials
during special cleanup days; or
   E.   The person is lawfully acting in or reacting to an emergency situation
where health and safety is threatened and removes and properly disposes of such
litter when the emergency situation no longer exists. (Ord. 84-372, 6-12-1984)
4-2-3: LITTERING FROM VEHICLE:
No person shall dump, deposit, throw, discard or otherwise dispose of litter
from any motor vehicle upon any public street or highway, upon any public or
private property or upon or into any river, lake, pond, stream or body of water
in this state except as permitted under any of subsections
4-2-2A through E of this chapter. (Ord. 84-372, 6-12-1984)
4-2-4: ACCUMULATION OF LITTER:
No person shall allow litter to accumulate upon real property, of which the
person charged is the owner or tenant in control, in such a manner as to
constitute a public nuisance or in such a manner that the litter may be blown
or otherwise carried by the natural elements onto the real property of another
person. (Ord. 84-372, 6-12-1984)
4-2-5: STORAGE OF VEHICLES ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY:
   A.   No person shall abandon, park, store, or leave or permit the
abandonment, parking, storage, or leaving of any vehicle or part thereof which
is unlicensed, has an expired state motor vehicle license, is abandoned, is
wrecked, is dismantled or is in an inoperative condition, upon any public
property or private property, within the village of Shorewood, for a period in
excess of seven (7) days, unless such vehicle or part thereof is completely
enclosed within a building in a lawful manner, where it is not plainly visible
from the street or other public or private properties, or unless such vehicle
is stored or parked in a lawful manner on private property in connection with
the business of a licensed dismantler, licensed vehicle dealer or a junkyard.
   B.   The person to whom last was issued the certificate of title to the
vehicle by the secretary of state is presumed to be the person to have
abandoned that vehicle, but such presumption may be rebutted. (Ord. 03-1174, 7-
22-2003, eff. 7-22-2003)
4-2-6: INJURIOUS SUBSTANCES, CEMENT, FREEZING WATER:
   A.   Deposits Prohibited: No person shall deposit snow, ice, bottles, cans,
glass, nails, wire, ready mix concrete, debris or any other substance likely to
injure any person, animal or other vehicle upon any public sidewalk, alley,
parkway, private lot (without permission of owner), right of way or street or
likely to impede the orderly flow of pedestrian and vehicular traffic nor shall
any person deposit or discharge water in freezing weather upon any public
sidewalk, alley, right of way or street which might or could cause ice to form
thereon. No person shall wash out or deposit concrete upon any sidewalk,
parkway, street, alley or private lot without written consent of said owners of
record. Ready mix concrete delivery vehicles must wash out at point of delivery
or at a designated place within the subdivision established by the developer.
   B.   Removal Of Prohibited Deposits: Any person who places, deposits or
drops, or permits to be placed, deposited or dropped, upon any sidewalk, alley,
right of way or street, any substance or material prohibited by subsection A of
this section, shall immediately remove the same or cause it to be removed.
   C.   Application Of Provisions; Nonliability: This section shall not be
applicable to and shall not create any liability upon the state, any unit of
local government, any school district or any officer or employee thereof who
may violate the terms hereof in the performance of their governmental or
municipal duties.
   D.   Penalty: Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be
fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 87-450, 11-24-1987)
4-2-7: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Penalties: Persons who violate any of sections
 4-2-2 through
4-2-5 of this chapter are subject to the penalties set out in this section:
      1.   Any person convicted of a violation of section
4-2-2,
 4-2-3,
 4-2-4 or
4-2-5 of this chapter is guilty of a petty offense and shall be fined not less
than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00).
      2.   In addition to any fine imposed under this chapter, the court may
order that the person convicted of such a violation remove and properly dispose
of the litter, may employ special bailiffs to supervise such removal and
disposal and may tax the costs of such supervision as costs against the person
so convicted.
      3.   The penalties prescribed in this section are in addition to and not
in lieu of any penalties, rights, remedies, duties or liabilities otherwise
imposed or conferred by law.
   B.   Presumption Of Violation: Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped
or dumped from any motor vehicle not carrying passengers for hire, the
presumption is created that the operator of that motor vehicle has violated
section
4-2-3 of this chapter, but that presumption may be rebutted. (Ord. 84-372, 6-
12-1984)
CHAPTER 3
OPEN BURNING
SECTION:
4-3-1: Burning Prohibited
4-3-2: Definitions
4-3-3: Attendance Required
4-3-4: Exceptions
4-3-5: Penalty
4-3-1: BURNING PROHIBITED:
Except as hereinafter provided it shall be unlawful to burn any material,
including, but not limited to, "landscape waste" and "municipal waste" as
hereafter defined. (Ord. 02-1113, 7-23-2002, eff. 7-23-2002)
4-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
   LANDSCAPE WASTE: All accumulations of grass or shrubbery, leaves and all
other materials accumulated in the care of lawns, shrubbery and vines.
   MUNICIPAL WASTE: Garbage, general household and commercial waste, industrial
lunchroom or office waste, landscape waste and construction or demolition
debris. (Ord. 02-1113, 7-23-2002, eff. 7-23-2002)
4-3-3: ATTENDANCE REQUIRED:
Any fire allowed under this chapter must be attended at all times by a person
of such age and physical ability necessary to control the same. (Ord. 0-132, 6-
8-1971)
4-3-4: EXCEPTIONS:
The following open burning activities are permitted within the village:
   A.   The setting of fires by the forest preserve district of Will County on
property owned or controlled by it, to perform prescribed burning for natural
community and habitat management;
   B.   The setting of fires to combat or limit existing fires, when reasonable
and necessary in the judgment of the responsible government official;
   C.   The burning of fuels for legitimate campfire, recreational, and cooking
purposes, or in domestic fireplaces, in areas which such burning is consistent
with other laws, provided that no garbage shall be burned in such cases;
   D.   Small open flames for heating tar or for welding, acetylene torches,
highway safety flares, and the like;
   E.   The burning of the tree limbs on the property where they were
generated. (Ord. 02-1113, 7-23-2002, eff. 7-23-2002)
4-3-5: PENALTY:
All persons acting in violation of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 0-132, 6-8-1971; amd. 1994 Code)
CHAPTER 4
WEED CONTROL
(Rep. by Ord. 18-1902, 8-28-2018)
CHAPTER 5
EXPLOSIVES
SECTION:
4-5-1: Definitions
4-5-2: License and Permit Requirements
4-5-3: Storage Restrictions
4-5-4: Penalties
4-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this Chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this Section:
   EXPLOSIVE or EXPLOSIVES: Any chemical compound or any chemical mixture
containing any oxidizing and combustible units or other ingredients in such
proportions, quantities or packing that an ignition by fire, friction,
concussion, percussion or detonator of any part of the compound or mixture may
cause sudden generation of highly heated gases that the resultant gaseous
pressures are capable of producing destructive effects upon life, limb or
contiguous objects but does not mean gasoline, kerosene, naphtha, turpentine,
benzine, butane, propane, colloided nitrocellulose in sheets or rods or grains
not under one-eighth of an inch (1/8") in diameter, wet nitrocellulose and wet
nitro starch containing twenty percent (20%) or more moisture or wet picric
acid containing or being in ten percent (10%) or more moisture. Manufactured
articles such as fixed ammunition for small arms, firecrackers, safety fuses,
matches, etc., shall not be held to be explosives when the individual units
contain explosives in such limited quantity, of such nature or in such packing
that it is impossible to produce a simultaneous or a destructive explosion of
such units to the injury of life, limb or property.
   MAGAZINE: Any building or other structure, other than a factory building,
used to store explosives. (Ord. 78-269, 4-25-78)
4-5-2: LICENSE AND PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   State License and Local Permit Required: No person shall possess,
detonate, manufacture, store, sell, give or dispose of an explosive unless a
license shall have been issued by the Department of Mines and Minerals of the
State of Illinois and a permit shall have been issued by the Village, except
those persons possessing agricultural fertilizers which might be of an
explosive nature when the use of such fertilizers is for agricultural or
horticultural purposes.
   B.   Application for Permit: Application for such permit shall be made to
the Village, in writing, and shall contain the applicant's name, residence,
date of birth, sex, physical description, social security number or driver's
license number and such other additional information as may be required to
identify the purpose for which the place where the explosives are to be
manufactured, stored, transported, sold, given or disposed of, as the case may
be, and to demonstrate the qualifications of such applicant for the permit
requested.
   C.   Restrictions on Issuance of Permit: No application shall be granted
unless the Village Board of Trustees shall first find that the applicant is
properly licensed by the Illinois Department of Mines and Minerals, has given
bond and has insurance coverages as provided for in this Section, is a
responsible person, has a legitimate need for the possession, manufacture,
detonation, storage, sale, gift or disposal of explosives. No permit shall be
granted except upon majority vote of the Board of Trustees.
   D.   Bond and Insurance: No application for a permit to detonate explosives
within the Village shall be granted until and unless the applicant shall have
posted with the Village a bond in the sum of one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000.00) to secure unto the Village and any public or quasi-public utility
or other governmental body or agency the repair or replacement of all public
property or property of such utility which may be damaged by such detonation of
explosives and shall have posted with the Village certificates of insurance of
reliable insurance companies certifying coverage of the applicant for property
damage in the sum of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) and bodily
injury or death in the sum of five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) per
person and one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per occurrence which may be
occasioned by such detonation of explosives.
   E.   Investigation of Applicant: To aid the Village Board of Trustees in
determining whether a need exists on the part of any applicant for a permit to
detonate explosives, a copy of the application shall be given to the Village
Engineer who shall review the same and investigate the need for such use and
report his findings and recommendations to the Board of Trustees prior to its
action on any application for detonation of explosives. (Ord. 78-269, 4-25-78)
4-5-3: STORAGE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Except only in a factory building or upon its premises and except while
being blasted, no person shall possess or store explosives unless such
explosives are completely enclosed or encased in tight metal, wooden or fiber
containers. A person having an explosive in his possession or control shall,
under no circumstances, permit any grains or particles of it to remain on the
outside of or about its container. Every container shall be plainly marked with
the name of the explosive contained therein.
   B.   Except while being transported or blasted or while in the custody of a
common carrier awaiting shipment or delivery to a consignee during the time
permitted by Federal law, all explosives shall be stored in magazines in
accordance with the provisions of 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 210/3000 et
seq., as the same may be, from time to time, amended. Not more than three
hundred thousand (300,000) pounds shall be stored in any magazine at any one
time. No explosives shall be stored, either temporarily or permanently, in any
area within the Village which is not specifically zoned under the Zoning
Ordinance of the Village 1  for such purpose. (Ord. 78-269, 4-25-78)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 10 of this Code.
4-5-4: PENALTIES:
Each person who shall violate the provisions of this Chapter shall be fined a
sum not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for such violation, and each day that such violation shall
exist shall be deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 78-269, 4-25-78)
CHAPTER 6
NOISE CONTROL
SECTION:
4-6-1: Noises Prohibited
4-6-2: Electric Bug Zappers
4-6-1: NOISES PROHIBITED:
   A.   Enumeration of Prohibited Noises:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue or cause to be
made or continued any loud unnecessary or unusual noise or any noise which
annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace or
safety of others within the Village.
      2.   The following acts are declared to be loud, disturbing and
unnecessary noises in violation of this Section, but the enumeration shall not
be deemed to be exclusive:
         a.   Blowers: The operation of any noise-creating blower or power fan
or any internal combustion engine, the operation of which causes noise due to
the explosion of operating gases or fluids, or any other machinery unless the
noise from such blower or fan or other machinery is muffled and such engine is
equipped with a muffling device sufficient to deaden such noise.
         b.   Defect in Vehicle or Load: The use of any automobile, motorcycle
or vehicle so out of repair, so loaded or in such a manner as to create loud
and unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling or other noise.
         c.   Exhaust: The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any
steam engine, stationary internal combustion engine or motor vehicle except
through a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent loud or
explosive noises therefrom 1 .
         d.   Horns and Signaling Devices: The sounding of any horn or
signaling device on any automobile, motorcycle, motorbus or other vehicle on
any street or public place except as a danger warning; the creation by means of
any such signaling device of any unreasonably loud or harsh sound; the sounding
of any such device for an unnecessary and unreasonable period of time; the use
of any signaling device, except one operated by hand or electricity; the use of
any horn, whistle or other device operated by engine exhaust, and the use of
any such signaling device when traffic is for any reason held up.
         e.   Bells, Sirens and Whistles: The sounding of any bell, siren or
whistle except to give notice of the time to begin or stop work or as a warning
of fire or danger or to give notice of the time to commence or quit school
activities or used for religious purposes.
         f.   Firecrackers: The throwing or propelling of any firecrackers,
Roman candles, rockets or any article of any explosive nature intended to be
used as firecrackers.
         g.   Hawkers and Peddlers 2 : The shouting and crying of hawkers,
peddlers and vendors which disturbs the peace and quiet of the neighborhood.
         h.   Loudspeakers, Amplifiers for Advertising: The using, operating or
permitting to be played, used or operated any radio receiving set, musical
instrument, phonograph, loudspeaker, sound amplifier or other machine or device
for the producing or reproducing of sound which is cast upon the public streets
for the purpose of commercial advertising or attracting the attention of the
public to any building or structure.
         i.   Noise Near Schools, Courts, Churches, Hospitals: The creation of
any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any school, institution of
learning, church or court while the same are in use or adjacent to any hospital
which unreasonably interferes with the workings of such institution or which
disturbs or unduly annoys patients in the hospital; provided, that conspicuous
signs are displayed in such streets indicating that the same is a school,
hospital or court street.
   B.   Exceptions: This Chapter shall not be deemed to apply to radios in
private pleasure vehicles where operated in such a manner as not to be audible
more than fifteen feet (15') from such vehicle nor to noise devices, bands or
other musical devices used in any public parade which has been duly licensed or
which is operated under Village permit. (Ord. 0-80, 11-28-67)
   C.   Penalties: Any person violating any provision of this Section shall,
upon conviction, be subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 0-80, 11-28-67; 1994 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also Title 6 of this Code, Exhibit A, Sections 12-602 and 1204-8.
2 1. See Title 3, Chapter 8 of this Code.
4-6-2: ELECTRIC BUG ZAPPERS:
   A.   The operation of any electrical device on any property zoned for
residential, commercial or industrial use which emits an audible sound and is
designed, intended or used for the purpose of killing insects out-of-doors is
hereby declared to be a nuisance when operated between the hours of one minute
after midnight (12:01) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M.
   B.   Persons who violate this Section are subject to the following
penalties:
      1.   Any person convicted of a violation of this Section shall be subject
to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code.
      2.   The penalties prescribed herein are in addition to and not in lieu
of any other rights, remedies and penalties which the Village may otherwise
seek to impose and may be available at law or in equity. (Ord. 91-593, 7-23-91;
1994 Code)
CHAPTER 7
TREES AND SHRUBS
SECTION:
4-7-0: Intent
4-7-1: Tree Official And Forestry Department Designated
4-7-2: Definitions
4-7-3: Permit Required
4-7-4: Insurance Required
4-7-5: Landscaping
4-7-6: Plat Approval/Surety
4-7-7: Installation, Maintenance And Removal Specifications
4-7-8: Nuisance Condition
4-7-9: Penalty
4-7-0: INTENT:
It is the intent of this chapter to promote and protect the public health,
safety and general welfare on public rights of way and other village owned
property by providing for the regulation of the planting, maintenance and
removal of trees, shrubs and other plants within the village of Shorewood.
Additionally, this chapter serves to increase the diversification of tree
species within village owned property, rights of way and, when applicable, on
private property. (Ord. 15-1767, 2-10-2015)
4-7-1: TREE OFFICIAL AND FORESTRY DEPARTMENT DESIGNATED:
The village administrator or his designee, be and is hereby designated as the
village tree official and is charged with enforcing the provisions of this
chapter. The tree official shall designate a forestry department, which shall
be responsible for the care and management of the village's trees; writing and
implementing of an annual community forestry work plan addressing the needs of
tree planting, maintenance and removal within the village; and establishing an
annual budget for said plan. (Ord. 15-1767, 2-10-2015)
4-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, unless otherwise indicated, the following
definitions shall apply:
   COMMUNICABLE DISEASE: See definition of Infectious Diseases.
   GREEN AREA: An open area dedicated to public use as may from time to time be
required by the village.
   INFECTIOUS DISEASES: Disease caused by living pathogens which have the
ability to multiply such as fungi, bacteria, virus or nematodes.
   INSECT INFESTATION: Insects present in such numbers as to cause death or
major loss to plants.
   NONINFECTIOUS DISEASE: Those diseases caused by nonliving disease agents,
such as extremes in temperature, water supply, chemicals, transplant and
mechanical injuries.
   OVERPLANTED SPECIES: Any parkway tree species that exceeds ten percent (10%)
of the total public trees inventoried.
   PARKING AREA: An open, hard surface area other than a street or public way,
intended to be used for the storage of passenger automobiles and/or commercial
vehicles.
   PARKS: Those areas in or near the village laid out with walks, drives,
playgrounds, benches and/or trees which are preserved for public recreation.
   PARKWAY: The unpaved strip of land within a road or street right of way.
   PESTILENCE: See definition of Insect Infestation.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY: All property not otherwise defined as "public property".
   PUBLIC PROPERTY: All property, including rights of way and median strips not
privately owned; also easements where the village has rights of access.
   REMUNERATION: Pay or compensation for a task done.
   RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a
street, crosswalk, utility line, water line, sewer line, storm sewer line or
some other special use.
   SIDEWALK: That portion of street or crosswalk paved or otherwise surfaced
and intended for pedestrian use only.
   STREET: An area which primarily serves or is intended to serve as a
vehicular and pedestrian access to abutting lands or to other streets. The word
"street" refers to the width of the street right of way or easement, whether
public or private and shall not be considered as the width of the roadway or
paving or other improvement on the street right of way. Such is to include, but
not be limited to, that which is named or commonly referred to as a street,
avenue, road, court, boulevard or way.
   TOPPING: The severe cutting back of limbs to stubs within the tree's crown
to such a degree so as to remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree.
   TREES, SHRUBS OR PLANTS: All vegetation, woody or otherwise, except lawn
grass and flowers less than twenty four inches (24") in height. (Ord. 15-1767,
2-10-2015)
4-7-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
Other than fertilizing, watering or pruning limbs less than two inches (2") in
diameter, no person shall plant, remove, cut above the ground, change grade
levels or disturb any tree on any street or village property without first
filing an application and obtaining a permit from the village. The person
receiving the permit shall abide by the standards set forth in this chapter. No
permit will be issued to a contractor until proof of insurance, as provided
herein, is presented to the village. Removal of a parkway tree or tree within
the right of way area without a permit shall carry a fine as set forth in
section
4-7-9 of this chapter. (Ord. 15-1767, 2-10-2015)
4-7-4: INSURANCE REQUIRED:
Tree trimmers, contractors, landscaping companies or persons or other firms
hired to prune, trim or remove trees on public streets or other public property
shall file evidence of possession of liability insurance in the minimum amounts
of two million dollars ($2,000,000.00) for bodily injury or death and one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for property damage naming the village together
with its officers, agents and employees as primary, noncontributing additional
insureds for any personal injury or property damage. (Ord. 15-1767, 2-10-2015)
4-7-5: LANDSCAPING:
   A.   New Subdivisions And Commercial Development:
      1.   In new subdivisions or when the development of commercial or
industrial property occurs, the planning and zoning commission will review
landscaping plans for compliance with this chapter and title 10, chapter 14 of
this code and will require trees to be planted in any parkways, parking lots
and/or other public property.
      2.   The projected cost of any such required trees shall be included as
part of the subdivider's/developer's performance security.
   B.   Screening: In the new subdivisions and when the development of
commercial or industrial property occurs, protective screen planting buffering
between incompatible land use; building foundation; yard areas; plantings and
parking area landscaping may be required by the village in locations and
circumstances determined to be appropriate. A plan relating to these items
shall be prepared by a landscape architect and shall be submitted to the
planning and zoning commission concurrent with any final plat of subdivision,
or commercial or industrial site plans. Such plan shall be submitted to the
village board for consideration after review and recommendation by the planning
and zoning commission. (Ord. 15-1767, 2-10-2015)
4-7-6: PLAT APPROVAL/SURETY:
Developers of subdivisions and commercial or industrial property shall provide
tree specifications prior to final plat/site plan approval. All tree
specifications shall be in compliance with this chapter and village subdivision
regulations. Proper surety in the form of a bond, cash escrow or letter of
credit in an amount sufficient to cover the cost of required parkway trees
shall be provided prior to final plat or site plan approval. (Ord. 15-1767, 2-
10-2015)
4-7-7: INSTALLATION, MAINTENANCE AND REMOVAL SPECIFICATIONS:
When trees or other planting is required as provided herein, the following
specifications shall apply:
   A.   Tree Species; Number: Only those trees listed on the village approved
tree list shall be permitted on public property; all other species are
prohibited; provided, however, that no street trees other than those species as
provided in subsection A2 of this section may be planted under or within ten
(10) lateral feet of any overhead utility wire. Exceptions may be made at the
discretion of the tree official contingent upon specific planting conditions
and species of trees when it is determined that there exists adequate
protection of the public and of property. No one tree species should comprise
more than ten percent (10%) of the total number of trees to be planted. No
identical tree species shall be planted adjacent to one another or directly
across the street from one another.
      1.   Approved Species For Planting In Parkways, Street Right Of Way
Areas, And When Overhead Utility Lines Are Present: The village shall provide a
list of acceptable parkway tree species, which shall be reviewed and revised
annually based on diversity needs of the community, disease and infestations,
land use development trends and arborist recommendations. A copy of the current
list shall be held in the office of the village clerk, community development
department and on the village website.
      2.   Substitution Of Species: Additional tree species for use in the
parkway and street right of way areas may be reviewed by the village tree
official upon written request. The village reserves the right to deny any such
request if said substitution is deemed unfit for planting in the parkways.
      3.   Overplanted Tree Species: The village reserves the right to require
the provision of substitute trees even though proposed tree species are
included in the above mentioned approved tree species list. The village tree
official may require the use of substitute trees to reduce the number of
overplanted tree species and increase the number of underplanted tree species
within the village.
   B.   Tree Size: Trees will be a minimum of two and one-half inch (21/2")
caliper as measured six inches (6") above finished grade.
   C.   Tree Location: The planting location must have acceptable clearance
around utilities and a safe line of sight at intersection. The distance from
the curb and sidewalk will be determined by the tree official. Parkway trees
shall have a minimum planting distance of ten feet (10') from water service,
sanitary sewer service and hydrants, and thirty feet (30') from a traffic
control device and streetlight. Parkway trees to be planted on corner lots or
near intersections shall comply with the standard set forth in section
10-3-14, "Visibility On Corner Lots", of this code.
In parkways of less than five feet (5') in width or the bulb of cul-de-sacs,
parkway trees shall be planted on the private property in the front or corner
front/rear yards a minimum of ten feet (10') from the sidewalk, bicycle path,
and/or driveway. If a conflict occurs, which would prohibit the planting of a
required tree in the parkway, the tree may be planted on private property with
the approval of the village.
   D.   Number Of Parkway Trees Per Lot:
      1.   Residential: For lots ninety nine feet (99') wide and less, there
shall be a minimum of one tree per lot except corner lots, where two (2) trees
shall be provided, one on each frontage. For lots one hundred feet (100') wide
or greater, there shall be a minimum of two (2) trees per lot except corner
lots, where four (4) trees shall be provided, two (2) on each frontage of one
hundred feet (100') wide or greater. All trees shall be planted a minimum
distance apart of fifty feet (50').
      2.   Common areas, open spaces and nonresidential: Parkway trees shall be
spaced at one for every fifty feet (50') of frontage.
   E.   Topping: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or village
department to top any street tree or other tree on public property. Trees
severely damaged by storms or other causes, trees obstructing or interfering
with the visibility or flow of traffic, or certain trees under utility wires or
other obstructions where other pruning practices are impractical should be
removed and replaced with a tree from the acceptable species list appropriate
for that location with consent of the tree official.
   F.   Removal And Replacement: As provided in section
4-7-3 of this chapter, a permit is required for removal of any tree on public
property. Should a parkway tree die or be deemed a hazard due to damage or
disease it is the responsibility of the homeowner to replace said tree with a
tree meeting the specifications of this section.
   G.   Planting: The species tag shall be left on the trees planted to meet
the requirements of this chapter until such time as a final inspection of said
tree has been completed. (Ord. 15-1767, 2-10-2015)
4-7-8: NUISANCE CONDITION:
   A.   Notice To Be Served: Upon determination that a nuisance condition
exists upon the discovery on private property of any destructive or
communicable disease or other pestilence which endangers the growth or health
of trees or threatens to spread disease or insect infestations, the tree
official shall at once cause written notice to be served upon the owner of the
property on which such diseased or infested tree is situated. The notice shall
require such property owner to eradicate, remove or otherwise control such
condition within a reasonable time to be specified in such notice.
   B.   Abatement Of Nuisance: In the event that a nuisance condition is not
abated by the date specified in the notice, the village may cause the abatement
of said nuisance. The reasonable cost of such abatement may be filed as a lien
against the property on which the nuisance was located. (Ord. 15-1767, 2-10-
2015)
4-7-9: PENALTY:
Any person or other entity who violates any of the terms or provisions of this
chapter shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) for each violation. Each day upon which a violation
exists shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 15-1767, 2-10-2015)
CHAPTER 8
SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES
SECTION:
4-8-1: Definitions
4-8-2: Smoking In Public Places, Places Of Employment, And Governmental
Vehicles Prohibited
4-8-3: Posting Of Signs; Removal Of Ashtrays
4-8-4: Smoking Prohibited In Student Dormitories
4-8-5: Designation Of Other Nonsmoking Areas
4-8-6: Exemptions
4-8-7: Violations
4-8-8: Injunctions
4-8-9: Discrimination Prohibited
4-8-10: Entrances, Exits, Windows, And Ventilation Intakes
4-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
   BAR: An establishment that is devoted to the serving of alcoholic beverages
for consumption by guests on the premises and that derives no more than ten
percent (10%) of its gross revenue from the sale of food consumed on the
premises. "Bar" includes, but is not limited to, taverns, nightclubs, cocktail
lounges, adult entertainment facilities, and cabarets.
   DEPARTMENT: The department of public health.
   EMPLOYEE: A person who is employed by an employer in consideration for
direct or indirect monetary wages or profits or a person who volunteers his or
her services for a nonprofit entity.
   EMPLOYER: A person, business, partnership, association, or corporation,
including a municipal corporation, trust, or nonprofit entity, that employs the
services of one or more individual persons.
   ENCLOSED AREA: All space between a floor and a ceiling that is enclosed or
partially enclosed with: a) solid walls or windows, exclusive of doorways, or
b) solid walls with partitions and no windows, exclusive of doorways, that
extend from the floor to the ceiling, including, without limitation, lobbies
and corridors.
   ENCLOSED OR PARTIALLY ENCLOSED SPORTS ARENA: Any sports pavilion, stadium,
gymnasium, health spa, boxing arena, swimming pool, roller rink, ice rink,
bowling alley, or other similar place where members of the general public
assemble to engage in physical exercise or participate in athletic competitions
or recreational activities or to witness sports, cultural, recreational, or
other events.
   GAMING EQUIPMENT OR SUPPLIES: Gaming equipment/supplies as defined in the
Illinois gaming board rules of the Illinois administrative code.
   GAMING FACILITY: An establishment utilized primarily for the purposes of
gaming and where gaming equipment or supplies are operated for the purposes of
accruing business revenue.
   HEALTHCARE FACILITY: An office or institution providing care or treatment of
diseases, whether physical, mental, or emotional, or other medical,
physiological, or psychological conditions, including, but not limited to,
hospitals, rehabilitation hospitals, weight control clinics, nursing homes,
homes for the aging or chronically ill, laboratories, and offices of surgeons,
chiropractors, physical therapists, physicians, dentists, and all specialists
within these professions. "Healthcare facility" includes all waiting rooms,
hallways, private rooms, semiprivate rooms, and wards within healthcare
facilities.
   MUNICIPAL PROPERTY: Inside: a) the village hall situated at One Towne Center
Boulevard, which includes the village offices, the village boardroom and all
other areas of said building, b) the public works department buildings situated
east of Route 59 at I-55, c) the municipal utilities department facilities,
including, but not limited to, various well houses and lift stations throughout
the village, and d) the police department building situated at 903 W. Jefferson
Street.
   PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT: Any area under the control of a public or private
employer that employees are required to enter, leave, or pass through during
the course of employment, including, but not limited to, entrances and exits to
places of employment, including a minimum distance, as set forth in section
4-8-10 of this chapter, of fifteen feet (15') from entrances, exits, windows
that open, and ventilation intakes that serve an enclosed area where smoking is
prohibited; offices and work areas; restrooms; conference and class rooms;
break rooms and cafeterias; and other common areas. A private residence or home
based business, unless used to provide licensed childcare, foster care, adult
care, or other similar social service care on the premises, is not a "place of
employment", nor are enclosed laboratories, not open to the public, in an
accredited university or government facility where the activity of smoking is
exclusively conducted for the purpose of medical or scientific health related
research.
   PRIVATE CLUB: A not for profit association that: a) has been in active and
continuous existence for at least three (3) years prior to the effective date
of the smoke free Illinois act, 410 Illinois Compiled Statutes 82/1 - 90,
whether incorporated or not, b) is the owner, lessee, or occupant of a building
or portion thereof used exclusively for club purposes at all times, c) is
operated solely for a recreational, fraternal, social, patriotic, political,
benevolent, or athletic purpose, but not for pecuniary gain, and d) only sells
alcoholic beverages incidental to its operation. For purposes of this
definition, "private club" means an organization that is managed by a board of
directors, executive committee, or similar body chosen by the members at an
annual meeting, has established bylaws, a constitution, or both to govern its
activities, and has been granted an exemption from the payment of federal
income tax as a club under 26 USC 501.
   PRIVATE RESIDENCE: The part of a structure used as a dwelling, including,
without limitation: a private home, townhouse, condominium, apartment, mobile
home, vacation home, cabin, or cottage. For the purposes of this definition, a
hotel, motel, inn, resort, lodge, bed and breakfast or other similar public
accommodation, hospital, nursing home, or assisted living facility shall not be
considered a private residence.
   PUBLIC PLACE: That portion of any building or vehicle used by and open to
the public, regardless of whether the building or vehicle is owned in whole or
in part by private persons or entities, the state of Illinois, or any other
public entity and regardless of whether a fee is charged for admission,
including a minimum distance, as set forth in section
4-8-10 of this chapter, of fifteen feet (15') from entrances, exits, windows
that open, and ventilation intakes that serve an enclosed area where smoking is
prohibited. A "public place" does not include a private residence unless the
private residence is used to provide licensed childcare, foster care, or other
similar social service care on the premises. A "public place" includes, but is
not limited to, hospitals, restaurants, retail stores, offices, commercial
establishments, elevators, indoor theaters, libraries, museums, concert halls,
public conveyances, educational facilities, nursing homes, auditoriums,
enclosed or partially enclosed sports arenas, meeting rooms, schools,
exhibition halls, convention facilities, polling places, private clubs, gaming
facilities, vape lounges, all government owned vehicles and facilities,
including buildings and vehicles owned, leased, or operated by the state or
state subcontract, healthcare facilities or clinics, enclosed shopping centers,
retail service establishments, financial institutions, educational facilities,
ticket areas, public hearing facilities, public restrooms, waiting areas,
lobbies, bars, taverns, bowling alleys, skating rinks, reception areas, and no
less than seventy five percent (75%) of the sleeping quarters within a hotel,
motel, resort, inn, lodge, bed and breakfast, or other similar public
accommodation that are rented to guests, but excludes private residences.
   RESTAURANT:
   A.   An eating establishment, including, but not limited to, coffee shops,
cafeterias, sandwich stands, and private and public school cafeterias, that
gives or offers for sale food to the public, guests, or employees, and
   B.   A kitchen or catering facility in which food is prepared on the
premises for serving elsewhere.
"Restaurant" includes a bar area within the restaurant.
   RETAIL TOBACCO STORE: A retail establishment that derives more than eighty
percent (80%) of its gross revenue from the sale of loose tobacco, plants, or
herbs and cigars, cigarettes, pipes, and other smoking devices for burning
tobacco and related smoking accessories and in which the sale of other products
is merely incidental. "Retail tobacco store" includes an enclosed workplace
that manufactures, imports, or distributes tobacco or tobacco products, when,
as a necessary and integral part of the process of making, manufacturing,
importing, or distributing a tobacco product for the eventual retail sale of
that tobacco or tobacco product, tobacco is heated, burned, or smoked, or a
lighted tobacco product is tested, provided that the involved business entity:
a) maintains a specially designated area or areas within the workplace for the
purpose of the heating, burning, smoking, or lighting activities, and does not
create a facility that permits smoking throughout; b) satisfies the eighty
percent (80%) requirement related to gross sales; and c) delivers tobacco
products to consumers, retail establishments, or other wholesale establishments
as part of its business. "Retail tobacco store" does not include a tobacco
department or section of a larger commercial establishment or any establishment
with any type of liquor, food, or restaurant license.
   SMOKE OR SMOKING: The carrying, smoking, burning, inhaling, or exhaling of
any kind of lighted pipe, cigar, cigarette, vapor product, hookah, weed, herbs,
or any other lighted smoking equipment. "Smoke" or "smoking" does not include
smoking that is associated with a native recognized religious ceremony, ritual,
or activity by American Indians that is in accordance with the federal American
Indian religious freedom act, 42 USC 1996 and 1996a.
   UNIT OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT: Has the meaning ascribed to it in section 1 of
article VII of the Illinois constitution of 1970.
   VAPE LOUNGE: Any establishment where vapor products are smoked, inhaled,
consumed, exhaled or in any manner utilized.
   VAPOR PRODUCT: Any noncombustible product that employs a heating element,
power source, electronic circuit, or other electronic chemical or mechanical
means, regardless of shape or size, that can be used to produce vapor from
nicotine in a solution or any other form. Vapor product includes any electronic
cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar
product or device, as well as any vapor cartridge or other container that is
intended to be used with or in an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar,
electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar product or device. Vapor
product does not include any product regulated as a drug or device by the
United States food and drug administration under chapter V of the food, drug
and cosmetic act. (Ord. 16-1827, 11-22-2016)
4-8-2: SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES, PLACES OF EMPLOYMENT, AND GOVERNMENTAL
VEHICLES PROHIBITED:
No person shall smoke in a public place or in any place of employment or within
fifteen feet (15') of any entrance to a public place or place of employment. No
person may smoke in any vehicle owned, leased, or operated by the village or a
political subdivision of the village. An owner shall reasonably assure that
smoking is prohibited in indoor public places and workplaces unless
specifically exempted by section
4-8-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 16-1827, 11-22-2016)
4-8-3: POSTING OF SIGNS; REMOVAL OF ASHTRAYS:
   A.   "No Smoking" signs or the international "no smoking" symbol, consisting
of a pictorial representation of a burning cigarette enclosed in a red circle
with a red bar across it, shall be clearly and conspicuously posted in each
public place and place of employment where smoking is prohibited by this
chapter by the owner, operator, manager, or other person in control of that
place.
   B.   Each public place and place of employment where smoking is prohibited
by this chapter shall have posted at every entrance a conspicuous sign clearly
stating that smoking is prohibited.
   C.   All ashtrays shall be removed from any area where smoking is prohibited
by this chapter by the owner, operator, manager, or other person having control
of the area. (Ord. 16-1827, 11-22-2016)
4-8-4: SMOKING PROHIBITED IN STUDENT DORMITORIES:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, smoking is prohibited in
any portion of the living quarters, including, but not limited to, sleeping
rooms, dining areas, restrooms, laundry areas, lobbies, and hallways, of a
building used in whole or in part as a student dormitory that is owned and
operated or otherwise utilized by a public or private institution of higher
education. (Ord. 16-1827, 11-22-2016)
4-8-5: DESIGNATION OF OTHER NONSMOKING AREAS:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, any employer, owner,
occupant, lessee, operator, manager, or other person in control of any public
place or place of employment may designate a nonenclosed area of a public place
or place of employment, including outdoor areas, as an area where smoking is
also prohibited provided that such employer, owner, lessee or occupant shall
conspicuously post signs prohibiting smoking in the manner described in section
4-8-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 16-1827, 11-22-2016)
4-8-6: EXEMPTIONS:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, smoking is allowed in the
following areas:
   A.   Private residences or dwelling places, except when used as a childcare,
adult daycare, or healthcare facility or any other home based business open to
the public.
   B.   Retail tobacco stores as defined in section
4-8-1 of this chapter in operation prior to the effective date of the smoke
free Illinois act, 410 Illinois Compiled Statutes 82/1 - 90. The retail tobacco
store shall annually file with the department by January 31 an affidavit
stating the percentage of its gross income during the prior calendar year that
was derived from the sale of loose tobacco, plants, or herbs and cigars,
cigarettes, pipes, or other smoking devices for smoking tobacco and related
smoking accessories. Any retail tobacco store that begins operation after the
effective date of the act may only qualify for an exemption if located in a
freestanding structure occupied solely by the business and smoke from the
business does not migrate into an enclosed area where smoking is prohibited.
   C.   Hotel and motel sleeping rooms that are rented to guests and are
designated as smoking rooms, provided that all smoking rooms on the same floor
must be contiguous and smoke from these rooms must not infiltrate into
nonsmoking rooms or other areas where smoking is prohibited. Not more than
twenty five percent (25%) of the rooms rented to guests in a hotel or motel may
be designated as rooms where smoking is allowed. The status of rooms as smoking
or nonsmoking may not be changed, except to permanently add additional
nonsmoking rooms.
   D.   Enclosed laboratories that are excluded from the definition of "place
of employment" in section
4-8-1 of this chapter.
   E.   Common smoking rooms in long term care facilities operated under the
authority of the Illinois department of veterans' affairs or licensed under the
nursing home care act that are accessible only to residents who are smokers and
have requested in writing to have access to the common smoking room where
smoking is permitted and the smoke shall not infiltrate other areas of the long
term care facility. (Ord. 16-1827, 11-22-2016)
4-8-7: VIOLATIONS:
   A.   A person, corporation, partnership, association or other entity who
violates section
4-8-2,
4-8-3, or
4-8-4 of this chapter shall be fined pursuant to this section. Each day that a
violation occurs is a separate violation.
   B.   A person who smokes in an area where smoking is prohibited under
section
4-8-2 of this chapter shall be fined in an amount that is one hundred dollars
($100.00) for a first offense and two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for each
subsequent offense. A person who owns, operates, or otherwise controls a public
place or place of employment that violates section
4-8-2,
 4-8-3, or
4-8-4 of this chapter shall be fined: 1) two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00)
for the first violation, 2) five hundred dollars ($500.00) for the second
violation within one year after the first violation, and 3) two thousand five
hundred dollars ($2,500.00) for each additional violation within one year after
the first violation. (Ord. 16-1827, 11-22-2016)
4-8-8: INJUNCTIONS:
In addition to any other sanction or remedy, the department, a state certified
local public health department, the village of Shorewood, local law enforcement
agency, or any individual personally affected by repeated violations may
institute, in a circuit court, an action to enjoin violations of this chapter.
(Ord. 16-1827, 11-22-2016)
4-8-9: DISCRIMINATION PROHIBITED:
No individual may be discriminated against in any manner because of the
exercise of any rights afforded by this chapter. (Ord. 16-1827, 11-22-2016)
4-8-10: ENTRANCES, EXITS, WINDOWS, AND VENTILATION INTAKES:
Smoking is prohibited within a minimum distance of fifteen feet (15') from
entrances, exits, windows that open, and ventilation intakes that serve an
enclosed area where smoking is prohibited under this chapter so as to ensure
that smoke does not enter the area through entrances, exits, open windows, or
other means. (Ord. 16-1827, 11-22-2016)
CHAPTER 9
HOME KITCHEN OPERATIONS
SECTION:
4-9-1: Sale Of Food Products From Home Kitchen And Cottage Food Operations
4-9-1: SALE OF FOOD PRODUCTS FROM HOME KITCHEN AND COTTAGE FOOD OPERATIONS:
   A.   The village hereby adopts and incorporates the provisions of the food
handling regulation enforcement act 1 , as amended.
   B.   Home kitchen operations and cottage food operations, as defined by the
food handling regulation enforcement act, as amended, are permitted within the
village. The sale of nonpotentially hazardous food by home kitchen operations
and cottage food operations within the village is also permitted in accordance
with the food handling regulation enforcement act. (Ord. 16-1805, 5-24-2016)
 
Notes
1 1. 410 ILCS 625/1 et seq.
CHAPTER 10
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
SECTION:
4-10-1: Definitions
4-10-2: Assessment Of Charges
4-10-3: Assessment Of Charges For Mutual Aid Provider
4-10-4: Specialized Service
4-10-5: Liberal Construction
4-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the
following meanings:
   CONTAINER: Shall mean a receptacle used to transport or store goods
including, but not limited to trailers, tanks, cargo containers, train cars,
drums, boxes, barrels, cans, pipelines, or anything specifically designed to
facilitate the carriage or transport of goods.
   OCCURRENCE: Shall mean a release or a substantial threat of release of a
hazardous substance or pesticide from a facility, equipment, vehicle,
container, or other instrumentality or thing, within the boundaries of the
Village of Shorewood that requires removal.
   PERSON: Shall mean any individual, public or private corporation,
partnership, firm, association, trust, sole proprietorship, estate, state or
any department, institution or agency thereof, any municipal corporation,
county, or other political subdivision of the State, or other legal entity
recognized by law.
   RELEASE: Shall mean any actual or substantial threat of spilling, leaking,
pumping, pouring, emitting, emptying, discharging, injecting, escaping,
leeching, dumping, vaporizing, evaporating, or disposing of a hazardous
substance or pesticide into the environment, but excludes the following:
   A.   Any release which results in exposure to persons solely within a work
place, with respect to a claim which such persons may assert against the
employer of such person;
   B.   The normal application of fertilizer and pesticides;
   C.   The release authorized pursuant to any Federal, State, or local law,
regulation, or permit.
   REMOVE OR REMOVAL: Shall mean the controlling, containing, isolating, or
stabilizing of a released hazardous substance or pesticide from the
environment, any action as may be necessary to be taken in the event of a
substantial threat of release of a hazardous substance or pesticide, such
actions as may be necessary to monitor, assess, and evaluate the release or
substantial threat of release of a hazardous substance or pesticide, the
disposal of removed material, or the taking of such other remedial actions as
may be necessary to minimize or mitigate damage to the public health, welfare,
or environment which may otherwise result from a release or substantial threat
of release of a hazardous substance or pesticide. The term includes, but is not
limited to, security fencing, containment barriers, or other measures to limit
access to or spread of a hazardous substance or pesticide, provisions of
alternative water supplies, temporary evacuation and housing of threatened
individuals, and any other emergency assistance provided.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY: Shall mean a person who:
   A.   Owns or has custody of a hazardous substance or pesticide or of the
vehicle or container containing a hazardous substance or pesticide involved in
an occurrence requiring emergency action; or
   B.   Owns or has custody of bulk or non-bulk packaging, container, or
vehicle that contains a hazardous substance or pesticides involved in an
occurrence requiring emergency action; or
   C.   Causes or substantially contributed to the cause of an occurrence.
   VEHICLE: Shall mean any device capable of moving itself, or being moved,
from place to place upon wheels or tracks. The term includes, but is not
limited to, automobiles, trucks, trailers, railroad engines, railroad cars, and
vessels. (Ord. 18-1891, 6-26-2018)
4-10-2: ASSESSMENT OF CHARGES:
   A.   Unless otherwise exempt, the Village of Shorewood is authorized to
charge any responsible party for removal services rendered by the Village of
Shorewood for any occurrence at the rate set forth in the following schedule of
charges:
      1.   Two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) per hour per responding vehicle;
      2.   One hundred dollars ($100.00) per hour per piece of additional
equipment utilized to mitigate or resolve the occurrence;
      3.   Seventy dollars ($70.00) per hour per person responding to the
occurrence on behalf of the Village of Shorewood; and
      4.   Actual replacement cost value for any item expended for the
mitigation, removal, or resolution of the occurrence. (Ord. 18-1891, 6-26-2018)
4-10-3: ASSESSMENT OF CHARGES FOR MUTUAL AID PROVIDER:
In the event it is deemed necessary by the Village of Shorewood Chief of
Police, or his designee, for the Village of Shorewood to request mutual aid
assistance, the responsible party shall, for any occurrence, be charged at the
rates set forth in section
4-10-2 of this chapter, for the services rendered by the mutual aid provider.
(Ord. 18-1891, 6-26-2018)
4-10-4: SPECIALIZED SERVICE:
In the event it is deemed necessary by the Village of Shorewood Chief of
Police, or his designee, for the Village of Shorewood to hire a specialized
service contractor or other entity to assist with removal, the responsible
party shall bear sole responsibility for payment to specialized service
contractor or other entity for all reasonable charges assessed by said
contractors to complete the mitigation, removal, or resolution of the
occurrence. The responsibility for this payment shall be in addition to any and
all applicable charges assessed against the responsible party pursuant to
sections
4-10-2 and
4-10-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 18-1891, 6-26-2018)
4-10-5: LIBERAL CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   This chapter shall be liberally construed to give effect to its
purpose, which is as follows:
      1.   To shift the burden of liability for the release or substantial
threat of release of a hazardous substance or pesticide from Village of
Shorewood's taxpayers to those persons defined as a responsible party herein;
      2.   To deter persons who transport or are responsible for transporting
vehicles or containers containing hazardous substances or pesticides from
allowing the release or substantial threat of release of hazardous substances
or pesticides; and
      3.   To protect the health, safety, and welfare of the residents within
the Village of Shorewood. (Ord. 18-1891, 6-26-2018)
CHAPTER 11
UNSCHEDULED INTERCITY BUSES
SECTION:
4-11-1: Definitions
4-11-2: Applicability
4-11-3: Notice and Application Required
4-11-4: Processing and Approval of Applications
4-11-5: Days and Hours of Operation
4-11-6: Passenger Pick-up/Drop-Off Locations
4-11-7: Punctuality
4-11-8: Proof of Application and Approval
4-11-9: Penalty
4-11-10: Civil Remedies
4-11-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this Chapter these definitions shall apply.
APPLICATION: A form that the Shorewood Chief of Police makes available for
receiving and reviewing proposed intercity bus operations.
APPROVAL: Written notice that the Chief of Police has received, reviewed, and
determined that an application satisfies the requirements of the Village and
the Policy.
CHIEF OF POLICE: The Shorewood Chief of Police.
REGULARLY SCHEDULED SERVICE: Intercity bus service that operates trips on a
predictable and recurring basis, following a schedule that is published in
advance and available to the general public, and provides service in exchange
for paying a fare.
UNSCHEDULED INTERCITY BUS: Any bus used for the transportation of persons
between the Village of Shorewood and locations outside of the Chicago-
Naperville-Joliet area that is not operating pursuant to authorization of the
Chief of Police authorization via: (i) an approved letter of permission or (ii)
an approved schedule and/or approved pick-up/drop- off zone, as of the
effective date of the Policy.
VILLAGE: The Village of Shorewood, Illinois. (Ord. 24-2088, 1-9-2024)
4-11-2: APPLICABILITY:
The Chief of Police's preexisting application, review and approval process for
intercity buses, as may be amended from time to time, shall not apply to: (i)
applicants for regularly scheduled service, and (ii) operators with an approved
letter of permission, schedule and/or approved pick-up/drop-off zone as of the
effective date of this chapter. (Ord. 24-2088, 1-9-2024)
4-11-3: NOTICE AND APPLICATION REQUIRED:
The operator of any unscheduled intercity bus must make application for an
approval to arrive and load/unload passengers in the Village on the appropriate
form made available by the Chief of Police. All applications for unscheduled
intercity bus service must be received by the Chief of Police a minimum of five
(5) full business days prior to the requested date of arrival in the
application.
All applications shall include the proposed passenger list, and the operator
shall be required to perform background checks on each passenger over the age
of eighteen, and shall provide copies of the same to the Chief of Police as
part of the application.
Each application for an unscheduled intercity bus drop off must include an
order authorizing the drop off executed by the head of the public body
originating the transfer of such passengers. (Ord. 24-2088, 1-9-2024)
4-11-4: PROCESSING AND APPROVAL OF APPLICATIONS:
Applications for unscheduled intercity buses will be reviewed on a first-come,
first-serve basis. No more than one (1) application, regardless of operator,
shall be approved by the Chief of Police for a given date, time, and location.
(Ord. 24-2088, 1-9-2024)
4-11-5: DAYS AND HOURS OF OPERATION:
Unscheduled intercity buses shall load/unload passengers within the Village
only between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. Monday through Friday, and
not at any time on Saturdays, Sundays, or designated Village Holidays. (Ord.
24-2088, 1-9-2024)
4-11-6: PASSENGER PICK-UP/ DROP-OFF LOCATIONS:
Unscheduled intercity buses shall only load/unload passengers at locations
designated by the Chief of Police, which shall be listed on the approved
application. (Ord. 24-2088, 1-9-2024)
4-11-7: PUNCTUALITY:
For any given approval, unscheduled intercity buses must arrive no sooner than,
and no later than 30 minutes after, the approved arrival time, otherwise the
application shall be considered invalidated. Any loading/unloading of
passengers outside of this scheduled window shall result in a $750.00 fine per
passenger to the operator. (Ord. 24-2088, 1-9-2024)
4-11-8: PROOF OF APPLICATION AND APPROVAL:
Operators of unscheduled intercity buses must carry a physical or electronic
copy of an approved application and present it for inspection at the place of
loading/unloading upon request by any employee or designee of the Village.
(Ord. 24-2088, 1-9-2024)
4-11-9: PENALTY:
Any operator of an unscheduled intercity bus that attempts to or does in fact
load/unload passengers without an approved application shall be subject to a
$750.00 fine per passenger upon the intercity bus operator. (Ord. 24-2088, 1-9-
2024)
4-11-10: CIVIL REMEDIES:
The Village's attorneys are hereby authorized and directed to pursue any and
all civil remedies against intercity bus operators that fail to or refuse to
comply with the Policy or these Rules and Regulations. Such civil remedies
include, but are not limited to, injunctive relief, declaratory judgements, and
debt collection actions. (Ord. 24-2088, 1-9-2024)
TITLE 5
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
5-1-1: Department Created
5-1-2: Chief Of Police
5-1-2-1: Creation Of Rank Of Lieutenant
5-1-2-2: Position Of Deputy Chief Of Police
5-1-3: Duties Of Department Members
5-1-4: Serving Process
5-1-5: Conduct Of Members
5-1-6: Serve As Witness; Fee
5-1-7: Police Pension Fund
5-1-8: Shorewood Police Association Of Chaplains (SAC)
5-1-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED:
There is hereby created a police department for the village which shall consist
of the chief of police and of such other members as may be provided, from time
to time, by the president and board of trustees. (Ord. 0-111, 10-29-1969)
5-1-2: CHIEF OF POLICE:
   A.   There is hereby created the office of chief of police. The chief of
police shall be appointed by the village administrator, with the approval of a
majority vote of the president and board of trustees 1 .
   B.   The chief of police shall serve for such term as may be provided by law
2  and may be removed in the manner provided for the removal of officers 3 .
(Ord. 0-111, 10-29-1969; amd. 1994 Code)
   C.   The chief of police shall keep such records and make such reports
concerning the activities of his department as may be required by the statutes
of the state or ordinance of the village or by rules of the board of fire and
police commissioners as adopted by the village board of trustees. (Ord. 0-111,
10-29-1969; amd. Ord. 85-389, 3-12-1985)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  2-3-4 of this code.
2 2. See title 2, chapter 3 of this code.
3 3. See section
  1-5-3 of this code.
5-1-2-1:   CREATION OF RANK OF LIEUTENANT:
There are hereby created within the police department two (2) positions which
shall have assigned to them the rank of lieutenant. The lieutenants shall have
such duties and responsibilities as are from time to time set forth in the
police department manual. Promotions to the rank of lieutenant shall be made by
the board of fire and police commissioners as provided by law. (Ord. 97-868, 3-
11-1997)
5-1-2-2:   POSITION OF DEPUTY CHIEF OF POLICE:
   A.   There is hereby established the position of deputy chief of police in
the village of Shorewood. The chief of police shall have the authority to
appoint not to exceed two (2) deputy chiefs of police, subject to the
availability of funding for such position as determined by the president and
village board.
   B.   The deputy chief of police position shall be an exempt rank immediately
below that of the chief of police.
   C.   The deputy chief of police may be appointed from any rank of a sworn
and full time officer, having at least five (5) years of full time law
enforcement experience in the village of Shorewood.
   D.   The deputy chief of police having been appointed from any rank of
sworn, full time officer of the village of Shorewood, shall be permitted,
regardless of rank, to take promotional exams and be promoted to a higher
classified rank than he currently holds, without having to resign as deputy
chief of police.
   E.   A deputy chief of police shall serve at the discretion of the chief of
police. The chief of police may remove the deputy chief of police at any time.
In the event a deputy chief is removed from the position of deputy chief, he or
she shall revert back to the rank held prior to such appointment without regard
to whether a vacancy exists in that rank. (Ord. 14-1728, 3-11-2014)
5-1-3: DUTIES OF DEPARTMENT MEMBERS:
It shall be the duty of the members of the police department to see to the
enforcement of all of the ordinances of the village and all statutes applicable
herein and to preserve order and prevent infractions of the law and arrest
violators thereof. (Ord. 0-111, 10-29-1969)
5-1-4: SERVING PROCESS:
No member of the police department, excepting the chief, shall serve any
process except on command of the chief of the police department. (Ord. 0-111,
10-29-1969)
5-1-5: CONDUCT OF MEMBERS:
It shall be the duty of every member of the police department to conduct
himself in a proper and law abiding manner, at all times, and to avoid the use
of unnecessary force. Each member of the department shall obey the orders and
directions of his superior. (Ord. 0-111, 10-29-1969)
5-1-6: SERVE AS WITNESS; FEE:
Every member of the police department shall appear as witness whenever this is
necessary in a prosecution for a violation of an ordinance or of any state or
federal law. No such member shall retain any witness fee for service as witness
in any action or suit to which the village is a party; any fees paid for such
services shall be turned over to the chief who shall deposit the same with the
village treasurer. (Ord. 0-111, 10-29-1969)
5-1-7: POLICE PENSION FUND:
   A.   Fund Created: There is hereby created a police pension fund which shall
be a fund kept separate and apart from all other funds of the village and shall
be under the control of the board of trustees of the police pension fund 1 .
   B.   Monies Comprising Fund: The village treasurer shall set apart as police
pension fund all monies received by him which are authorized and directed to be
set apart for the pension fund by state law 2 .
   C.   Reports And Records: The village treasurer and all other officials of
the village who had the custody of any pension funds, on the second Tuesday in
May, shall, annually, make a sworn statement to the board of the police pension
fund and to the village president and board of trustees of all monies received
and paid out by him on account of the police pension fund during the year and
of the amount of such funds then on hand and owing to the pension fund. All
surplus then remaining with any official other than the treasurer shall be paid
to the village treasurer. Upon demand of the pension board, any official shall
furnish a statement relative to the official method of collection or handling
of such pension funds. All books and records of such official shall be produced
at any time by him for examination and inspection by the board.
   D.   Conflicting Provisions: In the event any provision or part of a
provision of this section shall at any time be in conflict with the statutes of
the state, the latter shall govern, and all portions of this section not so in
conflict shall remain in full force and effect. (Ord. 0-208, 4-22-1975)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 2, chapter 4 of this code.
2 2. 40 ILCS 5/3-125.
5-1-8: SHOREWOOD POLICE ASSOCIATION OF CHAPLAINS (SAC):
   A.   Establishment Of Shorewood Police Association Of Chaplains (SAC):
      1.   Shorewood Police Association Of Chaplains, hereinafter known as SAC,
is hereby established.
   B.   Organization Of Shorewood Police Association Of Chaplains:
      1.   The chief of police shall appoint as many chaplains for volunteer
service as are necessary to make the organization effective.
      2.   The appointments of all persons to the position of chaplain shall be
subject to the advice and consent of the village administrator and the
collective bargaining unit of the police department.
      3.   Each chaplain shall be an ordained clergy person and shall serve a
religious community in the Shorewood and/or Will County area.
      4.   After appointment to SAC, each chaplain shall be required to
participate in a formal training program developed by the chief of police, and
shall receive training on a continuing basis through ride-along programs.
      5.   The position of chaplain is purely voluntary, and each chaplain
shall serve without compensation.
      6.   Each chaplain shall provide evidence of current medical and health
insurance coverage to the village. The village shall provide reimbursement for
expenses over and above a chaplain's personal medical and health insurance
coverage for injuries sustained while participating as a member of SAC. The
village shall also defend and indemnify each chaplain for any claim or lawsuit
filed against them for any act or omission arising out of their service as a
member of SAC. (Ord. 95-782, 4-25-1995)
CHAPTER 2
DOGS
SECTION:
5-2-1: Definitions
5-2-2: Rabies Control
5-2-3: Running At Large
5-2-4: Impoundment And Redemption Procedures
5-2-5: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
5-2-6: Cruelty
5-2-7: Defecation In Public Places
5-2-8: Interfering With Officer Or Village Dog Warden
5-2-9: Required Control Of Dangerous Dogs
5-2-10: Procedure For Dangerous Dog Determination
5-2-11: Appeal Of Dangerous Dog Determination
5-2-12: Requirements For Possession Of A Vicious Dog
5-2-13: Procedure For Vicious Dog Determination
5-2-14: Penalties
5-2-15: Records
5-2-16: Effect On Other Provisions
5-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
   CUSTODIAN: Any person who was permissibly undertaking control of the dog
and/or any person who grants permission for the dog to be on their property at
the time of the alleged infraction.
   DANGEROUS DOG: Any dog that: a) enters on to public or private property
other than that of the dog's owner or custodian and is unleashed, unattended by
its owner or custodian, and behaves in a way that would cause a reasonable
person to fear imminent threat of a potential dog bite, serious physical
injury, or death to his or her person, family member, or another animal, or b)
a dog which bites a person or another animal without justification, even if
this act does not cause serious physical injury to the victim.
   DESTROY: The act of euthanizing a dog by a licensed veterinarian.
   DOG: Any animal, regardless of sex, of the canine species (Canis
Familiaris).
   DOG BITE: To seize with teeth or jaws so that the person or animal seized
has been nipped, gripped, wounded, or pierced, and further includes the contact
of saliva with any break or abrasion of the skin, clothing, or other articles
which are attached or connected to such person or animal victim's body.
   ENCLOSURE: A fence or structure of at least six feet (6') in height with
secured sides, top, and bottom, and designed to prevent the animal from
escaping the enclosure, suitable to prevent the entry of young children, and
suitable to confine a dog in conjunction with other measures which may be taken
by the owner or custodian.
   OWNER: Any person having a right of property in an animal, or who keeps or
harbors any animal, or for purposes of this chapter, who has in his care or
custody or acts as its custodian, or who knowingly permits it to remain on or
about any premises owned or occupied by him/her.
   SERIOUS PHYSICAL INJURY: A physical injury resulting from a dog bite, or
that creates a substantial risk of death or that causes death, disfigurement,
protracted impairment of health, impairment of the function of any bodily
organ, or warrants surgery or treatment by a medical provider.
   VICIOUS DOG:
   A.   Any dog that, without justification, attacks or bites a person or
another animal and causes serious physical injury or death,
   B.   Any individual dog that has been found to be a dangerous dog on two (2)
separate occasions, or
   C.   Any dog previously deemed vicious or the equivalent by another
municipality, county, or state.
   VILLAGE DOG WARDEN OR DOG WARDEN: Village of Shorewood's Chief of Police, or
his/her designee. (Ord. 18-1873, 2-27-2018)
5-2-2: RABIES CONTROL:
   A.   Vaccination Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to own,
possess or harbor a dog in the Village without first having such dog vaccinated
against rabies.
   B.   Report Of Rabies: It shall be the duty of every veterinarian or other
person who discovers any dog or other animal to be suffering with rabies to
report such fact immediately to Village dog warden or a Shorewood police
officer. Such report shall give the name, if known, and the place of residence
of the person owning or harboring such dog, the place where the dog can be
found and the license number of said dog, if known. Such dog or other animal
shall be immediately impounded for a period of not less than ten (10) days for
observation for rabies by the dog warden or veterinarian. If, upon examination,
it shall be determined that said dog or other animal is suffering with rabies,
said animal shall be destroyed. If, upon examination at the end of the
impoundment period, it shall be determined the dog or other animal does not
have rabies, it may be disposed of as herein provided for unredeemed dogs.
   C.   Biting Dogs: A dog having or suspected to have rabies that has bitten
any other dog or animal, or any dog that has bitten any person shall be
immediately impounded by the dog warden or the Police Department or anyone
authorized by said officers. It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog,
when said animal has bitten or scratched any person or has otherwise injured
any person so as to cause an abrasion of the skin, to give or sell such dog or
to permit or allow such animal to be taken beyond the corporate limits of the
Village except for purposes of having such dog examined and held by a
registered veterinarian. It shall be the duty of such owner, upon receiving
notice of the aforesaid, to immediately notify the dog warden in order that
such animal can be impounded for a period of not less than ten (10) days for
observation for rabies according to the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 18-
1873, 2-27-2018)
5-2-3: RUNNING AT LARGE:
Dogs which are on any street, alley or sidewalk, any other public place, or
private property without the permission of the property owner and not being
held securely on a leash shall be deemed to be running at large. It shall be
unlawful to permit any dog to run at large in the Village at any time. It shall
be unlawful for any dog to run at large on private property without permission
of the private property owner. Dogs which are running at large shall be taken
up and impounded by the Police Department. (Ord. 18-1873, 2-27-2018)
5-2-4: IMPOUNDMENT AND REDEMPTION PROCEDURES:
   A.   Impounding: It shall be the duty of the Village dog warden to impound
any dog found running at large in the Village contrary to the provisions of
this chapter.
   B.   Notice Of Impoundment: When any dog is impounded by the Village of
Shorewood, notice thereof shall be given by mail to the owner or custodian of
such licensed dog, if ascertainable, informing such owner or custodian of the
date of impounding of his dog, and that if such dog is not redeemed within five
(5) days of the notice of such impounding, such dog may be destroyed. If the
owner or custodian cannot be ascertained, the Village dog warden shall post
notice of impoundment at the Shorewood Police Department and Shorewood Village
Hall in an area where the public can access and view such notice.
   C.   Fees:
      1.   Redemption Fees: For every dog impounded as provided in this
chapter, any person desiring to redeem such dog shall pay all reasonable costs
for impoundment. A dog may only be redeemed during the first five (5) days
after its impoundment.
   D.   Unredeemed Dogs: If not redeemed within five (5) days after
impoundment, the Village dog warden may deliver the unredeemed dog to:
      1.   A licensed veterinarian to destroy the unredeemed dog;
      2.   Any animal shelter or rescue shelter for the unredeemed dog to be
adopted; or
      3.   Any responsible citizen, upon the payment of all reasonable costs
for impoundment.
Any dog suspected of biting any person or suspected of having rabies shall not
be redeemed for ten (10) days after impoundment, or until it is confirmed the
dog tests negative for rabies. If it shall be determined that such dog has
rabies, it shall be destroyed. (Ord. 18-1873, 2-27-2018)
5-2-5: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Noisy Dogs: It shall be unlawful to harbor or keep any dog which
disturbs the peace by loud noises at any time of the day or night.
   B.   Dogs In Public Places: No dog shall be permitted, even though on a
leash, to enter any public hall, restaurant, coffee house, ice cream parlor,
office, store, market, confectionery shop or food establishment anywhere within
the Village during the time that said place is open for public business. The
provisions of this subsection shall not apply to all assist or service dogs.
(Ord. 18-1873, 2-27-2018)
5-2-6: CRUELTY:
It shall be unlawful to commit cruelty to any dog. For the purpose of this
chapter, cruelty to a dog shall be considered to be:
   A.   Knowingly hitting, tormenting, mutilating or killing any dog;
   B.   Willfully failing to provide any animal with proper food, drink or
shelter; or
   C.   Abandoning any old, maimed, infirm, sick or disabled dog.
Any person or persons who shall be convicted of willfully failing to provide a
dog in his charge or custody, as owner or custodian, with proper food, drink or
shelter may be required to pay a fine pursuant to section
5-2-14 of this chapter, and may be assessed such reasonable charges incurred by
any person or persons providing food, care or shelter for such dog. (Ord. 18-
1873, 2-27-2018)
5-2-7: DEFECATION IN PUBLIC PLACES:
No person who owns, possesses or controls a dog shall permit such dog to
defecate in any public place, including, but not limited to, any street, alley,
sidewalk, park, parkway, school premises, office building or common ground
areas of condominiums and townhouse subdivisions or upon the floor of any hall
of any multiple-dwelling unit which is used in common by the tenants thereof or
upon the fences, lawns, grounds or parkways of any premises or the walls or
stairways of any building abutting on a public way or upon the floor of any
theater, store, factory or school or any public rooms or places therewith
connected or upon any school grounds or public park grounds or the public
grounds of any hotel, motel or lodging house which is used in common by the
guests thereof, unless such person shall immediately thereafter remove the
fecal matter resulting from such defecation and place such matter in an
enclosed container and remove it. (Ord. 18-1873, 2-27-2018)
5-2-8: INTERFERING WITH OFFICER OR VILLAGE DOG WARDEN:
Any person who shall, in any way, prevent or attempt to prevent any member of
the Police Department or any other authorized person from performing any duty
herein required shall be guilty of violation of this chapter. (Ord. 18-1873, 2-
27-2018)
5-2-9: REQUIRED CONTROL OF DANGEROUS DOGS:
It is unlawful for any person to knowingly or recklessly permit any dangerous
dog to leave the premises of its owner or custodian when not under control by
leash, as required by a valid court order, as required by a prior finding of a
dangerous dog, or by other recognized methods of control. Recognized methods of
control include, but are not limited to, a leash properly fitted and of
sufficient strength to restrain the dog, which, if being held by a person, is
held by a person capable of restraining the dog; a secure cord of sufficient
strength; a secure fence of sufficient height, durability, contiguity and
construction so as to prevent the dog from escape; a chain of sufficient
strength; or a muzzle of proper make and fit for the dog. (Ord. 18-1873, 2-27-
2018)
5-2-10: PROCEDURE FOR DANGEROUS DOG DETERMINATION:
   A.   A complaint can be made to any Village police officer by any person who
is a victim or a witness to an alleged dog bite or any other infraction of this
chapter. The complaint shall set forth the nature and date of the incident, a
description of the dog, and if known, the dog owner or custodian's name and/or
address. Within ten (10) business days of a complaint being filed, any Village
police officer, or designee, shall mail written notice to the owner or
custodian of the dog. This notice shall advise the owner or custodian of the
alleged infraction(s), that an investigation has been initiated, and that the
owner or custodian has the option to meet and/or provide a statement to the
investigating officer.
   B.   After a preliminary investigation, if there is probable cause to
believe the dog was not justified and inflicted serious physical injury or
death to any person or animal, the dog shall be impounded at a licensed
veterinarian clinic, shall remain impounded while the investigation is ongoing,
and shall not be released until the Village dog warden or a Judge of the
Circuit Court orders its release, or makes a finding that the dog is not
dangerous. For bites, scratches, or injuries from a dog that do not cause
serious physical injury or death, the dog shall only be impounded at the
discretion of the Village dog warden if it is determined the dog may be
suffering from rabies or other communicable diseases or if it is the best
interest of the public. Impoundment of a dog may precede filing of a complaint
and notice to the owner of such an infraction if probable cause exists.
   C.   If the Village dog warden or any Village police officer requests an
owner to procure a dog for impoundment pending an investigation, and the owner
fails to procure the dog, the owner may be required to pay for the
administrative costs and court costs to enforce the impoundment.
   D.   The investigating officer shall conduct a thorough investigation
including, but not limited to, gathering any possible medical and/or veterinary
evidence pertaining to the victim(s) and the dog, interviewing witnesses,
obtaining photographs of injuries, obtaining any behavioral evidence, and
making a detailed report. The dog's owner may supplement the investigation by
providing their own evidence, written statements, or obtaining their own
behavioral evidence, such as a written report or evaluation by a canine
behaviorist. All supplemental evidence, including a behavioral report, shall be
at the owner's expense.
   E.   Upon completion of the investigating officer's report, the officer
shall provide the report and any other relevant information to the Village dog
warden for its determination. Any Village police officer involved in such an
investigation may ask the Village dog warden to make a determination of
dangerous dog or to make a determination that the allegations are unfounded or
otherwise not sufficiently supported by corroborating evidence.
   F.   When a determination is made, the Village dog warden shall provide
written notice of the determination to the owner or custodian by certified
mail, return receipt requested. If the dog was declared dangerous, the notice
shall state all penalties applicable and the right to appeal such a
determination within thirty five (35) days.
A dog shall not be determined to be a dangerous dog if the actions of the dog
were justified because: 1) the person threatened or injured was committing a
crime or other offense upon the dog's owner, custodian, member of its
household, kennel, or offspring, or was trespassing or committing some other
tort upon the property occupied by the dog's owner or custodian; 2) the person
threatened or injured was abusing, assaulting or physically threatening the dog
or its offspring; or 3) the dog was responding to pain or injury, or was
protecting itself, its owner, custodian, or other member of its household,
kennel or offspring during the commission of a crime by the person injured.
(Ord. 18-1873, 2-27-2018)
5-2-11: APPEAL OF DANGEROUS DOG DETERMINATION:
The owner of a dog determined to be a dangerous dog may file a civil complaint
against the Village of Shorewood in Circuit Court within thirty five (35) days
of receipt of notice of the dangerous dog determination. However, during all
times of the appeal process until an order has been reviewed, the owner shall
comply with the requirements set forth by the Village dog warden. (Ord. 18-
1873, 2-27-2018)
5-2-12: REQUIREMENTS FOR POSSESSION OF A VICIOUS DOG:
   A.   Village dog warden or any Village police officer has the authority to
impound a vicious dog. No vicious dog shall be released to the owner unless and
until the Village dog warden or a Judge of the Circuit Court orders such
release.
   B.   No person shall keep or maintain any dog in the Village of Shorewood
which has been found to be a vicious dog, even if such finding was rendered in
another jurisdiction of similar or more stringent regulations regarding vicious
dogs. Upon violation of this chapter, the dog shall be immediately impounded by
the Village dog warden or his designee or a Village law enforcement officer.
The dog shall be destroyed if the owner does not appeal the impoundment within
fifteen (15) days.
   C.   A vicious dog may not be sold, residency relocated, or given away
without first providing notice to the Village dog warden.
   D.   It shall be unlawful for any owner or custodian to fail to comply with
a vicious dog determination, or with restrictions or penalties imposed by the
Village dog warden or the Circuit Court upon a vicious dog determination.
   E.   Failure to comply with this chapter may result in the destruction of
the dog.
   F.   As stated in section 26 of the Animal Control Act 1 , if the owner of a
vicious dog subject to enclosure: 1) fails to maintain or keep the dog in an
enclosure or fail to spay or neuter the dog within the time period prescribed;
and 2) the dog inflicts serious physical injury upon any other person or causes
the death of another person; and 3) the attack is unprovoked in a place where
such person is peacefully conducting himself or herself and where such person
may lawfully be, the owner shall be guilty of a Class 3 felony, unless the
owner knowingly allowed the dog to run at large or failed to take the steps to
keep the dog in an enclosure then the owner shall be guilty of a Class 2
felony. (Ord. 18-1873, 2-27-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. 510 ILCS 5/26.
5-2-13: PROCEDURE FOR VICIOUS DOG DETERMINATION:
   A.   A complaint can be made to any Village police officer by any person who
is a victim or a witness to an alleged dog bite or any other infraction of this
chapter. The complaint shall set forth the nature and date of the incident, a
description of the dog, and if known, the dog owner or custodian's name and/or
address. Within ten (10) business days of a complaint being filed, any Village
police officer, or designee, shall mail written notice to the owner or
custodian of the dog. This notice shall advise the owner or custodian of the
alleged infraction(s), that an investigation has been initiated, and that the
owner or custodian has the option to meet and/or provide a statement to the
investigating officer.
   B.   After a preliminary investigation, if there is probable cause to
believe the dog was not justified and inflicted serious physical injury or
death to any person or animal, or if the dog was previously declared a
dangerous dog, the dog shall be immediately impounded at a licensed
veterinarian clinic, shall remain impounded while the investigation is ongoing,
and shall not be released until the Village dog warden or a Judge of the
Circuit Court orders its release, or makes a finding that the dog is not
dangerous. Impoundment of a dog may precede filing of a complaint and notice to
the owner of such an infraction if probable cause exists.
   C.   If the Village dog warden or a Shorewood police officer requests an
owner to procure a dog for impoundment pending an investigation, and the owner
fails to procure the dog, the owner may be required to pay for the
administrative costs and court costs to enforce the impoundment.
   D.   The investigating officer shall conduct a thorough investigation
including, but not limited to, gathering any possible medical and/or veterinary
evidence pertaining to the victim(s) and the dog, interviewing witnesses,
obtaining photographs of injuries, obtaining any behavioral evidence, and
making a detailed report. The dog's owner may supplement the investigation by
providing their own evidence, written statements, or obtaining their own
behavioral evidence, such as a written report or evaluation by a canine
behaviorist. All supplemental evidence, including a behavioral report, shall be
at the owner's expense.
   E.   If upon completion of the investigating officer's report, the officer
believes the dog may be vicious as defined by this chapter, the owner shall be
provided notice of an administrative hearing. The notice shall set forth the
allegations, the ordinance(s) violated, the potential penalties of a vicious
dog determination, and a hearing date, time, and place. If the owner fails to
appear for the administrative hearing, the hearing may proceed in the owner's
absence.
   F.   At the hearing, both parties may be represented by counsel and may
present relevant evidence and testimony. The Village dog warden shall preside
at the administrative hearing and shall be responsible for determining whether
there is clear and convincing evidence the dog is vicious.
   G.   A dog shall not be found to be vicious if the actions of the dog were
justified because: 1) the person threatened or injured was committing a crime
or other offense upon the dog's owner, custodian, member of its household,
kennel, or offspring, or was trespassing or committing some other tort upon the
property occupied by the dog's owner or custodian; 2) the person threatened or
injured was abusing, assaulting or physically threatening the dog or its
offspring; or 3) the dog was responding to pain or injury, or was protecting
itself, its owner, custodian, or other member of its household, kennel or
offspring during the commission of a crime by the person injured.
   H.   Upon making a determination, the Village dog warden shall issue an
order that sets forth the basis for the determination and serve a copy thereof
upon the owner. The order shall inform the owner of the right to seek judicial
review of the order with the Circuit Court within thirty five (35) days.
   I.   Alternatively to the procedure set forth above, the investigating
officer may file an ordinance violation with the Circuit Court seeking a
vicious dog determination. (Ord. 18-1873, 2-27-2018)
5-2-14: PENALTIES:
   A.   Except as provided below, any person who violates any provisions or
section of this chapter, in addition to any impoundment costs that may be
applicable, shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than
one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the first offense within any calendar year
and not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than two hundred dollars
($200.00) for each subsequent offense within any calendar year.
   B.   In addition to the fines applicable under subsection A of this section,
if a dog is determined to be a dangerous dog, then the following additional
penalties may apply:
      1.   Fines of up to seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for the first
or subsequent offense;
      2.   The dog may be required to get spayed, neutered, and/or microchipped
within ten (10) days at the owner's expense, if it is not already;
      3.   The owner may be required to obtain liability insurance coverage in
the amount of at least one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00), that covers
death, injury, and property damage caused by the dangerous or vicious dog, and
the policy shall contain a provision that the Village will be notified by the
insurance company of any cancellation, termination or expiration of the policy;
      4.   The dog may be required to be kept on a six foot (6') or less non-
retractable leash;
      5.   The dog may be subject to an enclosure, as defined above;
      6.   When not enclosed, the dog may be prohibited from leaving its owner
or custodian's property unless for the purposes of obtaining veterinarian or
grooming care;
      7.   At all times when not enclosed, the dog may be required to be
securely muzzled, under the direct control and supervision of its owner or
custodian, and restrained with a non-retractable chain having a tensile
strength of three hundred (300) pounds and not exceeding three feet (3') in
length; and
      8.   If the owner challenges or appeals a determination, the owner may be
liable for costs including but not limited to reasonable impoundment costs,
boarding costs, pet food costs, necessary veterinarian care during the
impoundment, and destruction of the dog.
   C.   In addition to the other applicable penalties, the Village dog warden
or a Judge of the Circuit Court may order that the dog is not permitted on
public premises unless it is under the supervision and control of an adult
eighteen (18) years of age or older who is capable of controlling and
restraining the dog.
   D.   In addition to the other applicable penalties, the Village dog warden
or a Judge of the Circuit Court may order that the dog is not permitted on
public premises unless it is wearing a muzzle which is of a make and proper fit
so as to effectively prevent the dog from biting any person or animal, however,
the muzzle shall not injure the dog or interfere with the dog's vision or
respiration.
   E.   The Village dog warden, his designee, or any Village police officer has
the right to impound a dangerous dog pursuant to the same procedures and fees
enumerated in section
5-2-4 of this chapter if the owner fails to comply with requirements of any
provision or section of this chapter.
   F.   In addition to the fines and penalties set forth above, if a dog is
determined to be a vicious dog the Village dog warden and/or a Judge of the
Circuit Court has the discretion to order that the vicious dog be destroyed.
(Ord. 18-1873, 2-27-2018)
CHAPTER 3
MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-3-1: Offenses Involving The Person
5-3-1-1: Assault
5-3-1-2: Disorderly Conduct
5-3-1-3: Disturbing Religious Meetings
5-3-1-4: [Reserved]
5-3-1-5: Open Liquor Container
5-3-1-6: Battery
5-3-1-7: Unlawful Use Of Weapons
5-3-1-8: Laser Pointers
5-3-1-9: Laser Sights
5-3-1-10: Archery Prohibited In Parks
5-3-2: Offenses Involving Property
5-3-2-1: Theft
5-3-2-2: Damage To Property
5-3-2-3: Trespass Offenses
5-3-2-4: Skateboarding Regulations
5-3-3: Offenses Relating To Morals And Decency
5-3-3-1: Lewd Or Indecent Conduct
5-3-3-2: Gambling
5-3-3-3: Prostitution And Related Offenses
5-3-4: Drugs, Needles And Syringes
5-3-4-1: Certain Uses Of Glue Prohibited
5-3-4-2: Drug Paraphernalia
5-3-5: Injury To Public Property
5-3-6: Burglar's Tools
5-3-7: Search, Seizure And Destruction Of Certain Items
5-3-8: Offenses Involving The Obstruction Of Justice
5-3-9: Penalty
5-3-1: OFFENSES INVOLVING THE PERSON:
5-3-1-1: ASSAULT:
   A.   A person commits an assault when, without lawful authority, he engages
in conduct which places another in reasonable apprehension of receiving a
battery.
   B.   Assault is a class C misdemeanor. (1994 Code)
5-3-1-2: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
   A.   Elements Of The Offense: A person commits disorderly conduct when he
knowingly:
      1.   Does any act in such unreasonable manner as to alarm or disturb
another and to provoke a breach of the peace; or
      2.   Transmits in any manner to the fire department of any city, town,
village or fire protection district, a false alarm of fire, knowing at the time
of such transmission that there is no reasonable ground for believing that such
fire exists; or
      3.   Transmits in any manner to another a false alarm to the effect that
a bomb or other explosive of any nature is concealed in such place that its
explosion would endanger human life, knowing at the time of such transmission
that there is no reasonable ground for believing that such bomb or explosive is
concealed in such place; or
      4.   Transmits in any manner to any peace officer, public officer or
public employee a report to the effect that an offense has been committed,
knowing at the time of such transmission that there is no reasonable ground for
believing that such an offense has been committed; or
      5.   Enters upon the property of another and for a lewd or unlawful
purpose deliberately looks into a dwelling on the property through any window
or other opening in it; or
      6.   While acting as a "collection agency" as defined in the Illinois
collection agency act or as an employee of such collection agency, and while
attempting to collect an alleged debt, makes a telephone call to the alleged
debtor which is designed to harass, annoy or intimidate the alleged debtor; or
      7.   Transmits in any manner to the police department or fire department
of any municipality or fire protection district, or any privately owned and
operated ambulance service, a false request for an ambulance, emergency medical
technician- ambulance or emergency medical technician-paramedic, knowing at the
time there is no reasonable ground for believing that such assistance is
required. (1994 Code)
5-3-1-3: DISTURBING RELIGIOUS MEETINGS:
No person shall disquiet or disturb any congregation or assembly met for
religious worship by making a noise or by rude and indecent behavior or profane
discourse within their place of worship or so near the same as to disturb the
order and solemnity of the meeting. (Ord. 0-80, 11-28-1967)
5-3-1-4: [RESERVED]:
5-3-1-5: OPEN LIQUOR CONTAINER:
It shall be unlawful for any person of any age to have any alcoholic beverages
in a container which has been opened, whether the same remains open or has been
resealed, on any street or highway or in any public place opened to the public
other than within the premises which are licensed for the sale of alcoholic
beverages under the provisions of title 3, chapter 3 of this code 1 .   (Ord.
0-237, 11-23-1976)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 6, exhibit A, subsection 11-502(a) of this code.
 1. See also title 6, exhibit A, subsection 11-502(a) of this code.
5-3-1-6: BATTERY:
A person commits battery if he intentionally or knowingly without legal
justification and by any means:
   A.   Causes bodily harm to an individual; or
   B.   Makes physical contact of an insulting or provoking nature with an
individual. (1994 Code)
5-3-1-7: UNLAWFUL USE OF WEAPONS:
   A.   Sales/Possession: A person commits the offense of unlawful use of
weapons when he knowingly:
      1.   Sells, manufactures, purchases, possesses or carries in a public
place any bludgeon, blackjack, slingshot, sand-club, sand-bag, metal knuckles,
nunchaku sticks, throwing star, or any knife, commonly referred to as a
switchblade knife, which has a blade that opens automatically by hand pressure
applied to a button, spring or other device in the handle of the knife, or a
ballistic knife, which is a device that propels a knifelike blade as a
projectile by means of a coil spring, elastic material or compressed gas; or
      2.   Carries or possesses with intent to use the same unlawfully against
another, a dagger, dirk, billy, dangerous knife, razor, stiletto, broken bottle
or piece of glass, stun gun or taser or any other dangerous or deadly weapon or
instrument of like character; or
      3.   Carries on or about his person or in any vehicle, a tear gas gun
projector or bomb or any object containing noxious liquid gas or substance,
other than an object containing a nonlethal noxious liquid gas or substance,
designed solely for personal defense carried by a person eighteen (18) years of
age or older; or
      4.   Carries or possesses in any vehicle or concealed on or about his
person except when on his land or in his own abode or fixed place of business
any loaded pistol, revolver, stun gun or taser or other firearm; or
      5.   Sets a spring gun; or
      6.   Possesses any device or attachment of any kind designed, used or
intended for use in silencing the report of any firearm; or
      7.   Sells, manufactures, purchases, possesses or carries:
         a.   A "machine gun", which shall be defined for the purposes of this
subsection as any weapon, which shoots, is designed to shoot, or can be readily
restored to shoot, automatically more than one shot without manually reloading
by a single function of the trigger, including the frame or receiver of any
such weapons; or sells, manufactures, purchases, possesses, or carries any
combination of parts designed or intended for use in converting any weapon into
a machine gun, or any combination or parts from which a machine gun can be
assembled if such parts are in the possession or under the control of a weapon;
         b.   Any rifle having one or more barrels less than sixteen inches
(16") in length or a shotgun having one or more barrels less than eighteen
inches (18") in length or any weapon made from a rifle or shotgun, whether by
alteration, modification, or otherwise, if such a weapon as modified has an
overall length of less than twenty six inches (26"); or
         c.   Any bomb, bomb-shell, grenade, bottle or other container
containing an explosive substance of over one-quarter (1/4) ounce or like
purposes, such as, but not limited to black powder bombs and Molotov cocktails
for artillery projectiles; or
      8.   Carries or possesses any firearm, stun gun or taser or other deadly
weapon in any place which is licensed to sell intoxicating beverages, or at any
public gathering held pursuant to a license issued by any governmental body of
any public gathering at which an admission is charged, excluding a place where
a showing, demonstration or lecture involving the exhibition of unloaded
firearms is conducted; or
      9.   Carries or possesses in a vehicle or on or about his person any
pistol, revolver, stun gun or taser or firearm or ballistic knife, when he is
hooded, robed or masked in such manner as to conceal his identity; or
      10.   Carries or possesses on or about his person, upon any public
street, alley, or other public lands within the corporate limits of the
Village, except when an invitee thereon or therein, for the purpose of the
display of such weapon or the lawful commerce in weapons, or except when on his
land or in his own abode or fixed place of business, any pistol, revolver, stun
gun or taser or other firearm.
A "stun gun or taser", as used in this subsection A means: a) any device which
is powered by electrical charging units, such as batteries, and which fires one
or several barbs attached to a length of wire and which, upon hitting a human,
can send out a current capable of disrupting the person's nervous system in
such a manner as to render him incapable of normal functioning, or b) any
device which is powered by electrical charging units, such as batteries, and
which, upon contact with a human or clothing worn by a human, can send out a
current capable of disrupting the person's nervous system in such a manner as
to render him incapable of normal functioning; or
      11.   Sells, manufactures or purchases any explosive bullet, regardless
of whether such bullet is capable of penetrating any garment worn by a person.
For purposes of this subsection A, "explosive bullet" means the projectile
portion of an ammunition cartridge which contains or carries an explosive
charge which will explode upon contact with the flesh of a human or an animal,
or with any garment worn by any person. "Cartridge" means a tubular metal case
having a projectile affixed at the front thereof and a cap or primer at the
rear end thereof, with the propellant contained in such tube between the
projectile and the cap; or
      12.   Carries or possesses on or about his person any bludgeon, black-
jack, sling-shot, sand-club, sand-bag, metal knuckles, switchblade knife,
ballistic knife, tear gas gun projector, bomb or any object containing noxious
liquid gas, pistol or revolver or other firearm, bomb, grenade, bottle or other
container containing an explosive substance of over one- quarter (1/4) ounce,
or cartridge while in the building or on the ground of any elementary or
secondary school, community college, college or university. This subsection A12
shall not apply to law enforcement officers or security officers of such
school, college, or university, nor to students carrying or possessing firearms
for use in training courses, parades, hunting, target shooting on school
ranges, or otherwise with the consent of school authorities and which firearms
are transported unloaded and enclosed in a suitable case, box or transportation
package; or
      13.   Discharges or possesses for such purposes in a public place any toy
firearm, air rifle, toy cannon or any gun which discharges projectiles either
by air, spring, explosive substance or any other force.
   B.   Automobile Possession: The presence in an automobile other than a
public omnibus of any weapon, instrument or substance referred to in subsection
A7 is prima facie evidence that it is in the possession of, and is being
carried by, all persons occupying such automobile at the time such weapon,
instrument or substance is found, except under the following circumstances:
      1.   If such weapon, instrument or instrumentality is found upon the
person of one of the occupants therein; or
      2.   If such weapon, instrument or substance is found in an automobile
operated for hire by a duly licensed driver in the due, lawful and proper
pursuit of his trade and is not found upon the person of such driver, then such
presumption shall not apply to the driver.
   C.   Exemptions:
      1.   Subsections A3, A4, and A10 do not apply to or affect any of the
following:
         a.   Peace officers, and any person summoned by a peace officer to
assist in making arrests or preserving the peace, while actually engaged in
assisting such officer.
         b.   Wardens, superintendents and keepers of prisons, penitentiaries,
jails and other institutions for the detention of person accused or convicted
of an offense, while in the performance of their official duty, or while
commuting between their homes and places of employment.
         c.   Members of the Armed Services or Reserve Forces of the United
States or the Illinois National Guard or the Reserve Officers Training Corps,
while in the performance of their official duty.
         d.   Special agents employed by a railroad or a public utility to
perform police functions, and guards of armored car companies, while actually
engaged in the performance of the duties of their employment or commuting
between their homes and places of employment; and watchmen while actually
engaged in the performance of the duties of their employment.
         e.   Persons licensed as private security contractors, private
detectives, or private alarm contractors, or employed by an agency certified by
the Illinois Department of Professional Regulation, if their duties include the
carrying of a weapon under the provisions of the Illinois Private Detective,
Private Alarm, and Private Security Act of 1983, while actually engaged in the
performance of the duties of their employment or commuting between their homes
and places of employment, provided that such commuting is accomplished within
one hour from departure from home or place of employment, as the case may be.
Persons exempted under this subsection shall be required to have completed a
course of study in firearms handling and training approved and supervised by
the Illinois Department of Professional Regulation as prescribed by Section 28
of the Illinois Private Detective, Private Alarm, and Private Security Act of
1983, prior to becoming eligible for this exemption. Any documentation provided
by the Illinois Department of Professional Regulation evidencing completion of
training shall be carried at all times when such persons are in possession of a
concealable weapon.
         f.   Any person regularly employed in a commercial or industrial
operation as a security guard for the protection of persons employed and
private property related to such commercial or industrial operation, while
actually engaged in the performance of his or her duty or traveling between
sites or properties belonging to the employer, and who, as a security guard, is
a member of a security force of at least five (5) persons registered with the
Illinois Department of Professional Regulation; provided that such security
guard has successfully completed a course of study, approved by and supervised
by the Illinois Department of Professional Regulation, consisting of not less
than forty (40) hours of training that includes the theory of law enforcement,
liability for acts, and the handling of weapons.
         g.   Agents and investigators of the Illinois Legislative
Investigating Commission authorized by the Commission to carry the weapons
specified in subsections A3 and A4, while on duty in the course of any
investigation for the Commission.
         h.   Persons employed by a financial institution for the protection of
other employees and property related to such financial institution, while
actually engaged in the performance of their duties, commuting between their
homes and places of employment, or traveling between sites or properties owned
or operated by such financial institution, provided that any person so employed
has successfully completed a course of study, approved by and supervised by the
Illinois Department of Professional Regulation, consisting of not less than
forty (40) hours of training which includes theory of law enforcement,
liability for acts, and the handling of weapons. For purposes of this
subsection "financial institution" means a bank, savings and loan association,
credit union or company providing armored car services.
         i.   Any person employed by an armored car company to drive an armored
car, while actually engaged in the performance of his duties.
         j.   Persons who have been classified as peace officers pursuant to
the Illinois Peace Officer Fire Investigation Act.
         k.   Investigators of the office of the Illinois State's Attorneys
Appellate Prosecutor authorized by the board of governors of the office of the
Illinois State's Attorneys Appellate Prosecutor to carry weapons pursuant to
section 7.06 of the Illinois State's Attorneys Appellate Prosecutor's Act.
      2.   Subsections A4 and A10 do not apply to or affect any of the
following:
         a.   Members of any club or organization organized for the purpose of
practicing shooting at targets upon established target ranges, whether public
or private, and patrons of such ranges, while such members or patrons are using
their firearms on those target ranges.
         b.   Duly authorized military or civil organizations while parading,
with the special permission of the Illinois Governor.
         c.   Licensed hunters, trappers or fishermen while engaged in hunting,
trapping or fishing.
         d.   Transportation of weapons that are broken down in a
nonfunctioning state or are not immediately accessible.
      3.   Subsection A7 of this Section does not apply to or affect any of the
following:
         a.   Peace officers while in performance of their official duties.
         b.   Wardens, superintendents and keepers of prisons, penitentiaries,
jails and other institutions for the detention of persons accused or convicted
of an offense.
         c.   Members of the Armed Services or Reserve Forces of the United
States or the Illinois National Guard, while in the performance of their
official duty.
         d.   Manufacture, transport, or sale of machine guns to persons
authorized under subsections C3a through C3c of this Section to possess machine
guns if the machine guns are broken down in a nonfunctioning state or are not
immediately accessible.
         e.   (1) Persons licensed under Federal law to manufacture any weapon
from which eight (8) or more shots or bullets can be discharged by a single
function of the firing device, or ammunition for such weapons, and actually
engaged in the business of manufacturing such weapons or ammunition, but only
with respect to activities which are within the lawful scope of such business,
such as the manufacture, transportation, or testing of such weapons or
ammunition. This exemption does not authorize the general private possession of
any weapon from which eight (8) or more shots or bullets can be discharged by a
single function of the firing device, but only such possession and activities
as are within the lawful scope of a licensed manufacturing business described
in this subsection.
            (2)   During transportation, such weapons shall be broken down in a
nonfunctioning state or not immediately accessible.
         f.   (1) The manufacture, transport, testing, delivery, transfer or
sale, and all lawful commercial or experimental activities necessary thereto,
or rifles, shotguns, and weapons made from rifles or shotguns, or ammunition
for such rifles, shotguns or weapons, where engaged in by a person operating as
a contractor or subcontractor pursuant to a contract or subcontract for the
development and supply of such rifles, shotguns, weapons or ammunition to the
United States Government or any branch of the Armed Forces of the United
States, when such activities are necessary and incident to fulfilling the terms
of such contract.
            (2)   The exemption granted under this subsection C3 shall also
apply to any authorized agent of any such contractor or subcontractor who is
operating within the scope of his employment, where such activities involving
such weapon, weapons or ammunition are necessary and incident to fulfilling the
terms of such contract.
            (3)   During transportation, any such weapon shall be broken down
in a nonfunctioning state, or not immediately accessible.
      4.   Subsection A1 of this Section does not apply to the purchase,
possession or carrying of a blackjack or slingshot by a peace officer.
      5.   Subsection A8 of this Section does not apply to any owner, manager
or authorized employee of any place specified in that subsection nor to any law
enforcement officer.
      6.   Subsections A4 and A10 of this Section do not apply to members of
any club or organization organized for the purpose of practicing shooting at
targets upon established target ranges, whether public or private, while using
their firearms on those target ranges.
      7.   Subsection A11 of this Section does not apply to:
         a.   Members of the Armed Services or Reserved Forces of the United
States or the Illinois National Guard, while in the performance of their
official duty.
         b.   Bonafide collectors of antique or surplus military ordinance.
         c.   Laboratories having a department of forensic ballistics, or
specializing in the development of ammunition or explosive ordinance.
         d.   Commerce, preparation, assembly or possession of explosive
bullets by manufacturers of ammunition licensed by the Federal Government, in
connection with the supply of those organizations and persons exempted by
subsection C7a of this Section, or like organizations and persons outside this
State, or the transportation of explosive bullets to any organization or person
exempted in this Section by a common carrier or by a vehicle owned or leased by
an exempted manufacturer. (Ord. 95-786, 5-9-1995)
5-3-1-8: LASER POINTERS:
   A.   Possession By Minors Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person
under the age of eighteen (18) to possess a laser pointer except under the
direct supervision of a parent or guardian.
   B.   Transfer Or Sale To Minors: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm,
business, or corporation to sell a laser pointer to any person under the age of
eighteen (18).
   C.   Definition: For purposes of this Section a "laser pointer" is any hand-
held device which contains a laser that emits an intense beam of light,
including, but not limited to, Class 1, Class 2, class 2a, class 3a, class 3b,
and class 4 lasers as defined by the code of federal regulations (21 CFR
1040.10, 1040.11). (Ord. 99-953, 8-10-1999)
5-3-1-9: LASER SIGHTS:
   A.   Use Of Laser Sights Prohibited: No person shall operate a laser sight
within the village, except upon premises used by a duly licensed shooting
gallery, gun club, or rifle club.
   B.   Definition: For purposes of this section a "laser sight" is any laser
device manufactured for use as an aid for aiming firearms, bows, air guns, or
any other device which discharges projectiles whether by air, spring, explosive
substance, or any other force, that emits an intense beam of light, including,
but not limited to, class 1, class 2, class 2a, class 3a, class 3b, and class 4
lasers as defined by the code of federal regulations (21 CFR 1040.10, 1040.11).
(Ord. 99-954, 8-10-1999)
5-3-1-10: ARCHERY PROHIBITED IN PARKS:
It shall be unlawful to fire/release an arrow from any type of bow, crossbow or
other device in any public park in the village of Shorewood except during the
course of an archery program sanctioned by the village administrator or his
designee. (Ord. 14-1750, 10-28-2014)
5-3-2: OFFENSES INVOLVING PROPERTY:
5-3-2-1: THEFT:
   A.   A person commits theft when he knowingly:
      1.   Obtains or exerts unauthorized control over property of another;
      2.   Obtains, by deception, control over property of another;
      3.   Obtains, by threat, control over property of another;
      4.   Obtains control over stolen property knowing the property to have
been stolen by another or obtaining control over the property under such
circumstances as would reasonably induce him to believe that the property was
stolen;
Together with one of the following:
         a.   The intent to deprive the owner permanently of the use or benefit
of the property.
         b.   Knowingly uses, conceals or abandons the property in such a
manner as to deprive the owner permanently of the use or benefit of the
property.
         c.   Uses, conceals, or abandons the property knowing such use,
concealment or abandonment probably will deprive the owner permanently of the
use or benefit of the property. (Ord. 95-786, 5-9-1995)
5-3-2-2: DAMAGE TO PROPERTY:
Whoever commits any of the following acts shall be deemed guilty of the offense
of damage to property:
   A.   Knowingly damages any property of another, including public property
without the consent of the owner.
   B.   Recklessly, by means of fire or explosives, damages property of
another.
   C.   Knowingly starts a fire on the land of another without the consent of
the owner.
   D.   Knowingly injures a domestic animal of another without the consent of
the owner.
   E.   Knowingly deposits on the land or in the building of another, without
the consent of the owner, any stink bomb or any offensive smelling compound and
thereby intends to interfere with the use by another of the land or building.
(Ord. 95-786, 5-9-1995)
5-3-2-3: TRESPASS OFFENSES:
   A.   Entry Into Buildings And Vehicles Without Consent: Any person who
knowingly and without authority enters any vehicle or building or any part
thereof of another, without the owner's consent, shall be guilty of
trespassing.
   B.   Entry On Land; Remaining On Land After Notice To Leave: Any person who
knowingly enters upon the land or any part thereof of another after receiving,
immediately prior to the entry, notice from the owner, occupant or person in
charge of such land or part hereof or a peace officer, that the entry is
forbidden or who remains upon the land of another after receiving notice to
depart, shall be guilty of trespassing.
   C.   Notice And Peace Officer Defined: For the purpose of subsection B of
this section, a person has received "notice" from the owner, occupant or person
in charge of land if she has been notified personally, either orally or in
writing, or if a printed or written notice forbidding such entry has been
conspicuously posted or exhibited at the main entrance of the land or the
forbidden part thereof. "Peace officer" means any person who, by virtue of his
office or public employment, is vested by law with a duty to maintain public
order or to make arrests for offenses, whether that duty extends to all
offenses or is limited to specific offenses. (Ord. 95-786, 5-9-1995)
5-3-2-4: SKATEBOARDING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Definition: "Skateboards" are hereby defined as follows: a device with
a combination of wheels connected by a platform designed for standing and which
is propelled by human power. It includes devices containing a handlebar and
sometimes referred to as scooters.
   B.   Prohibited Uses: No skateboards shall be used, operated or propelled
upon any street, sidewalk or public way in any areas of the village zoned B-1,
B-2, B-3 or B-4, or upon any private property without the permission of the
property owner.
   C.   Restricted Uses: All persons using or riding upon skateboards or
similar devices upon any sidewalks in the village in areas where such devices
are not prohibited shall exercise due care at all times and shall yield the
right of way to any pedestrians using such sidewalks at all times. (Ord. 95-
814, 9-26-1995)
5-3-3: OFFENSES RELATING TO MORALS AND DECENCY:
5-3-3-1: LEWD OR INDECENT CONDUCT:
No person shall perform in any public place (1) an act of sexual penetration or
sexual conduct; or (2) a lewd exposure of the body done with intent to arouse
or to satisfy the sexual desire of the person. Breast-feeding of infants is not
an act of public indecency. For purposes of this section “public place” means
any place where the conduct may reasonably be expected to be viewed by others.
(Ord. 0-80, 11-28-1967; amd. Ord. 84-367, 2-28-1984; Ord. 21-2021, 9-28-2021)
5-3-3-2: GAMBLING:
   A.   A person commits gambling when he:
      1.   Plays a game of chance or skill for money or other thing of value,
unless excepted in subsection B of this section; or
      2.   Makes a wager upon the result of any game, contest or any political
nomination, appointment or election; or
      3.   Operates, keeps, owns, uses, purchases, exhibits, rents, sells,
bargains for the sale or lease of, manufactures or distributes any gambling
device; or
      4.   Knowingly owns or possesses any book, instrument or apparatus by
means of which bets or wagers have been, or are, recorded or registered or
knowingly possesses any money which he has received in the course of a bet or
wager; or
      5.   Sells pools upon the result of any game or contest of skill or
chance, political nomination, appointment or election; or
      6.   Sets up or promotes any lottery or sells, offers to sell or
transfers any ticket or share for any lottery; or
      7.   Sets up or promotes any policy game or sells, offers to sell or
knowingly possesses or transfers any policy ticket, slip, record, document or
other similar device; or
      8.   Knowingly drafts, prints or publishes any lottery ticket or share,
or any policy ticket, slip, record, document or similar device, except for such
activity related to lotteries, bingo games and raffles authorized by and
conducted in accordance with the laws of Illinois or any other state or foreign
government; or
      9.   Knowingly advertises any lottery or policy game except for such
activity related to lotteries, bingo games and raffles authorized by and
conducted in accordance with the laws of Illinois or any other state; or
      10.   Knowingly transmits information as to wagers, betting odds or
changes in betting odds by telephone, telegraph, radio, semaphore or similar
means; or knowingly installs or maintains equipment for the transmission or
receipt of such information; except that nothing in this subsection prohibits
transmission or receipt of such information for use in news reporting of
sporting events or contests.
   B.   Participants in any of the following activities shall not be convicted
of gambling therefor:
      1.   Agreements to compensate for loss caused by the happening of chance
including, without limitation, contracts of indemnity or guaranty and life or
health or accident insurance;
      2.   Offers of prizes, award or compensation to the actual contestants in
any bona fide contest for the determination of skill, speed, strength or
endurance or to the owners of animals or vehicles entered in such contest;
      3.   Pari-mutuel betting as authorized by the law of this state;
      4.   Manufacture of gambling devices, including the acquisition of
essential parts therefor and the assembly thereof, for transportation in
interstate or foreign commerce to any place outside this state when such
transportation is not prohibited by any applicable federal law;
      5.   The game commonly known as "bingo" when conducted in accordance with
the bingo license and tax act;
      6.   Lotteries when conducted by the state of Illinois in accordance with
the Illinois lottery law;
      7.   Possession of an antique slot machine that is neither used nor
intended to be used in the operation or promotion of any unlawful gambling
activity or enterprise. For the purpose of this subsection, an "antique slot
machine" is one manufactured twenty five (25) years ago or earlier;
      8.   Raffles when conducted in accordance with the Illinois raffles act;
      9.   Charitable games when conducted in accordance with the Illinois
charitable games act;
      10.   Pull tabs and jar games when conducted under the Illinois pull tabs
and jar games act; or
      11.   Gambling games conducted on riverboats when authorized by the
Illinois riverboat gambling act. (1994 Code)
5-3-3-3: PROSTITUTION AND RELATED OFFENSES:
   A.   Prostitution: Any person who performs, offers or agrees to perform any
act of "sexual penetration" as defined below, for money or anything of value,
or any other sexual conduct for money or anything of value, for the purpose of
arousal or gratification of either person, commits an act of prostitution.
      1.   For purposes of this subsection A and subsection B of this section,
"sexual penetration" shall be defined as any contact, however slight, between
the sex organ of one person and the sex organ, mouth or anus of another person,
or any intrusion, however slight, of any part of the body of one person or of
any animal or object into the sex organ or anus of another person, including,
but not limited to, cunnilingus, fellatio or anal penetration.
      2.   For purposes of this subsection A and subsection B of this section,
"sexual conduct" shall be defined as any intentional or knowing touching or
fondling by a person, either directly or through clothing, of the sex organs,
anus or breasts of another for the purpose of sexual gratification or arousal.
   B.   Patronizing A Prostitute: Any person who performs any of the following
acts commits the offense of soliciting for a prostitute:
      1.   Engages in an act of sexual penetration or other sexual conduct with
a prostitute.
      2.   Enters or remains in a place of prostitution with intent to engage
in an act of sexual penetration or other sexual conduct.
   C.   Soliciting For A Prostitute: Any person who performs any of the
following acts with a person not his spouse commits the offense of soliciting
for a prostitute:
      1.   Solicits another for the purpose of prostitution.
      2.   Arranges or offers to arrange a meeting of persons for the purpose
of prostitution.
      3.   Directs another to a place knowing the direction is for the purpose
of prostitution.
   D.   Pimping: Any person who receives money or other property from a
prostitute, not for a lawful consideration, knowing it was earned in whole or
in part from the practice of prostitution, commits the offense of pimping.
   E.   Pandering: Any person who performs any of the following acts for money
commits the offense of pandering:
      1.   Compels a person to become a prostitute; or
      2.   Arranges or offers to arrange a situation in which a person may
practice prostitution.
   F.   Keeping Place Of Prostitution: Any person who has or exercises control
over the use of any place which could offer seclusion or shelter for the
practice of prostitution, who performs any of the following acts, keeps a place
of prostitution, which is hereby declared to be an offense:
      1.   Knowingly grants or permits the use of such place for the purpose of
prostitution.
      2.   Grants or permits the use of such place under circumstances from
which he could reasonably know that the place is used or is to be used for
purposes of prostitution.
      3.   Permits the continued use of a place after becoming aware of facts
or circumstances from which he should reasonably know that the place is being
used for purposes of prostitution. (Ord. 95-786, 5-9-1995)
5-3-4: DRUGS, NEEDLES AND SYRINGES:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, unless the context otherwise
requires, the following words and terms shall have the meanings ascribed to
them as follows:
   CANNABIS: Includes marihuana, hashish and any other substances which are
identified as including any parts of the plant Cannabis sativa and including
derivatives or subspecies, such as indica, of all strains of cannabis, whether
growing or not; the seeds thereof, and resin extracted from any part of such
plant, any compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or preparation of
such plant, its seeds or resin, including tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and all
other cannabinol derivatives, including its naturally occurring or
synthetically produced ingredients, whether produced directly or indirectly by
extraction or independently by means of chemical synthesis or by a combination
of extraction and chemical synthesis, but shall not include the mature stalks
of such plant, fiber produced from such stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds
of such plant, any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or
preparation of such mature stalks (except the resin extracted therefrom),
fiber, oil or cake or the sterilized seed of such plant which is incapable of
germination. Cannabis does not include industrial hemp as defined and
authorized under the Industrial Hemp Act. Cannabis also means cannabis flower,
concentrate, and cannabis-infused products.
   CANNABIS CONCENTRATE: A product derived from cannabis that is produced by
extracting cannabinoids, including tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), from the plant
through the use of propylene glycol, glycerin, butter, olive oil or other
typical cooking fats; water, ice, or dry ice; or butane, propane, CO2, ethanol,
or isopropanol and with the intended use of smoking or making a cannabis-
infused product. The use of any other solvent is expressly prohibited unless
and until it is approved by the Department of Agriculture.
   CANNABIS FLOWER: Marijuana, hashish, and other substances that are
identified as including any parts of the plant Cannabis sativa and including
derivatives or subspecies, such as indica, of all strains of cannabis;
including raw kief, leaves, and buds, but not resin that has been extracted
from any part of such plant; nor any compound, manufacture, salt, derivative,
mixture, or preparation of such plant, its seeds, or resin.
   CANNABIS-INFUSED PRODUCT: A beverage, food, oil, ointment, tincture, topical
formulation, or another product containing cannabis or cannabis concentrate
that is not intended to be smoked.
   CANNABIS PARAPHERNALIA: Equipment, products, or materials intended to be
used for planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting,
manufacturing, producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging,
repackaging, storing, containing, concealing, ingesting, or otherwise
introducing cannabis into the human body.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE: A drug, substance or immediate precursor in the
schedules of article II of the Illinois controlled substances act, being 720
Illinois Compiled Statutes 570/201 through 570/215, as the same may be, from
time to time, amended, which is herein incorporated by reference.
   EXEMPT PERSON: Includes all persons who may, under the laws of the state of
Illinois lawfully sell, offer for sale, deliver, dispense, distribute and
possess, as the case may be, controlled substances, cannabis and/or hypodermic
syringes and hypodermic needles.
   HYPODERMIC SYRINGE AND HYPODERMIC NEEDLES: Include, in addition to their
ordinary dictionary meanings, any instrument adapted for the use of controlled
substances or cannabis by subcutaneous injection.
   B.   Sale Of Drugs, Syringes And Needles: No person, other than an exempt
person, shall sell, offer for sale, dispense, deliver, distribute or possess
any controlled substance, hypodermic syringes and/or hypodermic needles within
the corporate limits of the village.
   C.   Possession of cannabis prohibited. It is unlawful for any person
knowingly to possess more than 30 grams of cannabis flower, 500 milligrams of
THC contained in cannabis-infused product, or 5 grams of cannabis concentrate.
It is unlawful for any person who is 21 years of age or older and who is not a
resident of this State to possess more than 15 grams of cannabis flower, 2.5
grams of cannabis concentrate, or 250 milligrams of THC contained in a
cannabis-infused product. Any person in violation of this Section shall be
fined not less than $350.
   D.   Possession of cannabis under 21. No person under the age of twenty one
(21) years old shall possess cannabis, its concentrate, or derivative in any
form. Any person in violation of this Section shall be fined not less than $250
for possessing up to 30 grams of cannabis and not less than $500 for possessing
up to 100 grams of cannabis.
   E.   Possession in Specific Locations prohibited. No person shall possess
cannabis, its concentrate, or derivative in any form, in the following any of
the following places:
      1.   School bus;
      2.   On the grounds of any preschool or primary or secondary school;
      3.   In a vehicle not open to the public unless the cannabis is in a
reasonably secured, sealed container and reasonably inaccessible while the
vehicle is moving; or
      4.   In private residences which are used at any time to provide licensed
child care or other similar social service care.
      Any person in violation of this Section shall be fined not less than
$500.
   F.   Consumption of cannabis under 21 prohibited. No person under the age of
twenty one (21) years old shall consume cannabis, its concentrate, or
derivative in any form. Any person in violation of this Section shall be fined
not less than $250.
   G.   Consumption Prohibited in Specific Locations. No person shall use or
otherwise consume cannabis in any form in any of the following places:
      1.   In a school bus, unless permitted for a qualifying patient or
caregiver pursuant to the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program
Act;
      2.   On the grounds of any preschool or primary or secondary school,
unless permitted for a qualifying patient or caregiver pursuant to the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act;
      3.   In any correctional facility;
      4.   In any motor vehicle;
      5.   In a private residence that is used at any time to provide licensed
child care or other similar social service care on the premises;
      6.   In any public place; or
      7.   Knowingly in close physical proximity to anyone under 21 years of
age who is not a registered medical cannabis patient under the Compassionate
Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act.
      Any person in violation of this Section shall be fined not less than
$500.
   H.   Sale of Cannabis Prohibited. No person, corporation, or entity of any
kind shall sell, distribute, or transfer cannabis to any person under the age
of twenty-one (21). Any person in violation of this Section shall be fined not
less than $500, and, when applicable, shall constitute grounds for revocation
and/or suspension of any and all village licenses issued to the persons/
premises where the violations occur. The revocation or suspension shall be
provided for in the ordinance granting the license.
   I.   Transfer of Cannabis Prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person,
corporation, or entity to transfer, sell, or offer for sale cannabis, its
concentrate, or derivative in any form without an Illinois Cannabis Retailers
certificate of registration or otherwise contrary to the Illinois Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act or Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act. Any person in
violation of this Section shall be fined not less than $500, and, when
applicable, shall constitute grounds for revocation and/or suspension of any
and all village licenses issued to the persons/premises where the violations
occur. The revocation or suspension shall be provided for in the ordinance
granting the license.
   J.   Cultivation Prohibited. Cultivation of any form of cannabis is
prohibited except as when such cultivation is in compliance with Section 10-5
(b) of the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (410 ILCS 705/10-5). Any person in
violation of this Section shall be fined not less than $200.
   K.   Possession in Violation of 720 ILCS 550/8. No person shall possess more
than five (5) of the Cannabis plant. Any person in violation of this Section
shall be fined not less than $200.
   L.   Exempt Persons. All persons who may, under the Illinois Compassionate
Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act and Illinois Cannabis Regulation and Tax
Act, lawfully sell, offer for sale, deliver, dispense, distribute, and possess
cannabis, are exempt from the penalties under Section
5-3-4 of this Code to the extent such conduct is allowed under the Illinois
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act and Illinois Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act.
   M.    Penalties: Unless otherwise indicated, any person who shall violate
any provision of this section shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for the first violation,
and shall be fined not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for the second
and each subsequent violation. Each day that a violation of this section may
continue shall be deemed a separate violation hereof. (Ord. 82-336, 6-22-1982;
amd. Ord. 20-1966, 1-28-2020)
5-3-4-1: CERTAIN USES OF GLUE PROHIBITED:
   A.   Model Glue Defined: As used in subsections B through E of this section,
"glue" shall mean any glue or cement of the type commonly used in the building
of model airplanes, boats and automobiles, containing toluene, acetone or other
solvent or chemical having the property of releasing toxic vapors.
   B.   Inhalation Of Glue: No person shall, for the purpose of causing a
condition of intoxication, euphoria, excitement, exhilaration, stupefaction or
dulling of the senses or nervous system, intentionally smell or inhale the
fumes from any glue; however, this subsection shall not apply to the inhalation
of any anesthesia for medical or dental purposes.
   C.   Sale Or Possession Of Glue: No person shall, for the purpose of
violating or aiding another to violate any provision of this section,
intentionally possess, buy, sell, transfer possession or receive possession of
any glue.
   D.   Sale To Or Possession By Minor Of Glue:
      1.   Except as otherwise provided in this section, no person under
eighteen (18) years of age shall possess or buy any glue.
      2.   Except as otherwise provided in this section, no person shall sell
or transfer possession of any glue to another person under eighteen (18) years
of age.
      3.   A person may sell or transfer possession of glue to a person under
eighteen (18) years of age for building or other lawful use where the minor has
in his possession and exhibits the written consent of his parent or guardian.
   E.   Records Of Sale And Transfer Of Glue To Minor:
      1.   A person making a sale or transfer of possession of glue to a person
under eighteen (18) years of age who exhibits the written consent of his parent
or guardian, shall record the name, address, sex and age of the minor and the
name and address of the consenting parent or guardian. All data required by
this subsection shall be kept in permanent type register available for
inspection by the police department.
      2.   Any person above the age of eighteen (18) years making a purchase of
glue must produce identification as to this age and must sign his name and
address on the record of sale. (Ord. 95-786, 5-9-1995)
5-3-4-2: DRUG PARAPHERNALIA 1 :
   A.   Defined: For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning:
   CANNABIS PARAPHERNALIA: Equipment, products, or materials intended to be
used for planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting,
manufacturing, producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging,
repackaging, storing, containing, concealing, ingesting, or otherwise
introducing cannabis into the human body.
   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA: All equipment, products, and materials of any kind,
other than methamphetamine manufacturing materials as defined in Section of the
Methamphetamine Control and Community Protection Act and cannabis paraphernalia
as defined in Section 1-10 of the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, which
contain on such equipment, products, and materials an indication or suggestion
that such items be used or are intended for use, or which contain in the
marketing thereof an indication or suggestion that such items be used or are
intended for use in planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting,
manufacturing, compounding, converting, production, processing, preparing,
testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, containing, concealing,
injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing into the human body a
controlled substance as defined in the controlled substance act, 720 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 570/100 et seq.
      1.   "Drug paraphernalia" includes, but is not limited to:
         a.   Kits used, or intended for use, in manufacturing, compounding,
converting, producing, processing, or preparing a controlled substance;
         b.   Isomerization devices used, or intended for use, in identifying
or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness, or purity of a controlled
substance;
         c.   Testing equipment used, or intended for use, in identifying or in
analyzing the strength, effectiveness, or purity of a controlled substance;
         d.   Scales and balances, when such scales and balances have inscribed
on them an indication or suggestion that they be used, or are intended for use,
in weighing or measuring a controlled substance, or scales and balances which
contain in the marketing thereof an indication or suggestion of such use;
         e.   Diluents and adulterants, such as quinine hydrochloride,
mannitol, mannite, dextrose, and lactose, used or intended for use, in cutting
a controlled substance;
         f.   Reserved.
         g.   Blenders, bowls, containers, spoons, and mixing devices when such
items have inscribed on them an indication or suggestion that they be used or
are intended for use, in compounding a controlled substance, or when such items
contain in the marketing thereof an indication or suggestion of such use;
         h.   Capsules, balloons, envelopes, and other containers when such
items have inscribed on them an indication or suggestion that they be used, or
are intended for use, in packaging small quantities of a controlled substance,
or when such items contain in the marketing thereof an indication or suggestion
of such use;
         i.   Containers and other objects when such items have inscribed on
them an indication or suggestion that they be used, or are intended for use, in
storing or concealing a controlled substance, or when such items contain in the
marketing thereof an indication or suggestion of such use;
         j.   Hypodermic syringes, needles, and other objects used or intended
for use, in parenterally injecting controlled substances into the human body;
         k.   Objects used, or intended for use when such items have inscribed
on them an indication or suggestion that they be used, or are intended for use,
in ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing a controlled substance into
the human body, or when such items contain in the marketing thereof an
indication or suggestion of such use, such as:
            (1)   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or ceramic
pipes, with or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads, or punctured
metal bowls;
            (2)   Water pipes;
            (3)   Carburetion tubes and devices;
            (4)   Smoking and carburetion masks;
            (5)   Roach clips, meaning objects used to hold burning material,
such as marihuana cigarette, that has become too small or too short to be held
in the hand;
            (6)   Miniature cocaine spoons, and cocaine vials;
            (7)   Chamber pipes;
            (8)   Carburetor pipes;
            (9)   Electric pipes;
            (10)   Air-driven pipes;
            (11)   Chillums;
            (12)   Bongs;
            (13)   Ice pipes or chillers.
      2.   A court, in determining whether an object is "Cannabis
Paraphernalia" or "Drug Paraphernalia", shall consider the following factors:
         a.   Statements by an owner or by anyone in control of the object
concerning its use;
         b.   The proximity of the object, in time and space, to a direct
violation of this section;
         c.   The proximity of the object to cannabis or a controlled
substance;
         d.   The existence of any residue of cannabis or a controlled
substance on the object;
         e.   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of an owner, or
of anyone in control of the object, to deliver it to persons whom he knows, or
should reasonably know, intend to use the object to facilitate a violation of
this section; the innocence of an owner, or of anyone in control of this
section shall not prevent a finding that the object is intended for use as drug
paraphernalia;
         f.   Instruction, oral or written, provided with the object concerning
its use;
         g.   Descriptive materials accompanying the object which explain or
depict its use;
         h.   National and local advertising concerning the use or intended use
of the object; and information contained in sales catalogues of which supplier
has knowledge concerning use of the object;
         i.   The manner in which the object is displayed for sale;
         j.   Whether the owner, or anyone in control of the object, is a
legitimate supplier of like or related items to the community, such as licensed
distributor of tobacco products;
         k.   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of sales of the
objects to the total sales of the business enterprise;
         l.   The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in the
community;
         m.   Expert testimony concerning its use.
   B.   Prohibited:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to use, or to possess with
intent to use, drug paraphernalia to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow,
harvest, manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test,
analyze, pack, repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale, or
otherwise introduce into the human body cannabis or a controlled substance.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or deliver, or possess
with intent to sell or deliver, any drug paraphernalia, knowing or under
circumstances where one reasonably should know, that it will be used to plant,
propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture, compound, convert, produce,
process, prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack, store, contain, conceal, inject,
ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce into the human body cannabis or a
controlled substance.
      3.   No person under the age of twenty-one (21) years old shall possess
cannabis paraphernalia or drug paraphernalia. Any person in violation of
Section (5) shall be fined not less than $250.
   C.   Delivering Drug Paraphernalia To Minors: Any person eighteen (18) years
of age or older who violates this section by delivering drug paraphernalia to a
person under eighteen (18) years of age who is at least three (3) years his
junior, shall, upon a finding of guilty, be fined not less than two hundred
fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
   D.   Exemptions: Nothing in this section shall limit the lawful authority
granted to:
      1.   Persons who are authorized by 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 550/
1 et seq. (cannabis control act), to deal with cannabis;
      2.   Persons registered under federal law to conduct research with
cannabis;
      3.   Persons authorized by 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 570/100 et seq.
(controlled substance act), to deal with controlled substances;
      4.   Authorized law enforcement personnel while in the course of their
duties.
   E.   Penalty: Any person who is found guilty of committing an offense as
established and defined in this section shall be subject to a fine not to
exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) unless otherwise specified herein. (Ord.
01-1034, 1-23-2001; amd. Ord. 20-1966, 1-28-2020)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 3, chapter 10 of this code.
5-3-5: INJURY TO PUBLIC PROPERTY:
No person shall injure or destroy, or assist in injuring or destroying, any
public building or property belonging to the village, the county of Will, the
state of Illinois or any fire department or public school. (Ord. 0-80, 11-28-
1967)
5-3-6: BURGLAR'S TOOLS:
No person shall have in his possession any nippers of the description known as
burglar's nippers, pick lock, skeleton key, key to be used with a bit or bits,
jimmy or other burglar's instrument or tool of whatsoever kind or description,
unless it be shown that such possession is innocent or for a lawful purpose.
(Ord. 0-80, 11-28-1967)
5-3-7: SEARCH, SEIZURE AND DESTRUCTION OF CERTAIN ITEMS:
It shall be the duty of the chief of police or other officer arresting any
person under the provisions of this chapter to carefully search such persons
and their baggage, premises and places of abode, and if any gambling apparatus
or device, slingshot, pistol, knuckler, instrument, composition or thing used
for the commission of a burglary, arson or the picking of pockets or for the
playing of fraudulent tricks, plays or games for the manufacture of counterfeit
money or for the commission of any offense against the laws of this state or
the provisions of this chapter or other ordinances of the village shall be
found on their person, in their baggage or in or about their premises or place
of abode, the same shall be seized and delivered over to the custody of the
village chief of police, and if, on the trial of such persons for the violation
of this chapter or other ordinances, they shall fail to give a good and
satisfactory account of their possession of the same to the court before whom
they are tried, the same shall be declared forfeited to the village, and the
court shall enter up such forfeiture as a part of the judgment, and such
apparatus, articles or things herein mentioned shall be destroyed by the chief
of police in the presence of the village president. (Ord. 0-80, 11-28-1967)
5-3-8: OFFENSES INVOLVING THE OBSTRUCTION OF JUSTICE:
   A.   Peace Officer Defined: For the purposes of subsections B through D of
this section, both inclusive, "peace officer" means any person who by virtue of
his office or public employment is vested by law with a duty to maintain public
order or to make arrests for offenses, whether that duty extends to all
offenses or is limited to specific offenses.
   B.   Resisting Or Obstructing A Peace Officer: A person who knowingly
resists or obstructs the performance of his authorized, official duties by one
known to the person to be a peace officer shall be guilty of the offense of
resisting or obstructing a peace officer.
   C.   Acting As A Police Officer: No person, other than a member of a police
department, shall assume to act as a policeman in any capacity.
   D.   Impersonating A Police Officer; Unauthorized Use Of Police Uniforms Or
Devices: Any person not a member of the police department who shall impersonate
any of the members of the police department or who shall maliciously or with
the intent to deceive, use or imitate any of the signs, signals or devices
adopted and used by the department of police or who shall wear in public the
uniform adopted as the police uniform, shall be guilty of an offense. (Ord. 95-
786, 5-9-1995)
5-3-9: PENALTY:
Unless otherwise provided, whenever, in this chapter, any act is prohibited or
is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or whenever, in this chapter,
the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be
unlawful, the violation of any such provision of this chapter shall be punished
by a fine not exceeding two hundred dollars ($200.00) or imprisonment for a
term of six (6) months or both. Each day any violation of any provision of this
chapter shall continue shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 0-80, 11-28-
1967)
5-2-15: RECORDS:
The Village dog warden shall maintain a written report of each alleged incident
in a manner so that a record of incidents alleged against any specific dog can
be obtained. (Ord. 18-1873, 2-27-2018)
5-2-16: EFFECT ON OTHER PROVISIONS:
Nothing in this chapter shall rescind the fine schedules set or alternative
penalties with regard to violations of any sections of this chapter, and
nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the Village dog warden or
a Village police officer from prosecuting the case as an ordinance violation in
the Circuit Court of Will County. (Ord. 18-1873, 2-27-2018)
CHAPTER 4
WEAPONS
SECTION:
5-4-1: Firearms (Rep. by Ord. 10-1576, 3-9-2010)
5-4-2: Nunchakus
5-4-1: FIREARMS:
(Rep. by Ord. 10-1576, 3-9-2010)
5-4-2: NUNCHAKUS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than a police officer of
this village, the county of Will or the state of Illinois, to sell,
manufacture, purchase, possess or carry nunchakus or similar weapon within the
corporate limits of the village.
   B.   Any person who violates the provisions of this section shall be subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 0-189, 4-23-1974; amd. 1994 Code)
CHAPTER 5
MINORS
SECTION:
5-5-1: Alcoholic Liquor
5-5-2: Sale And Purchase Of Smoking Materials (Rep. by Ord. 08-1483, 6-24-2008)
5-5-3: Possession Of Smoking Materials
5-5-1: ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR 1 :
   A.   Providing Liquor To Minors: It shall be unlawful for any person to
provide alcoholic beverages to any person under the age of twenty one (21)
years, other than the children of such person, at any place within the
corporate limits of the village.
   B.   Allowing Possession By Minors: It shall be unlawful for any person to
allow the consumption of alcoholic beverages by any person under the age of
twenty one (21) years, other than the children of such person, on any premises
owned, possessed or controlled by such person within the corporate limits of
the village.
   C.   Penalties: Any person who shall violate any provision of this section
for the first such violation shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) and for the second and
each subsequent violation shall be fined not less than two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 83-343,
3-12-1983)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  3-3-18 of this code.
5-5-2: SALE AND PURCHASE OF SMOKING MATERIALS 1 :
(Rep. by Ord. 08-1483, 6-24-2008)
 
Notes
1 2. See title 3, chapter 16 of this code.
5-5-3: POSSESSION OF SMOKING MATERIALS:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following words and
phrases shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them:
   MINOR: A person who has not yet attained the age of eighteen (18) years of
age.
   PERSON: Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company,
association, joint venture or any employee or agent thereof, employed by,
engaged in, or conducting a business.
   SMOKING MATERIALS: Any substance containing either smoking herbs or tobacco
leaf or derivatives of tobacco leaf including, but not limited to, cigarettes,
cigars, pipe tobacco, loose tobacco, snuff, chewing tobacco or dipping tobacco.
(Ord. 01-1033, 1-23-2001)
   B.   Possession By Minors Prohibited: No individual under eighteen (18)
years of age shall possess any smoking materials. (Ord. 08-1483, 6-24-2008)
   C.   Penalty: Any person who is found guilty of committing an offense as
established and defined in this section shall be subject to a fine not to
exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) unless otherwise specified herein. (Ord.
01-1033, 1-23-2001)
CHAPTER 6
REPOSSESSION OF VEHICLES
SECTION:
5-6-1: Definitions
5-6-2: Police Department to be Notified
5-6-3: Information Required
5-6-4: Notice of Repossession
5-6-5: Penalty
5-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this Chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this Section:
   MOTOR AND NONMOTOR VEHICLE: Includes automobiles, trucks, trailers,
construction and excavation equipment, campers, boats and watercraft on
trailers, snowmobiles and all other apparatus on wheels which may either be
driven or towed.
   PERSON: Includes individual persons, corporations, partnerships and all
other entities. (Ord. 0-243, 2-22-77)
5-6-2: POLICE DEPARTMENT TO BE NOTIFIED:
No person shall repossess any motor or nonmotor vehicle within the corporate
limits of the Village unless written information is first furnished to the
Shorewood Police Department specifying the matters set forth in Section
5-6-3 of this Chapter. (Ord. 0-243, 2-22-77)
5-6-3: INFORMATION REQUIRED:
Prior to the repossession of any motor or nonmotor vehicle, written information
shall be furnished the Police Department specifying the following:
   A.   Description of the vehicle to be repossessed, including the make, year
and license plate number, if any.
   B.   The name and address of the person from whom the vehicle is to be
repossessed.
   C.   The name and address of the person holding a lien on the vehicle to be
repossessed for whom such repossession is to be performed.
   D.   A copy of the letter or other document executed by the lienholder and
authorizing the repossession.
   E.   The date of the proposed repossession. (Ord. 0-243, 2-22-77)
5-6-4: NOTICE OF REPOSSESSION:
At the time of the repossession of any motor or nonmotor vehicle, the person
repossessing the same shall post a letter in a conspicuous place at the
residence of the person from whom such vehicle is being repossessed, if known,
and if unknown, at the place of such vehicle, immediately prior to such
repossession stating the information required by subsections
 5-6-3A, B, C and E of this Chapter. (Ord. 0-243, 2-22-77)
5-6-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this Chapter shall be fined not less
than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00). (Ord. 0-243, 2-22-77)
CHAPTER 7
GANG ACTIVITY
SECTION:
5-7-1: Graffiti Prohibited
5-7-2: Curfew
5-7-3: Parental Responsibility
5-7-4: Temporary Questioning Without Arrest
5-7-5: Gang Signs Prohibited
5-7-6: Loitering for the Purpose of Causing Street Gang Activity or Recruitment
Prohibited
5-7-7: Maintaining Public Nuisance
5-7-8: Loitering for the Purpose of Illegally Using, Possessing or Selling
Cannabis or Controlled Substances
5-7-9: Truancy Prohibited
5-7-1: GRAFFITI PROHIBITED:
   A.   Definition: For purposes of this Section, "graffiti" shall be defined
as: any sign, symbol, marking, drawing, name, initial, word, diagram, sketch,
picture or letter placed, without the express, written permission of the owner,
upon the real or personal property of said owner.
   B.   Nuisance Declared: Graffiti in public view is hereby declared to be a
nuisance as set forth in the ordinances of the Village and subject to the
provisions of Village ordinances regarding nuisances and abatement thereof.
   C.   Placement upon Property: It shall be unlawful for any person to place
graffiti upon the real or personal, public or private property of another.
   D.   Sign Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for the owner and/or
occupant of fixed real or personal property which is in public view to place or
give permission for the placement of any graffiti on such property without
having first obtained a properly issued sign permit.
   E.   Spray Paint, Markers Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to
possess, while in any public building or public facility or while on private
property, a spray paint container, paint, ink, marking pen which contains a
nonwater- soluble fluid, brush, applicator or any other material for marking
scratching or etching with the intent to use such material in violation of
subsection C or D hereinabove.
   F.   Penalties:
      1.   The penalty for violation of subsection C hereinabove shall be a
fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00). In addition to said fine, the offender may be ordered by the court
to pay restitution to the property owner for the costs of restoring the
property to its state prior to the application of graffiti.
      2.   The penalty for violation of subsection D hereinabove shall be a
fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during
or on which a violation occurs or continues.
      3.   The penalty for violation of subsection E hereinabove shall be a
fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00).
   G.   Gang Member Penalties: Any person convicted of a violation of
subsection C, D or E hereinabove, who is found to have been a member of a gang
as defined in Section
5-7-6A of this Chapter or candidate for membership in a gang at the time the
offense was committed and who is found to have violated said subsection in
conjunction with gang-related activities, shall be subject to a fine of not
less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) in addition to other penalties provided in this Section.
(Ord. 93-702, 7-27-93)
5-7-2: CURFEW:
Notwithstanding anything contained to the contrary in existing Village
ordinances the following shall apply with respect to curfew:
   A.   Persons Age Sixteen and Seventeen: It is unlawful for a person more
than fifteen (15) years of age but less than eighteen (18) years of age to be
present at or upon any public assembly, building, place, street or highway at
the following times, unless accompanied and supervised by a parent or legal
guardian, unless engaged in a business or occupation which the laws of this
State authorize a person less than eighteen (18) years of age to perform:
      1.   Between 12:01 A.M. and 6:00 A.M. Saturday.
      2.   Between 12:01 A.M. and 6:00 A.M. Sunday.
      3.   Between 11:00 P.M. on Sunday to Thursday, inclusive, and 6:00 A.M.
on the following day.
   B.   Persons Age Fifteen and Younger: It is unlawful for a person less than
sixteen (16) years of age to be present at or upon any public assembly,
building, place, street or highway at the following times unless accompanied
and supervised by a parent or legal guardian unless engaged in a business or
occupation which the laws of this State authorize a person less than sixteen
(16) years of age to perform or unless in attendance at, or while traveling
directly home from, a school, church or a not-for-profit community organization
sponsored activity:
      1.   Between 10:00 P.M. and 6:00 A.M. (on the following day), seven (7)
days a week.
   C.   Parental Responsibility: It is unlawful for any parent, legal guardian
or other person to knowingly permit a person in his custody or control to
violate this Section.
   D.   Penalty: Any person convicted of violating any provision of this
Section shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense. (Ord. 93-702, 7-27-93)
5-7-3: PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this Section, unless the context otherwise
requires, the terms specified have the meaning ascribed to them:
   LEGAL GUARDIAN: A person appointed guardian, or given custody, of a minor by
a Circuit Court of the State but does not include a person appointed guardian,
or given custody, of a minor under the Illinois Juvenile Court Act of 1987.
   MINOR: A person who is above the age of eleven (11) years but not yet
nineteen (19) years of age.
   B.   Liability for Damages: The parent or legal guardian of an unemancipated
minor who resides with such parent or legal guardian is liable for actual
damages for the wilful or malicious acts of such minor which cause injury to a
person or property.
   C.   Damages Allowed: No recovery under this Section may exceed one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) actual damages for each person or legal entity for each
occurrence of such wilful or malicious act by the minor causing injury, in
addition to taxable court costs. In determining the damages to be allowed in an
action under this Chapter for personal injury, only medical, dental and
hospital expenses and expenses for treatment by Christian Science practitioners
and nursing care appropriate thereto may be considered.
   D.   Recovery of Damages: This Chapter shall not affect the recovery of
damages in any other cause of action where the liability of the parent or legal
guardian is predicated on a common law or statutory basis. (Ord. 93-702, 7-27-
93)
5-7-4: TEMPORARY QUESTIONING WITHOUT ARREST:
   A.   Temporary Questioning: A peace officer, after having identified himself
as a peace officer, may stop any person in a public place for a reasonable
period of time when the person is wearing known gang colors, emblems or other
gang insignia or appears to be engaged in communicating gang-related messages
through the use of hand signals or other means of communication, and the
officer reasonably infers from the circumstances that the person is committing,
is about to commit or has committed any offense. Once stopped, the officer may
demand the name and address of the person and an explanation of his actions.
Such detention and temporary questioning will be conducted in the vicinity of
where the person was stopped.
   B.   Search for Weapons: When a peace officer has stopped a person for
temporary questioning pursuant to subsection A above and the officer reasonably
suspects that he or another officer is in danger of attack, he may search the
person for weapons. If any officer discovers a weapon, he may take it until the
completion of the questioning, at which time he shall return the weapon, if
lawfully possessed or arrest the person so questioned. (Ord. 93-702, 7-27-93)
5-7-5: GANG SIGNS PROHIBITED:
   A.   Signs Prohibited: It shall be a violation of this Chapter for any
person to display, demonstrate or throw a gang sign in any public place within
the Village.
   B.   Penalty: Any person found to have violated this Section shall be fined
not less than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) and not more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 93-702, 7-27-93)
5-7-6: LOITERING FOR THE PURPOSE OF CAUSING STREET GANG ACTIVITY OR RECRUITMENT
PROHIBITED:
   A.   Definitions:
   COURSE or PATTERN OF CRIMINAL ACTIVITY: Two (2) or more gang-related
criminal offenses when:
      1.   One or more of the offenses was committed after the effective date
of this Chapter; and
      2.   The offenses were committed within five (5) years of each other; and
      3.   At least one offense involved the solicitation to commit, conspiracy
to commit or commission of any offense defined as a felony or forcible felony
under the Illinois Criminal Code.
   GANG or STREET GANG: Any combination, confederation, alliance or
understanding in law or in fact, that through its members or through the agency
of any member and at the direction, order or request of any member who is a
leader or other authority, engages in a course or pattern of criminal activity.
   GANG-RELATED ACTIVITIES: Those activities which are conducted with the
intent to increase the gang's size or dominance or with the intent to provide
the gang with an advantage in the criminal market sector or with the intent to
obstruct justice or with the intent to otherwise directly or indirectly cause
any benefit or gain to or for the gang.
   B.   Loitering Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter,
loaf, wander, stand, or remain idle whether alone and/or in consort with others
in a public place with the purpose of recruiting others for membership in a
street gang or for participation in gang-related activities.
   C.   Penalty: The penalty for violation of this subsection A hereinabove
shall be a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 93-702, 7-27-93)
5-7-7: MAINTAINING PUBLIC NUISANCE:
   A.   Public Nuisance Declared: Any building or dwelling used in the
commission of offenses prohibited by 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes, sections
5/9-1, 5/10-2, 5/11-14, 5/11-15, 5/11-16, 5/11-17, 5/11-20.1, 5/11-21, 5/11-22,
5/12-5.1, 5/16-1, 5/20-2, 5/24-1(a)(7), 5/24-3, 5/28-1, 5/28-3, 5/31-5 or 510/
1 of the Criminal Code of 1961 or prohibited by the Illinois Controlled
Substances Act or the Cannabis Control Act or used in the commission of an
inchoate offense relative to any of the aforesaid principal offenses or used to
engage in gang related activities within the meaning of Section
5-7-6 of this Chapter is a public nuisance.
   B.   Penalty: Any person violating this subsection hereinabove shall be
fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00). Furthermore, if said person is not the owner of the building being
used for gang- related activity, the Court may order the offender to pay
restitution to the owner for the costs of any damage caused by such gang-
related activity, unless the owner knew or should have known that such activity
was taking place and negligently or wilfully failed to notify the Village of
the occurrence of such activities.
   C.   Abatement:
      1.   The Village may after thirty (30) days and within ninety (90) days
of giving the Attorney General and the State's Attorney of Will County written
notice by certified or registered mail of the fact that a public nuisance as
described in this Section exists, commence an action to abate said nuisance in
accordance with the procedures delineated below provided that the Attorney
General or the State's Attorney of Will County has not already commenced a
similar action.
      2.   The Village may commence an action to abate the public nuisance in
the Circuit Court of Will County. Upon being satisfied by affidavits or other
sworn evidence that an alleged public nuisance exists, the Court may without
notice or bond enter a temporary restraining order or preliminary injunction to
enjoin any defendant from maintaining such nuisance and may enter an order
restraining any defendant from removing or interfering with all property used
in connection with the public nuisance. If during the proceedings or hearings
upon the merits, which shall be in the manner of the "Controlled Substance and
Cannabis Nuisance Act" 1  the existence of the nuisance is established and it
is found that such nuisance was maintained with the intentional knowing or
reckless permission of the owner or agent of the owner managing the building,
the Court shall enter an order restraining all persons from maintaining or
allowing such nuisance for a period six (6) months thereafter, except that an
owner, lessee or other occupant thereof may use such place if the owner shall
give bond with sufficient security or surety approved by the Court, in an
amount between one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and five thousand dollars
($5,000.00) inclusive, payable to the Village and including a condition that no
offense specified in subsection A above shall be committed at, in or upon the
property described and a condition that the principal obligor and surety assume
responsibility for any fine, costs or damages resulting from such an offense
thereafter. (Ord. 93-702, 7-27-93)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 740 ILCS 40/0.01 et seq.
5-7-8: LOITERING FOR THE PURPOSE OF ILLEGALLY USING, POSSESSING OR SELLING
CANNABIS OR CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES:
   A.   Loitering Prohibited: It shall be a violation of this Chapter for a
person to loiter in a public place in a manner and under circumstances
manifesting the purpose of illegally using, possessing, transferring or selling
any cannabis or controlled substance. Among the circumstances which may be
considered in determining whether such a purpose is manifested are:
      1.   The person is a known illegal user, possessor or seller of cannabis
or controlled substance or the person is loitering in a place frequented by
persons who are known to illegally use, possess, transfer or sell cannabis or
controlled substances; and
      2.   The person repeatedly attempts to stop or engage in conversation
with passersby, whether such passersby are on foot or in a motor vehicle or
other form of transportation, for the purposes of inducing, enticing,
soliciting or procuring another to illegally possess, transfer or buy any
cannabis or controlled substances; or
      3.   The person repeatedly passes to or receives from passersby, whether
such passersby are on foot or in a motor vehicle or other form of
transportation, money, objects or written material for the purposes of
inducing, enticing, soliciting or procuring another to illegally possess,
transfer or buy any cannabis or a controlled substance.
   B.   Intent to Induce Demonstrated: A person shall not have violated this
Chapter unless he demonstrates expressly or implicitly a specific intent to
induce, entice, solicit or procure another to illegally possess, transfer or
buy cannabis or a controlled substance.
   C.   Arrest by Police Officer: A peace officer may not arrest a person for
violation of this Chapter unless the peace officer first offers the person an
opportunity to explain his conduct.
   D.   Known Illegal User, Possessor or Seller Defined: For the purposes of
this Section, a "known illegal user, possessor, or seller of controlled
substances" is a person who, within one year previous to the date of arrest for
violation of this Section, has within the knowledge of the arresting officer
been convicted of illegally manufacturing, using, possessing, selling,
purchasing or delivering any controlled substance.
   E.   Penalty: Any person found to have violated any provision of this
Section shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense. (Ord. 93-702, 7-27-93)
5-7-9: TRUANCY PROHIBITED:
   A.   Absence Prohibited: It shall be a violation of this Chapter for any
person under the age of eighteen (18) who is enrolled in a public, private or
parochial school to absent himself from attendance at such school without the
permission of his legal guardian(s) or parent(s). Any person who shall so
absent himself shall be guilty of the offense of truancy and be subject to the
penalties set forth below. Emergency or unforeseen absences due to illness or
other reasonable cause beyond the control of the person so absenting himself
from school without the permission of his parent(s) or legal guardian(s) shall
not constitute truancy if such permission is obtained from said parent(s) or
legal guardian(s) and submitted in writing to the proper school authorities
within twenty four (24) hours of such absence.
   B.   Initial Contact and Documentation; Procedure:
      1.   Upon encountering a school-aged individual outside of school during
school hours, a police officer or truant officer shall:
         a.   Question such individual in order to determine whether the
individual has violated this Chapter and verify truancy with the school via
radio, telephone or personal visit; and
         b.   Upon reasonably ascertaining that such individual has violated
this Chapter, seize the individual and return him to the proper authority at
the school; and
         c.   Complete a truancy report containing the following information:
full name, date of birth, address, telephone number, parent or guardian's name,
work place telephone number and school attended; and
         d.   Forward a copy of the report to juvenile investigations and the
truant officer of Will County.
      2.   A juvenile officer shall renew the report and complete or update an
applicable juvenile contact card. Further, a school representative or County
truant officer may file a report of truancy directly with a juvenile officer in
cases of frequent truancy that is not documented by police reports.
   C.   Chronic Truants; Procedure: A chronic truant, hereinafter defined as an
individual who has violated this Section three (3) times in one year or has
otherwise been shown to have absented himself from school three (3) times in
one year, shall submit to a student and parent conference with either a
juvenile officer, County truant officer or school representative at the request
of same. The following disposition or "staffing" may result:
      1.   Station adjustment.
      2.   Station adjustment with supervision by a juvenile officer, if
applicable.
      3.   Referral of chronic truant to counseling and/or appropriate agency
to deal with the specialized problem.
      4.   Referral to the Court.
   D.   Recommended Dispositions in Juvenile or Adult Court:
      1.   The Court shall consider the following as possible dispositions of a
chronic truancy case:
         a.   Adult supervision for one year or for the balance of the school
year in which the offense was committed.
         b.   Suspension of driver's license where applicable.
         c.   Community service work.
         d.   Fines of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) to five hundred
dollars ($500.00), which may be waived upon the successful completion of the
school year without unexplained absence.
   E.   Referral to Specific Agencies: Referral to specific agencies available
to address specific problems. (Ord. 93-702, 7-27-93)
CHAPTER 8
ALARM SYSTEMS
SECTION:
5-8-1: False Alarms Prohibited
5-8-1: FALSE ALARMS PROHIBITED:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this Chapter is to define and abate false
alarms. False alarms are hereby declared to be detrimental to the safety and
public welfare of the people of this Village.
   B.   Definitions: The following definitions shall apply in the
interpretation and enforcement of this Chapter:
   ALARM: Any audible, visual, electronic or other signal indicating occurrence
of an emergency.
   ALARM SYSTEM: Any device designed to detect the occurrence of an emergency
and to transmit an alarm or any device designed to transmit an alarm upon being
activated by a person. Alarm systems include, but are not limited to, burglar
alarms, hold-up alarms, fire alarms, including automatic dialing systems and
systems utilizing an operator or central location to which signals are
transferred.
   ALARM USER: The property owner or person in control of any vehicle,
building, structure or facility or portion thereof wherein an alarm system is
maintained.
   AUTOMATIC DIALING SYSTEM: Any alarm system which upon being activated
automatically transmits by telephone line a recorded message or code signal
indicating the occurrence of an emergency or the need for a response to an
emergency.
   EMERGENCY: The occurrence of fire, smoke or combustion; unlawful forced
entry or burglary; robbery or other violent crime; flood, tornado, earthquake
or other natural disaster.
   FALSE ALARM: The transmission by an alarm system of an alarm when an
emergency does not, in fact, exist. False alarms shall not include alarms
activated by:
      1.   Criminal activity or unauthorized entry;
      2.   Earthquake, hurricane or tornado winds causing structural damage to
the protected premises;
      3.   Flooding of the protected premises;
      4.   Lightning; or
      5.   Fire causing damage to the protected premises.
If, prior to the time that a police officer(s) is dispatched to investigate an
alarm, the alarm has been identified to the police or Fire Department to be a
false alarm, authorized system test or the result of any other nonemergency
cause, then the alarm shall not be considered a false alarm for the purposes of
this Chapter.
There shall be a rebuttable presumption that an alarm is a false alarm if the
Fire Department and/or Police Department officers responding to the alarm check
the premises upon which the alarm system is installed, do not discover any
evidence of an unauthorized entry, criminal activity or other emergency.
A false alarm transmitted by a newly installed alarm system shall not be
considered a false alarm for the purposes of this Chapter, if the false alarm
is transmitted within fourteen (14) days of the installation.
   KEY HOLDER: A person authorized by the alarm user to have access to the
protected premises and alarm system by use of a key or combination.
   PERSON: Any individual, corporation, partnership, organization, firm,
association or other entity.
   C.   Public Nuisance: A false alarm as defined in this Chapter is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance.
   D.   Response to Alarms:
      1.   Whenever an alarm system is activated and causes an emergency
response by a member of the Police or Fire Department, the officer(s)/
firefighters(s) responding to the alarm shall inspect the area protected by the
system and determine whether or not the alarm was a false alarm.
      2.   If the officer/firefighter in charge of the scene of the activated
alarm system determines the alarm to be false, the officer/firefighter shall
make a report of the false alarm, a notification of which shall be mailed or
delivered to the alarm user by the Shorewood Police Department advising such
person of the false alarm.
   E.   Automatic Dialing Systems:
      1.   Alarm users of all automatic dialing systems within the Village are
required to fill out and file an information card with the Shorewood Police
Department and with the agency which is being called by the automatic dialer.
The information card shall contain the names of all key holders with regard to
the premises and alarm system and the names of two (2) contact persons,
including their work and home addresses and their work, home, page and other
telephone numbers at which they may be reached. The purpose of this requirement
is to secure information as to the location and whereabouts of a contact person
and to ensure that such information is readily available to the Police
Department in the event of an emergency or other situation. Alarm users shall
update the required information as changes, if any, occur.
      2.   Messages transmitted by automatic dialing systems shall be no longer
than forty five (45) seconds in length with an automatic cutoff at the end of
the message. The message must contain the location of the building, not the
mailing address.
   F.   Outside Audible Alarms: All outside audible alarms on burglar alarm
systems are required to be of the "resetting type" and capable of being
deactivated by a key holder. No outside audible alarms shall continue to signal
for more than thirty (30) minutes and an alarm user maintaining such an alarm
system shall be guilty of a violation of this Chapter. Outside audible alarms
on fire alarm systems are not required to be of the resetting type. All alarm
users of fire alarm systems on business or manufacturing establishments shall
provide the Shorewood Police Department with a list of the key holders
containing the information required in subsection E of this Section.
   G.   False Alarm Penalty:
      1.   General Penalty: Except as specifically permitted hereafter, any
person determined to have violated any section or provision of this Section
shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for any one offense.
      2.   Fire Alarm Systems: No alarm user of fire alarm systems shall permit
their fire alarm system to transmit a false alarm. There shall be no penalty
under this Chapter for the first two (2) false alarms within any twelve (12)
month period. In the event of three (3) false fire alarms within any twelve
(12) month period, the fine shall be not less than seventy five dollars
($75.00). In the event of four (4) false fire alarms, the fine shall not be
less than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00). In the event of five (5) or more
false fire alarms within any twelve (12) month period, the fine shall not be
less than two hundred dollars ($200.00). Any fines (exclusive of court costs
imposed by virtue of this subsection) shall be equally divided between the
Village and the Troy Fire Protection District.
      3.   Burglar or Hold-Up Alarm Systems: No alarm user of burglar or hold-
up alarm systems shall permit the burglar or hold-up alarm system to transmit a
false alarm. There shall be no penalty for the first three (3) false burglar or
hold-up alarms within any twelve (12) month period. In the event of four (4)
false burglar or hold-up alarms within a twelve (12) month period, the fine
shall be not less than seventy five dollars ($75.00). In the event of five (5)
false burglar or hold-up alarms within a twelve (12) month period, the fine
shall not be less than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00). In the event of six
(6) or more false burglar or hold-up alarms within any twelve (12) month
period, the fine shall not be less than two hundred dollars ($200.00). (Ord.
94-733, 2-22-94)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
VEHICLE CODE
SECTION:
6-1-1: Illinois Vehicle Code Adopted
6-1-2: Violations; Penalty
6-1-1: ILLINOIS VEHICLE CODE ADOPTED:
The village adopts by reference chapter 3, Certificates of Title and
Registration of Vehicles; chapter 6, Illinois Driver Licensing Law; chapter 7,
Illinois Safety Responsibility Law; chapter 11, Rules of the Road; chapter 12,
Equipment of Vehicles; and chapter 15, Size, Weight, Load and Permits of 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1 et seq., as the same may be amended from time to
time, as part of the vehicle code for the village. A copy of said code has been
on file in the office of the village clerk and available for public use,
inspection and examination at least thirty (30) days prior to the adoption
thereof as provided in this chapter. The number system used by 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/1 et seq., is adopted as the numbering system for
violations of said chapters adopted. (Ord. 00-998, 7-11-2000)
6-1-2: VIOLATIONS; PENALTY:
Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be fined not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each
violation, except as otherwise provided in the Illinois Vehicle Code.
Notwithstanding anything contained in this section, the offense of driving
under the influence is a Class A misdemeanor and is punishable accordingly. All
citations issued for violation of this chapter shall be in the name of the
village and shall refer to the number sections in the chapters adopted in
section
6-1-1 of this chapter, but shall also be referred to as an ordinance violation
in the traffic ticket or complaint. (Ord. 00-998, 7-11-2000)
CHAPTER 2
BIKE PATHS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Designated Bike Path; Motorized Vehicles Prohibited
6-2-2: Hours Of Use
6-2-3: Obedience To Signs
6-2-4: Obedience To Laws
6-2-5: Park Authority
6-2-1: DESIGNATED BIKE PATH; MOTORIZED VEHICLES PROHIBITED:
Where areas have been designated by signs or appropriate street markings as a
"bike path", all motorized vehicles are prohibited from driving in the areas
designated for bicycle traffic except: a) emergency and maintenance vehicles,
and except b) motorized mechanical equipment used by those who have a medical
or physical disability condition which requires its use. Violators shall be
subject to a fine in the amount of five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 03-
1178, 8-26-2003, eff. 8-26-2003)
6-2-2: HOURS OF USE:
Unless otherwise posted by the village, use of the bike paths which are not in
the right of way of a public street, shall be restricted to the hours of six
o'clock (6:00) A.M. to eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. from November 1 to March 31,
and from five thirty o'clock (5:30) A.M. to ten thirty o'clock (10:30) P.M.
from April 1 to October 31. (Ord. 03-1178, 8-26-2003, eff. 8-26-2003)
6-2-3: OBEDIENCE TO SIGNS:
All persons utilizing the bike path shall obey all posted signs. (Ord. 03-1178,
8-26-2003, eff. 8-26-2003)
6-2-4: OBEDIENCE TO LAWS:
All persons utilizing the bike path shall obey all state and village laws and
ordinances when using the trail and when crossing street or roadway
intersections. (Ord. 03-1178, 8-26-2003, eff. 8-26-2003)
6-2-5: PARK AUTHORITY:
All rules and regulations of the Shorewood park department shall apply to any
persons utilizing the bike paths. (Ord. 03-1178, 8-26-2003, eff. 8-26-2003)
CHAPTER 3
VEHICLE IMPOUNDMENT
SECTION:
6-3-1: Vehicle Impoundment
6-3-2: Impoundment Hearings
6-3-3: Hearing Officer
6-3-1: VEHICLE IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Whenever a police officer has cause to believe that a motor vehicle is
subject to impoundment, the officer may authorize the towing of the vehicle to
a facility authorized by the Village of Shorewood. The motor vehicle seized
shall be impounded pending the completion of the hearings provided herein,
unless the owner or lessee of the vehicle or a lienholder posts with the
Village of Shorewood a bond equal to the administrative and processing costs as
provided by this chapter and pays for all towing and storage charges.
   B.   Offenses Subject To Administrative And Processing Costs: Any motor
vehicle which is used in connection with an offense listed at 625 ILCS 5/11-
208.7(b) or an ordinance substantially similar to such offense may be subject
to administrative and processing costs prior to the release of a properly
impounded vehicle, including:
      1.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense for which a motor vehicle may be seized and
forfeited pursuant to Section 36-1 of the Criminal Code of 2012; or
      2.   Driving under the influence of alcohol, another drug or drugs, an
intoxicating compound or compounds, or any combination thereof, in violation of
Section 11-501 of the Illinois Vehicle Code; or
      3.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, a felony or in violation of the Cannabis Control Act; or
      4.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense in violation of the Illinois Controlled
Substances Act; or
      5.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense in violation of Section 24-1, 24-1.5, or 24-3.1
of the Criminal Code of 1961 or the Criminal Code of 2012; or
      6.   Driving while a driver's license, permit, or privilege to operate a
motor vehicle is suspended or revoked pursuant to Section 6-303 of the Illinois
Vehicle Code;
      7.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle while soliciting, possessing, or
attempting to solicit or possess cannabis or a controlled substance, as defined
by the Cannabis Control Act or the Illinois Controlled Substances Act; or
      8.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle with an expired driver's
license, in violation of Section 6-101 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, if the
period of expiration is greater than one year; or
      9.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle without ever having been issued
a driver's license or permit, in violation of Section 6-101 of the Illinois
Vehicle Code, or operating a motor vehicle without ever having been issued a
driver's license or permit due to a person's age; or
      10.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle by a person against whom a
warrant has been issued by a circuit clerk in Illinois for failing to answer
charges that the driver violated Section 6-101, 6-303, or 11-501 of the
Illinois Vehicle Code; or
      11.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense in violation of Article 16 or 16A of the Criminal
Code of 1961 or the Criminal Code of 2012; or
      12.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, any other misdemeanor or felony offense in violation of the
Criminal Code of 1961 or the Criminal Code of 2012; or
      13.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in violation of Section 11-503
of the Illinois Vehicle Code:
         a.   While the vehicle is part of a funeral procession; or
         b.   In a manner that interferes with a funeral procession.
   C.   Administrative And Processing Costs: The following shall apply to the
administrative and processing costs imposed under this chapter:
      1.   All administrative fees and towing and storage charges shall be
imposed on the registered owner of the motor vehicle or the owner's agent(s).
      2.   The fees shall be in addition to any other penalties that may be
assessed by a court of law for the underlying violations and any towing or
storage fees, or both, charged by the towing company.
      3.   The fees shall be uniform for all similarly situated vehicles.
      4.   The fees shall be collected by and paid to the Village of Shorewood.
      5.   The towing or storage fees, or both, shall be collected by and paid
to the person, firm, or entity that tows and stores the impounded vehicle.
      6.   The administrative fee shall be five hundred dollars ($500.00).
   D.   The motor vehicle will only be released to its owner, lessee, or
lienholder of record after all applicable fees are paid or until it is
determined after a hearing that the motor vehicle should not have been seized
and impounded.
   E.   The administrative fee shall be waived by the village upon verifiable
proof from the owner of record or lessee that the vehicle was stolen at the
time the vehicle was impounded. (Ord. 25-2146, 6-10-2025)
6-3-2: IMPOUNDMENT HEARINGS:
   A.   Notice Of Impoundment: The village shall notify or make a reasonable
attempt to notify the registered owner, lessee, or person identifying himself
or herself as the owner or lessee of the vehicle, or any person who is found to
be in control of the vehicle at the time of the alleged offense, of the fact of
the seizure, and of the vehicle owner's or lessee's right to an administrative
hearing. The village shall provide notice that the motor vehicle will remain
impounded pending the completion of an administrative hearing, unless the owner
or lessee of the vehicle or a lienholder posts with the Village of Shorewood a
bond equal to the administrative fee as provided by this chapter and pays for
all towing and storage charges.
   B.   Notice Of Hearing: The registered owner or lessee of the vehicle and
any lienholder of record shall be provided with notice of the hearing. The
notice shall be served upon the owner, lessee, and any lienholder of record by
either personal service or first-class mail to the interested party's address
as registered with the Secretary of State within ten (10) days after the
vehicle is impounded and must contain the date, time, and location of the
administrative hearing. An initial hearing must be scheduled and convened no
later than forty-five (45) days after the date of service or mailing of the
notice of hearing.
   C.   Administrative Hearing: At any time prior to the hearing date, the
hearing officer may administer oaths, subpoena witnesses to appear and give
testimony, and order the production of relevant documents at the hearing. The
hearing shall be scheduled and held, unless continued by order of the hearing
officer, no later than forty-five (45) days after the vehicle was seized. The
hearing must be recorded. The parties may be represented by counsel and shall
be given a reasonable opportunity to be heard at the hearing. The formal rules
of evidence do not apply at the hearing. The hearing officer shall determine
whether there is probable cause to believe the vehicle is subject to seizure
and impoundment. If the hearing officer determines that the vehicle was used in
connection with a violation, the hearing officer shall enter an order finding
the owner of record of the vehicle civilly liable to the village for an
administrative fee. If the owner of the record fails to appear at the hearing,
the hearing officer shall enter a default order in favor of the village and
impose an administrative fee. If the hearing officer finds that the vehicle was
not used in connection with a violation, the hearing officer shall order the
immediate return of the vehicle or posted cash bond.
   D.   If an administrative fee is imposed pursuant to this chapter, such fee
shall constitute a debt due and owing to the village. If a cash bond has been
posted pursuant to this chapter, the bond shall be applied to the fee. If a
vehicle has been impounded when such a fee is imposed, the village may seek to
obtain a judgment on the debt and enforce such judgment against the vehicle as
provided by law, including but not limited to collection of the debt by a
collection agency as provided in Section 1-2-1 of the Illinois Municipal Code
(65 ILCS 5/1-2-1) and in subsection G below. If the administrative fee is not
paid within thirty-five (35) days after the expiration of time at which
administrative review of the hearing officer's determination may be sought or
within thirty (30) days after an action seeking administrative review has been
resolved in favor of the village, whichever is applicable, the vehicle shall be
deemed unclaimed and shall be disposed of in the manner provided by law for the
disposition of unclaimed vehicles under Section 4-208 of the Illinois Vehicle
Code (625 ILCS 5/4-208). Except as otherwise specifically provided by law, no
owner, lien holder or other person shall be legally entitled to take possession
of a vehicle impounded under this chapter until the administrative fee has been
paid.
   E.   Preliminary Hearing: A preliminary hearing shall be held only if the
owner of record or lessee of a vehicle seized files a written request for a
preliminary hearing and the written request is filed at the Shorewood Police
Department during normal business hours within forty-eight (48) hours of the
motor vehicle seizure. If a request for a preliminary hearing is timely filed,
the chief of police or his/her designee shall conduct such hearing within
seventy-two (72) hours after the request, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and
holidays. The preliminary hearing shall be informal, not subject to the rules
of evidence, and may be conducted via phone or other digital communication
software such as Microsoft Teams or Zoom. The chief of police or designee will
determine whether there is probable cause to believe the vehicle is subject to
seizure and impoundment pursuant to section
6-3-1. In those cases where probable cause exists, the chief of police or
designee shall order the continued impoundment of the vehicle until the
administrative hearing. In those cases where probable cause does not exist, the
hearing officer shall order the immediate release of the vehicle.
   F.   For purposes of this section, the "owner of record" of a vehicle is the
record titleholder as registered with the Illinois Secretary of State.
   G.   Collection Fees And Costs: If an administrative fee is assessed
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, a default in the payment of the fee
or any installment may be collected by any means authorized for the collection
of monetary judgments, including but not limited to collection by a collection
agency, as provided in Section 1-2-1 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/
1-2-1). The Village of Shorewood may retain an attorney and/or private
collection agents for the purpose of collecting any default in payment of any
fee or installment, and an additional cost of thirty-five percent (35%) will be
added to any fee referred to a collections agency. (Ord. 25-2146, 6-10-2025)
6-3-3: HEARING OFFICER:
   A.   In addition to the requirements contained in subdivision (b)(4) of
Section 11-208.3 of the Illinois Vehicle Code relating to administrative
hearings (625 ILCS 5/11-208.3), the impoundment and release of vehicles under
this chapter shall include the following requirements concerning administrative
hearings:
      1.   Administrative hearings shall be conducted by a hearing officer who
is an attorney licensed to practice law in the State of Illinois for a minimum
of three (3) years;
      2.   At the conclusion of the administrative hearing, the hearing officer
shall issue a written decision either sustaining or overruling the vehicle
impoundment;
      3.   If the basis for the vehicle impoundment is sustained by the
administrative hearing officer, any administrative fee posted to secure the
release of the vehicle shall be forfeited to the Village of Shorewood;
      4.   All final decisions of the administrative hearing officer shall be
subject to review under the provisions of the Administrative Review Law;
      5.   Unless the administrative hearing officer overrules the vehicle
impoundment, no vehicle shall be released to the owner, lessee, or lien holder
of record until all fees are paid; and
      6.   If the administrative hearing officer finds that the Shorewood
Police Department exceeded its authority under this chapter, the Village of
Shorewood shall be liable to the registered owner or lessee of the vehicle for
the cost of tow fees and reasonable attorney's fees. (Ord. 25-2146, 6-10-2025)
EXHIBIT A
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-100. Short Title
1-101. to
1-225. Definitions
1-226. to 1-300. Reserved
1-100.    SHORT TITLE:
This Act shall be known and may be cited as The Shorewood Vehicle Code. (Ord.
90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-101. DEFINITION OF WORDS AND PHRASES:
The following words and phrases, when used in this Code, shall, for the purpose
of this Code, have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this Chapter,
except when the context otherwise requires and except where another definition
set forth in another chapter of this Code and applicable to that chapter or a
designated part thereof is applicable. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-101.1. ACT:
The word "Act" as used in this Code shall, unless the context otherwise clearly
indicates, mean The Shorewood Vehicle Code. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-101.2. RESERVED
1-101.3. ACQUISITION OF VEHICLE OR VEHICLE PART:
The purchase or receipt of a vehicle or vehicle part. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90,
eff. 5-1-90)
1-102.    ALLEY:
A public way within a block, generally giving access to the rear of lots or
buildings and not used for general traffic circulation. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90,
eff. 5-1-90)
1-102.01. AMBULANCE:
Any publicly or privately-owned vehicle which is specifically designed,
constructed or modified and equipped and is intended to be used for and is
maintained or operated for the emergency transportation of persons who are
sick, injured, wounded or otherwise incapacitated or helpless. (Ord. 90-535, 4-
24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-102.02. ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE:
Any motorized off-highway device fifty inches (50") or less in width, having a
manufacturer's dry weight of six hundred (600) pounds or less, traveling on
three (3) or more low-pressure tires, designed with a seat or saddle for
operator use and handlebars or steering wheel for steering control. (Ord. 90-
535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-102.1. ANTIQUE VEHICLE:
A motor vehicle that is more than twenty five (25) years of age or a bona fide
replica thereof and which is driven on the highways only going to and returning
from an antique auto show or an exhibition or for servicing or demonstration or
a firefighting vehicle more than twenty (20) years old which is not used as
firefighting equipment but is used only for the purpose of exhibition or
demonstration. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-103. RESERVED
1-104.    ARTERIAL STREET:
Any U.S. or State numbered route, controlled access highway or other major
radial or circumferential street or highway designated by local authorities
within their respective jurisdictions as part of a major arterial system of
streets or highway. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-104.1. RESERVED
1-105.    AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE:
Emergency vehicles of Municipal departments or public service corporations as
are designated or authorized by proper local authorities, police vehicles,
vehicles of the fire department and ambulances. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-
1-90)
1-106. BICYCLE:
Every device propelled by human power upon which any persons may ride, having
two (2) tandem wheels except scooters and similar devices. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-
90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-107.    BUS:
Every motor vehicle, other than a commuter van, designed for carrying more than
ten (10) persons. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-108. BUSINESS DISTRICT:
The territory contiguous to and including a highway when, within any six
hundred feet (600') along such highway, there are buildings in use for business
or industrial purposes, including but not limited to hotels, banks or office
buildings, railroad stations and public buildings which occupy at least three
hundred feet (300') of frontage on one side or three hundred feet (300')
collectively on both sides of the highway. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-109. RESERVED
1-109.01. CAMPING TRAILER:
A trailer, not used commercially, constructed with partial side walls which
fold for towing and unfold to provide temporary living quarters for
recreational camping or travel use and of a size or weight not requiring an
overdimension permit when towed on a highway. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-
90)
1-110.   RESERVED
1-110.1. CHASSIS:
Every frame or supportive element of a vehicle whether or not a manufacturer's
identification number, serial number or other identifying numbers are present
on said part. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-110.2. RESERVED
1-111.    CHAUFFEUR:
   (a)   All persons employed by another for the principal purpose of driving a
motor vehicle.
   (b)   All persons who drive a school bus transporting children.
   (c)   All persons employed in connection with the operation of any school,
day camp, summer camp or nursery school who drive any motor vehicle
transporting children to or from any school, day camp, summer camp or nursery
school.
   (d)   All persons who drive any motor vehicle when used for the
transportation of persons or property for compensation.
   (e)   All persons, except those who are engaged in a ridesharing
arrangement, who are employed to drive a commuter van while transporting
persons to and from their place of employment. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-
90)
1-111.1.   CHAPTER:
Unless the context otherwise clearly indicates, a Chapter of The Shorewood
Vehicle Code. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-111.2.   CODE:
Unless the context otherwise clearly indicates, The Shorewood Vehicle Code.
(Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-111.3. RESERVED
1-112. CONTROLLED ACCESS HIGHWAY:
Every highway, street or roadway in respect to which owners or occupants of
abutting lands and other persons have no legal right of access to or from the
same except at such points only and in such manner as may be determined by the
public authority having jurisdiction over such highway, street or roadway.
(Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-113.    CROSSWALK:
   (a)   That part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
highway measured from the curbs or, in the absence of curbs, from the edges of
the traversable roadway, and in the absence of a sidewalk on one side of the
highway, that part of the highway included within the extension of the lateral
line of the existing sidewalk to the side of the highway without the sidewalk,
with such extension forming a right angle to the center line of the highway.
   (b)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface
placed in accordance with the provisions in the Manual adopted by the
Department of Transportation as authorized in section 11-301 of the Illinois
Vehicle Code 1 . (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
 
Notes
1 1.   S.H.A. 625 ILCS.
1-114.    COMMERCIAL VEHICLE:
Any vehicle operated for the transportation of persons or property in the
furtherance of any commercial or industrial enterprise, for-hire or not-for-
hire, but not including a commuter van, a vehicle used in a ridesharing
arrangement when being used for that purpose or a recreational vehicle not
being used commercially. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-114.1. COMMUTER VAN:
A motor vehicle designed for the transportation of not less than seven (7) nor
more than sixteen (16) passengers, which is: 1) used in a ridesharing
arrangement or 2) owned or leased by or on behalf of a company or an employee
organization and operated on a nonprofit basis with the primary purpose of
transporting employees of the company between the employees' homes and the
company's place of business or a public transportation station and in which the
operating, administrative, maintenance and reasonable depreciation costs are
paid principally by the persons utilizing the commuter van. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-
90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-114.2. COUNTERFEIT:
To copy or imitate, without legal authority, with the intent of deceiving or
defrauding. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-115.    DEALER:
Every person engaged in the business of acquiring or disposing of vehicles or
their essential parts and who has an established place of business for such
purpose. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-115.1. DISPOSITION OF VEHICLE OR VEHICLE PART:
The purchase, exchange, transfer, sale, assignment or other change of ownership
or possession or the junking or wrecking of a vehicle or vehicle part. (Ord.
90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-116.    DRIVER:
Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle. (Ord.
90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-116.1. DRIVER'S LICENSE:
Any license to operate a motor vehicle issued under the laws of this State.
(Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-117. DRIVER LICENSE COMPACT:
The driver license compact set forth in chapter 6 of the Illinois Vehicle Code
1 . (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
 
Notes
1 1.   S.H.A. 625 ILCS.
1-118.    ESSENTIAL PARTS:
All integral and body parts of a vehicle of a type required to be registered
hereunder, the removal, alteration or substitution of which would tend to
conceal the identity of the vehicle or substantially alter its appearance,
model, type or mode of operation. "Essential parts" includes the following:
vehicle hulks, shells, chassis, frames, front end assemblies (which may consist
of headlight, grill, fenders and hood), front clip (front end assembly with
cowl attached), rear clip (which may consist of quarter panels, fenders, floor
and top), doors, hatchbacks, fenders, quarter panels, cabs, cab clips, cowls,
hoods, trunk lids, deck lids, T-tops, sunroofs, moon roofs, astro roofs,
transmissions, engines and similar parts. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-119. EXPLOSIVES:
Any chemical    compound or mechanical mixture that is commonly used or
intended for the purpose of producing an explosion and which contains any
oxidizing and combustive units or other ingredients in such proportions,
quantities or packing that an ignition by fire, by friction, by concussion, by
percussion or by detonator of any part of the compound or mixture may cause
such a sudden generation of highly heated gases that the resultant gaseous
pressures are capable of producing destructive effects on contiguous objects or
of destroying life or limb. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-120.    FARM TRACTOR:
Every motorized device designed and used primarily as a farm implement for
drawing wagons, plows, mowing machines and other implements of husbandry, and
every implement of husbandry which is self-propelled, excluding all-terrain
vehicles and off-highway motorcycles as defined in this Code. (Ord. 90-535, 4-
24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-121.    FLAMMABLE LIQUID:
Any liquid which has a flash point of seventy degrees (70°) Fahrenheit or less,
as determined by a tagliabue or equivalent closed-cup test device. (Ord. 90-
535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-122. FLEET:
One or more commercial motor vehicles. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-122.1. FLEET SAFETY VEHICLE:
Any motor vehicle which is used to supervise operations of vehicles of the
second division on the highway so as to promote safety and legal operations of
such second division vehicle. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-123.    FOREIGN VEHICLE:
Every vehicle of a type required to be registered hereunder brought into this
State from another state, territory or country other than in the ordinary
course of business by or through a manufacturer or dealer and not registered in
this State. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-123.1. RESERVED
1-124.    FOR-HIRE:
The operation of a vehicle for compensation and subject to Federal regulation
by the Interstate Commerce Commission or to State regulation by the Illinois
Commerce Commission. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-124.1. RESERVED
1-125.    GROSS WEIGHT:
The weight of a vehicle, whether operated singly or in combination, without
load plus the weight of the load thereon. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-126. HIGHWAY:
The entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly maintained
when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of
vehicular travel. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-127. RESERVED
1-128.    HOUSE TRAILER:
   (a)   A trailer or semi-trailer equipped and used for living quarters or for
human habitation (temporarily or permanently) rather than for the
transportation of freight, goods, wares and merchandise; or
   (b)   A house trailer or a semi-trailer which is used commercially
(temporarily or permanently), that is, for the advertising, sales, display or
promotion of merchandise or services, or for any other commercial purpose
except the transportation of property for hire or the transportation of
property for distribution by a private carrier. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-
1-90)
1-129. IDENTIFICATION NUMBER:
The numbers and letters, if any, on a vehicle or essential part, affixed by its
manufacturer, the Illinois Secretary of State or the Illinois Department of
State Police for the purpose of identifying the vehicle or essential part or
which is required to be affixed to the vehicle or part by Federal or State law.
(Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-130. IMPLEMENT OF HUSBANDRY:
Every vehicle designed and adapted exclusively for agricultural, horticultural
or livestock raising operations, including farm wagons, wagon trailers or like
vehicles used in connection therewith, or for lifting or carrying an implement
of husbandry; provided, that no farm wagon, wagon trailer or like vehicle
having a gross weight of more than thirty six thousand (36,000) pounds shall be
included hereunder. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-131. IMPROVED HIGHWAY:
Any roadway of concrete, brick, asphalt, macadam and crushed stone or gravel.
(Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-132.    INTERSECTION:
   (a)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the lateral
curb lines or, if not, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways of two
(2) highways which join one another at, or approximately at, right angles or
the area within which vehicles traveling upon different roadways joining at any
other angle may come in conflict.
   (b)   Where a highway includes two (2) roadways forty feet (40') or more
apart, then every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an
intersecting highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection.
   (c)   The junction of an alley with a street or highway does not constitute
an intersection. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-133. INTERSTATE OR INTERSTATE COMMERCE:
Transportation between two (2) or more states or transportation originating in
one state and passing into or through other states for delivery in another
state and which is not intrastate. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-133.1. INTERSTATE HIGHWAY:
Any highway which is now, or shall hereafter be, a part of the national system
of interstate and defense highways within this State. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90,
eff. 5-1-90)
1-134. INTRASTATE OR INTRASTATE COMMERCE:
Transportation originating at any point or place within this State and destined
to any other point or place within this State, irrespective of the route,
highway or highways traversed, and including transportation which passes into
or through another state before delivery is made within this State, and
including any act of transportation which includes or completes a pickup within
Illinois for delivery within Illinois. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-134.1. JUNK VEHICLE:
A junk vehicle is a vehicle which has been or is being disassembled, crushed,
compressed, flattened, destroyed or otherwise reduced to a state in which it no
longer can be returned to an operable state. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-
90)
1-135.    LANE-CONTROL SIGNAL:
An official traffic-control device consisting of an electrically controlled and
illuminated signal of a square or rectangular design and employing distinctive
colors or symbols used to control the direction of vehicular flow on the
particular lane to which the indication applies. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-
1-90)
1-136.    LANED ROADWAY:
A roadway which is divided into two (2) or more clearly marked lanes for
vehicular traffic. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-137.    RESERVED
1-138.    LICENSE TO DRIVE:
Any driver's license or any other license or permit to operate a motor vehicle
issued under the laws of this State including:
   (a)   Any temporary license or instruction permit.
   (b)   The privilege of any person to drive a motor vehicle whether or not
such person holds a valid license or permit.
   (c)   Any nonresident's driving privilege as defined herein. (Ord. 90-535,
4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-138.1. LICENSEE:
A person licensed or required to be licensed under sections 5-101, 5-102, 5-201
and 5-301 of the Illinois Vehicle Code 1 . (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 625 ILCS.
1-139. LIENHOLDER:
A person holding a security interest in a vehicle. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff.
5-1-90)
1-140.    LOCAL AUTHORITIES:
Every county, municipal and other local board or body having authority to enact
laws relating to traffic under the constitution and laws of this State. (Ord.
90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-141. MAIL:
To deposit in the United States mail, properly addressed and with postage
prepaid. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-142. MANUFACTURER:
Every person engaged in the business of manufacturing and assembling vehicles
or reconstructed vehicles or engine and driveline components for vehicles.
(Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-142.01. MATERIALLY ALTERED VEHICLE:
Any vehicle which has been modified, rebuilt, repaired, reconstructed, restored
or specially constructed. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-142.1. MEDICAL CARRIER:
Any publicly or privately owned vehicle which is specifically designed,
constructed or modified and equipped and is intended to be used for and is
maintained or operated for the nonemergency transportation of persons for
compensation for the purpose of obtaining medical services. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-
90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-142.2. MEDICAL TRANSPORT VEHICLE:
Includes ambulances, medical carriers and rescue vehicles. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-
90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-143. MERGING TRAFFIC:
A maneuver executed by the drivers of vehicles on converging roadways to permit
entry into the junction thereof, wherein the driver of each vehicle involved is
required to adjust his vehicular speed and lateral position so as to avoid a
collision with any other vehicle. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-144.   METAL TIRE:
Every tire the surface of which in contact with the highway is wholly or partly
of metal or other hard, nonresilient material. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-
90)
1-144.1. RESERVED
1-145. MOTOR CARRIER:
An operator of for-hire vehicles pursuant to the Illinois Motor Carrier of
Property Law 1 . (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 625 ILCS 5/18c-1102 et seq.
1-145.01. MOTOR HOME, MINI MOTORHOME OR VAN CAMPER:
A self-contained motor vehicle, not used commercially, designed or permanently
converted to provide living quarters for recreational, camping or travel use,
with direct walk-through access to the living quarters from the driver's seat.
(Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-146. MOTOR VEHICLE:
Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which is propelled by
electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires but not operated upon
rails, except for vehicles that move solely by human power and motorized
wheelchairs. For this Act, motor vehicles are divided into two (2) divisions:
   First Division: Those motor vehicles which are designed for the carrying of
not more than ten (10) persons.
   Second Division: Those motor vehicles which are designed for carrying more
than ten (10) persons, those designed or used for living quarters and those
motor vehicles which are designed for pulling or carrying freight or cargo and
those motor vehicles of the first division remodelled for use and used as motor
vehicles of the second division. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-147.    MOTORCYCLE:
Every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of the rider and
designed to travel on not more than three (3) wheels in contact with the
ground, but excluding a tractor. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-148.    MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLE:
Every motorcycle and every motor scooter with less than one hundred fifty (150)
cubic centimeter piston displacement, including motorized pedalcycles. (Ord.
90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-148.1. MULTI-PURPOSE PASSENGER VEHICLE:
A passenger-carrying vehicle which is constructed either on a truck chassis or
with special features for occasional off-road operation. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90,
eff. 5-1-90)
1-148.2. MOTORIZED PEDALCYCLE:
A motor-driven cycle whose speed attainable in one mile is thirty (30) mph or
less, which is equipped with a motor that produces two (2) brake horsepower or
less. If an internal combustion engine is used, the displacement shall not
exceed fifty (50) cubic centimeter displacement, and the power-drive system
shall not require the operator to shift gears. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-
90)
1-148.3. MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIR:
Any self-propelled vehicle designed for and used by a handicapped person that
is incapable of a speed in excess of eight (8) miles per hour on level ground.
(Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-149. NONRESIDENT:
Every person who is not a resident of the State of Illinois. (Ord. 90-535, 4-
24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-150.    NONRESIDENT'S DRIVING PRIVILEGE:
The privilege conferred upon a nonresident by the laws of the State of Illinois
pertaining to the operation by such person of a motor vehicle, or the use of a
vehicle owned by such person, in the State of Illinois. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90,
eff. 5-1-90)
1-151.    NONCOMMERCIAL VEHICLE:
Any vehicle that is not a commercial vehicle. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-
90)
1-152.    RESERVED
1-153.    NOT-FOR-HIRE:
Operation of a commercial vehicle in furtherance of any commercial or
industrial enterprise but not for-hire. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-153.1. OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLE:
Any motorized device designed to travel primarily off-highway, on two (2)
wheels, having a seat or saddle for the use of the operator, upon or by which
any person, persons or property may be transported or drawn. (Ord. 90-535, 4-
24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-154. OFFICIAL TRAFFIC- CONTROL DEVICES:
All signs, signals, markings and devices which conform with the State Manual
and not inconsistent with this Act placed or erected by authority of a public
body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating, warning or
guiding traffic. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-154.1. OPERATE:
To ride in or on, other than as a passenger, use or control in any manner the
operation of any device or vehicle whether motorized or propelled by human
power. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-154.2. OPERATOR:
Every person who operates or is in actual physical control of any device or
vehicle whether motorized or propelled by human power. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90,
eff. 5-1-90)
1-155.    OWNER:
A person who holds legal title of a motor vehicle, or in the event a motor
vehicle is the subject of an agreement for the conditional sale or lease
thereof with the right of purchase upon performance of the conditions stated in
the agreement and with an immediate right of possession vested in the
conditional vendee or lessee, or in the event a mortgagor of such motor vehicle
is entitled to possession, then such conditional vendee or lessee or mortgagor
shall be deemed the owner for the purpose of this Act. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90,
eff. 5-1-90)
1-156.    PARK OR PARKING:
The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, otherwise than when
temporarily and actually engaged in loading or unloading merchandise or
passengers. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-157.    PASSENGER CAR:
A motor vehicle of the first division, including a multi-purpose passenger
vehicle, that is designed for carrying not more than ten (10) persons. (Ord.
90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-158.    PEDESTRIAN:
Any person afoot. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-159.    PERSON:
Every natural person, firm, copartnership, association or corporation. (Ord.
90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-159.1. HANDICAPPED PERSON:
Every natural person who is unable to walk two hundred feet (200') or more
unassisted by another person or without the aid of a walker, crutches, braces,
prosthetic device or a wheelchair or without great difficulty or discomfort due
to the following impairments: neurologic, orthopedic, respiratory, cardiac,
arthritic disorder, blindness or the loss of function or absence of a limb or
limbs. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-160.    PNEUMATIC TIRE:
Every tire in which compressed air is designed to support the load. (Ord. 90-
535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-161. POLE TRAILER:
Every vehicle without motive power designed to be drawn by another vehicle and
attached to the towing vehicle by means of a reach or pole or by being boomed
or otherwise secured to the towing vehicle and ordinarily used for transporting
long or irregularly shaped loads such as poles, pipes or structural members
capable, generally, of sustaining themselves as beams between the supporting
connections. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-162.    POLICE OFFICER:
Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to make arrests for
violations of traffic regulations. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-163.    PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY:
Every way or place in private ownership and used for vehicular travel by the
owner, and those having express or implied permission from the owner, but not
by other persons. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-164.    RESERVED
1-164.1. RESERVED
1-165. RESERVED
1-166. RAILROAD:
A carrier of persons or property upon cars, other than streetcars, operated
upon stationary rails. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-166.1. RAILROAD-HIGHWAY GRADE CROSSING:
The intersection of stationary rails owned or used in the operation of a
railroad corporation across a highway. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-167.    RAILROAD SIGN OR SIGNAL:
Any sign, signal or device, other than an official traffic-control signal or
device, erected in accordance with the laws governing same and intended to give
notice of the presence of railroad tracks or the approach of a railroad train.
(Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-168.   RAILROAD TRAIN:
A steam engine, electric or other motor, with or without cars coupled thereto,
operated upon rails, except streetcars. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-168.1. REBUILT VEHICLE:
A vehicle for which a salvage certificate has been issued and which
subsequently has been put back into its original or operating condition by a
licensed rebuilder and which has met all the requirements of a salvage vehicle
inspection. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-169. RECREATIONAL VEHICLE:
Every camping trailer, motor home, mini motor home, travel trailer, truck
camper or van camper used primarily for recreational purposes and not used
commercially nor owned by a commercial business. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-
1-90)
1-170.    RECONSTRUCTED VEHICLE:
Every vehicle of a type required to be registered hereunder: materially altered
from its original construction by the removal, addition or substitution of
essential parts, new or used. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-171.    RESERVED
1-171.01.   CHARITABLE VEHICLE:
   (a)   Any vehicle, other than a vehicle of the first division or a school
bus, which is exclusively owned and operated by a religious or charitable not-
for-profit organization and is used primarily in conducting the official
activities of such organization.
   (b)   This definition does not include:
      (1)   A bus operated by a public utility, Municipal corporation or common
carrier authorized to conduct local or interurban transportation of passengers
when such bus is on a regularly scheduled route for the transportation of other
fare-paying passengers or furnishing charter service for the transportation of
groups on special trips or in connection with special events and not over a
regular or customary religious organization bus route; or
      (2)   A school bus, as defined in Section 1-182 of this Code. (Ord. 90-
535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-171.02. REPAIRED VEHICLE:
A vehicle, other than a rebuilt vehicle, which has been put back into its
original or operating condition by restoring, mending, straightening,
replacing, altering or painting its essential parts by a licensed repairer.
(Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-172.    RESIDENCE DISTRICT:
The territory contiguous to and including a highway, not comprising a business
district, when the property on such highway for a distance of three hundred
feet (300') or more is in the main, improved with residences or residences and
buildings in use for business. For purposes of establishing maximum speed
limits, a residence district shall be at least a quarter (1/4) of a mile long
with residences or residences and buildings in use for businesses spaced no
more than three hundred feet (300') apart. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-173.    RESIDENT:
   (a)   Every natural person who resides in this State shall be deemed a
resident of this State.
   (b)   In the case of a firm, copartnership or association, if the principal
place of business of such firm, copartnership or association is located in the
State of Illinois, then such firm, copartnership or association shall be deemed
a resident of the State of Illinois.
   (c)   In the case of a corporation, if the corporation was incorporated
under the laws of the State of Illinois or if the principal place of business
of such corporation is in the State of Illinois, then such corporation shall be
deemed a resident of the State of Illinois. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-173.1. RESTRICTED DRIVING PERMIT:
That document which grants and specifies limited privileges to drivers of motor
vehicles who have had their full driving privileges suspended, revoked or
cancelled. The restricted driving permit is valid only when in the immediate
possession of the driver to whom it is issued. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-
90)
1-174.    RETAIL SALE:
The act or attempted act of selling vehicles or otherwise disposing of a
vehicle to a person for use by a consumer. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-175.    REVERSIBLE LANE:
A lane of a two (2) or more laned roadway upon which traffic may be directed to
move in either direction by means of lane-control signals or other devices, in
conjunction with official signs. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-176. RESERVED
1-176.1. RESERVED
1-177.    RIGHT OF WAY:
The right of one vehicle or pedestrian to proceed in a lawful manner in
preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching under such
circumstances of direction, speed and proximity as to give rise to danger of
collision unless one grants precedence to the other. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90,
eff. 5-1-90)
1-178.    ROAD TRACTOR:
Every motor vehicle designed and used for drawing other vehicles and not so
constructed as to carry any load thereon either independently or any part of
the weight of a vehicle or load so drawn. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-179.    ROADWAY:
That portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for vehicular
travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event a highway includes two
(2) or more separate roadways, the term "roadway", as used herein, shall refer
to any such roadway separately but not to all such roadways collectively. (Ord.
90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-180.    RURAL MAIL DELIVERY VEHICLE:
Every vehicle used to deliver U.S. mail on a rural mail delivery route. (Ord.
90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-181.    SAFETY ZONE:
The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the exclusive use
of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or indicated by adequate
signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set apart as a safety zone.
(Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-182.    SCHOOL BUS:
   (a)   Every motor vehicle, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this
Section, owned or operated by or for any of the following entities for the
transportation of persons regularly enrolled as students in grade 12 or below
in connection with any activity of such entity:
      - Any public or private primary or secondary school;
      - Any primary or secondary school operated by a religious institution; or
      - Any public, private or religious nursery school.
   (b)   This definition shall not include the following:
      (1)   A bus operated by a public utility, Municipal corporation or common
carrier authorized to conduct local or interurban transportation of passengers
when such bus is not traveling a specific school bus route but is:
         - On a regularly scheduled route for the transportation of other fare-
paying passengers;
         - Furnishing charter service for the transportation of groups on field
trips or other special trips or in connection with other special events; or
         - Being used for shuttle service between attendance centers or other
educational facilities.
      (2)   A motor vehicle of the first division. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff.
5-1-90)
1-183.    SECRETARY:
The Secretary of State of Illinois. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-184.    SECRETARY OF STATE:
The Secretary of State of Illinois. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-185.    RESERVED
1-186.    RESERVED
1-187.    SEMI-TRAILER:
Every vehicle without motive power, other than a pole trailer, designed for
carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so
constructed that some part of its weight and that of its load rests upon or is
carried by another vehicle. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-187.01. SERVICING OF VEHICLES:
The altering or maintaining of the parts of a vehicle other than its essential
parts. Regarding engines and transmissions, however, repair or replacement of
parts which does not result in the removal of all or any part of the
identification number shall be deemed servicing of the vehicle. (Ord. 90-535,
4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-187.1. SHOULDER:
That portion of the highway adjacent to the roadway for accommodating stopped
vehicles or for emergency use. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-188.    SIDEWALK:
That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral lines of a
roadway and the adjacent property lines intended for use of pedestrians. (Ord.
90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-189.    SITUS OR BASE OF VEHICLE:
The place where a vehicle is principally garaged or from whence it is
principally dispatched or where the movements of such vehicle usually
originate. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-190.    SOLID TIRE:
Every tire of rubber or other resilient material which does not depend upon
compressed air for the support of the load. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-191.    SPECIAL MOBILE EQUIPMENT:
Every vehicle not designed or used primarily for the transportation of persons
or property and only incidentally operated or moved over a highway, including
but not limited to street sweepers, ditch digging apparatus, well boring
apparatus and road construction and maintenance machinery such as asphalt
spreaders, bituminous mixers, bucket loaders, tractors other than truck
tractors, ditchers, levelling graders, finishing machines, motor graders, road
rollers, scarifiers, earth moving carryalls and scrapers, power shovels and
drag lines and self-propelled cranes and earth moving equipment. The term does
not include house trailers, dump trucks, truck-mounted transit mixers, cranes
or shovels or other vehicles designed for the transportation of persons or
property to which machinery has been attached. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-
90)
1-192.    SPECIALLY CONSTRUCTED VEHICLE:
Every vehicle of a type required to be registered hereunder that:
   (a)   Has been materially altered from its original construction by the
removal, addition or substitution of essential parts; or
   (b)   Was not originally constructed under a distinctive name by a generally
recognized manufacturer of vehicles. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-193.    SPEED-CHANGE LANE:
An auxiliary lane, including tapered areas, primarily for the acceleration or
deceleration of vehicles entering or leaving the through traffic lanes. (Ord.
90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-194.    STAND OR STANDING:
The halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, otherwise than when
temporarily and actually engaged in receiving or discharging passengers. (Ord.
90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-195.    STATE:
The State of Illinois. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-196.    STATE HIGHWAYS:
Defined in the Illinois Highway Code as the same may, from time to time, be
amended 1 . (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 605 ILCS 5/2-103.
1-197.    RESERVED
1-198.    STINGER-STEERED SEMI-TRAILER:
Every semi-trailer which has its kingpin on a projection to the front of the
structure of such semi-trailer and is combined with the fifth (5th) wheel of
the truck tractor at a point not less than two feet (2') to the rear of the
center of the rearmost axle of such tractor. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-
90)
1-199.    STOP:
When required, means complete cessation from movement. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90,
eff. 5-1-90)
1-200. STOP OR STOPPING:
Any halting, even momentarily, of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except
when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the
directions of a police officer or traffic-control sign or signal. (Ord. 90-535,
4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-201.    STREET:
The entire width between boundary lines of every way publicly maintained when
any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular
travel. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-202.    RESERVED
1-203.    SUBURBAN DISTRICT:
That portion of any city, village or incorporated town other than the business
and residence districts. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-203.1. RESERVED
1-204. RESERVED
1-204.1. RESERVED
1-205.    THROUGH HIGHWAY:
Every highway or portion thereof on which vehicular traffic is given
preferential right of way, and at the entrances to which vehicular traffic from
intersecting highways is required by law to yield right of way to vehicles on
such through highway in obedience to either a stop sign or a yield sign, when
such signs are erected as provided in this Act. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-
1-90)
1-205.1. TOW-TRUCK:
Every truck designed or altered and equipped for and used to push, tow or draw
vehicles by means of a crane, hoist, towbar, towline or auxiliary axle or to
render assistance to disabled vehicles. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-205.2. TOWER:
A person who owns or operates a tow-truck or a wrecker. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90,
eff. 5-1-90)
1-206.    RESERVED
1-207. TRAFFIC:
Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars and other
conveyances, either singly or together, while using any highway for purposes of
travel. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-208.    TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL:
Any official traffic-control device, other than a railroad sign or signal,
whether manually, electrically or mechanically operated, by which traffic is
alternately directed to stop and permitted to proceed. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90,
eff. 5-1-90)
1-209.    TRAILER:
Every vehicle without motive power in operation, other than a pole trailer,
designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a motor
vehicle and so constructed that no part of its weight rests upon the towing
vehicle. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-210.    TRANSPORTER:
Every person engaged in the driveaway or towaway business of transporting
vehicles, not his own, by driving, either singly or by the towbar, saddle mount
or full mount methods or any combinations thereof or by drawing or towing house
trailers, semi-trailers or trailers, including their coupling devices, and
using the public highways of this State therefor. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff.
5-1-90)
1-210.01. TRAVEL TRAILER:
A trailer, not used commercially, designed to provide living quarters for
recreational, camping or travel use and of size or weight not requiring an
overdimension permit when towed on a highway. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-
90)
1-211. TRUCK:
Every motor vehicle, except a road tractor or a truck tractor as otherwise
defined in this Chapter, designed, used or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90; 1994 Code)
1-211.01. TRUCK CAMPER:
A truck, not used commercially, when equipped with a portable unit designed to
be loaded onto the bed which is construed to provide temporary living quarters
for recreational, travel or camping use. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-211.1. TRUCKSTER:
Every motor vehicle or motorcycle with three (3) wheels designed, used or
maintained primarily for the transportation of property. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90,
eff. 5-1-90)
1-212.    TRUCK TRACTOR:
Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing other vehicles and
not so constructed as to carry a load other than a part of the weight of the
vehicle and load so drawn. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-213.    TRIP LEASE:
A one-trip lease of a vehicle to a lessee. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-214. URBAN DISTRICT:
The territory contiguous to and including any street which is built up with
structures devoted to business, industry or dwelling houses situated at
intervals of less than one hundred feet (100') for a distance of a quarter (1/
4) of a mile or more. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-214.1. URBAN AREA:
Any incorporated or unincorporated area developed primarily for residential
and/or business purposes. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-215.    RESERVED
1-216.    RESERVED
1-217.    VEHICLE:
Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved by human power,
devices used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks and snowmobiles.
For the purposes of this Code, unless otherwise prescribed, a device shall be
considered to be a vehicle until such time it either comes within the
definition of a junk vehicle, as defined under this Code, or a junking
certificate is issued for it.
For this Code, vehicles are divided into two (2) divisions:
   First Division: Those motor vehicles which are designed for the carrying of
not more than ten (10) persons.
   Second Division: Those vehicles which are designed for carrying more than
ten (10) persons, those designed or used for living quarters, those vehicles
which are designed for pulling or carrying property, freight or cargo, those
motor vehicles of the first division remodelled for use and used as motor
vehicles of the second division and those motor vehicles of the first division
used and registered as school buses. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-218.    RESERVED
1-218.1. RESERVED
1-219.    YIELD RIGHT OF WAY:
When required by an official sign, means the act of granting the privilege of
the immediate use of the intersecting roadway to traffic within the
intersection and to vehicles approaching from the right or left but when the
roadway is clear, may proceed into the intersection. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90,
eff. 5-1-90)
1-220. RESERVED
1-221. RESERVED
1-222.    RESCUE SQUAD:
A voluntary association of individuals or a fire department dedicated to saving
lives through the rescue of persons entrapped in wrecked vehicles or other
hazardous circumstances and associated with some unit of government. (Ord. 90-
535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-223.    RESCUE SQUAD VEHICLE:
A vehicle specifically designed, configured and equipped for the performance of
access and extrication from hazardous or life-endangering situations. However,
if such vehicles have emergency medical transport capability they must be
classified as rescue vehicles as defined in Section
1-224. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-224.    RESCUE VEHICLE:
Any publicly or privately owned vehicle which is specifically designed,
configured and equipped for the performance of access and extrication of
persons from hazardous or life- endangering situations as well as for the
emergency transportation of persons who are sick, injured, wounded or otherwise
incapacitated or helpless. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
1-225.    DEPARTMENT:
Illinois Department of Transportation. (1992 Code)
1-226 to 1-300. RESERVED
CHAPTER 2. RESERVED
CHAPTER 3. RESERVED
CHAPTER 4
REMOVAL OF ABANDONED, INOPERABLE, ILLEGALLY PARKED AND STOLEN MOTOR VEHICLES
SECTION:
4-1.   Definitions
4-2.   Impoundment
4-3.   Record Searches
4-4.   Reports On Towed Vehicles
4-5.   Reclaimed Vehicles; Disposal Of Unclaimed Vehicles
4-6.   Storage Of Motor Vehicles On Property
4-7.   Public Nuisances
4-1.   DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter the following words shall have the meanings herein
ascribed to them:
   (a)   Abandoned Motor Vehicle: Any motor vehicle which does not bear current
registration shall be presumed to be an abandoned motor vehicle for the pur
poses of this section.
   (b)   Alley: A public way within a block gen erally giving access to the
rear of lots or buildings and not used for general traf fic circulation.
   (c)   Highway Or Street: The entire width of public right of way of every
way publicly maintained and open to the use of the public for vehicular
traffic.
   (d)   Inoperable Motor Vehicle: Any motor vehicle which for a period of
seven (7) days or more, is in a state of disassem bly or disrepair which
renders the motor vehicle incapable of being driven under its own power. Any
motor vehicle which is unregistered shall also be presumed to be inoperable.
   (e)   Motor Vehicle: A machine propelled by power other than human power,
designed to travel along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners or slides
and to transport persons or property or to pull machinery and shall include,
without limitation, automobiles, trucks, trailers, buses, recreational
vehicles, tractors, motorcycles, snowmobiles, buggies and wagons.
   (f)   Motor Vehicle Owner: A person who holds legal title to a motor vehicle
or a person who has registered a motor     vehicle in his name with the state
of Illinois.
   (g)   Public Parking Facility: Any village owned and/or controlled property
which is used as a parking lot or facility.
   (h)   Public Property: A highway, street, alley, public parking facility or
other real property owned by the village or some other governmental agency.
   (i)   Unregistered: Not currently licensed by the state of Illinois; any
motor vehicle which does not display a valid Illinois license plate shall be
presumed to be unregistered. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-1990, eff. 5-1-1990; amd. Ord.
02-1101, 5-28-2002, eff. 5-28-2002)
4-2.   IMPOUNDMENT:
   (a)   Authorization To Impound: Subject to the provisions hereinafter, the
chief of police or his designee is authorized to remove or have removed any
vehicle left at any place within the village or on any village property, within
or without the corporate limits of the village, which reasonably appears to be
in violation of village ordinance or to be lost, stolen or unclaimed. Such
vehicles shall be impounded until lawfully claimed or disposed of in accordance
with the state of Illinois and the provisions of this section.
   (b)   Notice Of Impounding: Any vehicle left at any place other than on
village property shall not be removed or impounded, as provided herein, until
the Shorewood police department provides notice of the intent to remove said
vehicle within seven (7) days from the date of such notice. Such notice shall
be given by:
            (1)   Affixing notice on such vehicle; or
            (2)   Sending notice by mail to the owner of such vehicle at his
last known address, if the owner is reasonably ascertainable; or
            (3)   Sending notice by mail to the person owning or controlling
the property on which such vehicle is located.
   (c)   Entering On Private Property: Should the vehicle not be brought into
compliance with the provisions of this section within the seven (7) day notice
period, then the chief of police or his designee may request an appropriate
court order for impoundment of the vehicle. Upon obtaining an appropriate court
order, the chief of police or his designee may enter upon private property at
all reasonable hours for the purpose of inspecting such vehicle and removing
and impounding such vehicle. It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent the
chief of police from entering on private property for the purpose of carrying
out his duties hereunder or to interfere with him in the lawful performance of
his duties under the provisions of this section.
   (d)   Authorization To Tow And Store: The chief of police may tow, or cause
to be towed, any vehicle abandoned, parked, or otherwise kept in violation of
the provisions of this section, to a suitable storage area.
   (e)   Payment Of Expenses Of Impoundment: The owner of, or person
abandoning, parking, or otherwise keeping a vehicle in violation of the
provisions of this section, which is impounded under the provisions of this
section, shall be charged a fee in a sum sufficient to cover the charges and
expenses of impoundment. (Ord. 03-1174, 7-22-2003, eff. 7-22-2003)
4-3.   RECORD SEARCHES:
When the identity of the owner of a motor vehicle is not known by the police
officer authorizing the towing and impoundment of the motor vehicle, the
Shorewood police department will cause:
   (a)   The motor vehicle registration records of the state of Illinois to be
searched by the secretary of state for the purpose of obtaining the required
ownership information.
   (b)   The stolen motor vehicle files of the state police and the national
crime information center (NCIC) files to be searched by a directed
communication to the state police for stolen or wanted information on the motor
vehicle. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-1990, eff. 5-1-1990; amd. Ord. 03-1174, 7-22-2003,
eff. 7-22-2003)
4-4.   REPORTS ON TOWED VEHICLES:
When a vehicle is towed and impounded under this chapter, the Shorewood police
department shall maintain a record of the motor vehicle towed and impounded.
The record shall list the color, year of manufacture, manufacturer's trade
name, manufacturer's series name, body style, motor vehicle identification
number, license plate year and number, registration sticker year and number
displayed on the motor vehicle, the date and hour of the towing, location towed
from, location towed to, reason for towing and the name of the police officer
authorizing the tow. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-1990, eff. 5-1-1990; amd. Ord. 03-1174,
7-22-2003, eff. 7-22-2003)
4-5.   RECLAIMED VEHICLES; DISPOSAL OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLES:
   (a)   Any time before a motor vehicle is sold or disposed of as provided for
by law, the owner of the motor vehicle may reclaim the motor vehicle by
presenting to the Shorewood police department and the commercial towing service
having custody of the motor vehicle proof of ownership or proof of right to
possession of the motor vehicle. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-1990, eff. 5-1-1990; amd.
Ord. 03-1174, 7-22-2003, eff. 7-22-2003)
4-6.   STORAGE OF MOTOR VEHICLES ON PROPERTY:
No motor vehicle which is not currently registered shall be kept on any
property located within the village. A motor vehicle which is unregistered
shall be presumed to be abandoned for purposes of this chapter. (Ord. 90-535,
4-24-1990, eff. 5-1-1990; amd. 1994 Code; Ord. 03-1174, 7-22-2003, eff. 7-22-
2003)
4-7.   PUBLIC NUISANCES:
Abandoned and inoperable motor vehicles, whether on public or private property,
are hereby declared to be nuisances and shall be subject to removal in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter or any other applicable laws or
ordinances. No person shall permit any abandoned or inoperable vehicle to be
kept or stored on the property of that person or any other property. (Ord. 90-
535, 4-24-1990, eff. 5-1-1990; amd. 1994 Code; Ord. 03-1174, 7-22-2003, eff. 7-
22-2003)
Any abandoned or inoperable motor vehicles located on the premises of a
business lawfully engaged in the wrecking or junking of motor vehicles shall
not be deemed to be a nuisance so long as the business operation is conducted
in accordance with all applicable laws and ordinances 1 . (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-
1990, eff. 5-1-1990; amd. Ord. 03-1174, 7-22-2003, eff. 7-22-2003)
 
Notes
1 1.   See title 3, chapter 5 of this code.
CHAPTER 5. RESERVED
CHAPTER 6. RESERVED
CHAPTER 7. RESERVED
CHAPTER 8
VEHICLE LICENSING
(Rep. by Ord. 01-1048, 4-10-2001, eff. 4-1-2002)
CHAPTER 9. RESERVED
CHAPTER 10. RESERVED
CHAPTER 11
RULES OF THE ROAD
ARTICLE I. RESERVED
ARTICLE II. OBEDIENCE TO AND EFFECT OF TRAFFIC LAWS
SECTION:
11-201.   Application of Provisions; Exceptions
11-202.   Required Obedience to Traffic Laws
11-203.   Obedience to Police Officers
11-204.   Fleeing or Attempting to Elude Police Officer
11-205.   Public Officers and Employees to Comply; Exceptions
11-206.   Animals and Animal-Drawn Vehicles
11-207.   Reserved
11-208.   Reserved
11-209.   Reserved
11-210.   Reserved
11-211.   Reserved
11-201.   APPLICATION OF PROVI-SIONS; EXCEPTIONS:
The provisions of this Chapter relating to the operation of vehicles refer
exclusively to the operation of vehicles upon highways except:
   (a)   Where a different place is specifically referred to in a given
section.
   (b)   The provisions of Articles IV and V of this Chapter shall apply upon
highways and elsewhere throughout the Village. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-
90)
11-202.   REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC LAWS:
It is unlawful and, unless otherwise declared in this Chapter with respect to
particular offenses, it is an ordinance violation for any person to do any act
forbidden or fail to perform any act required in this Chapter. (Ord. 90-535, 4-
24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
11-203.   OBEDIENCE TO POLICE OFFICERS:
No person shall wilfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of any police officer, fireman or uniformed adult school crossing
guard invested by law with authority to direct, control or regulate traffic.
(Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
11-204.   FLEEING OR ATTEMPTING TOELUDE POLICE OFFICER:
Any driver or operator of a motor vehicle who, having been given a visual or
audible signal by a peace officer directing such driver or operator to bring
his vehicle to a stop, wilfully fails or refuses to obey such direction,
increases his speed, extinguishes his lights or otherwise flees or attempts to
elude the officer is guilty of violating this section. The signal given by the
peace officer may be by hand, voice, siren, red or blue light; provided, the
officer giving such signal shall be in police uniform, and if driving a
vehicle, such vehicle shall display illuminated oscillating, rotating or
flashing red or blue lights which, when used in conjunction with an audible
horn or siren, would indicate the vehicle to be an official police vehicle.
Such requirement shall not preclude the use of amber or white oscillating,
rotating or flashing lights in conjunction with red or blue oscillating,
rotating or flashing lights as required in Section 12-215 of Chapter 12 of this
Code. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
11-205.   PUBLIC OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES TO COMPLY; EXCEPTIONS 1 :
   (a)   The provisions of this Chapter applicable to the drivers of vehicles
upon the highways shall apply to the drivers of all vehicles owned or operated
by the United States, this State or any county, city, town, district or any
other political subdivision of the State, except as provided in this Section
and subject to such specific exceptions as set forth in this Chapter with
reference to authorized emergency vehicles.
   (b)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the
law or when responding to but not upon returning from a fire alarm, may
exercise the privileges set forth in this Section, but subject to the
conditions herein stated.
   (c)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
      (1)   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this Chapter.
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be required and necessary for safe operation.
      (3)   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as he does not endanger
life or property.
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specified directions.
   (d)   The exceptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle,
other than a police vehicle, shall apply only when the vehicle is making use of
either an audible signal when in motion or visual signals meeting the
requirements of Section 12-215 of this Act.
   (e)   The foregoing provisions do not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty of driving with due regard for the safety of
all persons nor do such provisions protect the driver from the consequences of
his reckless disregard for the safety of others. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-
1-90)
 
Notes
1 1.   See also Section 11-1424 of this Chapter.
11-206.   ANIMALS AND ANIMAL- DRAWN VEHICLES:
Every person riding an animal or driving any animal-drawn vehicle upon a
roadway shall be granted all of the rights and shall be subject to all of the
duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by this Chapter, except those
provisions of this Chapter which, by their very nature, can have no
application. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
11-207.   RESERVED
11-208.   RESERVED
11-209.   RESERVED
11-210.   RESERVED
11-211.   RESERVED
ARTICLE III. TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNS, SIGNALS AND MARKINGS
SECTION:
11-301.   State Manual Adopted
11-301.1.   Parking Signs And Spaces For Handicapped Persons
11-302.   No Parking Zone
11-303.   Reserved
11-304.   Reserved
11-305.   Obedience To Traffic Control Devices
11-306.   Traffic Control Signal Legend
11-307.   Pedestrian Control Signals
11-308.   Lane Control Signals
11-309.   Flashing Signals
11-310.   Display Of Unauthorized Signs, Signals Or Markings
11-311.   Interference With Official Traffic Control Devices Or Railroad Signs
Or Signals
11-312.   Unlawful Use Or Damage To Highways, Appurtenances And Structures
11-313.   Unlawful Possession Of Highway Sign Or Marker
11-301.   STATE MANUAL ADOPTED:
   (a)   The State Manual and Specifications for Signs is hereby adopted by
reference. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-1990, eff. 5-1-1990; amd. 1994 Code)
11-301.1.   PARKING SIGNS AND SPACES FOR HANDICAPPED PERSONS:
All signs erected and used to designate the reservation of parking facilities
for the handicapped shall be in a form and manner prescribed under section
11-301 of this article, and all parking spaces reserved for the handicapped,
except those reserving on street parking areas, shall be at least sixteen feet
(16') wide. Nonconforming signs or spaces in use prior to July 1, 1988, shall
not constitute a violation during their useful lives, which shall not be
extended by means other than normal maintenance. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-1990, eff.
5-1-1990)
11-302.   NO PARKING ZONE:
To improve through vehicle traffic flow, vehicular safety, and road maintenance
operations, a "no parking, stopping or standing" zone shall be established on:
Earl Road.
Geneva Street one thousand one hundred and fifty (1,150) feet west from its
eastern terminus.
River Crossing Drive one thousand three hundred fifty feet (1,350') west from
Southwest Frontage Road and on Southwest Frontage Road from Seil Road to Mound
Road within the Village limits.
River Road from West Lake Forrest Lane to South Woodland Way within the Village
limits.
Sycamore Drive between signs within the Village limits.
West Mound Road between River Road to South Mattox Court.
Willow Lane between signs within the Village limits. (Ord. 14-1736, 5-27-2014;
amd. Ord. 17-1851, 7-11-2017; Ord. 19-1928, 2-26-2019; Ord. 19-1929, 2-26-2019;
Ord. 23-2065, 3-14-2023; Ord. 23-2076, 8-22-2023)
11-303.   RESERVED
11-304.   RESERVED
11-305.   OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
   (a)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic control device applicable thereto placed or held in accordance with the
provisions of this Act unless otherwise directed by a police officer, subject
to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle in this
Act.
   (b)   It is unlawful for any person to leave the roadway and travel across
private property to avoid an official traffic control device.
   (c)   No provisions of this Act for which official traffic control devices
are required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if, at the time and
place of the alleged violation, an official device is not in proper position
and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever
a particular section does not state the official traffic control devices are
required, such section shall be effective even though no devices are erected or
in place.
   (d)   Whenever any official traffic control device is placed or held in
position approximately conforming to the requirements of this Act and purports
to conform to the lawful requirements pertaining to such device, such device
shall be presumed to have been so placed or held by the official Act or
direction of lawful authority and comply with the requirements of this Act,
unless the contrary shall be established by competent evidence.
   (e)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a traffic control signal on which
no signal light facing such vehicle is illuminated shall stop before entering
the intersection in accordance with rules applicable in making a stop at a stop
sign. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-1990, eff. 5-1-1990)
11-306.   TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND:
Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic control signals exhibiting different
colored lights or color lighted arrows, successively one at a time or in
combination, only the colors green, red and yellow shall be used, except for
special pedestrian signals carrying a word legend, and the lights shall
indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles and pedestrians as follows:
   (a)   Green Indication:
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a circular green signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left, unless a sign at such place prohibits
either such turn. Vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left,
shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully
within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the time such signal is
exhibited.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a green arrow signal, shown alone or in
combination with another indication, may cautiously enter the intersection only
to make the movement indicated by such arrow or such other movement as is
permitted by other indications shown at the same time. Such vehicular traffic
shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within an adjacent
crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the intersection. (Ord. 90-535,
4-24-1990, eff. 5-1-1990)
      (3)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian control signal as
provided in section 11-307 of this article, pedestrians facing any green
signal, except when the sole green signal is a turn arrow, may proceed across
the roadway within any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
   (b)   Steady Yellow Indication:
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow
signal is thereby warned that the related green movement is being terminated or
that a red indication will be exhibited immediately thereafter.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow signal,
unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian control signal as provided in section
11-307 of this article are thereby advised that there is insufficient time to
cross the roadway before a red indication is shown, and no pedestrian shall
then start to cross the roadway.
   (c)   Steady Red Indication:
      (1)   Except as provided in subsection (c)(3) of this section, vehicular
traffic facing a steady circular red signal alone shall stop at a clearly
marked stop line, but if there is no such stop line, before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if there is no such
crosswalk, then before entering the intersection, and shall remain standing
until an indication to proceed is shown.
      (2)   Except as provided in subsection (c)(3) of this section, vehicular
traffic facing a steady red arrow signal shall not enter the intersection to
make the movement indicated by the arrow and, unless entering the intersection
to make a movement permitted by another signal, shall stop at a clearly marked
stop line, but if there is no such stop line, before entering the crosswalk on
the near side of the intersection, or if there is no such crosswalk, then
before entering the intersection, and shall remain standing until an indication
permitting the movement indicated by such red arrow is shown.
      (3)   Except when a sign is in place prohibiting a turn, and local
authorities, by ordinance, or state authorities, by rule or regulation,
prohibit any such turn, vehicular traffic facing any steady red signal may
cautiously enter the intersection to turn right or to turn left from a one-way
street into a one-way street, after stopping as required by subsection (c)(1)
or (c)(2) of this section. After stopping, the driver shall yield the right of
way to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another roadway so
closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the time such drive is
moving across or within the intersection or junction or roadways. Such driver
shall yield the right of way to pedestrians within the intersection or an
adjacent crosswalk.
      (4)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian control signal as
provided in section 11-307 of this article, pedestrians facing a steady
circular red or red arrow signal alone shall not enter the roadway.
   (d)   Provisions Applicable: In the event an official traffic control signal
is erected and maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions
of this section shall be applicable except as to provisions which by their
nature can have no application. Any stop required shall be at a traffic sign or
a marking on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made or, in the
absence of such sign or marking, the stop shall be made at the signal. (Ord.
90-535, 4-24-1990, eff. 5-1-1990)
11-307.   PEDESTRIAN CONTROL SIGNALS:
Whenever special pedestrian control signals exhibiting the words "Walk" or
"Don't Walk" or the illuminated symbols of a walking person or an upraised palm
are in place, such signals shall indicate as follows:
   (a)   Walk Or Walking Person Symbol: Pedestrians facing such signal may
proceed across the roadway in the direction of the signal, and shall be given
the right of way by the drivers of all vehicles.
   (b)   Don't Walk Or Upraised Palm Signal: No pedestrian shall start to cross
the roadway in the direction of such signal, but any pedestrian who has partly
completed his crossing on the "walk" signal or walking person symbol shall
proceed to a sidewalk or safety island while the "don't walk" signal or
upraised palm symbol is illuminated, steady or flashing. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-
1990, eff. 5-1-1990)
11-308.   LANE CONTROL SIGNALS:
Whenever lane control signals are used in conjunction with official signs, they
shall have the following meanings:
   (a)   Downward pointing green arrow: A driver facing this indication is
permitted to drive in the lane over which the arrow signal is located.
Otherwise, he shall obey all other traffic controls present and follow normal
safe driving practices.
   (b)   Red X symbol: A driver facing this indication shall not drive in the
lane over which the signal is located, and this indication shall modify
accordingly the meaning of all other traffic controls present. Otherwise, he
shall obey all other traffic controls and follow normal safe driving practices.
   (c)   Yellow X (steady): A driver facing this indication should prepare to
vacate the lane over which the signal is located in a safe manner to avoid, if
possible, occupying that lane when a steady red X is displayed.
   (d)   Flashing yellow arrow: A driver facing this indication may use the
lane only for the purpose of approaching and making a left turn. (Ord. 90-535,
4-24-1990, eff. 5-1-1990)
11-309.   FLASHING SIGNALS:
Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow signal is used in conjunction
with a traffic-control device, it shall require obedience by vehicular traffic
as follows:
   (a)   Flashing Red (Stop Signal): When a red lens is illuminated with rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop at a clearly marked stop
line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection, or if none, then at a point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway
before entering the intersection, and the right to proceed shall be subject to
the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
   (b)   Flashing Yellow (Caution Signal): When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past such signal only with caution.
   (c)   This Section does not apply at railroad grade crossings. Conduct of
drivers of vehicles approaching railroad grade crossings shall be governed by
Section 11-1201 of this Act. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
11-310.   DISPLAY OF UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS OR MARKINGS:
   (a)   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of any high
way any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which purports to be or is
an imitation of or resembles an official traffic-control device or railroad
sign or signal or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic or which
hides from view or interferes with the movement of traffic or the effectiveness
of an official traffic-control device or any railroad sign or signal. (Ord. 90-
535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
   (b)   No person shall place or maintain any traffic sign or signal bearing
thereon any commercial advertising.
   (c)   Every such prohibited sign, signal or marking is hereby declared to be
a public nuisance, and the Village is hereby empowered to remove the same or
cause it to be removed without notice.
   (d)   This Section shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection upon private
property adjacent to highways of signs giving useful directional information
and of a type that cannot be mistaken for official signs. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-
90, eff. 5-1-90)
11-311.   INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES OR RAILROAD SIGNS
OR SIGNALS 1 :
No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down or remove any official traffic-control device or any
railroad sign or signal or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon or any
other part thereof. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
 
Notes
1 1.   See also Section 11-312 of this Article.
11-312.   UNLAWFUL USE OR DAMAGE TO HIGHWAYS, APPURTENANCES AND STRUCTURES 1 :
It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully injure or damage any public
highway or street or any bridge or culvert or to wilfully damage, injure or
remove any sign, signpost or structure upon or used or constructed in
connection with any public highway or street for the protection thereof or for
protection or regulation of traffic thereon by any wilfully unusual, improper
or unreasonable use thereof or by wilfully careless driving or use of any
vehicle thereon or by the wilful mutilation, defacing, destruction or removal
thereof. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
 
Notes
1 1.   See also Section 11-311 of this Article.
11-313.   UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OF HIGHWAY SIGN OR MARKER:
The Village, with reference to traffic-control signs, signals or markers owned
by it, is authorized to indicate the ownership of the signs, signals or markers
on the back of such devices in letters not less than three-eighths inch (3/8")
or more than three-fourths inch (3/4") in height, by use of a metal stamp,
etching or other permanent means, and except for employees of the Village,
police officers, contractors and their employees engaged in a highway
construction contract or work on the highway approved by the Village, it is
unlawful for any person to possess such sign, signal, or marker so identified.
(Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
ARTICLE IV. ACCIDENTS
SECTION:
11-401.   Accidents Involving Death or Personal Injuries
11-402.   Accidents Involving Damage to Vehicle
11-403.   Duty to Give Information and Render Aid
11-404.   Duty Upon Damaging Unattended Vehicle or Other Property
11-405.   Reserved
11-406.   Reserved
11-407.   Immediate Notice of Accident
11-408.   Reserved
11-409.   False Accident Reports or Notices
11-410.   Reserved
11-411.   Reserved
11-412.   Reserved
11-413.   Reserved
11-414.   Reserved
11-415.   Reserved
11-416.   Reserved
11-401.   ACCIDENTS INVOLVING DEATH OR PERSONAL INJURIES:
   (a)   The driver of any vehicle involved in a motor vehicle accident
resulting in personal injury to or death of any person shall immediately stop
such vehicle at the scene of such accident, or as close thereto as possible,
and shall then forthwith return to, and in every event shall remain at the
scene of the accident until the requirements of Section
11-403 of this Chapter have been fulfilled. Every such stop shall be made
without obstructing more traffic than is necessary.
   (b)   For purposes of this Section, "personal" injury shall mean any injury
requiring immediately professional treatment in a medical facility or doctor's
office. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
11-402.   ACCIDENTS INVOLVING DAMAGE TO VEHICLE:
The driver of any vehicle involved in a motor vehicle accident resulting only
in damage to a vehicle which is driven or attended by any person shall
immediately stop such vehicle at the scene of such motor vehicle accident, or
as close thereto as possible, but shall forthwith return to, and in every event
shall remain at the scene of such motor vehicle accident until the requirements
of Section
11-403 of this Article have been fulfilled. Every such stop shall be made
without obstructing traffic more than is necessary. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff.
5-1-90)
11-403.   DUTY TO GIVE INFORMATION AND RENDER AID:
The driver of any vehicle involved in a motor vehicle accident resulting in
injury to or death of any person or damage to any vehicle which is driven or
attended by any person shall give the driver's name, address, registration
number and owner of the vehicle the driver is operating and shall, upon request
and if available, exhibit such driver's license to the person struck or the
driver or occupant of or person attending any vehicle collided with and shall
render to any person injured in such accident reasonable assistance, including
the carrying or the making of arrangements for the carrying of such person to a
physician, surgeon or hospital for medical or surgical treatment, if it is
apparent that such treatment is necessary or if such carrying is requested by
the injured person.
If none of the persons entitled to information pursuant to this Section is in
condition to receive and understand such information, and no police officer is
present, such driver, after rendering reasonable assistance, shall forthwith
report such motor vehicle accident at the nearest office of a duly authorized
police authority, disclosing the information required by this Section. (Ord.
90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
11-404.   DUTY UPON DAMAGING UNATTENDED VEHICLE OR OTHER PROPERTY:
The driver of any vehicle which collides with or is involved in a motor vehicle
accident with any vehicle which is unattended, or other property, resulting in
any damage to such other vehicle or property shall immediately stop and shall
then and there either locate and notify the operator or owner of such vehicle
or other property of the driver's name, address, registration number and owner
of the vehicle the driver was operating or shall attach securely, in a
conspicuous place on or in the vehicle or other property struck, a written
notice giving the driver's name, address, registration number and owner of the
vehicle the driver was driving and shall, without unnecessary delay, notify the
nearest office of a duly authorized police authority. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90,
eff. 5-1-90)
11-405.   RESERVED
11-406.   RESERVED
11-407.   IMMEDIATE NOTICE OF ACCIDENT:
   (a)   The driver of a vehicle which is in any manner involved in an accident
resulting in injury to or death to any person or in which damage to the
property of any one person, including himself, is in excess of two hundred
fifty dollars ($250.00) shall, if no police officer is present, give notice of
the accident by the fastest available means of communication to the local
police department if such accident occurs within a municipality or otherwise to
the nearest office of the county sheriff or nearest headquarters of the
Illinois State Police.
   (b)   Whenever the driver of a vehicle is physically incapable of giving
immediate notice of an accident as required in subsection (a) above, and there
was another occupant in the vehicle at the time of the accident capable of
doing so, that occupant must give notice as required by said subsection (a).
(Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
11-408.   RESERVED
11-409.   FALSE ACCIDENT REPORTS OR NOTICES:
Any person who provides information in an oral or written report required by
this Code with knowledge or reason to believe that such information is false
shall be guilty of a violation of this Section. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-
1-90)
11-410.   RESERVED
11-411.   RESERVED
11-412.   RESERVED
11-413.   RESERVED
11-414.   RESERVED
11-415.   RESERVED
11-416.   RESERVED
ARTICLE V. DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED, TRANSPORTING ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR AND
RECKLESS DRIVING
SECTION:
11-500.   Definitions
11-501.   Driving While Under the Influence of Alcohol, Other Drug or
Combination Thereof
11-501.1.    Suspension of Driver's License; Statutory Summary Alcohol or Other
Drug-Related Suspension; Implied Consent
11-501.2.    Chemical and Other Tests
11-501.3.    Reserved
11-501.4.    Reserved
11-501.5.    Preliminary Breath Screening Test
11-502.   Transporting, Possession of Liquor in a Motor Vehicle
11-503.   Reckless Driving
11-504.   Drag Racing
11-505.   Illegal Squealing or Screeching of Tires
11-500.   DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of interpreting this Code, "first offender" shall mean any
person who has not had a previous conviction or court-assigned supervision for
violating Section
11-501 of this Article or a conviction in any other state for a violation of
driving while under the influence or a similar offense where the case of action
is the same or substantially similar to this Code or any person who has not had
a driver's license suspension for violating Section
11-501.1 of this Article within five (5) years prior to the date of the current
offense, except in cases where the driver submitted to chemical testing
resulting in an alcohol concentration of 0.10 or more, or any amount of a drug,
substance or compound in such person's block or urine resulting from the
unlawful use or consumption of cannabis listed in the Illinois Cannabis Control
Act 1  or a controlled substance listed in the Illinois Controlled Substances
Act 2  and was subsequently found not guilty of violation of Section 11-501 of
this Article. (Ord. 91-608, 9-24-91; 1994 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.
2 2. S.H.A. 720 ILCS 570/201 et seq.
11-501.   DRIVING WHILE UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF ALCOHOL, OTHER DRUG OR
COMBINATION THEREOF:
   (a)   A person shall not drive or be in actual physical control of any
vehicle within this Village while:
      (1)   The alcohol concentration in such person's blood or breath is 0.10
or more based on the definition of blood and breath units in Section
11-501.2 of this Article;
      (2)   Under the influence of alcohol;
      (3)   Under the influence of any other drug or combination of drugs to a
degree which renders such person incapable of safely driving; or
      (4)   Under the combined influences of alcohol and any other drug or
drugs to a degree which renders such person incapable of safely driving.
      (5)   There is any amount of a drug, substance or compound in such
person's blood or urine resulting from the unlawful use or consumption of
cannabis listed in the Illinois Cannabis Control Act 1 , as now or hereafter
amended, or a controlled substance listed in the Illinois Controlled Substance
Act 2 , as now or hereafter amended.
   (b)   The fact that any person charged with violating this Section is or has
been legally entitled to use alcohol or other drugs or any combination of both
shall not constitute a defense against any charge of violating this Section.
   (c)   A person convicted of violating this Section shall be guilty of a
Class A misdemeanor as the same is defined in the statutes of the State 3 .
Sentencing shall be imposed as provided under the Unified Code of Corrections,
730 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-1-1 et seq. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-
90)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.
2 2. S.H.A. 720 ILCS 570/201 et seq.
3 3. S.H.A. 730 ILCS 5/5-5-1 et seq.
11-501.1.   SUSPENSION OF DRIVER'S LICENSE; STATUTORY SUMMARY ALCOHOL OR OTHER
DRUG-RELATED SUSPENSION; IMPLIED CONSENT:
   (a)   Any person who drives or is in actual physical control of a motor
vehicle upon the public highways of this Village shall be deemed to have given
consent, subject to the provisions of Section
11-501.2 of this Article, to a chemical test or tests of blood, breath or urine
for the purpose of determining the alcohol, other drug or combination thereof
content of such person's blood if arrested, as evidenced by the issuance of a
uniform traffic ticket, for any offense as defined in Section
11-501 of this Article. The test or tests shall be administered at the
direction of the arresting officer. The law enforcement agency employing said
officer shall designate which of the aforesaid tests shall be administered. A
urine test may be administered even after a blood or breath test or both has
been administered.
   (b)   Any person who is dead, unconscious or who is otherwise in a condition
rendering such person incapable of refusal shall be deemed not to have
withdrawn the consent provided by subsection (a) of this Section, and the test
or tests may be administered, subject to the provisions of Section
11-501.2 of this Article.
   (c)   A person requested to submit to a test as provided above shall be
warned by the law enforcement officer requesting the test that a refusal to
submit to the test will result in the statutory summary suspension of such
person's privilege to operate a motor vehicle as provided in section 6-208.1 of
the Illinois Vehicle Code 1 . The person shall also be warned by the law
enforcement officer that if the person submits to the test or tests provided in
subsection (a) of this Section, and the alcohol concentration in such person's
blood or breath is 0.10 or greater, or any amount of a drug, substance or
compound resulting from the unlawful use or consumption of cannabis, as covered
by the Illinois Cannabis Control Act 2  or a controlled substance listed in the
Illinois Controlled Substance Act 3  is detected in such person's blood or
urine, a statutory summary suspension of such person's privilege to operate a
motor vehicle, as provided in section 6-208.1 of the Illinois Vehicle Code and
11-501.1 of this Article, will be imposed.
   (d)   If the person refuses testing or submits to a test which discloses an
alcohol concentration of 0.10 or more or any amount of a drug, substance or
compound in such person's blood or urine resulting from the unlawful use or
consumption of cannabis listed in the Illinois Cannabis Control Act 4  or a
controlled substance listed in the Illinois Controlled Substances Act 5 , the
law enforcement officer shall immediately submit a sworn report to the circuit
court of venue and the Secretary of State of the State of Illinois, certifying
that the test or tests was or were requested pursuant to subsection (a) of this
Section, and the person refused to submit to a test or tests or submitted to a
testing which disclosed an alcohol concentration of 0.10 or more.
   (e)   Upon receipt of the sworn report of a law enforcement officer
submitted under subsection (d) above, the Secretary of State shall enter the
statutory summary suspension for the periods specified in section 6-208.1 of
the Illinois Vehicle Code, 6  and effective as provided in subsection (g) of
this Section. If the person is a first offender, as defined in Section
11-500 of this Article, and is not convicted of a violation of Section
11-501  of this Article, then reports received by the Secretary of State under
this Section shall, except during the actual time the statutory summary
suspension is in effect, be privileged information and for use only by the
courts, police officers, prosecuting authorities or the Secretary of State.
   (f)   The law enforcement officer submitting the sworn report under
subsection (d) hereof shall serve immediate notice of the statutory summary
suspension on the person, and such suspension shall be effective as provided in
subsection (g) below. In cases where the blood alcohol concentration of 0.10 or
greater or any amount of a drug, substance or compound resulting from the
unlawful use or consumption of cannabis, as covered by the Illinois Cannabis
Act 1  or a controlled substance listed in the Illinois Controlled Substance
Act 2  is established by a subsequent analysis of blood or urine collected at
the time of arrest, the arresting officer shall give notice as provided in this
Section or by deposit in the United States mail of such notice in an envelope
with postage prepaid and addressed to such person at his address as shown on
the uniform traffic ticket, and the statutory summary suspension shall begin as
provided in subsection (g) of this Section. The officer shall confiscate any
Illinois driver's license or permit on the person at the time of arrest. If the
person has a valid driver's license or permit, the officer shall issue the
person a receipt, in a form prescribed by the Secretary of State, which will
allow that person to drive during the periods provided for in subsection (g) of
this Section. The officer shall immediately forward the driver's license or
permit to the circuit court of venue along with the sworn report provided for
in subsection (d) hereof.
   (g)   The statutory summary suspension referred to in this Section shall
take effect on the forty sixth day following the date the notice of the
statutory summary suspension was given to the person.
   (h)   The following procedure shall apply whenever a person is arrested for
any offense as defined in Section
11-501 of this Article: Upon receipt of the sworn report from the law
enforcement officer, the Secretary of State shall confirm the statutory summary
suspension by mailing a notice of the effective date of such suspension to the
person and the court of venue. However, should the sworn report be defective by
not containing sufficient information or be completed in error, the
confirmation of the statutory summary suspension shall not be mailed to the
person or entered to the record. Instead, the sworn report shall be forwarded
to the court of venue with a copy returned to the issuing agency identifying
any such defect. (Ord. 91-608, 9-24-91; 1994 Code)
 
Notes
1 1.   S.H.A. 625 ILCS.
2 2.   S.H.A. 720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.
3 3.   S.H.A. 720 ILCS 570/201 et seq.
4 2.   S.H.A. 720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.
5 3.   S.H.A. 720 ILCS 570/201 et seq.
6 1.   S.H.A. 625 ILCS.
1 1.   S.H.A. 720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.
2 2.   S.H.A. 720 ILCS 570/201 et seq.
11-501.2.   CHEMICAL AND OTHER TESTS:
   (a)   Upon the trial of any civil or criminal action or proceeding arising
out of an arrest for an offense as defined in Section
11-501 of this Article or proceedings pursuant to Section 2-118.1 of the
Illinois Vehicle Code, evidence of the concentration of alcohol, other drug or
combination thereof in a person's blood or breath at the time alleged, as
determined by analysis of the person's blood, urine, breath or other bodily
substance, shall be admissible. Where such test is made, the following
provisions shall apply:
      1.   Chemical analyses of the person's blood, urine, breath or other
bodily substance to be considered valid under the provisions of this Section
shall have been performed according to standards promulgated by the Department
of Public Health in consultation with the Department of State Police by an
individual possessing a valid permit issued by that Department for this
purpose. The Director of the Department of Public Health, in consultation with
the Department of State Police, is authorized to approve satisfactory
techniques or methods, to ascertain the qualifications and competence of
individuals to conduct such analyses, to issue permits which shall be subject
to termination or revocation at the discretion of that Department and to
certify the accuracy of breath-testing equipment. The Illinois Department of
Public Health shall prescribe regulations as necessary to implement this
Section.
      2.   When a person shall submit to a blood test at the request of a law
enforcement officer under the provisions of Section
11-501.1 of this Article, only a physician authorized to practice medicine, a
registered nurse or other qualified person approved by the Department of Public
Health may withdraw blood for the purpose of determining the alcohol, drug or
alcohol and drug content therein. This limitation shall not apply to the taking
of breath or urine specimens.
      3.   The person tested may have a physician or a qualified technician,
chemist, registered nurse or other qualified person of their own choosing
administer a chemical test or tests in addition to any administered at the
direction of a law enforcement officer. The failure or inability to obtain an
additional test by a person shall not preclude the admission of evidence
relating to the test or tests taken at the direction of a law enforcement
officer.
      4.   Upon the request of the person who shall submit to a chemical test
or tests at the request of a law enforcement officer, full information
concerning the test or tests shall be made available to the person or such
person's attorney.
      5.   Alcohol concentration shall mean either grams of alcohol per one
hundred (100) milliliters of blood or grams of alcohol per two hundred ten
(210) liters of breath.
   (b)   Upon the trial of any civil or criminal action or proceeding arising
out of acts alleged to have been committed by any person while driving or in
actual physical control of a vehicle while under the influence of alcohol, the
concentration of alcohol in the person's blood or breath at the time alleged as
shown by analysis of the person's blood, urine, breath or other bodily
substance shall give rise to the following presumptions:
      1.   If there was, at that time, an alcohol concentration of 0.05 or
less, it shall be presumed that the person was not under the influence of
alcohol.
      2.   If there was, at that time, an alcohol concentration in excess of
0.05 but less than 0.10, such facts shall not give rise to any presumption that
the person was or was not under the influence of alcohol, but such fact may be
considered with other competent evidence in determining whether the person was
under the influence of alcohol.
      3.   If there was, at that time, an alcohol concentration of 0.10 or
more, it shall be presumed that the person was under the influence of alcohol.
      4.   The foregoing provisions of this Section shall not be construed as
limiting the introduction of any other relevant evidence bearing upon the
questions whether the person was under the influence of alcohol.
   (c)   If a person under arrest refuses to submit to a chemical test under
the provisions of Section
11-501.1 of this Article, evidence of refusal shall be admissible in any civil
or criminal action or proceeding arising out of acts alleged to have been
committed while the person under the influence of alcohol or other drugs or
combination of both was driving or in actual physical control of a motor
vehicle. (Ord. 91-608, 9-24-91; 1994 Code)
11-501.3.   RESERVED
11-501.4.   RESERVED
11-501.5.   PRELIMINARY BREATH SCREENING TEST:
If a law enforcement officer has probable cause to believe that a person is
violating or has violated Section
11-501 of this Article, the officer, prior to an arrest, may request the person
to provide a sample of his or her breath for a preliminary breath screening
test using a portable device approved by the Department of Public Health. The
results of this preliminary breath screening test may be used by the law
enforcement officer for the purpose of assisting with the determination of
whether to require a chemical test as authorized under Sections
11-501.1 and
11-501.2 of this Article, and the appropriate type of test to request. The
chemical test authorized under said Sections
11-501.1 and
11-501.2 may be requested by the officer regardless of the result of the
preliminary breath screening test if probable cause for an arrest exists. The
result of a preliminary breath screening test may be used by the defendant as
evidence in any administrative or court proceeding involving a violation of
Section
11-501 or
11-501.1. of this Article. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
11-502.   TRANSPORTING, POSSESSION OF LIQUOR IN A MOTOR VEHICLE:
   (a)   Except as provided in subsection (c) of this Section, no driver may
transport, carry, possess or have any alcoholic liquor within the passenger
area of any motor vehicle upon a highway in this Village except in the original
container and with the seal unbroken 1 .
   (b)   Except as provided in subsection (c) of this Section, no passenger may
carry, possess or have any alcoholic liquor within any passenger area of any
motor vehicle upon a highway in this Village except in the original container
and with the seal unbroken 1 .
   (c)   This Section shall not apply to the passengers in a limousine when it
is being used for purposes for which a limousine is ordinarily used, the
passengers on a chartered bus when it is being used for purposes for which
chartered buses are ordinarily used or on a motor home or mini motor home as
defined in Section
1-145.01 of this Code. However, the driver of any such vehicle is prohibited
from consuming or having any alcoholic liquor in or about the driver's area.
Any evidence of alcoholic liquor consumption by the driver shall be prima facie
evidence of such driver's failure to obey this Section. For the purposes of
this Section, a limousine is a motor vehicle of the first division with the
passenger compartment enclosed by a partition or dividing window used in the
for-hire transportation of passengers and operated by an individual in
possession of a valid Illinois driver's license of the appropriate
classification pursuant to section 6-104 of the Illinois Vehicle Code 3 .
   (d)   The exemption applicable to chartered buses under subsection (c) above
does not apply to any chartered bus being used for school purposes. (Ord. 90-
535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90; 1994 Code)
 
Notes
1 1.   See also Section 5-3-1-5 of this Code.
1 1.   See also Section 5-3-1-5 of this Code.
3 2.   S.H.A. 625 ILCS.
11-503.   RECKLESS DRIVING:
Any person who drives any vehicle with a wilful or wanton disregard for the
safety of persons or property is guilty of reckless driving. (Ord. 90-535, 4-
24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
11-504.   DRAG RACING:
Any person who, as an operator of a motor vehicle, is a participant in a drag
race shall be deemed to have violated this Section. "Drag racing" means the act
of two (2) or more individuals competing or racing on any street or highway in
this Village in a situation in which one of the motor vehicles is beside or to
the rear of a motor vehicle operated by a competing driver, and the one driver
attempts to prevent the competing driver from passing or overtaking, either by
acceleration or maneuver, or one or more individuals competing in a race
against time on any street or highway in this Village. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90,
eff. 5-1-90)
11-505.   ILLEGAL SQUEALING OR SCREECHING OF TIRES:
No person shall operate any motor vehicle in such a manner as to cause or allow
to be emitted squealing, screeching or other such noise from the vehicle's
tires due to rapid acceleration or excessive speed around corners or other such
reasons.
This Section shall not apply to the following conditions:
   (a)   An authorized emergency vehicle when responding to an emergency call
or when in the pursuit of any actual or suspected violator.
   (b)   The emergency operation of a motor vehicle when avoiding imminent
danger.
   (c)   Any raceway, racing facility or other public event, not part of a
highway, sanctioned by the appropriate governmental authority. (Ord. 90-535, 4-
24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
ARTICLE VI. SPEED RESTRICTIONS
SECTION:
11-601.   General Speed Restrictions
11-602.   Specific Speed Limits
11-603.   Reserved
11-604.   Reserved
11-605.   Special Speed Limit While Passing Schools
11-606.   Minimum Speed Regulation
11-607.   Reserved
11-608.   Special Speed Limit On Elevated Structures
11-609.   Reserved
11-610.   Reserved
11-611.   Reserved
11-601.   GENERAL SPEED RESTRICTIONS:
   (a)   No vehicle may be driven upon any highway of this Village at a speed
which is greater than is reasonable and proper with regard to traffic
conditions and the use of the highway or endangers the safety of any person or
property. The fact that the speed of a vehicle does not exceed the applicable
maximum speed limit does not relieve the driver from the duty to decrease speed
when approaching and crossing an intersection, approaching and going around a
curve, when approaching a hill crest, when traveling upon any narrow or winding
roadway or when special hazard exists with respect to pedestrians or other
traffic or by reason of weather or highway conditions. Speed must be decreased
as may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person or vehicle on or
entering the highway in compliance with legal requirements and the duty of all
persons to use due care.
   (b)   No person may drive a vehicle upon any highway or street within the
Village at a speed which is greater than that which is properly posted or in
excess of maximum limits as provided by subsection (c), (d), (e), (f) or (g) of
this section.
   (c)   Unless some other speed restriction is established under this chapter,
the maximum speed limit in an urban district for all vehicles is thirty (30)
miles per hour and fifteen (15) miles per hour in an alley.
   (d)   Unless some other speed restriction is established under this chapter,
the maximum speed limit outside an urban district for any vehicle of the first
division or a vehicle of the second division designed or used for the carrying
of a gross weight of less than eight thousand (8,000) pounds (including the
weight of the vehicle and maximum load) is sixty five (65) miles per hour;
provided, however, that during the period for which the Federal government,
through section 114 of the "Federal Aid Highway Amendments of 1974", enacted by
the Congress of the United States of America as Public Law 93-643, requires
that the states maintain a maximum speed limit of fifty five (55) miles per
hour, the maximum speed limit pursuant to this subsection shall be temporarily
reduced to fifty five (55) miles per hour.
   (e)   Unless some other speed restriction is established under this chapter,
the maximum speed limit outside an urban district for a vehicle of the second
division designed or used for the carrying of a gross weight of eight thousand
(8,000) pounds or more (including the weight of the vehicle and maximum load)
is fifty five (55) miles per hour.
   (f)   Unless some other speed restriction is established under this chapter,
the maximum speed limit outside an urban district for a bus is:
      (1)   Sixty five (65) miles per hour upon any highway which has at least
four (4) lanes of traffic and of which the roadways for traffic moving in
opposite directions are separated by a strip of ground which is not surfaced or
suitable for vehicular traffic; provided, however, that during the period for
which the Federal government, through section 114 of the "Federal Aid Highway
Amendments of 1974", enacted by the Congress of the United States of America as
Public Law 93-643, requires that the states maintain a maximum speed limit of
fifty five (55) miles per hour, the maximum speed limit pursuant to this
subsection (f)(1) shall be temporarily reduced to fifty five (55) miles per
hour.
      (2)   Sixty (60) miles per hour on any other highway; provided, however,
that during the period for which the Federal government, through section 114 of
the "Federal Aid Highway Amendments of 1974", enacted by the Congress of the
United States of America as Public Law 93-643, requires that the states
maintain a maximum speed limit of fifty five (55) miles per hour, the maximum
speed limit pursuant to this subsection (f)(2) shall be temporarily reduced to
fifty five (55) miles per hour.
   (g)   Unless some other speed restriction is established under this chapter,
the maximum speed limit outside an urban district for a house car, camper,
private living coach, vehicles licensed as recreational vehicles and any
vehicle towing any other vehicle is fifty five (55) miles per hour or the
posted speed limit, whichever is less. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-1990, eff. 5-1-1990)
11-602.   SPECIFIC SPEED LIMITS:
The following specific streets shall have the following maximum speed limits:
   Black Road: The segment between Route 59 and River Road - thirty five (35)
miles per hour, and the segment between River Road to the Village's western
limits - forty (40) miles per hour.
   Four Seasons Park: The speed limit at Four Seasons Park will be twenty (20)
miles per hour.
   Lake Of The Woods Subdivision: The residential streets in the Lake of the
Woods Subdivision shall have the following maximum speed limit: Twenty five
(25) miles per hour.
   Mound Road: From I-55 Frontage Road to the western Village limits: Forty
(40) miles per hour.
   River Road: Throughout the Village limits with the exception of the segment
between Seil Road and Mound Road: Forty (40) miles per hour.
   Seil Road: The segment between Frontage Road and River Road: Thirty five
(35) miles per hour; and the segment between River Road to the Village's
western limits: Forty (40) miles per hour.
   Southwest Frontage Road: The segment between Seil Road to the Village's
southern limits: Thirty five (35) miles per hour.
   Wynstone Drive: The speed limit on Wynstone Drive will be thirty (30) miles
per hour; except for the segment between Mound Road to West Lake Forrest Lane:
Twenty five (25) miles per hour.
   Establishment of a school zone speed limit of twenty (20) miles per hour for
Troy Hofer Elementary School on a school day when children are present. The
school zone speed limit on Vertin
   Boulevard would extend from one hundred feet (100') west of the school
property line to two hundred feet (200') east of the eastern school crosswalk.
The school zone speed limit on Phelps Lane would extend from one hundred feet
(100') west of the school property line to two hundred feet (200') east of the
proposed crosswalk. (Ord. 03-1185, 11-11-2003; amd. Ord. 04-1229, 7-13-2004;
Ord. 05-1317, 10-25-2005; Ord. 06-1371, 7-11-2006; Ord. 06-1379, 9-26-2006;
Ord. 07-1440, 9-25-2007; Ord. 08-1491, 8-12-2008; Ord. 14-1724, 2-25-2014; Ord.
18-1900, 8-14-2018)
11-603.   RESERVED
11-604.   RESERVED
11-605. SPECIAL SPEED LIMIT WHILE PASSING SCHOOLS:
On a school day when schoolchildren are present and so close thereto that a
potential hazard exists because of the close proximity of the motorized
traffic, no person shall drive a motor vehicle at a speed in excess of twenty
(20) miles per hour while passing a school zone or while traveling upon any
public thoroughfare where children pass going to and from school. For the
purpose of this section, school day shall begin at seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.
and shall conclude at four o'clock (4:00) P.M.
This section shall not be applicable unless appropriate signs are posted upon
streets and highways. Such signs shall give proper due warning that a school
zone is being approached and shall indicate the school zone and the maximum
speed limit in effect during school days when schoolchildren are present.
Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the use of electronic speed detecting
devices within five hundred feet (500') of signs within a special school speed
zone indicating such zone, as defined in this section, nor shall evidence
obtained thereby be inadmissible in any prosecution for speeding, provided the
use of such device shall apply only to the enforcement of the speed limit in
such special school speed zone. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-1990, eff. 5-1-1990)
11-606.   MINIMUM SPEED REGULATION:
No person shall drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to impede or
block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, except when reduced speed
is necessary for safe operation of his vehicle or in compliance with law. (Ord.
90-535, 4-24-1990, eff. 5-1-1990)
11-607.   RESERVED
11-608.   SPECIAL SPEED LIMIT ON ELEVATED STRUCTURES:
No person shall drive a vehicle over any bridge or other elevated structure
constituting a part of a highway at a speed which is greater than the maximum
speed which can be maintained with safety to such bridge or structure, when
such structure is signposted as provided in this article. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-
1990, eff. 5-1-1990)
11-609.   RESERVED
11-610.   RESERVED
11-611.   RESERVED
ARTICLE VII. DRIVING ON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY, OVERTAKING AND PASSING, ETC.
SECTION:
11-701.   Driving on Right Side of Roadway; Exceptions
11-702.   Passing Vehicles Proceeding in Opposite Directions
11-703.   Overtaking Vehicle on the Left
11-704.   When Overtaking on the Right is Permitted
11-705.   Limitations on Overtaking on the Left
11-706.   Further Limitations on Driving to the Left of Center
11-707.   No-Passing Zones
11-708.   One-Way Roadways and Rotary Traffic Islands
11-709.   Driving on Roadways Laned for Traffic
11-709.1.    Driving on Shoulder
11-710.   Following too Closely
11-711.   Use of Controlled Access Highway
11-701.   DRIVING ON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY; EXCEPTIONS:
   (a)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movements.
      (2)   When an obstruction exists making it necessary to drive to the left
of the center of the roadway; provided, any person so doing shall yield the
right of way to all vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon the
unobstructed portion of the roadway within such distance as to constitute an
immediate hazard.
      (3)   Upon a roadway divided into three (3) marked lanes for traffic
under the rules applicable thereon.
   (b)   Upon all roadways, any vehicle proceeding at less than the normal
speed of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then existing
shall be driven in the right-hand lane available for traffic or as close as
practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway, except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction or when
preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private road or
driveway.
   (c)   Upon any roadway having four (4) or more lanes for moving traffic and
providing for two-way movement of traffic, no vehicle shall be driven to the
left of the center line of the roadway, except when authorized by official
traffic-control devices designating certain lanes to the left side of the
center of the roadway for use by traffic not otherwise permitted to use such
lanes, or except as permitted under subsection (a)(2) of this Section. However,
this subsection shall not be construed as prohibiting the crossing of the
center line in making a left turn into or from an alley, private road or
driveway. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
11-702.   PASSING VEHICLES PROCEEDING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS:
Drivers of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass each other to
the right, and upon roadways having width for not more than one line of traffic
in each direction, each driver shall give to the other at least one-half (1/2)
of the main traveled portion of the roadway as nearly as possible. (Ord. 90-
535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
11-703.   OVERTAKING VEHICLE ON THE LEFT:
The following rules govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles proceeding in
the same direction, subject to those limitations, exceptions and special rules
otherwise stated in this Chapter:
   (a)   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe distance and shall not
again drive to the right side of the roadway until safely clear of the
overtaken vehicle. In no event shall such movement be made by driving off the
pavement or the main traveled portion of the roadway.
   (b)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle on audible signal and shall not increase the speed of his
vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
   (c)   The driver of a two-wheeled vehicle may not, in passing upon the left
of any vehicle proceeding in the same direction, pass upon the right of any
vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless there is an unobstructed lane
of traffic available to permit such passing maneuver safely. (Ord. 90-535, 4-
24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
11-704.   WHEN OVERTAKING ON THE RIGHT IS PERMITTED:
   (a)   The driver of a vehicle with three (3) or more wheels may overtake and
pass upon the right of another vehicle only under the following conditions:
      (1)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn.
      (2)   Upon a roadway with unobstructed pavement or sufficient width for
two (2) or more lines of vehicles moving lawfully in the direction being
travelled by the overtaking vehicle.
      (3)   Upon a one-way street or upon any roadway on which traffic is
restricted to one direction of movement where the roadway is free from
obstructions and of sufficient width for two (2) or more lanes of moving
vehicles.
   (b)   The driver of a two-wheeled vehicle may not pass upon the right of any
other vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless the unobstructed pavement
to the right of the vehicle being passed is of a width of not less than eight
feet (8').
   (c)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle upon the
right only under conditions permitting such movement in safety. Such movement
shall not be made by driving off the roadway. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-
90)
11-705.   LIMITATIONS ON OVERTAKING ON THE LEFT:
No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of the roadway in
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless
authorized by the provisions of this Chapter and unless such left side is
clearly visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a sufficient distance ahead
to permit such overtaking and passing to be completely made without interfering
with the safe operation of any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction
or any vehicle overtaken. In every event, the overtaking vehicle must return to
an authorized lane of travel as soon as practicable and, in the event the
passing movement involves the use of a lane authorized for vehicles approaching
from the opposite direction, before coming within two hundred feet (200') of
any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90,
eff. 5-1-90)
11-706.   FURTHER LIMITATIONS ON DRIVING TO THE LEFT OF CENTER:
   (a)   No vehicle shall be driven on the left side of the roadway under the
following conditions:
      (1)   When approaching or upon the crest of a grade or a curve in the
highway where the driver's view is obstructed within such distance as to create
a hazard in the event another vehicle might approach from the opposite
direction.
      (2)   When approaching within one hundred feet (100') of or traversing
any intersection or railroad grade crossing.
      (3)   When the view is obstructed upon approaching within one hundred
feet (100') of any bridge, viaduct or tunnel.
   (b)   The limitations in subsections (a)(1), (a)(2) and (a)(3) above do not
apply upon a one-way roadway nor upon a roadway with unobstructed pavement of
sufficient width for two (2) or more lanes of moving traffic in each direction
nor to the driver of a vehicle turning left into or from an alley, private road
or driveway when such movements can be made with safety. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90,
eff. 5-1-90)
11-707.   NO-PASSING ZONES:
   (a)   The Village is authorized to determine those portions of any highway
under its jurisdiction where overtaking and passing or driving on the left of
the roadway would be especially hazardous and may, by appropriate signs or
markings on the roadway, indicate the beginning and end of such zones. Upon
request of a local school board, the department which has jurisdiction over the
Village shall determine whether a hazardous situation exists at a particular
location and warrants a no- passing zone. If the Village determines that a no-
passing zone is warranted, the school board and the Village shall share equally
the cost of designating the no-passing zone by signs and markings. When such
signs or markings are in place and clearly visible to an ordinarily observant
person, every driver of a vehicle shall obey the directions thereof.
   (b)   Where signs or markings are in place to define a no-passing zone as
set forth in subsection (a) of this Section, no driver may, at any time, drive
on the left side of the roadway within the no-passing zone or on the left side
of any pavement striping designed to mark such no-passing zone throughout its
length.
   (c)   This Section does not apply under the conditions described in
subsection 11-701(a)(2) of this Article nor to the driver of a vehicle turning
left into or from an alley, private road or driveway. The pavement striping
designed to mark the no-passing zone may be crossed from the left-hand lane for
the purpose of completing a pass that was begun prior to the beginning of the
zone in the driver's direction of travel. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
11-708.   ONE-WAY ROADWAYS AND ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS:
   (a)   The Village may designate any highway, roadway, part of a roadway or
specific lanes upon which vehicular traffic shall proceed in one direction at
all or such times as shall be indicated by official traffic-control devices.
   (b)   Upon a roadway so designated for one-way traffic, a vehicle shall be
driven only in the direction designated at all or such times as shall be
indicated by official traffic-control devices.
   (c)   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island must be driven only
to the right of such island.
   (d)   Whenever any highway has been divided into two (2) or more roadways by
leaving an intervening space or by a physical barrier or a clearly indicated
dividing section so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle
must be driven only upon the right-hand roadway unless directed or permitted to
use another roadway by official traffic-control devices or police officers. No
vehicle may be driven over, across or within any such dividing space, barrier
or section, except through an opening in the physical barrier or dividing
section or space or at a cross-over or intersection as established by public
authority.
   (e)   The driver of a vehicle may turn left across a paved, noncurbed
dividing space unless prohibited by an official traffic-control device. (Ord.
90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
11-709.   DRIVING ON ROADWAYS LANED FOR TRAFFIC:
Whenever any roadway has been divided into two (2) or more clearly marked lanes
for traffic, the following rules, in addition to all others consistent herein,
shall apply.
   (a)   A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practicable entirely within a
single lane and shall not be moved from such lane until the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made with safety.
   (b)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three (3) lanes and provides for
two- way movement of traffic, a vehicle shall not be driven in the center lane
except when overtaking and passing another vehicle travelling in the same
direction when such center lane is clear of traffic within a safe distance or
in preparation for making a left turn or where such center lane is, at the
time, allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the same direction that the
vehicle is proceeding, and such allocation is designated by official traffic-
control devices.
   (c)   Official traffic-control devices may be erected directing specific
traffic to use a designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by
traffic moving in a particular direction regardless of the center of the
roadway, and drivers of vehicles shall obey the directions of every such
device. On multi-lane controlled access highways with three (3) or more lanes
in one direction or on any multi-laned highway with two (2) or more lanes in
one direction, the Village may designate lanes of traffic to be used by
different types of motor vehicles. Drivers must obey lane designation signing
except when it is necessary to use a different lane to make a turning maneuver.
   (d)   Official traffic-control devices may be installed prohibiting the
changing of lanes on sections of roadway, and drivers of vehicles shall obey
the directions of every such device. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
11-709.1.   DRIVING ON SHOULDER:
   (a)   Vehicles shall be driven on a roadway and shall only be driven on the
shoulder for purpose of stopping or accelerating from a stop while merging into
traffic. It shall be a violation of this Section if, while merging into traffic
and while on the shoulder, the vehicle passes any other vehicle on the roadway
adjacent to it.
   (b)   This Section shall not apply to any authorized emergency vehicle or to
any service vehicle while engaged in maintenance of the highway or related
work. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
11-710.   FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY:
   (a)   The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more
closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of such
vehicles and the traffic upon and the condition of the highway.
   (b)   The driver of any truck or motor vehicle drawing another vehicle, when
travelling upon a roadway outside of a business or residence district and which
is following another truck or motor vehicle drawing another vehicle, shall,
whenever conditions permit, leave sufficient space so that an overtaking
vehicle may enter and occupy such space without danger; except, that this shall
not prevent a truck or motor vehicle drawing another vehicle from overtaking
and passing any vehicle or combination of vehicles.
   (c)   Motor vehicles being driven upon any roadway outside of a business or
residence district in a caravan or motorcade, whether or not towing other
vehicles, shall be so operated as to allow sufficient space between each such
vehicle or combination of vehicles so as to enable any other vehicle to enter
and occupy such space without danger. This provision shall not apply to funeral
processions. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
11-711.   USE OF CONTROLLED ACCESS HIGHWAY:
   (a)   No person may drive a vehicle onto or from any controlled access
highway except at entrances and exits established by public authority.
   (b)   The State, with respect to any controlled access highway under its
jurisdiction, may prohibit the use of any such highways by pedestrians (except
in authorized areas or facilities), bicycles, farm tractors, implements of
husbandry, funeral processions and any vehicle unable to maintain the minimum
speed for which the highway is posted or other nonmotorized traffic or by any
person operating a motor- driven cycle. The State may also prohibit the use of
such highway to school buses picking up and discharging children and mail
delivery vehicles picking up or delivering mail. The State shall erect and
maintain official signs on the controlled access highway on which such
prohibitions are applicable, and when so erected, no person may disobey the
restrictions stated on such sign. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
ARTICLE VIII. STARTING AND TURNING MOVEMENTS
SECTION:
11-801.   Required Position and Method of Turning at Intersections
11-802.   U Turns
11-803.   Starting Parked Vehicle
11-804.   When Driver's Signal Required
11-805.   Signal by Hand or Arm or Signal Device
11-806.   Method of Giving Hand and Arm Signals
11-801.   REQUIRED POSITION AND METHOD OF TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS:
   (a)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do
so as follows:
      (1)   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made
as close as practical to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
      (2)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at any intersection
shall approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand lane lawfully
available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of such vehicle, and
after entering the intersection, the left turn shall be made so as to leave the
intersection in a lane lawfully available to traffic moving in such direction
upon the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable, the left turn shall be
made in that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the
intersection.
      (3)   The State and local authorities in their respective jurisdictions
may cause official traffic-control devices to be placed within or adjacent to
intersections and thereby require and direct that a different course from that
specified in this Section be traveled by vehicles turning at an intersection,
and when such devices are so placed, no driver of a vehicle shall turn a
vehicle at an intersection other than as directed and required by such devices.
   (b)   Where a special lane for making left turns by drivers proceeding in
opposite directions has been indicated by official traffic-control devices:
      (1)   A left turn shall not be made from any other lane.
      (2)   A vehicle shall not be driven in the lane except when preparing for
or making a left turn from or into the roadway or when preparing for or making
a U turn when otherwise permitted by law.
   (c)   When a motor vehicle and a mass transit bus are traveling in the same
direction on the same multi-laned highway, street or road, the operator of the
motor vehicle overtaking such bus which is stopped at an intersection on the
right side of the roadway to receive or discharge passengers, shall pass to the
left of the bus at a safe distance and shall not turn to the right in front of
the bus at that intersection. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
11-802.   U TURNS:
   (a)   The driver of any vehicle shall not turn such vehicle so as to proceed
in the opposite direction unless such movement can be made in safety and
without interfering with other traffic.
   (b)   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction
upon any curve or upon the approach to or near the crest of a grade, where such
vehicle cannot be seen by the driver of any other vehicle approaching from
either direction within five hundred feet (500'). (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff.
5-1-90)
11-803.   STARTING PARKED VEHICLE:
No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing or parked unless and
until such movement can be made with reasonable safety. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90,
eff. 5-1-90)
11-804.   WHEN DRIVER'S SIGNAL REQUIRED:
   (a)   No person may turn a vehicle at an intersection unless the vehicle is
in proper position upon the roadway as required in Section
11-801 of this Article or turn a vehicle to enter a private road or driveway or
otherwise turn a vehicle from a direct course or move right or left upon a
roadway unless and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety. No
person may so turn any vehicle without giving an appropriate signal in the
manner hereinafter provided.
   (b)   A signal of intention to turn right or left, when required, must be
given continuously during not less than the last one hundred feet (100')
traveled by the vehicle before turning within a business or residence district,
and such signal must be given continuously during not less than the last two
hundred feet (200') traveled by the vehicle before turning outside a business
or residence district.
   (c)   No person may stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle without
first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided in this Chapter to
the driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is opportunity to
give such a signal.
   (d)   The electric turn signal device required in Section
12-208 of this Act must be used to indicate an intention to turn, change lanes
or start from a parallel parked position but must not be flashed on one side
only on a parked or disabled vehicle or flashed as a courtesy or "do pass"
signal to operators of other vehicles approaching from the rear. However, such
signal devices may be flashed simultaneously on both sides of a motor vehicle
to indicate the presence of a vehicular traffic hazard requiring unusual care
in approaching, overtaking and passing. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
11-805.   SIGNAL BY HAND OR ARM OR SIGNAL DEVICE:
Any stop or turn signal, when required herein, shall be given either by means
of the hand or arm or by an electric turn signal device conforming to the
requirements provided in Section
12-208 of this Act. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
11-806.   METHOD OF GIVING HAND AND ARM SIGNALS:
All signals herein required given by hand and arm shall be given from the left
side of the vehicle in the following manner, and such signals shall indicate as
follows:
   (a)   Left turn - Hand and arm extended horizontally.
   (b)   Right turn - Hand and arm extended upward.
   (c)   Stop or decrease of speed - Hand and arm extended downward. (Ord. 90-
535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
ARTICLE IX. RIGHT OF WAY
SECTION:
11-901.   Intersections
11-901.01.    "T" Intersections
11-902.   Turning Left
11-903.   Entering Stop Crosswalk
11-904.   Entering Stop or Yield Intersection
11-905.   Merging Traffic
11-906.   Entering Highway from Private Road or Driveway
11-907.   Operation of Vehicles on Approach of Authorized Emergency Vehicles
11-908.   Approaching Highway Construction or Maintenance Area
11-901.   INTERSECTIONS:
   (a)   When two (2) vehicles approach or enter an intersection from different
roadways at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left
must yield the right of way to the vehicle on the right.
   (b)   The right-of-way rule declared in subsection (a) of this Section is
modified at through highways and otherwise as stated in this Chapter. (Ord. 90-
535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
11-901.01.     "T" INTERSECTIONS:
The driver of a vehicle approaching the intersection of a highway from a
highway which terminates at the intersection, not otherwise regulated by this
Act or controlled by traffic-control signs or signals, shall stop, yield and
grant the privilege of immediate use of the intersection to another vehicle
which has entered the intersection from the nonterminating highway or is
approaching the intersection on the nonterminating highway in such proximity as
to constitute a hazard and, after stopping, may proceed when the driver may
safely enter the intersection without interference or collision with the
traffic using the nonterminating highway. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
11-902.   TURNING LEFT:
The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the left within an intersection or
into an alley, private road or driveway shall yield the right of way to any
vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which is so close as to
constitute an immediate hazard, but said driver, having so yielded, may proceed
at such time as a safe interval occurs. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
11-903.   ENTERING STOP CROSSWALK:
Where stop signs or flashing red signals are in place at an intersection, or
flashing red signals are in place at a plainly marked crosswalk between
intersections, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the nearest
crosswalk, and pedestrians within or entering the crosswalk at either edge of
the roadway shall have the right of way over vehicles so stopped. Drivers of
vehicles having so yielded the right of way to pedestrians entering or within
the nearest crosswalk at an intersection shall also yield the right of way to
pedestrians within any other crosswalk at the intersection. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-
90, eff. 5-1-90)
11-904.   ENTERING STOP OR YIELD INTERSECTION 1 :
   (a)   Preferential right of way at an intersection may be indicated by stop
or yield signs as authorized by this Code or the Illinois Vehicle Code.
   (b)   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic-control
signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection indicated by
a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if none, then
at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering the
intersection. After having stopped, the driver shall yield the right of way to
any vehicle which has entered the intersection from another roadway or which is
approaching so closely on the roadway as to constitute an immediate hazard
during the time when the driver is moving across or within the intersection,
but said driver having so yielded may proceed at such time as a safe interval
occurs.
   (c)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall, in obedience
to such sign, slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing conditions and,
if required for safety to stop, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but
if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or
if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver
has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway. After slowing or
stopping, the driver shall yield the right of way to any vehicle in the
intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard during the time such driver is moving across or within the
intersection.
   (d)   If a driver is involved in a collision at an intersection or
interferes with the movement of other vehicles after driving past a yield
right-of-way sign, such collision or interference shall be deemed prima facie
evidence of the driver's failure to yield right of way. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90,
eff. 5-1-90)
 
Notes
1 1.   See also Section 11-1204 of this Chapter.
11-905.   MERGING TRAFFIC:
Notwithstanding the right-of-way provision in Section 11-901 of this Article,
at an intersection where traffic lanes are provided for merging traffic, the
driver of each vehicle on the converging roadways is required to adjust his
vehicular speed and lateral position so as to avoid a collision with another
vehicle. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
11-906.   ENTERING HIGHWAY FROM PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY 1 :
The driver of a vehicle about to enter or cross a highway from an alley,
building, private road or driveway shall yield the right of way to all vehicles
approaching on the highway to be entered. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
 
Notes
1 1.   See also Section 11-1205 of this Chapter.
11-907.   OPERATION OF VEHICLES ON APPROACH OF AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle making use of
audible and visual signals meeting the requirements of this Code or a police
vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an audible or visual signal, the
driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right of way and shall
immediately drive to a position parallel to and as close as possible to the
right-hand edge or curb of the highway clear of any intersection and shall, if
necessary to permit the safe passage of the emergency vehicle, stop and remain
in such position until the authorized emergency vehicle has passed, unless
otherwise directed by a police officer. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
11-908.   APPROACHING HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION OR MAINTENANCE AREA:
   (a)   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right of way to any authorized
vehicle or pedestrian actually engaged in work upon a highway within any
highway construction or maintenance area indicated by official traffic-control
devices.
   (b)   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right of way to any authorized
vehicle obviously and actually engaged in work upon a highway, whenever the
vehicle engaged in construction or maintenance work displays flashing lights as
provided in Section 12-215 of this Act.
   (c)   The driver of a vehicle shall stop if signaled to do so by a flagger
or a traffic-control signal and remain in such position until signaled to
proceed. If a driver of a vehicle fails to stop when signaled to do so by a
flagger, the flagger is authorized to report such offense to the appropriate
authority. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
ARTICLE X. PEDESTRIANS
SECTION:
11-1001.   Obedience to Traffic-Control Devices and Laws
11-1002.   Right of Way at Crosswalks
11-1003.   Crossing at Other Than Crosswalks
11-1003.1.   Drivers to Exercise Due Care
11-1004.   Handicapped, Disabled Pedestrians
11-1004.1.   Motorized Wheelchairs
11-1005.   Use Right Half of Crosswalks
11-1006.   Soliciting Rides, Business or Contributions
11-1007.   Walking on Highways
11-1008.   Right of Way on Sidewalks
11-1009.   Yield to Authorized Emergency Vehicles
11-1010.   Under Influence of Alcohol or Drugs
11-1011.   Bridges and Railroad Signals
11-1001.   OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC- CONTROL DEVICES AND LAWS:
   (a)   A pedestrian shall obey the instructions of any official traffic-
control device specifically applicable to him, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer.
   (b)   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic and pedestrian-control signals
provided in Sections 11-306 and 11-307 of this Chapter, but at all other
places, pedestrians shall be accorded the privileges and shall be subject to
the restrictions stated in this Article. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
11-1002.   RIGHT OF WAY AT CROSSWALKS:
   (a)   When traffic-control signals are not in place or not in operation, the
driver of a vehicle shall yield the right of way, slowing down or stopping if
need be to so yield, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk
when the pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is
traveling or when the pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite
half of the roadway as to be in danger.
   (b)   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety and
walk or run into the path of a moving vehicle which is so close as to
constitute an immediate hazard.
   (c)   Subsection (a) of this Section shall not apply under the condition
stated subsection 11-1003(b) hereof.
   (d)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass such stopped vehicle.
   (e)   Whenever stop signs or flashing red signals are in place at an
intersection or at a plainly marked crosswalk between intersections, drivers
shall yield the right of way to pedestrians as set forth in Section
11-904 of this Chapter. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
11-1003.   CROSSING AT OTHER THAN CROSSWALKS:
   (a)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right of way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (b)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right of way
to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (c)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic-control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a marked
crosswalk.
   (d)   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway intersection diagonally unless
authorized by official traffic-control devices, and when authorized to cross
diagonally, pedestrians shall cross only in accordance with the official
traffic- control devices pertaining to such crossing movements. (Ord. 90-535,
4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
11-1003.1.     DRIVERS TO EXERCISE DUE CARE:
Notwithstanding other provisions of this Code, every driver of a vehicle shall
exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian or any person
operating a bicycle or other device propelled by human power and shall give
warning by sounding the horn when necessary and shall exercise proper
precaution upon observing any child or any obviously confused, incapacitated or
intoxicated person. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
11-1004.   HANDICAPPED, DISABLED PEDESTRIANS:
The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right of way to any blind, hearing
impaired or physically handicapped pedestrian carrying a clearly visible white
cane or accompanied by a support or guide dog. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-
90)
11-1004.1.    MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIRS:
Every person operating a motorized wheelchair upon a sidewalk or roadway shall
be granted all the rights and shall be subject to all the duties applicable to
a pedestrian. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
11-1005.   USE RIGHT HALF OF CROSSWALKS:
Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
11-1006.   SOLICITING RIDES, BUSINESS OR CONTRIBUTIONS:
No person shall:
   (a)   Stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a ride from the
driver of any vehicle.
   (b)   Stand on a highway for the purpose of soliciting employment or
business from the occupant of any vehicle.
   (c)   Stand on a highway for the purpose of soliciting contributions from
the occupant of any vehicle except when expressly permitted by Municipal
ordinance 1 . Solicitation on highways within this State shall be allowed only
at intersections where all traffic is required to come to a full stop. The
soliciting agency shall be:
      (1)   Registered with the Attorney General as a charitable organization
as provided by "An Act to regulate solicitation and collection of funds for
charitable purposes, provided for violations thereof, and making an
appropriation therefor", approved July 26, 1963, as amended 2 .
      (2)   Engaged in a statewide fund-raising activity.
      (3)   Liable for any injuries to any person or property during the
solicitation which is casually related to an act or ordinary negligence of the
soliciting agent.
Any person engaged in the act of solicitation shall be sixteen (16) years of
age or more and shall be wearing a high visibility vest.
   (d)   Stand on or in the proximity highway for the purpose of soliciting the
watching or guarding of any vehicle while parked or about to be parked on a
highway. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
 
Notes
1 1.   See Section 3-8-11 of this Village Code.
2 2.   S.H.A. 225 ILCS 460/1 et seq.
11-1007.   WALKING ON HIGHWAYS:
   (a)   Where a sidewalk is provided and its use is practicable, it shall be
unlawful for any pedestrian to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   (b)   Where a sidewalk is not available, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a highway shall walk only on a shoulder, as far as practicable from the
edge of the roadway.
   (c)   Where neither a sidewalk nor a shoulder is available, any pedestrian
walking along and upon a highway shall walk as near as practicable to an
outside edge of a roadway and, if on a two-way roadway, shall walk only on the
left side of the roadway.
   (d)   Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, any pedestrian upon a
roadway shall yield the right of way to all vehicles upon the roadway. (Ord.
90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
11-1008.   RIGHT OF WAY ON SIDEWALKS:
The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right of way to any pedestrian on a
sidewalk. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
11-1009.   YIELD TO AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle making use of an
audible signal and visual signals meeting the requirements of Section 12-217 of
the Illinois Vehicle Code or of a police vehicle properly and lawfully making
use of an audible signal only, every pedestrian shall yield the right of way to
the authorized emergency vehicle. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90; 1994
Code)
11-1010.   UNDER INFLUENCE OF ALCO HOL OR DRUGS:
A pedestrian who is under the influence of alcohol or any drug to a degree
which renders himself a hazard shall not walk or be upon a highway except on a
sidewalk. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90; 1994 Code)
11-1011.   BRIDGES AND RAILROAD SIGNALS:
No pedestrian shall:
   (a)   Enter or remain upon any bridge or approach thereto beyond the bridge
signal, gate or barrier after a bridge operation signal indication has been
given.
   (b)   Pass through, around, over or under any crossing gate or barrier at a
railroad grade crossing or bridge while such gate or barrier is closed or is
being opened or closed.
   (c)   Enter, remain upon or traverse over a railroad grade crossing or
pedestrian walkway crossing a railroad track when an audible bell or clearly
visible electric or mechanical signal device is in operation giving warning of
the approach of a railroad train. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
ARTICLE XI. RESERVED
ARTICLE XII. SPECIAL STOPS REQUIRED
SECTION:
11-1201.   Obedience to Railroad Signs and Signals
11-1202.   Certain Vehicles Must Stop at All Railroad Grade Crossings
11-1203.   Moving Heavy Equipment at Railroad Grade Crossings
11-1204.   Stop and Yield Signs
11-1205.   Emerging from Alley, Building, Private Road or Driveway
11-1201.   OBEDIENCE TO RAILROAD SIGNS AND SIGNALS:
   (a)   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad grade
crossing, such person must exercise due care and caution as the existence of a
railroad track across a highway is a warning of danger, and under any of the
circumstances stated in this Section, the driver shall stop within fifty feet
(50') but not less than fifteen feet (15') from the nearest rail of the
railroad and shall not proceed until he can do so safely. The foregoing
requirements shall apply when:
      (1)   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a railroad train.
      (2)   A crossing gate is lowered or a human flagman gives or continues to
give a signal of the approach or passage of a railroad train.
      (3)   A railroad train approaching a highway crossing emits a warning
signal, and such railroad train, by reason of its speed or nearness to such
crossing, is an immediate hazard.
      (4)   An approaching railroad train is plainly visible and is in
hazardous proximity to such crossing.
      (5)   A railroad train is approaching so closely that an immediate hazard
is created.
   (b)   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while such gate or barrier is
closed or is being opened or closed. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
11-1202.   CERTAIN VEHICLES MUST STOP AT ALL RAILROAD GRADE CROSSINGS:
   (a)   The driver of any of the following vehicles shall, before crossing a
railroad track or tracks at grade, stop such vehicle within fifty feet (50')
but not less than fifteen feet (15') from the nearest rail and, while so
stopped, shall listen and look for the approach of a train and shall not
proceed until such movement can be made with safety:
      (1)   Any second division vehicle carrying passengers for hire.
      (2)   Any school bus carrying a school child.
      (3)   Any other vehicle which is required by Federal or State law to be
placarded when carrying, as a cargo or part of a cargo, hazardous material as
defined in the "Illinois Hazardous Materials Transportation Act" 1 . After
stopping, as required in this subsection, the driver shall proceed only in a
gear not requiring a change of gears during the crossing, and the driver shall
not shift gears while crossing the tract or tracks.
   (b)   This Section shall not apply:
      (1)   At any railroad grade crossing where traffic is controlled by a
police officer or flagperson;
      (2)   At any railroad grade crossing controlled by a functioning traffic-
control signal transmitting a green indication which, under law, permits the
vehicle to proceed across the railroad tracks without slowing or stopping;
except, that subsection (a) of this Section shall apply to any school bus
carrying a school child;
      (3)   At any streetcar grade crossing within a business or residence
district; or
      (4)   At any abandoned, industrial or spur track railroad grade crossing
designated as exempt by the Illinois Commerce Commission and marked with an
official sign as authorized in the State Manual on Uniform Traffic Control
Devices for Streets and Highways. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
 
Notes
1 1.   S.H.A. 430 ILCS 30/1 et seq.
11-1203.   MOVING HEAVY EQUIPMENT AT RAILROAD GRADE CROSSINGS:
   (a)   No person shall operate or move any crawler-type tractor, power
shovel, derrick, roller or any equipment or structure having a normal operating
speed of ten (10) or less miles per hour or, for such equipment with eighteen
feet (18') or less distance between two (2) adjacent axles, having a vertical
body or load clearance of less than nine inches (9") above a level surface or,
for such equipment with more than eighteen feet (18') between two adjacent
axles, having a vertical body or load clearance of less than one-half inch (1/
2") per foot of distance between such adjacent axles above a level surface upon
or across any tracks at a railroad grade crossing without first complying with
this Section.
   (b)   Notice of any such intended crossing shall be given to a
superintendent of such railroad, and a reasonable time be given to such
railroad to provide property protection at such crossing.
   (c)   Before making any such crossing, the person operating or moving any
such vehicle or equipment shall first stop the same not less than fifteen feet
(15') nor more than fifty feet (50') from the nearest rail of such railway and,
while so stopped, shall listen and look in both directions along such track for
any approaching train and for signals indicating the approach of a train and
shall not proceed until the crossing can be made safely.
   (d)   No such crossing shall be made when warning is given by automatic
signal or crossing gates or a flagman or otherwise of the immediate approach of
a railroad train or car. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-1990, eff. 5-1-1990)
11-1204.   STOP AND YIELD SIGNS 1 :
   (a)   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic control
signal, every driver of a vehicle and every motorman of a streetcar approaching
a stop intersection indicated by a stop sign shall stop before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, in the event there is no
crosswalk, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, then at a
point nearest the intersection roadway where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering the
intersection.
   (b)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign if required for
safety to stop shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or, in the event there is no crosswalk, at a clearly marked stop
line, but if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the
driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway. (Ord. 90-
535, 4-24-1990, eff. 5-1-1990)
   (c)   The following specific streets shall have the following stop/yield
sign control:
      Intersection of Appaloosa Lane and Saddlebrook Drive: Installation of
stop sign controls immediately north of Black Road. Installation of yield
control on all streets terminating at T-intersections.
      Intersection of Brookshore Drive and Deerwood Drive: Installation of new
stop signs on northbound and southbound Brookshore Drive at Deerwood Drive.
      Intersections of Brookshore Drive at Woodbrook Court, Lancer Court and
Birch Drive: Installation of two-way stop sign controls on Woodbrook Court,
Lancer Court and Birch Drive at Brookshore Drive.
      Intersection of Deerwood Drive and Arrowhead Drive: Installation of a
yield sign on Deerwood Drive at Arrowhead Drive.
      Intersection of Highland Drive and Ca Crest Drive: Installation of an
all-way stop sign control at the intersection of Highland Drive and Ca Crest
Drive.
      Intersection of Highland Drive and Parkshore Drive: Installation of an
all- way stop control as Highland Drive terminates at this intersection.
      Intersection of Highland Drive and South Edgewater Lane: Installation of
an all-way stop sign control at the intersection of Highland Drive and South
Edgewater Lane.
      Intersection of Raven Road and Robin Hill Drive: Installation of an all-
way stop sign control at the intersection of Raven Road and Robin Hill Drive.
      Intersections of Raven Road at Layne Court, Cardinal Place, Lark Lane and
Cobblestone Court: Installation of two- way stop sign controls on Raven Road at
Layne Court, Cardinal Place, Lark Lane and Cobblestone Court.
      Intersection of River Crossing Drive and Southwest Frontage Road:
Installation of new stop signs on northbound and southbound on Southwest
Frontage Road at River Crossing Drive.
      Intersection of Seil Road and States Lane: Installation of an all-way
stop sign control.
      Intersection of States Lane and Coachford/Rylane: Installation of a two-
way stop sign control on Coachford Court and Rylane Court only.
      Intersection of States Lane and Jensen Street: Installation of an all-way
stop sign control at the intersection of States Lane and Jensen Street.
      Intersection of Willow Lane at Hawthorne Drive/Magnolia Circle:
Installation of a yield sign.
      Intersection of Wynstone Drive and West Lake Forrest Lane: Installation
of an all-way stop sign control at the intersection of Wynstone Drive at West
Lake Forrest Lane.
      On Frontage Road at the intersection of Mound Road an installation of new
stop signs in the north and south bound directions creating a three-way stop.
      On Phelps Lane at Green Trails Drive and Autumn Trails Court an
installation of new stop signs in the east and west bound directions on Phelps
Lane and north bound direction on Autumn Trails Court creating a four-way stop.
      On Ridge Road at the intersections of Ca Crest Drive, Edgebrook Drive and
Shorewood Drive: Removal of yield signs and installation of new stop signs.
(Ord. 04-1230, 7-13-2004; amd. Ord. 04-1264, 12-14-2004; Ord. 05-1308, 8-23-
2005; Ord. 07-1438, 9-11-2007; Ord. 07-1439, 9-25-2007; Ord. 07-1444, 10-9-
2007; Ord. 08-1479, 6-10-2008; Ord. 08-1505, 9-23-2008; Ord. 13-1710, 10-8-
2013; Ord. 14-1725, 2-25-2014; Ord. 14-1735, 5-27-2014; Ord. 18-1883, 4-24-
2018; Ord. 18-1884, 4-24-2018; Ord. 18-1899, 8-14-2018; Ord. 19-1927, 2-26-
2019)
   (d)   The specific streets in Edgewater Subdivision shall have the traffic
control plan as depicted on exhibit A attached to the ordinance codified
herein. (Ord. 05-1271, 1-11-2005)
   (e)   The specific streets in Fields of Shorewood Subdivision shall have the
traffic control plan as depicted on exhibit A attached to the ordinance
codified herein. (Ord. 05-1313, 10-11-2005)
 
Notes
1 1.   See also section 11-904 of this chapter.
11-1205.   EMERGING FROM ALLEY, BUILDING, PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY 1 :
The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, building, private road or
driveway within an urban area shall stop such vehicle immediately prior to
driving into the sidewalk area extending across such alley, building entrance,
road or driveway, or in the event there is no sidewalk area, shall stop at the
point nearest the street to be entered where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic thereon, and shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian
as may be necessary to avoid collision, and upon entering the roadway, shall
yield the right-of- way to all vehicles approaching on such roadway. (Ord. 90-
535, 4-24-1990, eff. 5-1-1990)
 
Notes
1 1.   See also section 11-906 of this chapter.
ARTICLE XIII. STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
SECTION:
11-1301.   Stopping, Standing Or Parking Outside Business Or Residence District
11-1301.1.   Parking Privileges For Handicapped Persons; Exemptions
11-1301.3.   Unauthorized Use Of Parking Places For Handicapped Persons
11-1302.   Removal Of Illegally Parked Vehicles
11-1303.   Stopping, Standing Or Parking Prohibited In Specified Places
11-1304.   Method Of Parking
11-1305.   Violations By Lessors Of Visitor Vehicles
11-1306.   Parking Liability Of Lessor
11-1307.   Presumption
11-1308.   Loading Zones
11-1309.   Parking Vehicles For Sale
11-1310.   Parking Multiple Automobiles
11-1311.   Parking During Snowfall
11-1312.   Signs Posted
11-1313.   Weight Limitations For Parked Vehicles
11-1314.   Vehicle Weight Limitations
11-1301.   STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING OUTSIDE BUSINESS OR RESIDENCE
DISTRICT:
   (a)   Outside a business or residence district, no person shall stop, park
or leave standing any vehicle, whether attended or unattended, upon the roadway
when it is practicable to stop, park or so leave such vehicle off the roadway,
but in every event, an unobstructed width of the highway opposite a standing
vehicle shall be left for the free passage of other vehicles, and a clear view
of such stopped vehicle shall be available from a distance of two hundred feet
(200') in each direction upon such highway.
   (b)   The village, with respect to highways under its jurisdiction or for
the maintenance of which it is responsible, may place signs prohibiting or
restricting the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles on any highway where,
in its opinion, such stopping, standing or parking is dangerous to those using
the highway or where the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles would unduly
interfere with the free movement of traffic thereon. Any such regulations
adopted by the village regarding the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles
upon any specific street, streets or highways become effective at the time of
erection of appropriate signs indicating such regulations.
   (c)   This section, section 11-1303 and section 11-1304 of this article
shall not apply to the driver of any vehicle which is disabled in such manner
and to such extent that it is impossible to avoid stopping and temporarily
leaving the vehicle in such position. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-1990, eff. 5-1-1990)
11-1301.1.   PARKING PRIVILEGES FOR HANDICAPPED PERSONS; EXEMPTIONS:
A motor vehicle bearing registration plates issued to a "handicapped person",
as defined by section 1-159.1 of this title, pursuant to section 3-616 of the
Illinois vehicle code 1  or to a disabled veteran pursuant to section 3-609 of
the Illinois vehicle code or a special decal or device issued pursuant to
section 3-616 or 11-1301.2 of the Illinois vehicle code or a motor vehicle
registered in another jurisdiction upon which is displayed a registration
plate, special decal or device issued by the other jurisdiction designating the
vehicle is operated by or for a handicapped person shall be exempt from the
payment of parking meter fees and exempt from any statute or ordinance imposing
time limitations on parking, except limitations of one-half (1/2) hour or less,
on any street or highway zone or any parking lot or parking place which is
owned, leased or owned and leased by a municipality or a municipal parking
utility, but such vehicle shall be subject to the laws which prohibit parking
in "no stopping" and "no standing" zones in front of or near fire hydrants,
driveways, public building entrances and exits, bus stops and loading areas and
is prohibited from parking where the motor vehicle constitutes a traffic
hazard, whereby such motor vehicle shall be moved at the instruction and
request of a law enforcement officer to a location designated by the officer.
Any motor vehicle bearing registration plates or a special decal or device
specified in this section or in section 3-616 of the Illinois vehicle code or
such devices as local authorities deem proper as evidence that the vehicle is
operated by or for a handicapped person or disabled veteran may park, in
addition to any other lawful place, in any parking place specifically reserved
for such vehicles by the posting of an official sign as provided under section
11-301 of this chapter. Parking privileges granted by this section are strictly
limited to the person to whom the special registration plates, special decal or
device were issued and to qualified operators acting under his express
direction while the disabled person is present. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-1990, eff.
5-1-1990)
Such parking privileges granted by this section are also extended to motor
vehicles of not for profit organizations used for the transportation of
handicapped persons when such motor vehicles display the decal or device issued
pursuant to section 11-1301.2 of the Illinois vehicle code. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-
1990, eff. 5-1-1990; amd. 1994 Code)
No person shall use any area for the parking of any motor vehicle pursuant to
section 11-1303 of this article or where an official sign controlling such area
expressly prohibits parking at any time or during certain hours. (Ord. 90-535,
4-24-1990, eff. 5-1-1990)
 
Notes
1 1.   625 ILCS.
11-1301.3.   UNAUTHORIZED USE OF PARKING PLACES FOR HANDICAPPED PERSONS:
   (a)   Parking any motor vehicle which is not bearing registration plates or
decals issued to a handicapped person or to a disabled veteran, as evidence
that the vehicle is operated by or for a handicapped person or disabled veteran
is prohibited in any parking place, including any private or public off street
parking facility specifically reserved, by the posting of an official sign, for
motor vehicles bearing such registration plates. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-1990, eff.
5-1-1990)
      (1)   Any person with a vehicle displaying disability license plates or a
parking decal or device issued to a qualified person with a disability or to a
disabled veteran commits an offense if: a) the person using the disability
license plate or parking decal or device is not the authorized holder of the
disability license plate or parking decal or device or is not transporting the
authorized holder of the disability license plate or parking decal or device to
or from the parking location and b) the person uses the disability license
plate or parking decal or device to exercise any privileges granted through the
disability license plate or parking decals or devices under the Illinois
vehicle code. (Ord. 06-1336, 1-10-2006)
   (b)   Any person or local authority owning or operating any public or
private off street parking facility may, after notifying the police or
sheriff's department, remove or cause to be removed to the nearest garage or
other place of safety any vehicle parked within a stall or space reserved for
use by the handicapped which does not display handicapped registration plates
or a special decal or device as required under this section. (Ord. 90-535, 4-
24-1990, eff. 5-1-1990)
   (c)   Any person found guilty of violating the provisions of subsection (a)
of this section shall be fined three hundred fifty dollars ($350.00) in
addition to any costs or charges connected with the removal or storage of any
motor vehicle authorized hereunder.
      (1)   Any person found guilty of violating the provisions of subsection
(a)(1) of this section shall be fined five hundred dollars ($500.00). The
circuit clerk shall distribute two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) of the fine
imposed on any person who is found guilty of or pleads guilty to violating
subsection (a)(1) of this section, including any person placed on court
supervision for violating that subsection, to the village of Shorewood police
department. If any other law enforcement agency or agencies assisted in issuing
the citation or making the arrest, the two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00)
shall be shared equally between the village of Shorewood police department and
the other law enforcement agency or agencies. (Ord. 06-1336, 1-10-2006)
11-1302.   REMOVAL OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES:
   (a)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle in violation of any of the
provisions of section 11-1301 of this article, such officer is hereby
authorized to move such vehicle or require the driver or other person in charge
of the vehicle to move the same to a position off the roadway.
   (b)   Any police officer is hereby authorized to remove or cause to be
removed to a place of safety any unattended vehicle illegally left standing
upon any highway, bridge, causeway or in a tunnel in such a position or under
such circumstances as to obstruct the normal movement of traffic.
   (c)   Any police officer is hereby authorized to remove or cause to be
removed to the nearest garage or other place of safety any vehicle found upon a
highway when:
      (1)   Report has been made that such vehicle has been stolen or taken
without the consent of its owner; or
      (2)   The person in charge of such vehicle is unable to provide for its
custody or removal; or
      (3)   When the person driving or in control of such vehicle is arrested
for an alleged offense for which the officer is required by law to take the
person arrested before a proper magistrate without unnecessary delay. (Ord. 90-
535, 4-24-1990, eff. 5-1-1990)
11-1303.   STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES:
   (a)   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in
compliance with law or the directions of a police officer or official traffic
control device, no person shall:
      (1)   Stop, stand or park a vehicle:
         a.   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street.
         b.   On a sidewalk.
         c.   Within an intersection.
         d.   On a crosswalk.
         e.   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty feet
(30') of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone,
unless a different length is indicated by signs or markings.
         f.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic.
         g.   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel.
         h.   On any railroad tracks.
         i.   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
         j.   On any controlled access highway.
         k.   In the area between roadways of a divided highway, including
crossovers.
      (2)   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except
momentarily to pick up or discharge passengers:
         a.   In front of a public or private driveway.
         b.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant.
         c.   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at an intersection.
         d.   Within thirty feet (30') upon the approach to any flashing
signal, stop sign, yield sign or traffic control signal located at the side of
a roadway.
         e.   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire
station and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station,
within seventy five feet (75') of such entrance (when properly signposted).
         f.   At any place where official signs prohibit standing.
      (3)   Park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading property or
passengers:
         a.   Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad
crossing.
         b.   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
   (b)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his control into any
such prohibited area or away from a curb such distance as is unlawful. (Ord.
90-535, 4-24-1990, eff. 5-1-1990)
11-1304.   METHOD OF PARKING:
   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, every vehicle stopped or
parked upon a two-way roadway shall be so stopped or parked with the right hand
wheels parallel to and within twelve inches (12") of the right hand curb or as
close as practicable to the right edge of the right hand shoulder.
   (b)   Except when otherwise provided, every vehicle stopped or parked upon a
one-way roadway shall be so stopped or parked parallel to the curb or edge of
the roadway, in the direction of authorized traffic movement, with its right
hand wheels within twelve inches (12") of the right hand curb or as close as
practicable to the right edge of the right hand shoulder or with its left hand
wheels within twelve inches (12") of the left hand curb or as close as
practicable to the left edge of the left hand shoulder. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-
1990, eff. 5-1-1990)
11-1305.   VIOLATIONS BY LESSORS OF VISITOR VEHICLES:
Every person in whose name a vehicle is registered pursuant to law and who
leases such vehicle to others, after receiving written notice of a violation of
this article involving such vehicle, shall, upon request, provide such police
officers as have authority of the offense and court having jurisdiction thereof
with a written statement of the name and address of the lessee at the time of
such offense and the identifying number upon the registration plates and
registration sticker or stickers of such vehicle. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-1990, eff.
5-1-1990)
11-1306.   PARKING LIABILITY OF LESSOR:
No person who is the lessor of a vehicle pursuant to a written lease agreement
shall be liable for the violation of any parking or standing regulation of this
act involving such vehicle during the period of the lease; provided, that upon
the request of the appropriate authority received within one hundred twenty
(120) days after the violation occurred, the lessor provides, within sixty (60)
days after such receipt, the name and address of lessee if needed for
enforcement of the act. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-1990, eff. 5-1-1990)
11-1307.   PRESUMPTION:
The fact that an automobile which is illegally parked is registered in the name
of a person shall be considered prima facie proof that such person was in
control of the automobile at the time of such parking. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-1990,
eff. 5-1-1990)
11-1308.   LOADING ZONES:
It shall be unlawful for the driver of a vehicle to stand a passenger vehicle
for a period of time longer than is necessary for the loading or unloading of
passengers, in any place designated by ordinance as a loading zone and marked
as such, or in any of the following designated places:
   Section 9-8-1: At any place not to exceed seventy five feet (75') along the
curb before the entrance to any hospital or hotel at any time.
   Section 9-8-2: At any place not to exceed seventy five feet (75') along the
curb before the entrance to a public building between eight o'clock (8:00) A.M.
and six o'clock (6:00) P.M., except on a Sunday.
   Section 9-8-3: Directly in front of the entrance to any theater at any time
that the theater is open. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-1990, eff. 5-1-1990)
11-1309.   PARKING VEHICLES FOR SALE:
It shall be unlawful to park any vehicles upon any street for the purpose of
displaying it for sale, or to park any vehicle upon any street from which
vehicle merchandise is peddled or sold. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-1990, eff. 5-1-1990)
11-1310.   PARKING MULTIPLE AUTO MOBILES:
When there are three (3) or more passenger automobiles, each of which is
licensed to the same residence address under the provisions of this article,
and three (3) or more of said automobiles are present at the same time at said
residence address, two (2) of said automobiles shall be parked off the street
and parkways, and the remaining automobiles, not exceeding two (2), may be
parked immediately in front of said residence address, provided the
accumulation of snow in the street does not exceed one inch (1") in depth.
(Ord. 90-535, 4-24-1990, eff. 5-1-1990)
11-1311.   PARKING DURING SNOW FALL:
It shall be unlawful to park any motor vehicle on any street in the village
when snow shall have accumulated to the depth of two inches (2") or more on
such street from immediately following said accumulation until the removal of
the same. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-1990, eff. 5-1-1990)
11-1312.   SIGNS POSTED:
Appropriate signs shall be posted in all areas where parking is limited or
prohibited, indicating such limitations or prohibitions. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-
1990, eff. 5-1-1990)
11-1313.   WEIGHT LIMITATIONS FOR PARKED VEHICLES:
   (a)   No vehicle, as defined by the Illinois vehicle code 1 , registered for
an excess of twenty six thousand (26,000) pounds (class J and higher) may be
parked on any street, highway, public way or parkway.
   (b)   No trailer, as defined by the Illinois vehicle code 2 , shall be
parked on any street, highway, public way or parkway at any time even if hooked
up to a vehicle.
   (c)   Except as hereinafter provided, no motor home, mini-motor home or van
camper, as defined by the Illinois vehicle code 3 , shall be parked on any
street, highway, public way or parkway at any time.
   (d)   Motor homes, mini-motor homes, or van campers may be parked on the
street for a period not to exceed: 1) seventy two (72) hours for loading and
unloading purposes; 2) an aggregate of fourteen (14) days (which may or may not
be consecutive) within a period of thirty (30) days if such vehicle is owned by
a guest of the occupants of the residence which it is parked in front of.
   (e)   Parking of motor homes, mini-motor homes or van campers in yards is
controlled by section
10-3-7 of this code.
   (f)   Vehicles, as defined by the Illinois vehicle code 4 , registered for
an excess of twelve thousand (12,000) pounds and up to twenty six thousand
(26,000) pounds shall not be parked on any street, highway, public way or
parkway unless with a permit issued by the vehicle parking commission of the
village of Shorewood.
   (g)   The vehicle parking commission shall consist of the chief of police or
designee, the village administrator or designee and the building official or
designee. In determining whether to grant such a permit, the commission shall
consider the size of the vehicle, the location where it will be parked, street
width, sight distance issues and all other factors which might affect the
health, safety and welfare of the citizens of Shorewood by the granting of such
permit. If issued, such permit may be reviewed from time to time by the vehicle
parking commission in the event of a change in circumstance. Prior to such
review, the person holding such permit shall be notified by mail and shall be
given an opportunity to be heard on the issue of whether the permit should be
terminated.
   (h)   Any appeal of the decision of the vehicle parking commission shall be
filed in writing with the planning and zoning commission of the village of
Shorewood. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this section,
school buses may be parked on streets during school hours on school days. (Ord.
03-1172, 6-10-2003, eff. 6-10-2003)
 
Notes
1 1.   625 ILCS 5/1-217.
2 2.   625 ILCS 5/1-209.
3 3.   625 ILCS 5/1-145.01.
4 4.   625 ILCS 5/1-217.
11-1314.   VEHICLE WEIGHT LIMITATIONS:
The gross weight of any vehicle, or any combination of vehicles, and their load
operated on a residential street in the village shall not exceed twenty six
thousand (26,000) pounds. (Ord. 03-1172, 6-10-2003, eff. 6-10-2003)
ARTICLE XIV. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-1401.   Unattended Motor Vehicles
11-1402.   Limitations On Backing
11-1403.   Riding On Motorcycles
11-1403.1.    Riding On Motorized Pedalcycles
11-1403.2.    Operation Of Motorcycles And Motorized Pedalcycles On One Wheel
11-1403.3.    Intercom Helmets Required For Riders Of Motorcycles And Motorized
Pedalcycles
11-1404.   Special Equipment For Passengers Of Motorcycles And Motorized
Pedalcycles
11-1405.   Required Equipment On Motorcycles
11-1406.   Obstruction Of Driver's View Or Driving Mechanism
11-1407.   Opening And Closing Vehicle Doors
11-1408.   Riding In House Trailers
11-1409.   Reserved
11-1410.   Coasting Prohibited
11-1411.   Following Fire Apparatus
11-1412.   Crossing Fire Hose
11-1412.1.    Driving On Sidewalk
11-1413.   Depositing Material On Highway Prohibited
11-1414.   Approaching, Overtaking And Passing School Bus
11-1415.   Stopping For School Buses
11-1416.   Obstructing Traffic
11-1417.   Travel On Dragged Roads Regulated
11-1418.   Operation Of Farm Tractor
11-1419.   Second Division Vehicles; Duration Of Operation
11-1419.01.   Reserved
11-1419.02.   Reserved
11-1420.   Funeral Processions
11-1421.   Operating Ambulances And Rescue Vehicles
11-1422.   Illegal Operation Of An Ambulance Or Rescue Vehicle
11-1423.   Passengers Boarding Or Exiting A School Bus
11-1424.   Operation Of A Religious Organization Bus
11-1425.   Stop When Traffic Obstructed
11-1426.   Operation Of All-Terrain Vehicles And Off Highway Motorcycles On
Streets, Roads And HighWays
11-1427.   Illegal Driving Or Operation
11-1428.   Operation Of Golf Carts
11-1401.   UNATTENDED MOTOR VEHICLES:
No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit it to stand
unattended without first stopping the engine, locking the ignition, removing
the key from the ignition, effectively setting the brake thereof and, when
standing upon any perceptible grade, turning the front wheels to the curb or
side to the highway. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-1990, eff. 5-1-1990)
11-1402.   LIMITATIONS ON BACKING:
   (a)   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless such movement
can be made with safety and without interfering with other traffic.
   (b)   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same upon any shoulder or
roadway of any controlled access highway. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-1990, eff. 5-1-
1990)
11-1403.   RIDING ON MOTORCYCLES:
   (a)   A person operating a motorcycle shall ride only upon the permanent and
regular seat attached thereto, and such operator shall not carry any other
person nor shall any other person ride on a motorcycle unless such motorcycle
is designed to carry more than one person, in which event, a passenger may ride
upon the permanent and regular seat if designed for two (2) persons or upon
another seat firmly attached to the motorcycle at the rear or side of the
operator.
   (b)   A person shall ride upon a motorcycle only while sitting astride the
seat, facing forward, with one leg on each side of the motorcycle.
   (c)   No person shall operate any motorcycle with handlebars higher than the
height of the shoulders of the operator when the operator is seated in the
normal driving position astride that portion of the seat or saddle occupied by
the operator. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-1990, eff. 5-1-1990)
11-1403.1.   RIDING ON MOTORIZED PEDALCYCLES:
   (a)   The operator of a motorized pedalcycle shall ride only astride the
permanent and regular seat attached thereto and shall not permit two (2)
persons to ride thereon at the same time, unless the motorized pedalcycle is
designed to carry two (2) persons; any motorized pedalcycle designed for two
(2) persons must be equipped with a passenger seat and footrests for use of a
passenger.
   (b)   The provisions of article XV of this chapter shall be applicable to
the operation of motorized pedalcycles, except for those provisions which by
their nature can have no application to motorized pedalcycles 1 . (Ord. 90-535,
4-24-1990, eff. 5-1-1990)
 
Notes
1 1.   See sections 11-1505, 11-1505.1 and 11-1510 of this exhibit A.
11-1403.2.   OPERATION OF MOTORCYCLES AND MOTORIZED PEDALCYCLES ON ONE WHEEL:
No person shall operate a motorcycle, motor driven cycle, or motorized
pedalcycle on one wheel. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-1990, eff. 5-1-1990)
11-1403.3.   INTERCOM HELMETS REQUIRED FOR RIDERS OF MOTORCYCLES AND MOTORIZED
PEDALCYCLES:
Any driver of a vehicle defined in section 1-147, 1-148 or 1-148.2 of this
title may use a helmet equipped with an electronic intercom system permitting
two-way vocal communication with drivers of any such vehicles or passengers on
such vehicles. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-1990, eff. 5-1-1990)
11-1404.   SPECIAL EQUIPMENT FOR PASSENGERS OF MOTORCYCLES AND MOTORIZED
PEDALCYCLES:
The operator of a motorcycle, motor driven cycle or motorized pedalcycle and
every passenger thereon shall be protected by glasses, goggles or a transparent
shield. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-1990, eff. 5-1-1990)
11-1405.   REQUIRED EQUIPMENT ON MOTORCYCLES:
Any motorcycle carrying a passenger, other than a sidecar or enclosed cab,
shall be equipped with footrests for such passenger. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-1990,
eff. 5-1-1990)
11-1406.   OBSTRUCTION OF DRIVER'S VIEW OR DRIVING MECHANISM:
   (a)   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded or when there are
in the front seat such a number of persons, exceeding three (3), as to obstruct
the view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or as to interfere
with the driver's control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (b)   No passenger in a vehicle or streetcar shall ride in such position as
to interfere with the driver's or motorman's view ahead or to the sides or to
interfere with his control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle or
streetcar.
   (c)   No passenger on a school bus may ride or stand in a position as to
interfere the driver's view ahead or to the side or to the rear or to interfere
with his control of the driving mechanism of the bus. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-1990,
eff. 5-1-1990)
11-1407.   OPENING AND CLOSING VEHICLE DOORS:
No person shall open the door of a vehicle on the side available to moving
traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so and can be done without
interfering with the movement of other traffic nor shall any person leave a
door open on the side of a vehicle available to moving traffic for a period of
time longer than necessary to load or unload passengers. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-
1990, eff. 5-1-1990)
11-1408.   RIDING IN HOUSE TRAILERS:
No person shall occupy a house trailer or travel trailer while it is being
towed upon a public highway. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-1990, eff. 5-1-1990)
11-1409.   RESERVED
11-1410.   COASTING PROHIBITED:
   (a)   The driver of any motor vehicle, when traveling upon a down grade,
shall not coast with the gears or transmission of such vehicle in neutral.
   (b)   The driver of a truck or bus, when traveling upon a down grade, shall
not coast with the clutch disengaged. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-1990, eff. 5-1-1990)
11-1411.   FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS:
The driver of any vehicle other than one on official business shall not follow
any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than five
hundred feet (500') or stop such vehicle within five hundred feet (500') of any
fire apparatus stopped in answer to a fire alarm. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-1990, eff.
5-1-1990)
11-1412.   CROSSING FIRE HOSE:
No vehicles shall be driven over any unprotected hose of a fire department when
laid down on any street, private road or driveway to be used at any fire or
alarm of fire without the consent of the fire department official in command.
(Ord. 90-535, 4-24-1990, eff. 5-1-1990)
11-1412.1.     DRIVING ON SIDEWALK:
No person shall drive any vehicle upon a sidewalk or sidewalk area except upon
a permanent or duly authorized temporary driveway. This section does not apply
to any vehicle moved exclusively by human power nor to any motorized
wheelchair. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-1990, eff. 5-1-1990)
11-1413.   DEPOSITING MATERIAL ON HIGHWAY PROHIBITED 1 :
   (a)   No person shall throw, spill or deposit upon any highway any bottle,
glass, nails, tacks, wire, cans or any litter as defined in section 3 of
Illinois litter control act 2 .
   (b)   Any person who violates subsection (a) of this section upon any
highway shall immediately remove such material or cause it to be removed.
   (c)   Any person removing a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a highway shall
remove any glass or other debris dropped upon the highway from such vehicle.
(Ord. 90-535, 4-24-1990, eff. 5-1-1990)
 
Notes
1 1.   See also section 15-109 of this title and subsection 3-6-10C of this
  code.
2 2.   415 ILCS 105/1 et seq.
11-1414.   APPROACHING, OVERTAKING AND PASSING SCHOOL BUS:
   (a)   The driver of a vehicle shall stop such vehicle before meeting or
overtaking, from either direction, any school bus stopped for the purpose of
receiving or discharging pupils on a highway or upon a private road within an
area that is covered by a contract or agreement executed pursuant to section
11-209.1 of the Illinois vehicle code. Such stop is required before reaching
the school bus when there is in operation of the school bus the visual signals
as specified in sections 12-803 and 12-805 of this title. The driver of the
vehicle shall not proceed until the school bus resumes motion, or the driver of
the vehicle is designated by the school bus driver to proceed, or the visual
signals are no longer actuated. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-1990; eff. 5-1-1990; amd.
1994 Code)
   (b)   The stop signal arm required by section 12-803 of this title shall be
extended after the school bus has come to a complete stop for the purpose of
loading or discharging pupils and shall be closed before the school bus is
placed in motion again. The stop signal arm shall not be extended at any other
time.
   (c)   The alternately flashing red signal lamps of an 8-lamp flashing signal
system required by Section 12-805 of this Code shall be actuated after the
school bus has come to a complete stop for the purpose of loading or
discharging pupils and shall be turned off before the school bus is placed in
motion again. The red signal lamps shall not be actuated at any other time
except as provided in subsection (d) of this Section.
   (d)   The alternately flashing amber signal lamps of an 8-lamp flashing
signal system required by Section 12-805 of this Code shall be actuated
continuously during not less than the last one hundred feet (100') traveled by
the school bus before stopping for the purpose of loading or discharging pupils
within an urban area and during not less than the last two hundred feet (200')
traveled by the school bus outside an urban area. The amber signal lamps shall
remain actuated until the school bus is stopped. The amber signal lamps shall
not be actuated at any other time.
   (e)   The driver of a vehicle upon a highway having four (4) or more lanes
which permits at least two (2) lanes of traffic to travel in opposite
directions need not stop such vehicle upon meeting a school bus which is
stopped in the opposing roadway and need not stop such vehicle when driving
upon a controlled access highway when passing a school bus traveling in either
direction that is stopped in a loading zone adjacent to the surfaced or
improved part of the controlled access highway where pedestrians are not
permitted to cross. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
11-1415.   STOPPING FOR SCHOOL BUSES:
   (a)   A school bus traveling on a one-way roadway or a highway having four
(4) or more lanes of vehicular traffic shall stop for the loading or
discharging of passengers only on the right side of the highway. If the highway
has four (4) or more lanes and permits traffic to operate in both directions,
the school bus shall load or discharge only those passengers whose residences
are located to the right of the highway. The routes of school buses shall be so
arranged that no child shall be required to cross a highway of four (4) or more
lanes to board a school bus or to reach such child's residence after leaving
the school bus. A school child in an urban area shall cross a highway only at a
crossing for pedestrians, except as provided in subsection (b) of this Section.
   (b)   With respect to school children crossing a highway at other than a
pedestrian crossing, this Section shall not apply when children are escorted or
controlled by competent persons des- ignated by the school authorities or by
police officers. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
11-1416.   OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC:
No person shall wilfully and unnecessarily hinder, obstruct or delay or
wilfully and unnecessarily attempt to delay, hinder or obstruct any other
person in lawfully driving or traveling along or upon any highway within this
Village or offer for barter or sale merchandise on said highway so as to
interfere with the effective movement of traffic. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff.
5-1-90)
11-1417.   TRAVEL ON DRAGGED ROADS REGULATED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or cause to be driven a vehicle of
any description in or upon any portion of the highway immediately after the
same has been dragged and before such portion of the highway shall have
partially dried out or frozen; provided, that nothing in this Section shall
apply in those instances where it is impossible to drive with safety at one
side of said dragged portion of the road, or where a vehicle does not make a
rut on such dragged portion of the road, injurious to the work accomplished by
use of the road drag or where a vehicle does not make a rut nearer than nine
feet (9') from the center of the dragged portion of the road. (Ord. 90-535, 4-
24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
11-1418.   OPERATION OF FARM TRACTOR:
No person shall operate a farm tractor on a highway unless such tractor is
being used as an implement of husbandry in connection with farming operations.
For the purpose or this Section, use of a farm tractor as an implement of
husbandry in connection with farming operations shall be deemed to include use
of such tractor in connection with the transportation of agricultural products
and of farm machinery, equipment and supplies as well as transportation of such
tractors in connection with the obtaining of repairs thereto and the towing of
a registered truck, not more than eight thousand (8,000) pounds, for use as
return transportation after the tractor is left at the place of work or repair.
(Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
11-1419.   SECOND DIVISION VEHICLES; DURATION OF OPERATION:
It is unlawful for any owner to require, permit or allow any operator of any of
his motor vehicles of the second division to operate any such motor vehicle for
a longer period than 10 hours following eight (8) consecutive hours off-duty or
drive for any period after having been on duty fifteen (15) hours following
eight (8) consecutive hours off-duty or to be or remain on duty more than sixty
(60) hours in seven (7) consecutive days, and whenever any such operator has
operated such motor vehicle for ten (10) hours following eight (8) consecutive
hours off-duty or has been on duty fifteen (15) hours following eight (8)
consecutive hours off-duty, he shall be relieved and not required, permitted or
allowed again to operate any such motor vehicle until he has had at least eight
(8) consecutive hours off-duty. The Department of State Police shall fix, by
general rule or temporary order, the circumstances and regulations under which,
in case of emergency or unusual temporary demands for transportation, any such
operator may be permitted to operate any such motor vehicle or to stay on duty
for longer periods of time than set by this Section.
The provisions of this Section shall not apply to any public utility in the
operation of any motor vehicle not for hire in case of emergency or in case of
unusual temporary necessity for transportation of persons or property or
safeguarding of vehicles and their loads nor shall such provisions apply to
operation of any motor vehicle as a part of the agricultural operations of
canning, packing or freezing establishments engaged in the growing and
processing of perishable fruits and vegetables, including the hauling of such
products between fields and such canning, packing or freezing establishments
and between such establishments, nor shall such provisions apply to operation
of any motor vehicle being used for transportation of construction materials or
equipment to, on or from construction sites within a radius of fifty (50) miles
of such construction sites nor to driver sales persons operating within a
radius of fifty (50) miles of their principal place of business. (Ord. 90-535,
4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
11-1419.01.   RESERVED
11-1419.02.   RESERVED
11-1420.   FUNERAL PROCESSIONS:
   (a)   Funeral processions have the right of way at intersections when
vehicles comprising such procession have their headlights lighted, subject to
the following conditions and exceptions:
      (1)   Operators of vehicles in a funeral procession shall yield the right
of way upon the approach of an authorized emergency vehicle giving an audible
or visible signal.
      (2)   Operators of vehicles in a funeral procession shall yield the right
of way when directed to do so by a traffic officer.
      (3)   The operator of the leading vehicle in a funeral procession shall
comply with the stop signs and traffic-control signals, but when the leading
vehicle has proceeded across an intersection in accordance with such signal or
after stopping as required by the stop sign, all vehicles in such procession
may proceed without stopping, regardless of the sign or signal, and the leading
vehicle and the vehicles in procession shall proceed with due caution.
   (b)   The operator of a vehicle not in the funeral procession shall not
drive his vehicle in the funeral procession except when authorized to do so by
a traffic officer or when such vehicle is an authorized emergency vehicle
giving audible or visible signal.
   (c)   Operators of vehicles not a part of a funeral procession may not form
a procession or convoy and have their headlights lighted for the purpose of
securing the right of way granted by this Section to funeral processions.
   (d)   The operator of a vehicle not in a funeral procession may overtake and
pass the vehicles in such procession if such overtaking and passing can be
accomplished without causing a traffic hazard or interfering with such
procession.
   (e)   The lead vehicle in the funeral procession may overtake and pass the
vehicles in such procession if such overtaking and passing can be accomplished
without causing a traffic hazard or interfering with such procession. (Ord. 90-
535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
11-1421.   OPERATING AMBULANCES AND RESCUE VEHICLES 1 :
   (a)   No person shall operate an ambulance or rescue vehicle in a manner not
conforming to the motor vehicle laws and regulations of this State or of this
Village as such laws and regulations apply to motor vehicles in general unless
in compliance with the following conditions:
      (1)   The person operating the ambulance shall be either responding to a
bona fide emergency call or specifically directed by a licensed physician to
disregard traffic laws in operating the ambulance during and for the purpose of
the specific trip or journey that is involved.
      (2)   The ambulance or rescue vehicle shall be equipped with a siren
producing an audible signal of an intensity of one hundred (100) decibels at a
distance of fifty feet (50') from the siren and with a lamp or lamps emitting
an oscillating, rotating or flashing red beam directed, in part, toward the
front of the vehicle, and these lamps shall have sufficient intensity to be
visible at five hundred feet (500') in normal sunlight.
      (3)   The aforesaid siren and lamp or lamps shall be in operation at all
times when it is reasonably necessary to warn pedestrians and other drivers of
the approach thereof during such trip or journey.
      (4)   Whenever the ambulance or rescue vehicle is operated at a speed in
excess of forty (40) miles per hour, the ambulance or rescue vehicle shall be
operated in complete conformance with every other motor vehicle law and
regulation of this State and this Village relating to the operation of motor
vehicles, as such provision applies to motor vehicles in general, except laws
and regulations pertaining to compliance with official traffic-control devices
or to vehicular operation upon the right half of the roadway.
      (5)   The ambulance shall display registration plates identifying the
vehicle as an ambulance.
   (b)   The foregoing provisions do not relieve the driver of an ambulance or
rescue vehicle from the duty of driving with due regard to the safety of all
persons nor do such provisions protect the driver from the consequences
resulting from the reckless disregard for the safety of others. (Ord. 90-535,
4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
 
Notes
1 1.   See also Section 11-205 of this Chapter.
11-1422.   ILLEGAL OPERATION OF AN AMBULANCE OR RESCUE VEHICLE:
A person who operates an ambulance or rescue vehicle in violation of Section
11-1421 of this Article shall be subject to the penalty prescribed in this Code
1 . (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
 
Notes
1 1.   See Section 6-1-2 of this Title.
11-1423.   PASSENGERS BOARDING OR EXITING A SCHOOL BUS:
   (a)   At all pickup points where it is necessary for a school bus passenger
to cross the roadway to board the bus, the school bus driver shall signal the
awaiting passenger when it is safe to cross the roadway ahead of the bus.
   (b)   At all discharge points where it is necessary for a school bus
passenger to cross the roadway, the school bus driver shall direct the
passenger to a point approximately ten feet (10') in front of the bus on the
shoulder and shall then signal the passenger when it is safe to cross the
roadway. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
11-1424.   OPERATION OF A RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATION BUS:
   (a)   No religious organization bus may be operated on any street or highway
unless all passengers, except for supervisory personnel, are seated in seats
permanently mounted to the vehicle, and the aisle of the bus is kept clean and
open.
   (b)   No religious organization bus may be operated on any street or highway
while carrying more than the manufacturer's rated passenger capacity for such
bus or at a gross weight in excess of the chassis manufacturer's gross vehicle
weight rating (GVWR) or gross axle weight rating (GAWR) or in excess of the
weight load ratings of the tires on such bus.
   (c)   In loading or unloading passengers, the religious organization bus
driver shall stop the bus out of the lane of moving traffic at any bus stop,
officially designated as such by government authorities, or in a parking lane
on the pavement of the highway or on the shoulder off of the highway if wide
enough to permit the safe loading or unloading of passengers. If, however,
there is no such bus stop, parking lane or shoulder within fifty feet (50') of
the residence or temporary residence of the passenger transported or to be
transported by the bus or within fifty feet (50') of the religious facility,
the driver may stop the bus on the pavement of the highway after activating
unison amber warning lights for not less than two hundred feet (200') before
the bus is brought to a stop and while passengers are being loaded or unloaded
or, if the bus is equipped as a school bus and meets the requirements of
Article VIII of this Act, by complying with subsections 11-1414 (b), (c) and
(d) of this Article.
   (d)   At all pickup points where it is necessary for a religious
organization bus passenger under the age of twelve (12) years to cross the
roadway to board the bus, a responsible supervisor on the bus shall personally
escort the awaiting passenger when it is safe to cross the roadway ahead of the
bus.
   (e)   At all discharge points where it is necessary for a religious
organization bus passenger under the age of twelve (12) to cross the roadway, a
responsible supervisor on the bus shall personally escort the passenger to a
point approximately ten feet (10') in front of the bus on the shoulder and
then, when it is safe to cross the roadway, across the roadway to a place of
safety.
   (f)   If a school bus is used by a religious organization for the purposes
specified in subsection 1-171.01(a) of this Code and activates the visual
signals as required by subsections 11-1414(b), (c) and (d) of this Article when
picking up or discharging passengers, compliance with subsections (d) and (e)
of this Section is optional. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
11-1425.   STOP WHEN TRAFFIC OBSTRUCTED:
No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk or drive onto any
railroad grade crossing unless there is sufficient space on the other side of
the intersection, crosswalk or railroad grade crossing to accommodate the
vehicle he is operating without obstructing the passage of other vehicles,
pedestrians or railroad trains notwithstanding any traffic-control signal
indicating to proceed. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
11-1426.   OPERATION OF ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES AND OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLES 1  ON
STREETS, ROADS AND HIGHWAYS:
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate any all-
terrain vehicle or off-highway motorcycle upon any street, highway or roadway
in this Village.
   (b)   Except as provided under subsection (c) of this Section, all-terrain
vehicles and off-highway motorcycles may make a direct crossing provided:
      (1)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately ninety degrees
(90°) to the direction of the street, road or highway and at a place where no
obstruction prevents a quick and safe crossing.
      (2)   The all-terrain vehicle or off-highway motorcycle is brought to a
complete stop before attempting a crossing.
      (3)   The operator of the all-terrain vehicle or off-highway motorcycle
yields the right of way to all pedestrian and vehicular traffic which
constitutes a hazard.
   (c)   No person operating an all-terrain vehicle or off-highway motorcycle
shall make a direct crossing upon or across any tollroad, interstate, highway
or controlled access highway in this Village. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-
90)
 
Notes
1 1.   See also Section 1204-2 of this Vehicle Code.
11-1427.   ILLEGAL DRIVING OR OPERA TION:
It is unlawful for any person to drive or operate any all-terrain vehicle or
off highway motorcycle in the following ways:
   (a)   Careless Operation: No person shall operate any all-terrain vehicle or
off highway motorcycle in a careless or heedless manner so as to be grossly
indifferent to the person or property of other persons, or at a rate of speed
greater than will permit him in the exercise of reasonable care to bring the
all-terrain vehicle or off highway motorcycle to a stop within the assured
clear distance ahead.
   (b)   Reckless Operation: No person shall operate any all-terrain vehicle or
off highway motorcycle in such a manner as to endanger the life, limb or
property of any person.
   (c)   Within any nature preserve as defined in section 3.11 of the Illinois
natural areas preservation act 1 .
   (d)   On the tracks or right of way of an operating railroad.
   (e)   In any tree nursery or planting in a manner which damages or destroys
growing stock, or creates a substantial risk thereto.
   (f)   On private property, without the written or verbal consent of the
owner or lessee thereof. Any person operating an all-terrain vehicle or off
highway motorcycle upon the lands of another shall stop and identify himself
upon the request of the landowner or his duly authorized representative, and,
if requested to do so by the landowner, shall promptly remove the all-terrain
vehicle or off highway motorcycle from the premises.
   (g)   Notwithstanding any other law to the contrary, an owner, lessee, or
occupant of premises owes no duty of care to keep the premises safe for entry
or use by others for use by an all-terrain vehicle or off highway motorcycle,
or to give warning of any condition, use, structure or activity on such
premises.
Nothing in this subsection limits in any way liability which otherwise exists
for wilful or malicious failure to guard or warn against a dangerous condition,
use, structure or activity.
   (h)   On publicly owned lands unless such lands are designated for use by
all- terrain vehicles or off highway motorcycles. For publicly owned lands to
be designated for use by all-terrain vehicles or off highway motorcycles a
public hearing shall be conducted by the governmental entity that has
jurisdiction over the proposed land prior to the designation.
Nothing in this subsection limits in any way liability which otherwise exists
for wilful or malicious failure to guard or warn against a dangerous condition,
use, structure or activity.
   (i)   Other Prohibitions:
            (1)   No person, except persons permitted by law, shall operate or
ride any all-terrain vehicle or off highway motorcycle with any firearm in his
possession unless it is unloaded and enclosed in a carrying case, or any bow
unless it is unstrung or rendered unable to fire and is in a carrying case.
            (2)   No person shall operate any all- terrain vehicle or off
highway motorcycle emitting pollutants in violation of standards established
pursuant to the environmental protection act.
            (3)   No person shall deposit from an all- terrain vehicle or off
highway motorcycle on the snow, ice or ground surface, trash, glass, garbage,
insoluble material or other offensive matter. (1994 Code)
 
Notes
1 1.   525 ILCS 30/3.11.
11-1428.   OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS:
   (a)   Any terms not otherwise defined in this section shall have the meaning
as set forth in the Illinois vehicle code. For purposes of this section "golf
cart" means a vehicle specifically designed and intended for the purposes of
transporting one or more persons and their golf clubs or maintenance equipment
while engaged in the playing of golf, supervising the play of golf, or
maintaining the condition of the grounds on a public or private golf course.
   (b)   Subject to the terms hereof, it shall not be a violation of village
ordinances for any person who is a licensed driver to drive or operate a golf
cart upon the golf cart pathway extending approximately two hundred sixty feet
(260') from the intersection of Wynstone Drive and Del Webb Boulevard north
along the east side of Wynstone Drive to its intersection with Blue Stem Drive
and there crossing Wynstone Drive in the designated golf cart crossing.
   (c)   The operation of a golf cart on the roadways herein described,
including operation of a golf cart after sunset and before sunrise, shall be in
compliance with the provisions of the Illinois rules of the road and the
Illinois vehicle code.
   (d)   The village of Shorewood, Illinois, shall post appropriate signs
designating the golf cart crossing as described above.
   (e)   The provisions contained herein shall be enforced in accordance with
the terms and provisions of the Illinois rules of the road and the Illinois
vehicle code 1 , as may be amended from time to time. (Ord. 05-1268, 1-11-2005)
 
Notes
1 1.   625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq.
ARTICLE XV. BICYCLES
SECTION:
11-1501.   Application of Rules
11-1502.   Traffic Laws Apply
11-1503.   Riding on Bicycles
11-1504.   Clinging to Vehicles
11-1505.   Position of Bicycles and Motorized Pedalcycles on Roadway
11-1505.1.     Riding Bicycles or Motorized Pedalcycles on Roadways
11-1506.   Carrying Articles
11-1507.   Lamps and Other Equipment on Bicycles
11-1507.1.     Lamps on Motorized Pedalcycles
11-1508.   Bicycle Dealers
11-1509.   Inspections
11-1510.   Left Turns
11-1511.   Turn and Stop Signals
11-1512.   Bicycles on Sidewalks and Crosswalks
11-1513.   Bicycle Parking
11-1514.   Bicycle Racing
11-1501.   APPLICATION OF RULES:
   (a)   It is unlawful for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to
perform any act required in this Article.
   (b)   The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not
authorize or knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any provisions
of this Code. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
11-1502.   TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY:
Every person riding a bicycle upon a highway shall be granted all of the rights
and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle
by this Code, except as to special regulations in this Article and except as to
those provisions of this Code which by their nature can have no application.
(Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
11-1503.   RIDING ON BICYCLES:
   (a)   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than upon or
astride a permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   (b)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped; except, that an adult rider may
carry a child securely attached to his person in a back pack or sling.
(Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
11-1504.   CLINGING TO VEHICLES:
No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled or toy vehicle
shall attach the same or himself to any vehicle upon a roadway. (Ord. 90-535,
4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
11-1505.   POSITION OF BICYCLES AND MOTORIZED PEDALCYCLES 1 ON ROADWAY:
   (a)   Any person operating a bicycle or motorized pedalcycle upon a roadway
at less than the normal speed of traffic at the time and place and under the
conditions then existing shall ride as close as practicable to the right-hand
curb or edge of the roadway except under the following situations:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another bicycle, motorized pedalcycle
or vehicle proceeding in the same direction; or
      (2)   When preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private
road or driveway; or
      (3)   When reasonably necessary to avoid conditions, including but not
limited to fixed or moving objects, parked or moving vehicles, bicycles,
motorized pedalcycles, pedestrians, animals, surface hazards, or substandard
width lanes, that make it unsafe to continue along the right-hand curb or edge.
For purposes of this subsection, a "substandard width lane" means a lane that
is too narrow for a bicycle or motorized pedalcycle and a vehicle to travel
safely side by side within the lane.
   (b)   Any person operating a bicycle or motorized pedalcycle 1  upon a one-
way highway with two (2) or more marked traffic lanes may ride as near the
left-hand curb or edge of such roadway as practicable. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90,
eff. 5-1-90)
 
Notes
1 1.   See also Article XIV of this Chapter.
1 1.   See also Article XIV of this Chapter.
11-1505.1.    RIDING BICYCLES OR MOTORIZED PEDALCYCLES ON ROADWAYS:
Persons riding bicycles or motorized pedalcycles1 upon a roadway shall not ride
more than two (2) abreast, except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for
the exclusive use. Persons riding two (2) abreast shall not impede the normal
and reasonable movement of traffic and, on a laned roadway, shall ride within a
single lane subject to the provisions of Section 11-1505 of this Article. (Ord.
90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
11-1506.   CARRYING ARTICLES:
No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle or article which
prevents the use of both hands in the control and operation of the bicycle. A
person operating a bicycle shall keep at least one hand on the handlebars at
all times. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
11-1507.   LAMPS AND OTHER EQUIPMENT ON BICYCLES:
   (a)   Every bicycle, when in use at nighttime, shall be equipped with a lamp
on the on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of
at least five hundred feet (500') to the front and with a red reflector on the
rear of a type approved by the Department which shall be visible from all
distances from one hundred feet (100') to six hundred feet (600') to the rear
when directly in front of a lawful lower beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle.
A lamp emitting a red light visible from a distance of five hundred feet (500')
to the rear may be used in addition to the red reflector.
   (b)   A bicycle shall not be equipped with nor shall any person use upon a
bicycle any siren.
   (c)   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will adequately
control movement of and stop and hold such bicycle.
   (d)   No person shall sell a new bicycle or pedal for use on a bicycle that
is not equipped with a reflex reflector conforming to specifications prescribed
by the State on each pedal, visible from the front and rear of the bicycle
during darkness from a distance of two hundred feet (200').
   (e)   No person shall sell or offer for sale a new bicycle that is not
equipped with side reflectors. Such reflectors shall be visible from each side
of the bicycle from a distance of five hundred feet (500') and shall be
essentially colorless or red to the rear of the center of the bicycle and
essentially colorless or amber to the front of the center of the bicycle
provided. The requirements of this subsection may be met by reflective
materials which shall be at least three-sixteenths inch (3/16") wide on each
side of each tire or rim to indicate as clearly as possible the continuous
circular shape and size of the tires or rims of such bicycle, and which
reflective materials may be of the same color on both the front and rear tire
or rim. Such reflectors shall conform to specifications prescribed by the
State.
   (f)   No person shall sell or offer for sale a new bicycle that is not
equipped with an essentially colorless front-facing reflector. (Ord. 90-535, 4-
24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
11-1507.1.     LAMPS ON MOTORIZED PED ALCYCLES:
Every motorized pedalcycle, when in use at nighttime, shall be equipped with a
lamp on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at
least five hundred feet (500') to the front and with a red reflector on the
rear of a type approved by the State which shall be visible from all distances
from one hundred feet (100') to six hundred feet (600') to the rear when in
front of lawful, low-powered beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp
emitting a red light visible from a distance of five hundred feet (500') to the
rear may be used in addition to the red reflector. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff.
5-1-90)
11-1508.   BICYCLE DEALERS:
A person engaged in the business of selling bicycles at retail shall not sell
any bicycle unless the bicycle has an identifying number permanently stamped or
cast on its frame. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
11-1509.   INSPECTIONS:
A uniformed police officer may, at any time, upon reasonable cause to believe
that a bicycle is unsafe or not equipped as required by law or that its
equipment is not in proper adjustment or repair, require the person riding the
bicycle to stop and submit the bicycle to an inspection and such test with
reference thereto as may be appropriate. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
11-1510.   LEFT TURNS:
   (a)   A person riding a bicycle or motorized pedalcycle 1  intending to turn
left shall follow a course described in Section
11-801 of this Chapter or in subsection (b) of this Section.
   (b)   A person riding a bicycle or motorized pedalcycle intending to turn
left shall approach the turn as close as practicable to the right curb or edge
of the roadway. After proceeding across the intersecting roadway to the far
corner of the curb or intersection of the roadway edges, the bicyclist or
motorized pedalcycle driver shall stop, as much as practicable, out of the way
of traffic. After stopping, the person shall yield to any traffic proceeding in
either direction along the roadway such person had been using. After yielding,
the bicyclist or motorized pedalcycle driver shall comply with any official
traffic-control device or police officer regulating traffic on the highway
along which he intends to proceed, and the bicyclist or motorized pedalcycle
driver may proceed in the new direction.
   (c)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, the Village may cause
official traffic-control devices to be placed and thereby require and direct
that a specific course be traveled by turning bicycles and motorized
pedalcycles, and when such devices are so placed, no person shall turn a
bicycle or motorized pedalcycle other than as directed and required by such
devices. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
 
Notes
1 1.   See Article XIV of this Chapter.
11-1511.   TURN AND STOP SIGNALS:
   (a)   Except as provided in this Section, a person riding a bicycle shall
comply with Section
11-804 of this Chapter.
   (b)   A signal of intention to turn right or left, when required, shall be
given during not less than the last one hundred feet (100') traveled by the
bicycle before turning and shall be given while the bicycle is stopped waiting
to turn. A signal by hand and arm need not be given continuously if the hand is
needed in the control or operation of the bicycle. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff.
5-1-90)
11-1512.   BICYCLES ON SIDEWALKS AND CROSSWALKS:
   (a)   A person propelling a bicycle upon and along a sidewalk or across a
roadway upon and along a crosswalk shall yield the right of way to any
pedestrian and shall give audible signal before overtaking and passing such
pedestrian.
   (b)   A person shall not ride a bicycle upon and along a sidewalk, or across
a roadway upon and along a crosswalk where such use of bicycles is prohibited
by official traffic-control devices.
   (c)   A person propelling a bicycle upon and along a sidewalk or across a
roadway upon and along a crosswalk shall have all the rights and duties
applicable to a pedestrian under the same circumstances. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90,
eff. 5-1-90)
11-1513.   BICYCLE PARKING:
   (a)   A person may park a bicycle on a sidewalk unless prohibited or
restricted by an official traffic-control device.
   (b)   A bicycle parked on a sidewalk shall not impede the normal and
reasonable movement of pedestrian or other traffic.
   (c)   A bicycle may be parked on the roadway at any angle to the curb or
edge of the roadway at any location where parking is allowed.
   (d)   A bicycle may be parked on the roadway abreast of another bicycle or
bicycles near the side of the roadway at any location where parking is allowed.
   (e)   A person shall not park a bicycle on a roadway in such a manner as to
obstruct the movement of a legally parked motor vehicle.
   (f)   In all other respects, bicycles parked anywhere on a highway shall
conform with the provisions of this Code regulating the parking of vehicles 1 .
(Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
 
Notes
1 1.   See Article XIII of this Chapter.
11-1514.   BICYCLE RACING:
   (a)   Bicycle racing on a highway shall not be unlawful when a racing event
has been approved by the Village. Approval of bicycle highway racing events
shall be granted only under conditions which assure reasonable safety for all
race participants, spectators and other highways users and which present
unreasonable interference with traffic flow which would seriously inconvenience
other highway users.
   (b)   By agreement with the approving authority, participants in an approved
bicycle highway racing event may be exempted from compliance with any traffic
laws otherwise applicable thereto; provided, that traffic control is adequate
to assure the safety of all highway users. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
ARTICLE XVI. RESERVED
CHAPTER 12
EQUIPMENT OF VEHICLES
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
12-100.   Definitions
12-101.   Scope and Effect of Equipment Requirements
12-100.   DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this Chapter, the following words shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this Section:
   DEPARTMENT: The Department of Transportation of the State of Illinois,
acting directly or through its duly authorized officers and agents.
   HEADSET RECEIVER: Any device, other than a hearing aid, designed to be worn
on a person's head which enables the wearer to hear or receive electronic
communications. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
12-101.   SCOPE AND EFFECT OF EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS:
   (a)   It is unlawful for any person to drive or move or for the owner to
cause or knowingly permit to be driven or moved on any highway any vehicle or
combination of vehicles which is in such unsafe condition as to endanger any
person or property or which does not contain those parts or is not at all times
equipped with such lamps and other equipment in proper condition and adjustment
as required in this Chapter or which is equipped in any manner in violation of
this Code or for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to perform any act
required under this Chapter.
   (b)   The provisions of this Chapter with respect to equipment on vehicles
shall not apply to implements of husbandry, road machinery, road rollers or
farm tractors or to farm-wagon type trailers having a fertilizer spreader
attachment permanently mounted thereon, having a gross weight of not to exceed
thirty six thousand (36,000) pounds and used only for the transportation of
bulk fertilizer or to farm-wagon type tank trailers of not to exceed two
thousand (2,000) gallons capacity used during the liquid fertilizer season as
field-storage "nurse tanks" supplying the fertilizer to a field applicator and
moved on highways only for bringing the fertilizer from a local source of
supply to farm or field or from one farm or field to another. (Ord. 90-535, 4-
24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
ARTICLE II. LIGHTS AND LAMPS
SECTION:
12-201.   When Lighted Lamps are Required
12-202.   Clearance, Identification and Side Marker Lamps
12-203.   Lamps on Parked Vehicles
12-204.   Lamp or Flag on Projecting Load
12-205.   Lamps on Other Vehicles and Equipment
12-205.1.    Amber Signal Lamps on Implements of Husbandry and Slow-Moving
Vehicles
12-207.   Spot Lamps and Auxiliary Driving Lamps
12-208.   Signal Lamps and Signal Devices
12-209.   Additional Lighting Equipment
12-210.   Use of Headlamps and Auxiliary Driving Lamps
12-211.   Number of Driving Lamps
12-212.   Special Restrictions on Lamps
12-214.   Special Lighting Equipment on Rural Mail Delivery Vehicles
12-215.   Oscillating, Rotating or Flashing Lights on Motor Vehicles
12-216.   Operation of Oscillating, Rotating or Flashing Lights
12-201.   WHEN LIGHTED LAMPS ARE REQUIRED:
   (a)   When operated upon any highway in this Village, every motorcycle shall
at all times exhibit at least two (2) lighted lamps, showing a white light
visible for at least five hundred feet (500') in the direction the motorcycle
is proceeding. However, in lieu of such lighted lamp, a motorcycle may be
equipped with and use a means of modulating the upper beam of the headlamp
between high and a lower brightness. No such headlamp shall be modulated,
except to otherwise comply with this Code, during times when lighted lamps are
required for other motor vehicles.
   (b)   All other motor vehicles shall exhibit at least two (2) lighted
headlamps, with at least one on each side of the front of the vehicle, showing
white lights or lights of a yellow or amber tint during the period from a half
hour after sunset to a half hour before sunrise and at any other times when,
due to insufficient light or unfavorable atmospheric conditions, persons and
vehicles on the highway are not clearly discernible at a distance of one
thousand feet (1,000'). Parking lamps may be used in addition to, but not in
lieu of, such headlamps. Every motor vehicle, trailer or semi- trailer shall
also exhibit at least two (2) lighted lamps, commonly known as taillamps, which
shall be mounted on the left rear and right rear of the vehicle so as to throw
a red light visible for at least five hundred feet (500') in the reverse
direction; except, that a truck tractor or road tractor manufactured before
January 1, 1968, and all motorcycles need be equipped with only one such
taillamp.
   (c)   Either a taillamp or a separate lamp shall be so constructed and
placed as to illuminate with a white light a rear registration plate when
required and render it clearly legible from a distance of fifty feet (50') to
the rear. Any taillamp or taillamps, together with any separate lamp or lamps
for illuminating a rear registration plate, shall be so wired as to be lighted
whenever the headlamps or auxiliary driving lamps are lighted. (Ord. 90-535, 4-
24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
12-202.   CLEARANCE, IDENTIFICATION AND SIDE MARKER LAMPS:
   (a)   Every motor vehicle of the second division, the length of which
together with any trailer or trailers in tow thereof, is more than twenty five
feet (25') or the width of which is more than eighty inches (80"), exclusive of
mirrors, bumpers and other required safety devices, while being operated on the
highways of this Village during the period from sunset to sunrise, shall
display on the front of the vehicle two (2) yellow or amber lights, one on each
upper front corner of the vehicle which shall be plainly visible at a distance
of at least five hundred feet (500'); also, on the rear thereof, in a
horizontal line, three (3) red lights plainly visible at a distance of not less
than five hundred feet (500'); also, on the front of the body of that vehicle,
near the lower left-hand corner, one yellow- or amber-tinted reflector, and
near the lower right-hand corner, one yellow- or amber-tinted reflector; also,
red reflectors on the rear of the body of that vehicle, not more than twelve
inches (12") from the lower left- and right-hand corners. All motor vehicles of
the second division more than twenty feet (20') long and all trailers and semi-
trailers, except trailers and semi-trailers having a gross weight of three
thousand (3,000) pounds or less, including the weight of the trailer and
maximum load, while being operated on the highways of this Village during the
period from sunset to sunrise, shall display on each side of the vehicle, at
approximately the one-third ( 1/3) points of the length of the same, at a
height not exceeding five feet (5') above the surface of the road and
reflecting on a line approximately at right angles to the center line of the
vehicle, two (2) amber-tinted reflectors. After January, 1974, all new motor
vehicles of the second division more than twenty feet (20') long, and all
trailers and semi-trailers, except trailers and semi-trailers having a gross
weight of three thousand (3,000) pounds or less, including the weight of the
trailer and maximum load, sold as new in this State, while being operated on
the highways of this Village during period from sunset to sunrise, shall
display on each side of the vehicle, not more than of the vehicle, not more
than twelve inches (12") from the front, one amber- tinted reflector, and not
more than twelve inches (12") from the rear, one red reflector at a height not
exceeding five feet (5') above the surface of the road and reflecting on a line
approximately at right angles to the center line of the vehicle, approved by
the Department. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
   (b)   Every trailer and semi-trailer having a gross weight of three thousand
(3,000) pounds or less, including the weight of the trailer and maximum load,
towed either by a motor vehicle of the first division or a motor vehicle of the
second division shall be equipped with two (2) red reflectors on the rear of
the body of such trailer, not more than twelve inches (12") from the lower
left- hand and lower right-hand corners which will be visible when hit by
headlight beams three hundred feet (300') away at night.
   (c)   Every vehicle designated in subsection (a) or (b) of this Section that
is manufactured after December 31, 1973, shall, at the places and times
specified in said subsection (a) or (b), display reflectors and clearance,
identification and side marker lamps in conformance with the specifications
prescribed by the Department. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
12-203.   LAMPS ON PARKED VEHICLES:
   (a)   During the period from sunset to sunrise, every motorcycle or motor
vehicle which is standing on any highway shall display a parking light on the
front and at the rear of the same.
   (b)   Any lighted driving lamps upon a parked vehicle shall be depressed or
dimmed. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
12-204.   LAMP OR FLAG ON PROJECTING LOAD:
Whenever the load upon any vehicle extends to the rear four feet (4') or more
beyond the bed or body of such vehicle, there shall be displayed at the extreme
rear end of the load, at the times specified in Section 12-201 of this Article,
a red light or lantern plainly visible from a distance of at least five hundred
feet (500') to the sides and rear. The red light or lantern required under this
Section shall be in addition to the red rear light required upon every vehicle.
At any other time, there shall be displayed at the extreme rear end of such
load a red flag or cloth not less than twelve inches (12") square. (Ord. 90-
535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
12-205.   LAMPS ON OTHER VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT:
Every vehicle, including animal-drawn vehicles, referred to in subsection
12-101(b) of this Chapter not specifically required by the provisions of this
Article to be equipped with lamps or other lighting devices, shall at all times
specified in Section
12-201 of this Article be equipped with at least two (2) lamps on the power or
towing unit, displaying a white light visible from a distance of not less than
one thousand feet (1,000') to the front of such vehicle and shall also be
equipped with two (2) lamps each displaying a red light visible from a distance
of not less than one thousand feet (1,000') to the rear of such vehicle.
Where the towed unit or any load thereon partially or totally obscures the two
(2) lamps displaying red light to the rear of the towing unit, the rearmost
towed unit shall be equipped with two (2) lamps displaying red light visible
from a distance of not less than one thousand feet (1,000') to the rear of such
towed unit which are positioned in such a manner as to not obstruct the
visibility of the red light to any vehicle operator approaching from the rear
of such vehicle or combination of vehicles.
Where the two (2) lamps displaying red light are not obscured by the towed unit
or its load, then either towing unit or towed unit or both may be equipped with
the two (2) lamps displaying red light as required. This paragraph does not
apply to antique vehicles. An antique vehicle shall be equipped with lamps of
the same type originally installed by the manufacture as original equipment and
in working order. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
12-205.1.   AMBER SIGNAL LAMPS ON IMPLEMENTS OF HUSBANDRY AND SLOW-MOVING
VEHICLES:
Every animal-drawn vehicle, farm tractor, implement of husbandry and special
mobile equipment, except when used for road construction or maintenance within
the limits of a construction or maintenance project where traffic-control
devices are used in compliance with the applicable provisions of the manual and
specifications adopted under Section
11-301 of this Code, when operated on a highway during a time when lighted
lamps are required by Section
12-201 of this Article, shall display to the rear at least one flashing amber
signal lamp mounted as high as practicable and of sufficient intensity to be
visible for a distance of at least five hundred feet (500') in normal sunlight;
provided, that only the rearmost vehicle of a combination of vehicles coupled
together need display such lamp. The flashing amber signal lamp may be operated
lighted during daylight hours when other lamps are not required to be lighted
when vehicles authorized in this subsection are operated on a highway. (Ord.
90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
12-207.   SPOT LAMPS AND AUXILIARY DRIVING LAMPS:
   (a)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not to exceed one spot lamp,
and every lighted spot lamp shall be so aimed and used upon approaching another
vehicle that no part of the high- intensity portion of the beam will be
directed to the left of the prolongation of the extreme left side of the
vehicle nor more than one hundred feet (100') ahead of the vehicle.
   (b)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not to exceed three (3)
auxiliary driving lamps mounted on the front at a height not less than twelve
inches (12") nor more than forty two inches (42") above the level surface upon
which the vehicle stands.
   (c)   The restrictions of subsections (a) and (b) of this Act shall not
apply to authorized emergency vehicles or equipment used for snow and ice
removal operations if owned or operated by or for any governmental body.
   (d)   The minimum and maximum height restrictions prescribed in subsection
(b) of this Section shall not apply to privately owned motor vehicles on which
a snowplow is mounted, while in transit between or during snow and ice removal
operations. This exemption shall apply only during the period from November 15
through April 1 and only when the snowplow blade, commonly referred to as a
"moldboard", is properly and securely affixed to the front of the motor
vehicle. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
12-208.   SIGNAL LAMPS AND SIGNAL DEVICES:
   (a)   Every vehicle, other than an antique vehicle displaying antique plate,
operated in this Village shall be equipped with a stop lamp or lamps on the
rear of the vehicle which shall display a red or amber light visible from a
distance of not less than five hundred feet (500') to the rear in normal
sunlight and which shall be actuated upon application of the service (foot)
brake and which may, but need not be incorporated with other rear lamps. During
times when lighted lamps are not required, an antique vehicle may be equipped
with a stop lamp or lamps on the rear of such vehicle of the same type
originally installed by the manufacturer as original equipment and in working
order. However, at all other times, such antique vehicle must be equipped with
stop lamps meeting the requirements of this Section.
   (b)   Every motor vehicle, other than an antique vehicle displaying an
antique plate, shall be equipped with an electric turn signal device which
shall indicate the intention of the driver to turn to the right or to the left
in the form of flashing lights located at and showing to the front and rear of
vehicle on the side of the vehicle toward which the turn is to be made. The
lamps showing to the front shall be mounted on the same level and as widely
spaced laterally as practicable and, when signaling, shall emit a red or amber
light. An antique vehicle shall be equipped with a turn signal device of the
same type originally installed by the manufacturer as original equipment and in
working order.
   (c)   Every trailer and semi-trailer shall be equipped with an electric turn
signal device which indicates the intention of the driver in the power unit to
turn to the right or to the left in the form of flashing red or amber lights
located at the rear of the vehicle on the side toward which the turn is to be
made and mounted on the same level and as widely spaced laterally as
practicable.
   (d)   Turn signal lamps must be visible from a distance of not less than
three hundred feet (300') in normal sunlight.
   (e)   Motorcycles and motor-driven cycles need not be equipped with electric
turn signals. Antique vehicles need not be equipped with turn signals unless
such were installed by the manufacturer as original equipment. (Ord. 90-535, 4-
24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
12-209.   ADDITIONAL LIGHTING EQUIPMENT:
Any motor vehicle may be equipped with:
   (a)   Not more than two (2) side cowl or fender lamps which shall emit an
amber or white light without glare.
   (b)   Not more than one running board courtesy lamp on each side thereof
which shall emit a white or amber light without glare.
   (c)   One or more back-up lamps either separately or in combination with
other lamps; but any such back-up lamp or lamps shall not be lighted when the
motor vehicle is in forward motion. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
12-210.   USE OF HEADLAMPS AND AUXILIARY DRIVING LAMPS:
   (a)   Whenever the driver of any vehicle equipped with an electric driving
headlamp, driving headlamps, auxiliary driving lamp or auxiliary driving lamps
is within five hundred feet (500') of another vehicle approaching from the
opposite direction, the driver shall dim or drop such headlamp or headlamps and
shall extinguish all auxiliary driving lamps.
   (b)   The driver of any vehicle equipped with an electric driving headlamp,
headlamps, auxiliary driving lamp or auxiliary driving lamps shall dim or drop
such headlamp or headlamps and shall extinguish all auxiliary driving lamps
when there is another vehicle traveling in the same direction less than three
hundred feet (300') to the front of him.
   (c)   No vehicle shall have the light system modified to allow more than two
(2) electric headlamps to be lighted while operating in the dimmed or dropped
position.
   (d)   Nothing in this Section shall prohibit the use of properly adjusted
amber auxiliary driving lamps, commonly known as "fog" lamps, when used in
conjunction with headlamps. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
12-211.   NUMBER OF DRIVING LAMPS:
   (a)   At all times specified in Section
12-201 of this Article, at least two (2) lighted driving lamps shall be
displayed, one on each side of the such front of every motor vehicle other than
a motorcycle, except when such vehicle is parked subject to the regulations
governing lights on parked vehicles 1 .
   (b)   Whenever a motor vehicle equipped with driving lamps as herein
required is also equipped with any auxiliary driving lamps or a spot lamp or
any other lamp on the front thereof projecting a beam of an intensity greater
than three hundred (300) candlepower, not more than a total of four (4) of any
such lamps on the front of a vehicle shall be lighted at any one time when upon
a highway. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section 12-203 of this Article.
12-212.   SPECIAL RESTRICTIONS ON LAMPS:
   (a)   No person shall drive or move any vehicle or equipment upon any
highway with any lamp or device on the vehicle or equipment displaying a red
light visible from directly in front of the vehicle or equipment except as
otherwise provided in this Chapter.
   (b)   Subject to the restrictions of the Act, flashing lights are prohibited
on motor vehicles except as a means for indicating a right or left turn as
provided in Section
12-208 of this Article or the presence of a vehicular traffic hazard requiring
unusual care as expressly provided in Section
11-804 of this Code or Section
12-215 of this Article.
   (c)   Unless otherwise expressly authorized by this Code, all other lighting
or combination of lighting of any vehicle shall be prohibited. (Ord. 90-535, 4-
24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
12-214.   SPECIAL LIGHTING EQUIPMENT ON RURAL MAIL DELIVERY VEHICLES:
If a rural mail delivery vehicle is equipped with special signal lamps, there
shall be displayed to the front two (2) such alternately flashing amber lamps
located at the same level and mounted as high and as widely spaced laterally as
practicable and to the rear two (2) alternately flashing amber lamps located at
the same level and mounted as high and as widely spaced laterally as
practicable. Such lamps shall be of sufficient intensity to be visible at five
hundred feet (500') in normal sunlight and shall be controlled so that they
will only be used to indicate to other traffic that a stop is being made for
the purpose of picking up or delivering U.S. mail. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff.
5-1-90)
12-215.   OSCILLATING, ROTATING OR FLASHING LIGHTS ON MOTOR VEHICLES:
Except as otherwise provided in this Code:
   (a)   The use of red or white oscillating, rotating or flashing lights,
whether lighted or unlighted, is prohibited except on:
      (1)   Law enforcement vehicles of State, Federal or local authorities.
      (2)   A vehicle operated by a police officer or county coroner and
designated or authorized by local authorities, in writing, as a law enforcement
vehicle. However, such designation or authorization must be carried in the
vehicle.
      (3)   Vehicles of local fire departments and firefighting vehicles of the
State or Federal government.
      (4)   Vehicles which are designed and used as ambulances or rescue
vehicles.
   Furthermore, such lights shall not be lighted except when responding to an
emergency call for and while actually conveying the sick or injured.
   (b)   The use of amber oscillating, rotating or flashing lights, whether
lighted or unlighted, is prohibited except on:
      (1)   Second division vehicles designed and used for towing or hoisting
vehicles. Furthermore, such lights shall not be lighted except when such
vehicles are actually being used for such purposes.
      (2)   Motor vehicles or equipment of the State, local authorities and
contractors. Furthermore, such lights shall not be lighted except while such
vehicles are engaged in maintenance or construction operations within the
limits of construction projects.
      (3)   Vehicles or equipment used by engineering or survey crews.
Furthermore, such lights shall not be lighted except while such vehicles are
actually engaged in work on a highway.
      (4)   Vehicles of public utilities, municipalities or other construction,
maintenance or automotive service vehicles; except, that such lights shall be
lighted only as a means for indicating the presence of a vehicular traffic
hazard requiring unusual care in approaching, overtaking or passing while such
vehicles are engaged in maintenance, service or construction on a highway.
      (5)   Oversized vehicle or load. However, such lights shall only be
lighted when moving under permit issued by the Department.
      (6)   The front and rear of motorized equipment owned and operated by the
State or any political subdivision thereof which is designed and used for
removal of snow and ice from highways.
      (7)   Fleet safety vehicles registered in another state. Furthermore,
such lights shall not be lighted except as provided for in Section
12-212 of this Article.
      (8)   Such other vehicles as may be authorized by the Village.
      (9)   Law enforcement vehicles of State or local authorities when used in
combination with red oscillating, rotating or flashing lights.
      (10)   Vehicles used for collecting or delivering mail for the United
States Postal Service; provided, that such lights shall not be lighted except
when such vehicles are actually being used for such purposes.
      (11)   Any vehicle displaying a slow- moving vehicle emblem as provided
in Section
12-205.1 of this Article.
      (12)   All trucks equipped with self- compactors or roll-off hoists and
roll-on containers for garbage or refuse hauling. Such lights shall not be
lighted except when such vehicles are actually being used for such purposes.
   (c)   The use of blue oscillating, rotating or flashing lights, whether
lighted or unlighted, is prohibited except:
      (1)   On vehicles owned or fully operated by a voluntary firefighter,
paid firefighter, part-paid firefighter, call firefighter, member of the board
of trustees of a fire protection district, paid or unpaid member of a rescue
squad, paid or unpaid member of a voluntary ambulance unit and rescue squad
vehicles not owned by a fire department. However, such lights are not to be
lighted except when responding to a bona fide emergency.
      (2)   Reserved.
      (3)   Law enforcement vehicles of State or local authorities when used in
combination with red oscillating, rotating or flashing lights.
      (4)   Vehicles of local fire departments and State or Federal
firefighting vehicles when used in combination with red oscillating, rotating
or flashing lights.
      (5)   Vehicles which are designed and used exclusively as ambulances or
rescue vehicles when used in combination with red oscillating, rotating or
flashing lights. Furthermore, such lights shall not be lighted except when
responding to an emergency call.
   (d)   The use of a combination of amber and white oscillating, rotating or
flashing lights, whether lighted or unlighted, is prohibited, except motor
vehicles or equipment of the State, local authorities and contractors may be so
equipped. Furthermore, such lights shall not be lighted except while such
vehicles are engaged in highway maintenance or construction operations within
the limits of highway construction projects.
   (e)   All oscillating, rotating or flashing lights referred to in this
Section shall be of sufficient intensity, when illuminated, to be visible at
five hundred feet (500') in normal sunlight.
   (f)   Nothing in this Section shall prohibit a manufacturer of oscillating,
rotating or flashing lights or his representative from temporarily mounting
such lights on a vehicle for demonstration purposes only. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-
90, eff. 5-1-90)
12-216.   OPERATION OF OSCILLATING, ROTATING OR FLASHING LIGHTS:
Oscillating, rotating or flashing lights located on or within police vehicles
in this State shall be lighted whenever a police officer is in pursuit of a
violator of a traffic law or regulation. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
ARTICLE III. BRAKES
SECTION:
12-301.   Brakes Required
12-302.   Brake Fluid
12-303.   Compression/Release Engine Brake Prohibited
12-301.   BRAKES REQUIRED:
   (a)   Brake Equipment Required:
      (1)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motor driven cycle and an antique
vehicle displaying an antique plate, when operated upon a highway shall be
equipped with brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and hold
such vehicle, including two (2) separate means of applying the brakes, each of
which means shall be effective to apply the brakes to at least one wheel on a
motorcycle and at least two (2) wheels on all other first division and second
division vehicles. If these two (2) separate means of applying the brakes are
connected in any way, they shall be so constructed that failure of any one part
of the operating mechanism shall not leave the motor vehicle without brakes.
      (2)   Every motor driven cycle, when operated upon a highway, shall be
equipped with at least one brake which may be operated by hand or foot.
      (3)   Every antique vehicle shall be equipped with the brakes of the same
type originally installed by the manufacturer as original equipment and in
working order.
      (4)   Every trailer or semitrailer of a gross weight of three thousand
(3,000) pounds or more, when operated upon a highway, must be equipped with
brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and to hold such vehicle
and designed so as to be operable by the driver of the towing vehicle from its
cab. Such brakes must be so designed and connected that, in case of an
accidental breakaway of a towed vehicle five thousand (5,000) pounds or more,
the brakes are automatically applied.
      (5)   Every motor vehicle, trailer, pole trailer or semitrailer sold in
this state or operated upon the highways shall be equipped with service brakes
upon all wheels of every such vehicle, except any motor driven cycle, and
except, that any trailer, pole trailer or semitrailer of less that three
thousand (3,000) pounds' gross weight need not be equipped with brakes, and
except, that any trailer or semitrailer with gross weight of three thousand
(3,000) pounds but under five thousand (5,000) pounds need be equipped with
brakes on only one wheel on each side of the vehicle. Any motor vehicle and
truck tractor having three (3) or more axles and manufactured prior to July 25,
1980, need not have brakes on the front wheels, except when such vehicles are
equipped with at least two (2) steerable axles, the wheels of one such axle
need not be equipped with brakes. However, a vehicle that is more than thirty
(30) years of age and which is driven on the highways only in going to and
returning from an antique auto show or for servicing or for a demonstration
need be equipped with two (2) wheel brakes only.
   (b)   Performance Ability Of Brakes:
      (1)   The service brakes upon any motor vehicle or combination of
vehicles operating on a level surface shall be adequate to stop such vehicle or
vehicles when traveling twenty (20) miles per hour within a distance of three
hundred feet (300') when upon dry asphalt or concrete pavement surface free
from loose material.
      (2)   Under the above conditions, the hand brake shall be adequate to
stop such vehicle or vehicles, except any motorcycle, within a distance of
fifty five feet (55'), and the hand brake shall be adequate to hold such
vehicle or vehicles stationary on any grade upon which operated.
      (3)   Under the above conditions, the service brakes upon an antique
vehicle shall be adequate to stop the vehicle within a distance of forty feet
(40') and the hand brake adequate to stop the vehicle within a distance of
fifty five feet (55').
      (4)   All braking distances specified in this section apply to all
vehicles mentioned, whether such vehicles are unloaded or are loaded to the
maximum capacity permitted under this act.
      (5)   All brakes shall be maintained in good working order and shall be
so adjusted as to operate as equally as practicable with respect to the wheels
on opposite sides of the vehicle.
      (6)   Brake assembly requirements for mobile homes shall be the standards
required by the United States department of housing and urban development
adopted under title VI of the Illinois housing and community development act of
1974. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-1990, eff. 5-1-1990)
12-302.   BRAKE FLUID:
No person shall sell, offer for sale or distribute brake fluid for use on motor
vehicles for repair purposes unless such fluid conforms to specifications
prescribed by the Illinois department of transportation. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-
1990, eff. 5-1-1990)
12-303:   COMPRESSION/RELEASE ENGINE BRAKE PROHIBITED:
   (a)   No person shall operate or cause to be operated at or upon any public
highway located within one thousand feet (1,000') of any area of the village of
Shorewood that contains any single- family or multi-family dwelling units, any
compression/engine brake on any vehicle for any reason. For purposes of this
section, a "compression/release engine brake" is defined as any mechanical
exhaust device designed to aid in the braking or deceleration of any vehicle by
converting engine power to compressed air which results in additional,
excessive, loud or explosive noise from such vehicle.
   (b)   Any person found to be in violation of this section shall be subject
to a fine of not less than seventy five dollars ($75.00), and not to exceed
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). (Ord. 02-1102, 5-28-2002)
ARTICLE IV. TIRES
SECTION:
12-401.   Restriction on Tire Equipment
12-405.   Operating Condition of Pneumatic Tires
12-407.   Reserved
12-401.   RESTRICTION ON TIRE EQUIPMENT:
No metal-tired vehicle, including tractors, motor vehicles of the second
division, traction engines and other similar vehicles, shall be operated over
any improved highway of this Village if such vehicle has on the periphery of
any of the road wheels any bock, stud, flange, cleat, ridge, lug or any
projection of metal or wood which projects radially beyond the tread or traffic
surface of the tire. This prohibition does not apply to pneumatic tires with
metal studs used on vehicles operated by rural letter carries who are employed
or enjoy a contract with the United States Postal Service for the purpose of
delivering mail if such vehicles are actually used for such purpose during
operations between November 15 of any year and April 1 of the following year or
to motor vehicles displaying a handicapped or disabled veteran license plate
whose owner resides in an unincorporated area located upon a county or township
highway or road and possesses a valid driver's license and operates the vehicle
with such tires only during the period heretofore described or to tracked-type
motor vehicles when that part of the vehicle coming in contact with the road
surface does not contain any projections of any kind likely to injure the
surface of the road; however, tractors, traction engines and similar vehicles
may be operated which have upon their road wheels V-shaped, diagonal or other
cleats arranged in such a manner as to be continuously in contact with the road
surface; provided, that the gross weight upon such wheels per inch of width of
such cleats in contact with the road surface, when measured in the direction of
the axle of the vehicle, does not exceed eight hundred (800) pounds.
All motor vehicles and all other vehicles in tow thereof or thereunto attached
operating upon any roadway shall have tires of rubber or some material of equal
resiliency. Solid tires shall be considered defective and shall not be
permitted to be used if the rubber or other material has been worn or otherwise
reduced to a thickness of less than three- fourths (3/4) of an undue vibration
when the vehicle is in motion or to cause undue concentration of the wheel load
on the surface of the road. The requirements of this Section do not apply to
agricultural tractors or traction engines or to agricultural machinery,
including wagons being used for agricultural purposes in tow thereof, or to
road rollers or road building machinery operated at a speed not in excess of
ten (10) miles per hour. All motor vehicles of the second division operating
upon any roadway shall have pneumatic tire unless exempted herein.
Nothing in this Section shall be deemed to prohibit the use of tire chains of
reasonable proportion upon any vehicle when required for safety because of
snow, ice or other conditions tending to cause a vehicle to skid. (Ord. 90-535,
4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
12-405.   OPERATING CONDITION OF PNEUMATIC TIRES:
   (a)   Definition: The term "spare tire", as used in this Section, means any
new, used or specially constructed tire that is either carried or installed for
short term emergency use.
   (b)   Rules: The Department shall promulgate rules concerning unsafe
operating conditions of pneumatic tires. The rules shall be enforced by police
officers by visual inspection of tires, including visual comparison with simple
measuring scales or gauges. The rules shall include precepts and standards for
determining unsafe conditions, including the determination of an effective
depth of tread groove, and shall be based upon, to the extent that it is
reasonable and practical, all provisions set forth in subsection (d) of this
Section.
   (c)   Use of Unsafe Tires:
      (1)   No person shall place, drive or move, or cause or allow to be
placed, driven or moved, on a highway of this State, any vehicle equipped with
one or more pneumatic tires deemed to be unsafe under a provision of subsection
(d) hereof or a rule promulgated under subsection (b) hereof.
      (2)   Any restriction stated in this subsection shall not apply:
         i.   To a tire on a damaged, disabled, abandoned or other unsafe or
unwanted vehicle being legally towed, pushed or otherwise transferred to a
repair, relocation, storage, salvage, junking or other collection site;
         ii.   To a tire on a racing or other competitive vehicle being legally
moved or transported, not under its own power, to a lawful competition site or
to a bona fide testing site; or
         iii.   To a spare tire either carried or in short term emergency use
for only such distance or time as is reasonably necessary to accomplish the
repair or replacement of the damaged or unsafe tire for which the spare was
substituted.
   (d)   Criteria for Unsafe Pneumatic Tires: A pneumatic tire shall be deemed
to be unsafe if it has:
      (1)   Any part of a ply or cord exposed;
      (2)   A tread or sidewall crack, cut, shag or other surface interruption
deep enough to expose a ply or cord;
      (3)   Any bulge, knot or separation;
      (4)   Tread wear indicators flush with the tread outer surface in any two
(2) or more adjacent tread grooves at three (3) locations approximately equally
spaced around the circumference of the tire;
      (5)   A depth of tread groove less than of 2/32 an inch or less than 1/32
of an inch if on a motorcycle or truckster, measured in any two (2) or more
adjacent tread grooves at three (3) locations approximately equally spaced
around the circumference of the tire, at least one of which, in the judgment of
the inspecting officer, is a location at which the tread is thinnest; provided,
that any measurement over a tie bar, tread wear indicator, hump or fillet is
excluded;
      (6)   A depth of tread groove less than 4/32 of an inch at any one
location and the tire is mounted on the front wheel of a motor vehicle subject
to the provisions of chapter 18B of the Illinois Vehicle Code 1 ; provided,
that any measurement over a tie bar, tread wear indicator, hump or fillet is
excluded;
      (7)   A marking which indicates that the tire is not intended for use on
a public highway;
      (8)   Been regrooved or recut below the bottom of an original tread
groove, except in the case of a special "regroovable" tire that was
manufactured or retreaded with thick undertread, identified and regrooved in
compliance with the applicable Federal standard in Title 49 of the Code of
Federal Regulations and in compliance with each applicable section of this
Code; or
      (9)   Other condition, marking or lack of marking that may be reasonably
demonstrated to identify the tire as unsuitable for highway use, including
inflation, load, speed or installation condition seriously incompatible with
the tire size, construction or other pertinent marking or feature.
   (e)   Sale, Lease or Installation of Pneumatic Tires:
      (1)   No person or shall sell, lease, or offer for sale or lease, or
mount, install, or cause or allow to be mounted or installed, for use on a
highway, a pneumatic tire deemed to be unsafe under subsection (d) hereof or
under a rule promulgated under subsection (b) hereof. Except as provided in
subsection (c) of this Section, any person offering a vehicle for sale or lease
shall, prior to its being placed, driven or moved on a highway, correct any
unsafe tire condition.
      (2)   No person shall sell, lease, or offer for sale or lease, for
highway use, any pneumatic tire or any vehicle equipped with a pneumatic tire
which has a depth of tread groove less than 3/32 of an inch except a pneumatic
tire on a motorcycle or truckster may have a depth of tire groove of not less
than 2/32 of an inch. Groove depth shall not be measured where a tie bar, tread
wear indicator, hump or fillet is located.
   (f)   Compliance and Enforcement: Any police officer, upon reasonable cause
to believe that a person or organization has acted or is acting in violation of
any provision of this subsection, shall require the driver, owner, or other
appropriate custodian to submit the tire or tires to an inspection. When so
required, the owner or other appropriate custodian shall allow the tire
inspection, and the driver of a vehicle or combination of vehicles shall stop
at a designated location and allow the tire or tires to be inspected or shall
move the vehicle or combination to a location that is reasonably convenient and
is suitable for such inspection. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 625 ILCS.
12-407.   RESERVED
ARTICLE V. GLASS, WINDSHIELDS AND MIRRORS
SECTION:
12-500.   Definition
12-501.   Safety Glazing Material in Motor Vehicles
12-502.   Mirrors
12-503.   Windshields to be Unobstructed; Wipers Required
12-500.   DEFINITION:
For the purposes of this Article, "safety glazing materials" shall mean any
glazing materials so constructed, treated or combined with other materials as
to reduce, substantially, in comparison with ordinary sheet glass or plate
glass, the likelihood of injury to persons by objects from exterior sources or
by these safety glazing materials when they may be cracked or broken. (Ord. 90-
535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
12-501.   SAFETY GLAZING MATERIAL IN MOTOR VEHICLES:
   (a)   Every motor vehicle operated upon the highways of the State shall be
equipped with a front windshield which complies with those standards as
established pursuant to this Section and Section 12-503 of this Article. This
subsection shall not apply to motor vehicles designed and used exclusively for
off-highway use, motorcycles, motor- driven cycles, motorized pedal- cycles nor
to motor vehicles registered as antique vehicles when the original design of
such vehicles did not include front windshield.
   (b)   No person shall knowingly sell any 1936 or later model motor vehicle
unless such vehicle is equipped with safety glazing material conforming to
specifications prescribed by the Department wherever glazing material is used
in doors, windows and windshields. Regulations promulgated by the Department
specifying standards for safety glazing material on windshields shall, as a
minimum, conform with those applicable Federal Motor Vehicles Safety Standards
(49 CFR 571.205). These provisions apply to all motor vehicles of the first and
second division but with respect to trucks, including truck tractors, the
requirements as to safety glazing material apply to all glazing material used
in doors, windows and windshields in the drivers' compartments of such
vehicles.
   (c)   It is unlawful for the owner or any other person knowingly to install
or cause to be installed in any motor vehicle any glazing material other than
safety glazing material conforming to the specifications prescribed by the
Department. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
12-502.   MIRRORS:
Every motor vehicle, operated singly or when towing another vehicle, shall be
equipped with a mirror so located as to reflect to the driver a view of the
highway for a distance of at least two hundred feet (200') to the rear of such
motor vehicle. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
12-503.   WINDSHIELDS TO BE UNOBSTRUCTED; WIPERS REQUIRED:
   (a)   No person shall drive a motor vehicle with any sign, poster, window
application, reflective material or nonreflective material upon the front
windshield, sidewings or side windows immediately adjacent to each side of the
driver which materially obstructs, obscures or impairs the view from both
within or without the vehicle. A tinted film may be used along the upper
portion of the windshield if such material does not extend more than six inches
(6") down from the top.
   (b)   Nothing contained in this Section shall prohibit the use of
nonreflective, smoked or tinted glass, nonreflective film, perforated window
screen or other decorative window application on windows to the rear of the
driver's seat subject to the provisions of Section
12-502 of this Article.
   (c)   No person shall drive a motor vehicle with any objects placed or
suspended between the driver and the front windshield, rear window, side wings
or side windows immediately adjacent to each side of the driver which
materially obstructs the driver's view.
   (d)   Every motor vehicle, except motorcycles, shall be equipped with a
device, controlled by the driver, for cleaning rain, snow, moisture or other
obstructions from the windshield, and no person shall drive a motor vehicle
with snow, ice, moisture or other material on any of the windows or mirrors,
which materially obstructs the driver's clear view of the highway.
   (e)   No person shall drive a motor vehicle when the windshield, side or
rear windows are in such defective condition or repair as to materially impair
the driver's view to the front, side or rear. A vehicle equipped with side
mirrors on each side of the vehicle which are in conformance with Section
12-502 of this Article will be deemed to be in compliance in the event the rear
window of the vehicle is materially obscured.
   (f)   Subsections (a) and (b) of this Section shall not apply to:
      (1)   Motor vehicles manufactured prior to January 1, 1982; or
      (2)   To those motor vehicles properly registered in another
jurisdiction.
   (g)   Subsection (a) of this Section shall not apply to any motor vehicle:
      (1)   That is owned and operated by a person afflicted with or suffering
from a medical illness, ailment or disease which would require that person to
be shielded from the direct rays of the sun; or    
      (2)   That is used in transporting a person when such person resides at
the same address as the registered owner of the vehicle, and such person is
afflicted with or suffering from a medical illness, ailment or disease which
would require such person to be shielded from the direct rays of the sun.
It must be certified by a physician licensed to practice medicine in Illinois
that such person owning and operating or being transported in a motor vehicle
is afflicted with or suffers from such illness, ailment or disease, and such
certification must be carried in the motor vehicle at all times. The
certification shall be legible and shall contain the date of issuance, the
name, address and signature of the attending physician and the name, address
and medical condition of the person requiring exemption. The information on the
certificate must remain current and shall be renewed annually by the attending
physician.
   (h)   Subsection (a) of this Section shall not apply to vehicle stickers or
other certificates issued by State or local authorities which are required to
be displayed upon motor vehicle motor windows to evidence compliance with
requirements concerning motor vehicles. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
ARTICLE VI. MISCELLANEOUS REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
12-600.   Definitions
12-601.   Horns And Warning Devices
12-602.   Mufflers; Prevention Of Noise
12-603.   Seat Belts
12-603.1.    Use Required By Driver And Passenger
12-604.   Television Receivers
12-605.   Reserved
12-606.   Tow Trucks
12-607.   Suspension System
12-607.1.    Frame And Floor Height
12-608.   Bumpers
12-609.   Reserved
12-610.   Headset Receivers
12-611.   Sound Amplification Systems
12-600.   DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this article, the following words shall have the meanings
ascribed to them as follows:
   BUMPER: Every device or system of devices protruding from and attached to
the front and rear of a motor vehicle which has been designed to be used to
absorb the impact of a collision.
   MUFFLER: Every device consisting of a series of chambers or baffle plates or
other mechanical design for the purpose of receiving exhaust gas from an
internal combustion engine or turbine wheels or for the purpose of receiving
exhaust gas from a diesel engine, both of which are effective in reducing
noise.
   SUSPENSION SYSTEM: The system of devices consisting of, but not limited to:
springs, spring shackles, shock absorbers, torsion bars, frame or any other
supporting members used to attach the body of a motor vehicle to its axles.
(Ord. 90-535, 4-24-1990, eff. 5-1-1990)
12-601.   HORNS AND WARNING DEVICES:
   (a)   Every motor vehicle, when operated upon a highway, shall be equipped
with a horn in good working order and capable of emitting sound audible under
normal conditions from a distance of not less than two hundred feet (200'), but
no horn or other warning device shall emit an unreasonably loud or harsh sound
or a whistle. The driver of a motor vehicle shall, when reasonably necessary to
ensure safe operation, give audible warning with his horn but shall not
otherwise use such horn when upon a highway.
   (b)   No vehicle shall be equipped with nor shall any person use upon a
vehicle any siren, whistle or bell, capable of emitting sound audible under
normal conditions from a distance of not less than five hundred feet (500'),
but such siren, whistle or bell shall not be used except when such vehicle is
operated in response to an emergency call or in the immediate pursuit of an
actual or suspected violator of the law, in either of which events, the driver
of such vehicle shall sound such siren, whistle or bell when necessary to warn
pedestrians and other drivers of the approach thereof. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-1990,
eff. 5-1-1990)
12-602.   MUFFLERS; PREVENTION OF NOISE 1 :
Every motor vehicle driven or operated upon the highways of this village shall,
at all times, be equipped with an adequate muffler or exhaust system in
constant operation and properly maintained to prevent any excessive or unusual
noise. No such muffler or exhaust system shall be equipped with a cutout,
bypass or similar device. No person shall modify the exhaust system of a motor
vehicle in a manner which will amplify or increase the noise of such vehicle
above that emitted by the muffler originally installed on the vehicle, and such
original muffler shall comply with all the requirements of this section. (Ord.
90-535, 4-24-1990, eff. 5-1-1990)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 4-6-1A of this code.
12-603.   SEAT BELTS:
   (a)   No person shall sell any 1965 or later model vehicle of the first
division unless the front seat of such motor vehicle is equipped with two (2)
sets of seat safety belts. Motorcycles are exempt from the provisions of this
section.
   (b)   No person shall operate any 1961 or later model motor vehicle of the
first division that is titled or licensed by the secretary of state unless the
front seat of such motor vehicle is equipped with two (2) sets of seat safety
belts.
   (c)   As used in this section, "seat safety belts" means a set of belts or a
harness meeting the specifications established by the department and installed
in such manner as to prevent or materially reduce the movement of the person
using the same in the event of collision or upset of the vehicle.
   (d)   The department shall establish performance specifications for seat
safety belts and for the attachment and installation thereof. (Ord. 90-535, 4-
24-1990, eff. 5-1-1990)
12-603.1.   USE REQUIRED BY DRIVER AND PASSENGER:
   (a)   Each driver and front seat passenger of a motor vehicle operated on a
street or highway in this village shall wear a properly adjusted and fastened
seat safety belt except, that a child less than eight (8) years of age shall be
protected as required pursuant to the child passenger protection act. Each
driver of a motor vehicle transporting a child eight (8) years of age or more,
but less than sixteen (16) years of age, in the front seat of the motor vehicle
shall secure the child in a properly adjusted and fastened seat safety belt as
required under the child passenger protection act. Each driver under the age of
eighteen (18) years and each of the driver's passengers under the age of
nineteen (19) years of a motor vehicle operated on a street or highway in this
village shall wear a properly adjusted and fastened seat safety belt.
   (b)   Subsection (a) of this section shall not apply to any of the
following:
      (1)   A driver or passenger frequently stopping and leaving the vehicle
or delivering property from the vehicle if the speed of the vehicle between
stops does not exceed fifteen (15) miles per hour.
      (2)   A driver or passenger possessing a written statement from a
physician that such person is unable, for medical or physical reasons, to wear
a seat safety belt.
      (3)   A driver or passenger possessing an official certificate or license
endorsement issued by the appropriate agency in another state or country
indicating that the driver is unable, for medical, physical or other valid
reasons, to wear a seat safety belt.
      (4)   A driver operating a motor vehicle in reverse.
      (5)   A motor vehicle with a model year prior to 1965.
      (6)   A motorcycle or motor driven cycle.
      (7)   A motorized pedal cycle.
      (8)   A motor vehicle which is not required to be equipped with seat
safety belts under federal law.
      (9)   A motor vehicle operated by a rural letter carrier of the United
States postal service while performing duties as a rural letter carrier. (Ord.
08-1504, 9-23-2008)
12-604.   TELEVISION RECEIVERS:
   (a)   No motor vehicle operated on the highways of this village shall be
equipped with television type receiving equipment so located that the viewer or
screen is visible from the driver's seat.
   (b)   This section does not prohibit the use of television type receiving
equipment used exclusively for safety or traffic engineering studies. (Ord. 90-
535, 4-24-1990, eff. 5-1-1990)
12-605.   RESERVED
12-606.   TOW TRUCKS:
   (a)   Every tow truck, except those owned by governmental agencies, shall
have displayed on each side thereof a sign with letters not less than two
inches (2") in height, contrasting in color to that of the background, stating
the name, address and telephone number of the owner or operator thereof.
    (b)   Every tow truck shall be equipped with:
            (1)   One or more brooms and shovels.
            (2)   One or more trash cans at least eighteen inches (18") in
height.
            (3)   One fire extinguisher of the dry chemical or carbon dioxide
type with an aggregate rating of at least 4-B, C units, and bearing the
approval of a laboratory qualified by the division of fire prevention for this
purpose.
   (c)   Every owner or operator and driver of a tow truck shall comply with
section 11-1413 of this title and shall remove or cause to be removed all glass
and debris deposited upon any street or highway by the disabled vehicle being
serviced and shall, in addition, spread dirt or sand upon that portion of any
street or highway where oil or grease has been deposited by the disabled
vehicle being serviced. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-1990, eff. 5-1-1990)
12-607.   SUSPENSION SYSTEM:
   (a)   It shall be unlawful to operate a motor vehicle on any highway of this
village when the suspension system has been modified from the original
manufactured design by lifting the body from the chassis in excess of three
inches (3") or to cause the horizontal line from the front to the rear bumper
to vary over three inches (3") in height when measured from a level surface of
the highway to the lower edge of the bumper.
   (b)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the installation of manufactured
heavy duty equipment to include shock absorbers and overload springs nor shall
anything contained in this section prevent a person to operate a motor vehicle
on any highway of this village with normal wear of the suspension system if
normal wear does not affect the control or safe operation of the vehicle. This
section shall not apply to motor vehicles designed or modified primarily for
off highway racing purposes while such vehicles are in tow or to motorcycles or
motor driven cycles. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-1990, eff. 5-1-1990)
12-607.1.   FRAME AND FLOOR HEIGHT:
   (a)   No person shall operate upon a highway a first division vehicle which
has a clearance between the frame and ground in excess of twenty two inches
(22"). The lowest portion of the body floor shall not be more than four inches
(4") above the top of the frame. No such vehicle shall be modified to cause the
vehicle body or chassis to come in contact with the ground, expose the fuel
tank to damage from collision or cause the wheels to come in contact with the
body under normal operation.
   (b)   No person shall operate, upon a highway, a second division vehicle
which has a clearance between the frame and ground which is in excess of the
limits specified within this subsection for its gross vehicle weight rating
(GVWR) category. For the purpose of this section, "GVWR" means the
manufacturer's gross vehicle weight rating whether or not the vehicle is
modified by the use of parts not originally installed by the manufacturer. No
portion of the body floor shall be raised above the frame.
      (1)   The frame height of second division vehicles whose GVWR is under
four thousand five hundred (4,500) pounds shall be no more than twenty four
inches (24").
      (2)   The frame height of second division vehicles whose GVWR is more
than four thousand five hundred (4,500) pounds and less than seven thousand
five hundred (7,500) pounds shall be no more than twenty six inches (26").
      (3)   The frame height of second division vehicles whose GVWR is more
than seven thousand five hundred (7,500) pounds and less than ten thousand
(10,000) pounds, shall be no more than twenty eight inches (28").
   (c)   Under subsection (a) or (b) of this section, measurements shall be
made when a vehicle is unladen on a level surface at the lowest point from the
bottom of the original vehicle manufacturer's longitudinal frame rail between
the front axle and second axle on the vehicle.
   (d)   This section does not apply to a specially designed or modified motor
vehicle when operated off the highways. Such motor vehicles may be transported
upon the highway only by use of a trailer or semitrailer. The specially
designed or modified motor vehicle may also be transported upon another
vehicle; providing, that the entire weight of the specifically designed or
modified vehicle is resting upon the transporting vehicle. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-
1990, eff. 5-1-1990)
12-608.   BUMPERS:
   (a)   It shall be unlawful to operate any motor vehicle with a gross vehicle
rating of nine thousand (9,000) pounds or less or any motor vehicle registered
as a recreational vehicle under this code on any highway of this village unless
such motor vehicle is equipped with both a front and rear bumper.
Except as indicated below, maximum bumper heights of such motor vehicles shall
be determined by weight category of gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR) measured
from a level surface to the highest point of the bottom of the bumper when the
vehicle is unloaded and the tires are inflated to the manufacturer's
recommended pressure. Maximum bumper heights are as follows:
 
                                   Maximum Front Bumper Maximum Rear Bumper
                                    Height               Height
All motor vehicles of the first
division except multipurpose        22 inches            22 inches
passenger vehicles
Multipurpose passenger vehicles and
all other motor vehicles:
   4,500 lbs. and under GVWR     24 inches            26 inches
   4,501 lbs. through 7,500 lbs. 27 inches            29 inches
GVWR
   7,501 lbs. through 9,000 lbs. 28 inches            30 inches
GVWR
 
For any vehicle with bumpers or attaching components which have been modified
or altered from the original manufacturer's design in order to conform with the
maximum bumper requirements of this section, the bumper height shall be
measured from a level surface to the bottom of the vehicle frame rail at the
most forward and rearward points of the frame rail. The bumper on any vehicle
so modified or altered shall be at least four and five- tenths inches (4.5") in
vertical heights and extend no less than the width of the respective wheel
tracks outermost distance. However, nothing in this section shall prevent the
installation of bumper guards.
   (b)   This section shall not apply to motor vehicles designed or modified
primarily for off highway purposes while such vehicles are in tow or to
motorcycles or motor driven cycles nor to motor vehicles registered as antique
vehicles when the original design of such vehicles did not include bumpers. The
provisions of this section shall not apply to any motor vehicle driven during
the first one thousand (1,000) recorded miles of that vehicle when such vehicle
is owned or operated by a manufacturer, dealer or transporter displaying a
special plate or plates as described in chapter 3 of the Illinois vehicle code
1  while such vehicle is:
      (1)   Being delivered from the manufacturing or assembly plant directly
to the purchasing dealer or distributor or from one dealership or distributor
to another;
      (2)   Being moved by the most direct route from one location to another
for the purpose of installing special bodies or equipment; or
      (3)   Being driven for purposes of demonstration by a prospective buyer
with the dealer or his agent present in the cab of the vehicle during the
demonstration.
The dealer shall, prior to receipt of any deposit made or any contract signed
by the buyer to secure the purchase of a vehicle, inform such buyer, by written
statement signed by the purchaser to indicate acknowledgement of the contents
thereof, of the legal requirements of this section regarding front and rear
bumpers if such vehicle is not to be equipped with bumpers at the time of
delivery. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-1990, eff. 5-1-1990)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS.
12-609.   RESERVED
12-610.   HEADSET RECEIVERS:
   (a)   Except as provided under section
11-1403.3 of this title, no driver of a motor vehicle on the highways of this
village shall wear headset receivers while driving.
   (b)   This section does not prohibit the use of a headset type receiving
equipment used exclusively for safety or traffic engineering studies or by law
enforcement personnel on duty.
   (c)   This section does not prohibit the use of any single sided headset
type receiving and transmitting equipment designed to be used in or on one ear
which is used exclusively for providing two-way radio vocal communications by
an individual in possession of a current and valid novice class or higher
amateur radio license issued by the federal communications commission and an
amateur radio operator special registration plate issued under section 3-607 of
the Illinois vehicle code 1 . (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-1990, eff. 5-1-1990)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS.
12-611.   SOUND AMPLIFICATION SYS TEMS:
No driver of any motor vehicle within this village shall operate or permit
operation of any sound amplification system which can be heard outside the
vehicle from seventy five feet (75') or more when the vehicle is being operated
upon a highway, unless such system is being operated to request assistance or
warn of a hazardous situation. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-1990, eff. 5-1-1990)
ARTICLE VII. SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SECOND DIVISION VEHICLES
SECTION:
12-701.   Tractors, Traction Engines and Motor Trucks
12-702.   Certain Vehicles to Carry Flares or Warning Devices
12-703.   Road Oil Vehicles
12-704.   Vehicles Transporting Explosives
12-704.1.    Vehicles Transporting Radio-active Material
12-704.2.    Reserved
12-704.3.    Motor Vehicles using Alternate Fuels
12-705.   Vehicles Transporting Flammable Liquids
12-706.   Safety Belts on Fire Apparatus
12-707.   Passenger Capacity of For-Hire Vehicles
12-708.   Operator Protective Frames on Tractor-Mower Combinations
12-709.   Slow-Moving Vehicle Emblem
12-710.   Splash Guards
12-711.   Garbage and Refuse Vehicles
12-701.   TRACTORS, TRACTION ENGINES AND MOTOR TRUCKS:
No tractor, traction engine, motor truck or other similar vehicle shall be
operated across, over or along any public highway of this Village which has
been oil treated if any such vehicle has on the periphery of any of the road
wheels any block, stud, flange, cleat, ridge, lug or any projection of metal or
wood which projects radially beyond the tread or traffic surface of the tire;
except, that this prohibition shall not apply to tractors or traction engines
equipped with what is known as crawler-type tractors when the same does not
contain any projections of any kind likely to injure the surface of the road
nor to tractors, traction engines and similar vehicles which have upon their
road wheels V-shaped, diagonal or other cleats arranged in such a manner as to
be continuously in contact with the road surface. In no event shall the oil mat
surface of any oil-treated public road be used as an area or space for turning
any tractor or other farm machinery in carrying on or performing any farming
operations upon the adjacent land; provided, that nothing in this Section
contained shall prohibit the operation of tractors, traction engines or motor
trucks across any oil- treated road in order to reach adjacent lands or the
operation of any such vehicles upon the treated portion of such oil-treated
roads if there is no untreated portion thereof over which they may be operated
or the operation of any such vehicles on oil-treated roads if, in passing along
said road, they travel over the portion of said road which does not constitute
the oil mat surface created by said oil treatment or the use of flexible tire
chains on any tractor, traction engine, motor truck or other similar vehicle
being operated upon any such oil-treated road.
It is unlawful for any person to operate any tractor, traction engine, motor
truck or other similar vehicle over and along any public highway of this
Village which has been oil- treated, in violation of the provisions of this
Section. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
12-702.   CERTAIN VEHICLES TO CARRY FLARES OR WARNING DEVICES:
   (a)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle of the second division or
any motor vehicle towing a house trailer upon any highway outside an urban
district at any time unless there is carried in such vehicle the following
equipment, except as provided in subsection (b) of this Section:
      (1)   At least three (3) liquid-burning flares or three (3) red electric
lanterns or three (3) portable red emergency reflectors, each of which is
capable of being seen and distinguished at a distance of not less than five
hundred feet (500') when lighted lamps are required; provided, that emergency
reflectors meeting the requirements of Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard
No. 125 shall be deemed acceptable as regards visibility and color.
      (2)   At least three (3) red-burning, fifteen (15) minute fusees, unless
red electric lanterns or portable red emergency reflectors are carried.
      (3)   At least two (2) red, cloth flags, not less than twelve inches
(12") square, with standards to support flags or, in lieu thereof, two (2)
portable emergency reflectors meeting the requirements of Federal Motor Vehicle
Safety Standard No. 125.
   (b)   No person shall operate at the time and under the conditions stated in
subsection (a) of this Section any motor vehicle used for the transportation of
explosives, any cargo tank truck used for the transportation of flammable
liquids or compressed gases or any motor vehicle using compressed gas as a fuel
unless there is carried in such vehicle three (3) red electric lanterns or
three (3) portable red emergency reflectors meeting the requirements of
subsection (a) of this Section, and such vehicle shall not carry any flares,
fusees or signals produced by flame.
   (c)   Whenever any motor vehicle of the second division or any motor vehicle
towing a house trailer is disabled upon the roadway of any highway or the
shoulder thereof outside an urban district or on any controlled access highway
within an urban district at any time when lighted lamps are required, the
driver of such vehicle shall display the following warning devices upon the
highway during the time the vehicle is so disabled, except as provided in
subsection (d) of this Section:
      1.   A lighted fusee, a lighted red electric lantern or a portable red
emergency reflector shall be immediately placed at the traffic side of the
vehicle in the direction of the nearest approaching traffic. However, the
driver of such vehicle, upon learning of the disability, may simultaneously
flash the two (2) front and two (2) rear turn signals as a vehicular traffic
warning and continue such flashing until the portable signals have been placed
as required by this Section and during the time such portable emergency signals
are being picked up for storage prior to the movement of the vehicle.
      2.   As soon thereafter as possible but, in any event, within the burning
period of the fusee (15 minutes), the driver shall place three (3) liquid-
burning flares or three (3) lighted red electric lanterns or three (3) portable
red emergency reflectors on the roadway or shoulder of the highway in the
following order:
      - One approximately one hundred feet (100') from the disabled vehicle in
the center of the lane or shoulder occupied by such vehicle and toward traffic
approaching in that lane.
      - One approximately one hundred feet (100') in the opposite direction
from the disabled vehicle and in the center of the traffic lane or shoulder
occupied by such vehicle.
      - One at traffic side of the disabled vehicle not less than ten feet
(10') to the rear or forward thereof in the direction of the nearest
approaching traffic. If a lighted red electric lantern or a portable red
emergency reflector has been placed at the traffic side of the vehicle in
accordance with subsection (c)(1) of this Section, it may be used for this
purpose.
   (d)   Whenever any vehicle referred to in this Section is disabled within
five hundred feet (500') of a curve, hill crest or other obstruction to view,
the warning signal in that direction shall be so placed as to afford ample
warning to other users of the highway but in no case less than one hundred feet
(100') nor more than five hundred feet (500') from the disabled vehicle.
   (e)   Whenever any vehicle of a type referred to in this Section is disabled
upon any roadway or shoulder of a divided highway during the time that lighted
lamps are required, the appropriate warning devices prescribed in subsections
(a)(1) and (a)(2) of this Section shall be placed as follows:
      - One at a distance of approximately two hundred feet (200') from the
vehicle in the center of the lane or shoulder occupied by the stopped vehicle
and in the direction of traffic approaching in that lane.
      - One at a distance of approximately one hundred feet (100') from the
vehicle in the center of the lane or shoulder occupied by the vehicle and in
the direction of traffic approaching in that lane.
      - One at the traffic side of the vehicle and approximately ten feet (10')
from the vehicle in the direction of the nearest approaching traffic.
   (f)   If ever any vehicle of a type referred to in this Section is disabled
upon the roadway of any highway or the shoulder thereof outside an urban
district or on any controlled access highway within an urban district at any
time when the display of fusees, flares, red electric lanterns or portable red
emergency reflectors are not required, the driver of the vehicle shall display
two (2) red, cloth flags or two (2) portable emergency reflectors meeting the
requirements of Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 125 upon the roadway
or shoulder in the lane of traffic occupied by the disabled vehicle in the
following order:
      - One at a distance of approximately one hundred feet (100') in advance
of the vehicle.
      - One at a distance of approximately one hundred feet (100') in the rear
of the vehicle.
   (g)   Whenever any vehicle of a type referred to in this Section is disabled
upon any roadway or shoulder of a divided highway during the time that lighted
lamps are not required, the driver of such vehicle shall display two (2) red,
cloth flags or two (2) portable emergency reflectors meeting the requirements
of Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 125 upon the roadway or shoulder
in the center of the lane of traffic occupied by the disabled vehicle in the
following order:
      - One at a distance of approximately two hundred feet (200') to the rear
of the vehicle.
      - One at a distance of approximately one hundred feet (100') to the rear
of the vehicle.
   (h)   Whenever any motor vehicle used for the transportation of explosives
or any cargo tank truck used for the transportation of any flammable liquid or
compressed flammable gas or any motor vehicle using compressed gas as a fuel is
disabled upon a highway of this Village at any time or place mentioned in
subsection (c) of this Section, the driver of such vehicle shall immediately
display three (3) red electric lanterns or portable red emergency reflectors
placed in the following order:
      - One at the traffic side of the vehicle and approximately ten feet (10')
from the vehicle in the direction of the nearest approaching traffic.
      - One at a distance of approximately one hundred feet (100') to the front
of the disabled vehicle in the center of the lane of traffic or shoulder
occupied by such vehicle.
      - One at a distance of approximately one hundred feet (100') to the rear
of the disabled vehicle in the center of the lane of traffic or shoulder
occupied by such vehicle. Flares, fusees or signals produced by flame shall not
be used as warning devices for disabled vehicles of the type mentioned in this
paragraph.
   (i)   The flares, fusees, red electric lanterns, portable red emergency
reflectors and flags to be displayed as required in this Section shall conform
with the requirements of subsections (a) and (b) of this Section applicable
thereto. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
12-703.   ROAD OIL VEHICLES:
No person shall operate, on a durable all-weather highway of a type other than
gravel or crushed stone, any vehicle used for the purpose of applying road oil,
liquid asphalt or similar material to road surfaces, unless such vehicle is so
equipped as to absolutely prevent such material from dripping on such highway
nor shall such material be allowed to drip on any such highway. (Ord. 90-535,
4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
12-704.   VEHICLES TRANSPORTING EXPLOSIVES:
Any person operating any vehicle transporting any explosive as a cargo or part
of a cargo upon a highway shall, at all times, comply with the provisions of
this Section.
   (a)   Such vehicle shall be marked or placarded on each side and the rear
with the word "Explosives" in letters not less than four inches (4") high, or
there shall be displayed on the rear of such vehicle a red flag not less than
twenty four inches (24") square marked with the word "Danger" in white letters
six inches (6") high; except, that any vehicle which is required to be
placarded pursuant to "An Act to require labeling of equipment and facilities
for the use, transportation, storage and manufacture of hazardous materials and
to provide for a uniform response system to hazardous materials emergencies" 1
, enacted by the 79th General Assembly, shall be placarded in accordance with
the provision of that Act.
   (b)   Every such vehicle shall be equipped with not less than two (2) fire
extinguishers, filled and ready for immediate use, and placed at a convenient
point on the vehicle used. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 430 ILCS 50/0.01 et seq.
12-704.1.   VEHICLES TRANSPORTING RADIOACTIVE MATERIAL:
Highway vehicles used for transport of packages bearing Radioactive Yellow-Ill
labels, as defined in the Code of Federal Regulations, title 49, chapter 1,
paragraph 173.399(a) must be placarded by the carrier or by the shipper for
sole use vehicles containing full loads of low specific activity materials.
Placards printed "RADIOACTIVE" with black letters four inches (4") high and
five-eighths inch (5/8") width of stroke on a yellow background must be applied
on the front, rear and on each side of the vehicle. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff.
5-1-90)
12-704.2.   RESERVED
12-704.3.   MOTOR VEHICLES USING ALTERNATE FUELS:
Notwithstanding any other regulation or requirement, every motor vehicle using
any of the following gaseous propellant fuels must display a sign or decal on
or near the rear bumper and visible from the rear or on or near the front
bumper and visible from the front, if the motor vehicle is not equipped with a
rear bumper. identifying the type of propellant fuel being used.
The following fuels shall be identified by a decal. Such decal shall be diamond
shaped with white or silver scotchlite letters one inch (1") in height and a
stroke of the brush at least one-fourth inch (1/4") wide on a black background
with a white or silver scotchlite border bearing either the words or letters:
   "Propane" = if propelled by liquefied petroleum gas other than liquefied
natural gas; or
   "CNG" = if propelled by compressed natural gas.
The sign or decal shall be maintained in good legible condition. A sign or
decal that is deteriorated or defaced so as to impair its legibility, quick
recognition or meaning shall be replaced by a new sign or decal. (Ord. 90-535,
4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
12-705.   VEHICLES TRANSPORTING FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS:
No person shall operate upon the highways of this Village any second division
motor vehicle customarily used in cargo transportation of flammable liquids or
explosives during the hours when lighted lamps are required under Section
12-201 of this Chapter unless such vehicle is marked or placarded in this
reflectorized paint on each side and rear with the words "Flammable",
"Explosives" or "Gasoline" in letters not less four inches (4") high; except,
that any vehicle which is required to be placarded pursuant to "An Act to
require labeling of equipment and facilities for the use, transportation,
storage and manufacture of hazardous materials and to provide for a uniform
response system to hazardous materials emergencies", enacted by the 79th
General Assembly, shall be placarded in accordance with the provisions of that
Act 1 . (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
 
Notes
1 1.   S.H.A. 430 ILCS 50/0.01 et seq.
12-706.   SAFETY BELTS ON FIRE APPARATUS:
No fire apparatus equipped to carry firemen on the outside of such vehicle on
the sides or rear or both shall be operated without first installing on the
fire apparatus on the sides and rear thereof a sufficient number of safety
belts and safety belt connections to protect the maximum number of firemen who
can occupy the sides and rear of such apparatus while responding to alarms of
fire. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
12-707.   PASSENGER CAPACITY OF FOR-HIRE VEHICLES:
No school bus, commuter van or motor vehicle owned by or used for hire by and
in connection with the operation of private or public schools, day camps,
summer camps or nursery schools or in charter operations and no commuter van or
passenger car used for a for-profit ridesharing arrangement shall be operated
if it is occupied by more passengers than recommended by the manufacturer
thereof if the vehicle is manufactured as a passenger vehicle; if the vehicle
is manufactured for use other than passenger, then it shall not accommodate
more passengers than provided for by the manufacturer in passenger vehicles of
like style or rating. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
12-708.   OPERATOR PROTECTIVE FRAMES ON TRACTOR- MOWER COMBINATIONS:
No tractor unit over sixteen (16) engine horsepower designed for mowing or
tractor-mower combination unit over sixteen (16) engine horsepower owned or
leased by the Department, a municipal corporation or political subdivision
shall be operated for the purpose of mowing vegetation on highway right of way
unless the tractor of such unit is equipped with an operator protective frame
conforming to the specifications prescribed by regulations under the United
States Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, as amended, and with a seat
safety belt.
The operator protective frame may be incorporated into a cab which design shall
conform to the specifications established by the United States Occupational
Safety and Health Act of 1970, as amended.
The seat safety belt must meet the requirements provided in Section
12-603 of this Chapter. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
12-709.   SLOW-MOVING VEHICLE EMBLEM:
   (a)   Every animal-drawn vehicle, farm tractor, implement of husbandry and
special mobile equipment, when operated on a highway, must display a slow-
moving vehicle emblem mounted on the rear except as provided in subsection (b)
(2) of this Section. Special mobile equipment is exempt when operated within
the limits of a construction or maintenance project where traffic-control
devices are used in compliance with applicable provisions of the manual and
specifications adopted under Section
11-301 of this Code.
   (b)   Every vehicle or unit described in subsection (b)(1) of this Section,
when operated in combination on a highway, must display a slow-moving vehicle
emblem as follows:
      (1)   Where the towed unit or any load thereon partially or totally
obscures the slow-moving vehicle emblem on the towing unit, the towed unit
shall be equipped with a slow-moving vehicle emblem. In such cases the towing
unit need not display the emblem.
      (2)   Where the slow-moving vehicle emblem on the towing unit is not
obscured by the towed unit or its load, then either or both may be equipped
with the required emblem, but it shall be sufficient if either displays it.
      (3)   A registered truck towed behind a farm tractor in conformity with
the provisions of Section
11-1418 of this Code must display a slow-moving vehicle emblem in the manner
provided in subsection (c) of this Section while being towed on a highway, if
the emblem on the towing vehicle is partially or totally obscured.
   (c)   The slow-moving vehicle emblem required by subsections (a) and (b) of
this Section must meet the specifications and mounting requirements established
by the Department. Such specifications and mounting requirements shall be based
on the specifications adopted by the American Society of Agricultural Engineers
and published by that body as ASAE S 276.2 dated March 1968. No advertising or
other marking shall appear upon the emblem.
   (d)   A slow-moving vehicle emblem is intended as a safety identification
device and shall not be displayed on any vehicle nor displayed in any manner
other than as described in subsections (a), (b) and (c) of this Section.
12-710.   SPLASH GUARDS:
It is unlawful for any person to operate any motor vehicle of the second
division to which this Section is applicable upon any highway of this Village
outside an urban area unless such vehicle is equipped with splash guards behind
the wheels of the rearmost axle of the vehicle and behind the wheels of the
rearmost axle of a truck tractor. The splash guards shall be of either the
contour type or the flap type which comply with the specifications provided in
this Section for the type of splash guards used on the vehicle and which are so
attached as to prevent the splashing of mud or water upon the windshield of
other motor vehicles.
   (a)   Specifications for contour-type splash guards. When contour-type
splash guards are used, they shall contour the wheel in such a manner that the
relationship of the inside surface of any such splash guard to the tread
surface of the tire or wheel shall be relatively parallel, both laterally and
across the wheel, at least throughout the top ninety degrees (90°) of the rear
one hundred eighty degrees (180°) of the wheel surface; provided, however, on
vehicles which have a clearance of less than five inches (5") between the top
of the tire or wheel and that part of the body of the vehicle directly above
the tire or wheel when the vehicle is loaded to maximum legal capacity, the
curved portion of the splash guard need only extend from a point directly
behind the center of the rear axle and behind the rearmost axle of a truck
tractor, if applicable, and to the rear of the wheel surface upwards to within
at least two inches (2") of the bottom line of the body when the vehicle is
loaded to maximum legal capacity. There shall be a downward extension of the
curved surface which shall end not more than twelve inches (12") from the
ground when the vehicle is loaded to maximum legal capacity. This downward
extension shall be part of the curved surface or attached directly to such
curved surface, but it need not contour the wheel. Such contour-type splash
guards shall be wide enough to cover the full tread width of the tire or tires
being protected and shall be installed not more than six inches (6") from the
tread surface of the tire or wheel when the vehicle is loaded to maximum legal
capacity. The splash guard shall have a lip or flange on its outside edge to
minimize side throw and splash. The lip or flange shall extend toward the
center of the wheel and shall be perpendicular to and extend not less than two
inches (2") below the inside or bottom surface line or plane of the guard. Such
contour type splash guards may be constructed of either a rigid or flexible
material but shall be attached in such a manner that, regardless of movement
either by the splash guards or the vehicle, the splash guards will retain their
general parallel relationship to the tread surface of the tire or wheel under
all ordinary operating conditions.
   (b)   Specifications for Flap-Type Splash Guards: When flap-type splash
guards are used, they shall be wide enough to cover the full tread width of the
tire or tires being protected, shall be so installed that they extend from the
underside of the vehicle in a vertical plane behind the wheels of the rearmost
axle of the vehicle and behind the wheels of the rearmost axle of a truck
tractor to within twelve inches (12") of the ground, when the vehicle is loaded
to maximum legal capacity, shall be so constructed and attached so that, when
the vehicle is in forward motion, such splash guard will not deviate or move
backward from the vertical plane by an angle of more than thirty degrees (30°)
measured from the vertical plane and so that, when the forward motion of the
vehicle causes such splash guard to deviate from the vertical plane, the bottom
of such flap-type splash guard will not be more than fifteen inches (15") from
the ground when the vehicle is loaded to maximum legal capacity. Such flap-type
splash guard may be constructed of either a rigid or flexible material.
   (c)   Truck Tractors: This Section shall require splash guards behind the
wheels of the rearmost axle for all truck tractors, whether or not such truck
tractor is used in combination with any other vehicle.
   (d)   Exemptions: This Section shall not apply to vehicles, the construction
or design of which does not require such splash guards nor to vehicles in-
transit and capable only of using temporary splash guards prescribed by the
Department nor to pole trailers. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
12-711.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE VEHI CLES:
All trucks equipped with self- compactors or roll-off hoists and roll-on
containers for garbage or refuse hauls shall, before operating on any public or
private highway, alley or parking area of this Village, be equipped with an
operably working external audible warning signal device that meets the standard
of American National Standards Institute, SAE J994b, Type A, B or C, which is
activated when the vehicle is operated in reverse or when top-hinged tailgates
are open. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90; 1994 Code)
ARTICLE VIII. SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SCHOOL BUSES
SECTION:
12-800.   Definitions
12-801.   Color
12-802.   Identification
12-803.   Stop Signal Arm
12-804.   Use of School Bus Equipment on Other Vehicles
12-805.   Special Lighting Equipment
12-806.   Identification, Stop Signal Arms and Special Lighting When Not Used
as a School Bus
12-807.   Seat Belt for Driver
12-808.   Fire Extinguisher
12-809.   First Aid Kit
12-810.   Restraining Devices for Handicapped Passengers
12-811.   Amber Three-Bar Clearance Light
12-812.   Reserved
12-813.   Reserved
12-814.   Reserved
12-815.   Strobe Lamp
12-800.   DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this Article, the following words and phrases have the
meanings ascribed to them as follows:
   TYPE I SCHOOL BUS: A school bus with a gross vehicle weight rating more than
ten thousand (10,000) pounds.
   TYPE II SCHOOL BUS: A school bus with a gross vehicle weight rating of ten
thousand (10,000) pounds or less.
   DEPARTMENT: The Department of Transportation of the State of Illinois.
   GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT RATING or GVWR: The value specified by the manufacturer
as the loaded weight of the school bus.
   ROOFTOP: The major uppermost portion of a bus body that is flat in a fore
and aft direction.
   STROBE LAMP: A vehicular signaling device that generates flashes of light by
inducing intermittent flows of electricity through a gas. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-
90, eff. 5-1-90)
12-801.   COLOR:
The exterior of each school bus shall be national school bus glossy yellow
except as follows:
   - The fenders of school buses manufactured before January 1976 may be black.
   - Body trim, rub rails, lettering, other than on a stop signal arm and
bumpers on a Type I school bus, shall be glossy black.
   - Lettering on a stop signal arm shall be white on a red background.
   - The hood and upper cowl may be lusterless black or lusterless school bus
yellow.
   - Grilles on the front, lamp trim and hubcaps may be a bright finish.
   - The name or emblem of a manufacturer may be colorless or any color.
   - The following colors shall match the central value, hue and chroma of the
specified color chip numbers of Federal Standard No. 595a: National school bus
glossy yellow (13432), glossy black (127038) and lusterless black (37038).
(Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
12-802.   IDENTIFICATION:
Each school bus shall have the sign "SCHOOL BUS" painted on both the front and
rear of the bus as high as practicable in letters at least eight inches (8")
high. The vehicle weight and the vehicle maximum passenger capacity recommended
by the manufacturer of the bus, which shall be based upon provision for
thirteen inches (13") of seating space for each passenger exclusive of the
driver, shall be painted on the body to the left of the service door in letters
at least two inches (2") high. The name of the owner or the entity for which
the school bus is operated or both shall be painted in a contrasting color on
both sides, centered as high as practicable below the window line, in letters
at least four inches (4") high. A school bus identification number shall be
painted as high as practicable on both the front and rear of the bus in letters
at least four inches (4") high. Decals may be used instead of painting. (Ord.
90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
12-803.   STOP SIGNAL ARM:
   (a)   Each school bus shall be equipped with a stop signal arm on the
driver's side of the school bus which may be operated either manually or
mechanically. On school buses with a model year prior to 1984, the arm shall be
a hexagon shaped semaphore approximately eighteen inches (18") wide and
eighteen inches (18") long and of 16- gauge metal. "STOP" shall be painted on
both sides of white letters at least six inches (6") high with a brush stroke
approximately seven-eighths inch (7/8") wide and on a red background
approximately eight inches by sixteen inches (8" x 16"). Decals may be used
instead of painting. The remaining area of the stop signal arm shall be painted
white and shall either be reflectorized or shall have two (2) double-faced
lamps with plain, red lens approximately four inches (4") in diameter located
one at the topmost and one at the bottommost position of the arm. Such lamps
shall light and flash when the arm is extended and shall turn off and stop
flashing when the arm is closed.
   (b)   Every school bus with a model year of 1984 or later shall be equipped
with a stop arm that conforms to the rule promulgated by the Department. (Ord.
90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
12-804.   USE OF SCHOOL BUS EQUIPMENT ON OTHER VEHICLES:
No vehicle other than a school bus shall be identified with the sign "SCHOOL
BUS", shall be equipped with a stop signal arm, shall be equipped with a strobe
lamp or shall be equipped with a warning lamp system as described in Section
12-805 of this Article. No commuter van or bus other than a school bus shall be
painted national school bus glossy yellow or a color that closely resembles
national school bus glossy yellow. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
12-805.   SPECIAL LIGHTING EQUIPMENT:
Each school bus purchased as a new vehicle after December 31, 1975, shall be
equipped with an 8-lamp flashing signal system. Until December 31, 1978, all
other school buses shall be equipped with either a 4-lamp or an 8-lamp flashing
signal system. After December 31, 1978. all school buses shall be equipped with
an 8-lamp flashing signal system.
A 4-lamp flashing signal system shall have two (2) alternately flashing red
lamps mounted as high and as widely spaced laterally on the same level as
practicable at the front of the school bus and two (2) such lamps mounted in
the same manner at the rear.
An 8-lamp flashing signal system shall have, in addition to a 4-lamp system,
four (4) alternately flashing amber lamps. Each amber lamp shall be mounted
next to a red lamp and at the same level but closer to the center line of the
school bus.
Each signal lamp shall be a sealed beam at least five and one-half inches (51/
2") in diameter and shall have sufficient intensity to be visible at five
hundred feet (500') in normal sunlight. Both the 4-lamp and 8-lamp system shall
be actuated only by means of a manual switch. There shall be a device for
indicating to the driver that the system is operating properly or is
inoperative. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
12-806.   IDENTIFICATION, STOP SIGNAL ARMS AND SPECIAL LIGHTING WHEN NOT USED
AS A SCHOOL BUS:
Whenever a school bus is operated for the purpose of transporting passengers
other than persons in connection with an activity of the school or religious
organization which owns the school bus or for which the school bus is operated,
the "SCHOOL BUS" signs shall be covered or concealed, and the stop signal arm
and flashing signal system shall not be operable through normal controls. (Ord.
90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90; 1994 Code)
12-807.   SEAT BELT FOR DRIVER:
Each school bus shall be equipped with a retractable lap belt assembly for the
driver's seat. No school bus shall be operated unless the driver has properly
restrained himself with the lap belt assembly. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-
90)
12-808.   FIRE EXTINGUISHER:
Each school bus shall be equipped with at least one dry chemical gauge-type
fire extinguisher mounted in the extinguisher manufacturer's automobile-type
bracket in a position readily accessible to the driver. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90,
eff. 5-1-90)
12-809.   FIRST AID KIT:
Each school bus shall be equipped with a first aid kit mounted in full view of
and readily accessible to the driver. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
12-810.   RESTRAINING DEVICES FOR HANDICAPPED PASSENGERS:
Each school bus which is operated for transporting handicapped passengers shall
be equipped with an appropriate restraining or safety device for each
handicapped passenger. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
12-811.   AMBER THREE-BAR CLEARANCE LIGHT:
Each Type I school bus shall be equipped with an amber 3-bar clearance light on
the front of the bus. The light shall be illuminated at all times when the bus
is being operated between sunset and sunrise and in conditions of reduced
visibility. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
12-812.   RESERVED
12-813.   RESERVED
12-814.   RESERVED
12-815.   STROBE LAMP:
   (a)   A school bus may be equipped with one strobe lamp that will emit sixty
(60) to one hundred twenty (120) flashes per minute of white or bluish-white
light visible to a motorist approaching the bus from any direction. The lamp
shall be of sufficient brightness to be visible in normal sunlight when viewed
directly from a distance of at least one mile.
   (b)   The strobe lamp shall be mounted on the rooftop of the bus with the
light- generating element in the lamp located equidistant from each side and
either at or behind the center of the rooftop. The maximum height of the
element above the rooftop shall not exceed one- thirtieth (1/30) of its
distance from the rear of the rooftop. If the structure of the strobe lamp
obscures the light- generating element, the element shall be deemed to be in
the center of the lamp with a maximum height one-fourth inch (1/4") less than
the maximum height of the strobe lamp unless otherwise indicated in rules and
regulations promulgated by the Department. The Department may promulgate rules
and regulations to govern measurements, glare, effectiveness and protection of
strobe lamps on school buses, including higher strobe lamps than authorized in
this paragraph.
   (c)   The strobe lamp may be lighted only when atmospheric conditions so
severely restrict visibility of bus lamps and signals as to require the bright
strobe lamp to alert motorists to the presence of a school bus. No strobe lamp
may be lighted unless the school bus is actually being used as a school bus
and:
      (1)   Is stopping or stopped for unloading or discharging pupils on a
highway outside an urban area; or
      (2)   Is bearing one or more pupils and is either stopped or, in the
interest of safety, is moving very slowly at a speed:
         i.   Less than the posted minimum speed limit; or
         ii.   Less than thirty (30) miles per hour on a highway outside an
urban area.
CHAPTER 13
LIMITED VEHICLE WEIGHT ON CERTAIN STREETS
SECTION:
13-101.   Limited Weight Streets
13-101.   LIMITED WEIGHT STREETS:
   (a)   General Restrictions: It shall be unlawful for any person to operate
any vehicle having a gross weight in excess of thirty thousand (30,000) pounds
on any street designated as a "limited weight street" by the village, except
for the sole purpose of making a delivery or pick up on such street, and then
only by use of a direct route to and from such delivery or pick up. All streets
designated as a "limited weight street" shall have clearly marked signs
providing notice of such designation.
   (b)   Streets Designated As Limited Weight Streets: The below listed streets
are hereby designated as limited weight streets:
      Mound Road, from the Frontage Road to the western municipal limits.
      River Road, from Route 52 to the southern municipal limits.
      Seil Road, from the Frontage Road to the western municipal limits.
   (c)   Violation: A violation of this section will be prosecuted pursuant to
625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-305(a) of the Illinois vehicle code as
adopted by the village of Shorewood as a local ordinance, requiring obedience
to traffic control devices.
   (d)   The maximum gross weight of any vehicle on the Seil Road Bridge over
the DuPage River is five (5) tons. The weight limits exceptions set forth in
subsection (a) above and elsewhere in the Code shall not apply to the Seil Road
Bridge weight limit. (Ord. 14-1755, 11-11-2014; amd. Ord. 23-2072, 5-9-2023)
CHAPTER 14. RESERVED
CHAPTER 15
SIZE, WEIGHT, LOAD AND PERMITS
SECTION:
15-100.   Definitions
15-100.   DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this Chapter, the following words shall have the meanings
described to them in this Section:
   DEPARTMENT: The Department of Transportation of the State of Illinois,
acting directly or through its duly authorized officers and agents.
   MOTOR VEHICLE TRANSPORT: Any motor vehicle, singly or in lawful combination,
specially designed to transport other motor vehicles or bodies, commonly
referred to as a truckaway or haulaway operation, and not including the
driveaway or towaway operations of a transporter.
   PUBLIC UTILITY: Each firm lawfully licensed and engaged in any of the
following: the transmission of telegraphic or telephonic messages; the
production, storage, transmission, distribution, sale, delivery or furnishing
of heat, cold, power, electricity, gas or water the disposal of sewage; the
conveyance of oil or gas by pipeline; the drilling of water wells; or the
installation or repair of facilities for any of the foregoing activities. (Ord.
90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
ARTICLE I. SIZE, WEIGHT AND LOAD
SECTION:
15-101.   Scope and Effect
15-102.   Width of Vehicles
15-103.   Height of Vehicles
15-104.   Reserved
15-105.   Projecting Loads on Passenger Vehicles
15-106.   Protruding Members of Vehicles
15-107.   Length of Vehicles
15-108.   Planking Edge of Pavement
15-109.   Spilling Loads on Highways Prohibited
15-109.1.    Covers or Tarpaulins Required for Loads
15-110.   Towed Vehicles
15-111.   Wheel and Axle Loads and Gross Weights
15-112.   Officers to Weigh Vehicles; Removal of Excess Loads
15-113.   Violations; Penalties
15-101.   SCOPE AND EFFECT:
The provisions of this Chapter governing size, weight and load do not apply to
fire apparatus or equipment for snow and ice removal operations owned or
operated by any governmental body or to implements of husbandry temporarily
operated or towed in combination upon a highway, provided such combination does
not consist of more than three (3) vehicles or, in the case of hauling fresh,
perishable fruits or vegetables from farm to the point of first processing, not
more than three (3) wagons being towed by an implement of husbandry, or to a
vehicle operated under the terms of a special permit issued hereunder. (Ord.
90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
15-102.   WIDTH OF VEHICLES:
   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this Section, the total outside width
of any vehicle or load thereon shall not exceed eight feet (8').
   (b)   Except during those times when, due to insufficient light or
unfavorable atmospheric conditions, persons and vehicles on the highway are not
clearly discernible at a distance of one thousand feet (1,000'), the following
vehicles may exceed the eight feet (8') limitation during the period from a
half hour after sunrise to a half hour before sunset.
      (1)   Loads of hay, straw or other similar farm products; provided that
the load is not more than twelve feet (12') wide.
      (2)   Implements of husbandry being transported on another vehicle.
      (3)   Portable buildings designed and used for agricultural and livestock
raising operations that are not more than fourteen feet (14') wide and with not
more than a one foot (1') overhang along the left side of the hauling vehicle.
However, such buildings shall not be transported more than ten (10) miles and
not on any route that is part of the National System of Interstate and Defense
Highways.
All such buildings, when being so transported, shall display at least two (2)
red cloth flags, not less than twelve inches (12") square, mounted as high as
practicable on the left and right sides of the building.
A State police escort shall be required if it is necessary for this load to use
part of the left lane when crossing any two (2) lane State highway bridge.
   (c)   Vehicles propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley
wires operated wholly in the corporate limits of Municipality are also exempt
from said width limitations.
   (d)   Exemptions are also granted to vehicles designed for the carrying of
more persons under the following conditions:
      (1)   Reserved.
      (2)   When operated within any public transportation service with the
approval of local authorities or an appropriate public body authorized by law
to provide public transportation.
Any such vehicle so operated may be eight feet six inches (8' 6") in width.
      (3)   Reserved.
   (e)   A vehicle and load traveling upon the National System of Interstate
and Defense Highways or any other highway in the system of State highways that
has been designated by the Department or any street or highway designated by
local authorities or road district commissioners may have a total outside width
of eight feet six inches (8' 6"); provided, that certain safety devices which
the Department determines as necessary for the safe and efficient operation of
motor vehicles shall not be included in the calculation of width.
Vehicles operating under this subsection shall have access for a distance of
five (5) highway miles on a street or highway included in the system of State
highways and upon any street or highway designated by local authorities or road
district commissioners to points of loading and unloading and to facilities of
food, fuel, repairs and rest. In addition, any trailer or semi-trailer, not
exceeding twenty eight feet six inches (28' 6") in length, which was originally
in combination with a truck tractor and hauling household goods and carriers,
when operating under this subsection shall have access to points of loading and
unloading.
   (f)   Mirrors required by Section 12-502 of this Code may project up to six
inches (6") beyond each side of a vehicle, and such projection shall not be
deemed a violation of the width restrictions of this Section. (Ord. 90-535, 4-
24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
15-103.   HEIGHT OF VEHICLES:
The height of a vehicle from the under side of the tire to the top of the
vehicle, including load, shall not exceed thirteen feet, six inches (13' 6").
(Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
15-104.   RESERVED
15-105.   PROJECTING LOADS ON PASSENGER VEHICLES:
No passenger-type vehicle shall be operated on any highway with any load
carried thereon standing beyond the line of the fenders on the left side of
such vehicle nor extending more than six inches (6") beyond the line of the
fenders on the right side thereof. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
15-106.   PROTRUDING MEMBERS OF VEHICLES:
No vehicle with boom, arm, drill rig or other protruding component shall be
operated upon the highway unless such protruding component is fastened so as to
prevent shifting, bouncing or moving in any manner. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff.
5-1-90)
15-107.   LENGTH OF VEHICLES:
   (a)   Unless otherwise provided for in this Code, no single vehicle, with or
without load, other than a semi-trailer that is not a housetrailer, shall
exceed in overall length of forty two feet (42'). (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff.
5-1-90)
   (b)   Subject to the provision of subsection (f) of this Section and unless
otherwise provided in this Code, no truck tractor and semi-trailer, unladen or
with load, except a semi-trailer other than a house trailer, shall exceed a
length of fifty five feet (55'), extreme overall dimension; except, that such
combination, when especially designed to transport motor vehicles, may have a
length of sixty feet (60'), extreme overall dimensions, subject to those
exceptions and special rules otherwise stated in this Code. No other
combination of vehicles, unladen or with load, shall exceed a length of sixty
feet (60') extreme overall dimension.
   (c)   A truck tractor-semi-trailer may draw one trailer, or a converter
dolly, or a vehicle that is special mobile equipment if the extreme length of
the combination does not exceed sixty feet (60'), and a truck in transit may
draw three (3) trucks in transit coupled together by the triple saddlemount
method. Except as otherwise provided, no other combinations of vehicles coupled
together shall consist of more than two (2) vehicles. For the purposes of this
subsection, a tow-dolly that merely serves as substitute wheels for another
legally licensed vehicle will be considered part of the vehicle and not as a
separate vehicle.
Vehicles in combination, whether being operated intrastate or interstate, shall
be operated and towed in compliance with all requirements of Federal Highway
Administration, title 49, C.F.R., Motor Carrier Safety Regulations, pertaining
to coupling devices and towing methods and all other equipment safety
requirements set forth in said regulations.
   (d)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Code, there is no overall
length limitation on motor vehicles operating in truck tractor-semi-trailer or
truck tractor-semi-trailer-trailer combinations; except, that maxi-cube
combinations, as defined herein, and a combination of vehicles specifically
designed to transport motor vehicles or boats, shall not exceed sixty five feet
(65') overall length, and provided, that a stinger- steered combination of
vehicles specifically designed to transport motor vehicles and a truck in
transit transporting three (3) trucks coupled together by the triple saddle
mount method shall not exceed seventy five feet (75') overall length, with
length limitations inclusive of front and rear bumpers, but exclusive of the
overhang of the transported vehicles as provided for in subsection (i) of this
Section, upon the National System of Interstate and Defense Highways or any
other highways in the system of State highways that have been designated Class
I highways by the Department or any street or highway designated by local
authorities or road district commissioners; provided, that the length of the
semi-trailer unit, unladen or with load, operated in a truck tractor-semi-
trailer combination shall not exceed fifty three feet (53'), and the distance
between the kingpin and the center of the rear axle of a semi-trailer longer
than forty eight feet (48') shall not exceed forty two feet six inches (42'
6"), and provided, that the length of any semi-trailer or trailer, unladen or
with load, operated in a truck tractor-semi-trailer-trailer combination shall
not exceed twenty eight feet six inches (28' 6").
The length limitations described in this subsection shall be exclusive of
safety and energy conservation devices, such as rear view mirrors, turn
signals, maker lamps, steps and handholds for entry and egress, flexible spray
suppressant devices, load induced tire bulge, refrigeration units or air
compressors and other devices, which the Department may interpret as necessary
for safe and efficient operation; except, that no device excluded under this
subsection shall have, by its design or use, the capability to carry cargo.
Vehicles operating under this subsection shall have access for a distance of
one mile to or from a Class I highway on any street or highway, unless there is
a sign prohibiting the access, for five (5) highway miles on a street or
highway in the system of State highways, and upon any street or highway
designated, without additional fees, by local authorities or road district
commissioners to points of loading and unloading and facilities for food, fuel,
repairs and rest. Household goods carriers shall have access to points of
loading and unloading.
For purposes of this Section, a "maxi-cube vehicle" shall be defined as a
combination of vehicles consisting of a truck-tractor upon which is mounted a
separable cargo-carrying semi-trailer and a trailing unit that is attached by a
pintle hook or similar connection, with the separable cargo-carrying semi-
trailer designed so as to be loaded and unloaded through the trailing unit;
except, that the entire combination shall not exceed sixty five feet (65') in
length, and that neither the semi-trailer nor the trailing unit in the
combination shall, by itself, exceed thirty four feet (34') in length.
   (e)   In addition to the designation of highways under subsection (d) of
this Section the Department may designate other streets or highways in the
system of State highways as Class II highways upon which a truck tractor-semi-
trailer- trailer combination may be operated; provided, that the wheelbase
between the front axle and rear axle shall not exceed sixty five feet (65'),
and the length of any semi-trailer or trailer, unladen or with load, in a
combination shall not exceed twenty eight feet six inches (28' 6"). Local
authorities and road district commissioners, with respect to streets and
highways under their jurisdiction, may also, by ordinance or resolution, allow
the length limitations of this subsection.
A maxi-cube combination, a truck in transit transporting three (3) trucks
coupled together by the triple saddle mount method, and a combination of
vehicles specifically designed to transport motor vehicles may operate on the
designated streets or highways, provided the overall length shall not exceed
sixty five feet (65'), and provided, that a stinger-steered combination of
vehicles specifically designed to transport motor vehicles shall not exceed
seventy five feet (75') overall length, with the length limitations inclusive
of front and rear bumpers but exclusive of the overhang of the transported
vehicles as provided for in subparagraph (i) of this Section.
The length limitations described in this subsection shall be exclusive of
safety and energy conservation devices, such as rear view mirrors, turn
signals, marker lamps, steps and handholds for entry and egress, flexible
fender extensions, bumpers, mud flaps and splash and spray suppressant devices,
load-induced tire bulge, refrigeration units or air compressors and other
devices, that the Department may interpret as necessary for safe and efficient
operation; except, that no device excluded under this subsection shall have, by
its design or use, the capability to carry cargo.
Vehicles operating under this subsection shall have access for a distance of
five (5) highway miles on a street or highway in the system of State highways,
and upon any street or highway designated by local authorities or road district
commissioners to points of loading and unloading and to facilities for food,
fuel, repairs and rest. Household goods carriers shall have access to points of
loading and unloading.
   (f)   On any street or highway in the system of State highways that has not
been designated by the Department under subsection (d) of this Section, the
wheelbase between the front axle and the rear axle in a truck tractor-semi-
trailer combination shall not exceed fifty five feet (55'), the length of the
semi- trailer, unladen or with load, shall not exceed fifty three feet (53')
and the distance between the kingpin and the center of the rear axle of a semi-
trailer longer than forty eight feet (48') shall not exceed forty two feet six
inches (42' 6"). On any street or highway in the State system of highways that
has not been designated by the Department under subsection (d) or (e) of this
Section, no truck tractor-semi-trailer- trailer combination shall exceed a
length of sixty feet (60') extreme overall dimension.
   (g)   Length limitations in the preceding subsections of this Section
15-107 of this Article shall not apply to vehicles operated in the daytime,
except on Saturdays, Sundays or legal holidays, when transporting poles, pipe,
machinery or other objects of a structural nature that cannot readily be
dismembered, nor to vehicles transporting those objects operated on Saturdays,
Sundays or legal holidays, or at nighttime by a public utility when required
for emergency repair of public service facilities or properties, but in respect
to night operation, every vehicle and the load thereon shall be equipped with a
sufficient number of clearance lamps on both sides and marker lamps upon the
extreme ends of any projecting load to clearly mark the dimensions of the load;
provided, that the overall length of vehicle and load shall not exceed one
hundred feet (100'), and no object exceeding eighty feet (80') in length shall
be transported, except by a public utility when required for emergency repairs,
unless a permit has first been obtained as authorized in section 15-301 of the
Illinois Vehicle Code. 1  A combination of vehicles, including a tow truck and
a disabled vehicle or disabled combination of vehicles, that exceeds the length
restriction imposed by this Code, may be operated on a public highway in this
Village upon the following conditions:
      (1)   The towing vehicle must be:
         a. Specifically designed as a tow truck having a gross vehicle weight
rating of at least eighteen thousand (18,000) pounds and equipped with air
brakes.
         b. Equipped with flashing, rotating or oscillating amber lights
visible for at least five hundred feet (500') in all directions.
         c. Capable of utilizing the lighting and braking systems of the
disabled vehicle or combination of vehicles.
      (2)   The towing of vehicles on the highways of this Village shall not
exceed fifty (50) miles from the initial point of wreck or disablement. Any
additional movement of vehicles shall only occur upon issuance of authorization
for that movement pursuant to the provisions of section 15-301 through 15-319
of the Illinois Vehicle Code 2 .
The Department may, by rule or regulation, prescribe additional requirements
regarding length limitations for a tow truck towing another vehicle.
For the purposes of this subsection, "gross vehicle weight rating or GVWR",
shall mean the value specified by the manufacturer as the loaded weight of the
tow truck. Legal holidays referred to in this Section shall be specified as the
day on which the following traditional holidays are celebrated:
   New Year's Day
   Memorial Day
   Independence Day
   Labor Day
   Thanksgiving Day
   Christmas Day
   (h)   The load upon any vehicle operated alone or the load upon the front
vehicle of a combination of vehicles shall not extend more than three feet (3')
beyond the front wheels of the vehicle or the front bumper of the vehicle if it
is equipped with a front bumper.
   (i)   The load upon the front vehicle of a combination of vehicles
specifically designed to transport motor vehicles shall not extend more than
three feet (3') beyond the foremost part of the transporting vehicle, and the
load upon the rear transporting vehicle shall not extend more than four feet
(4') beyond the rear of the bed or body of the    vehicle. This subsection
shall only be applicable upon highways designated in subsections (d) and (e) of
this Section.
   (j)   Articulated vehicles comprised of two (2) sections, neither of which
exceeds a length of forty two feet (42'), designed for the carrying of more
than ten (10) persons may be up to sixty feet (60') in length, not including
energy absorbing bumpers; provided, that the vehicles are:
      (1)   Operated by or for any public body or motor carrier authorized by
law to provide public transportation services; or
      (2)   Operated in local public transportation service by any other
person, and the municipality in which the service is to be provided approved
the operation of the vehicle. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 625 ILCS.
2 1. S.H.A. 625 ILCS.
15-108.   PLANKING EDGE OF PAVEMENT:
No tractor, tractor engine or other metal-tired vehicle, weighing more than
four (4) tons, including the weight of the vehicle and its load, shall drive
upon, to, off or over the edge of any paved public highway in this Village
without protecting such edge by putting down solid planks or other suitable
device to prevent such vehicle from breaking off the edges or corners of such
pavement. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
15-109.   SPILLING LOADS ON HIGHWAYS PROHIBITED 1 :
   (a)   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any highway unless such vehicle
is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of its load from dropping,
shifting, leaking or otherwise escaping therefrom; except, that sand may be
dropped for the purpose of securing traction or water or other substance may be
sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or maintaining such roadway.
   (b)   No person shall operate on any highway any vehicle with a load unless
said load and any covering thereon is securely fastened so as to prevent said
covering or load from becoming loose, detached or in any manner a hazard to
other users of the highway. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
 
Notes
1 2. See also Section 11-1413 of this Vehicle Code and subsection 3-6-10C of
  this Village Code.
15-109.1.   COVERS OR TARPAULIN REQUIRED FOR LOADS:
No person shall operate or cause to be operated on a highway any second
division vehicle loaded with dirt, aggregate, garbage, refuse or other similar
material when any portion of the load is falling, shifting, blowing, dropping
or in any way escaping from the vehicle.
This Section shall not apply to the operation of Street Department of Highway
maintenance vehicles engaged in removing snow and ice from the roadway nor to
implements of husbandry or other farm vehicles while transporting agricultural
products to or from the original place of production.
For the purpose of this Section "aggregate" shall include all ores, minerals,
sand, gravel, shale, coal, clay, limestone or any other ore or mineral which
may be mined.
Notwithstanding any other penalty, whenever a police officer determines that
the operator of a vehicle is in violation of this Section, as evidenced by the
issuance of a citation for a violation of this Section, the police officer
shall require the operator to stop the vehicle in a suitable place and keep
such vehicle stationary until the load has either been reduced, secured or
covered with a cover or tarpaulin of sufficient size to prevent any further
violation hereof. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
15-110.   TOWED VEHICLES:
   (a)   When one vehicle is towing another, the drawbar or the connection
shall be of sufficient strength to pull all the weight towed thereby, and the
drawbar or other connection shall not exceed fifteen feet (15') from one
vehicle to the other, except for the connection between any two (2) vehicles
transporting poles, pipes, machinery or other objects of structural nature
which cannot readily be dismembered.
   (b)   Outside a business, residential or suburban district or on any
controlled access highway, no vehicle other than pole-trailer or a semi-trailer
which is being towed by a truck tractor and is connected by the means of a
fifth wheel shall be towed on a roadway except by a drawbar, and each such
vehicle so towed shall, in addition, be coupled with two (2) safety chains or
cables to the towing vehicle. Such chains or cables shall be of sufficient size
and strength to prevent the towed vehicle from parting from the drawing vehicle
in case the drawbar should break or become disengaged.
   (c)   The provisions of this Section shall not apply to any second division
vehicle owned, operated or controlled by any person who is registered with the
Bureau of Motor Carrier Safety of the Federal Highway Administration and has
complied with the Federal safety provision of the Bureau of Motor Carrier
Safety of the Federal Highway Administration and the rules and regulations of
the Bureau. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
15-111.   WHEEL AND AXLE LOADS AND GROSS WEIGHTS:
   (a)   No vehicle or combination of vehicles equipped with pneumatic tires
shall be operated, unladen or with load, upon the highway of this Village when
the gross weight of the road surface through any single axle thereof exceeds
eighteen thousand (18,000) pounds, except when a different limit is established
and posted in accordance with the Illinois Vehicle Code and except any single
axle of a two-axle motor vehicle weighing thirty six thousand (36,000) pounds
or less and to a part of a combination of vehicles, shall not exceed twenty
thousand (20,000) pounds. No vehicle or combination of vehicles equipped with
other than pneumatic tires shall be operated, unladen or with load, upon the
highways of this Village when the gross weight on the road surface through any
wheel hereof exceeds eight hundred (800) pounds per inch width of tire tread or
when the gross weight on the road surface through any wheel thereof exceeds
eight hundred (800) pounds per inch width of tire tread or when the gross
weight on the road surface through any axle thereof exceeds sixteen thousand
(16,000) pounds. An axle load shall be defined as the total load transmitted to
the road by all wheels whose centers may be included between two (2) parallel
transverse vertical planes forty inches (40") apart extending across the full
width of the vehicle.
Any two (2) or more single axles whose centers are more than forty inches (40")
and not more than ninety six inches (96") apart, measured to the nearest inch
between extreme axles in the series, shall be defined as tandem axles, and the
gross weight transmitted to the road surface through such series shall not
exceed thirty two thousand (32,000) pounds, and no axle of the series shall
exceed the maximum weight permitted under this Section for a single axle;
provided, that on a four (4) axle vehicle or on a five (5) or more axle
combination of vehicles, the weight on a series of three (3) axles whose
centers are more than ninety six inches (96") apart, measured between extreme
axles in the series, shall not exceed those allowed on three (3) axles on the
table contained in subsection (g) of this Section, and no axle or tandem axle
of the series shall exceed the maximum weight permitted under this Section for
a single or tandem axle; provided also, that a three (3) axle vehicle or three
(3) axle truck mixer, used exclusively for the mixing and transportation of
concrete, specially equipped with a road surface engaging mixer trailing 4th
axle, manufactured prior to the model year of 1994 and first registered in
Illinois prior to January 1, 1995, with a distance greater than seventy two
inches (72") but not more than ninety six inches (96") between any series of
two (2) axles, may transmit to the road surface a maximum weight of eighteen
thousand (18,000) pounds on each of these axles. Any such vehicle manufactured
in the model year of 1994 or thereafter or first registered in Illinois after
December 31, 1994, may transmit to the road surface a maximum of thirty two
thousand (32,000) pounds through these two (2) axles, and none of the axles
shall exceed eighteen thousand (18,000) pounds.
A truck specially equipped with a self- compactor or an industrial roll-off
hoist and roll-off container used exclusively for garbage or refuse operations
and a vehicle used exclusively for the collection for rendering materials may,
however, when laden, transmit upon the road surface of any highway, except when
part of the National System of Interstate and Defense Highways, a gross weight
upon a single axle not more than twenty two thousand (22,000) pounds and upon a
tandem axle not more than forty thousand (40,000) pounds. When unladen,
however, such trucks shall comply with the axle limitations applicable to all
other trucks.
   (b)   The gross weight of vehicles and combination of vehicle, including the
weight of the vehicle or combination and its maximum load, shall be subject to
the foregoing limitations and, further, shall not exceed the following gross
weights dependent upon the number of axles and distance between extreme axles
of the vehicle or combinations measured longitudinally or to the nearest foot:
VEHICLES HAVING 2 AXLES – 36,000 pounds
VEHICLES OR COMBINATIONS
HAVING 3 AXLES
With tandem axles,                  With or Without
minimum distance to Maximum Gross   Tandem Axles,        Maximum Gross Weight
nearest foot        Weight (pounds) Minimum distance to  (pounds)
between extreme                     nearest foot between
axles                               extreme axles
10                  41,000          15                   45,000
11                  42,000          16                   46,000
12                  43,000          17                   47,000
13                  44,000          18                   47,500
14                  44,500          19                   48,000
                                  20                   49,000
                                  21 or more           50,000
 
VEHICLES OR COMBINATIONS
HAVING 4 AXLES
Minimum distance to nearest foot between extreme Maximum Gross Weight (pounds)
axles
15                                               50,000
16                                               50,500
17                                               51,500
18                                               52,000
19                                               52,500
20                                               53,500
21                                               54,000
22                                               54,500
23                                               55,500
24                                               56,000
25                                               56,500
26                                               57,500
27                                               58,000
28                                               58,500
29                                               59,500
30                                               60,000
31                                               60,500
32                                               61,500
33                                               62,000
34                                               62,500
35                                               63,500
36 or more                                       64,000
 
 
COMBINATIONS HAVING 5 OR MORE AXLES
Minimum distance to nearest foot between extreme Maximum Gross Weight (pounds)
axles
42 or less                                       72,000
43                                               73,000
44 or more                                       73,280
 
 
Vehicles Operating On Crawler-Type Tracks 40,000 pounds
 
 
TRUCKS EQUIPPED WITH SELF-COMPACTORS OR ROLL-OFF HOISTS AND ROLL-OFF
CONTAINERS FOR GARBAGE OR REFUSE HAULS ONLY
AND, BEGINNING JULY 1, 1989, VEHICLES USED FOR THE COLLECTION OF RENDERING
MATERIALS
On Highway Not Part of National System of Interstate and Defense Highways
With 2 axles 36,000 pounds
With 3 axles 54,000 pounds
 
(Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
   (c)   Weight Limits on Village Streets: It shall be unlawful to drive on any
street any motor vehicle with a weight, including load, in excess of that
permitted by subsections
15-111(a) and (b) of this Section, or in violation of special weight limits
provided for by ordinance and signposted.
   (d)   Reserved.
   (e)   Weight limitations shall not apply to vehicles (including loads)
operated by a public utility when transporting equipment required for emergency
repair of public utility facilities or properties or water wells.
A combination of vehicles, including a tow truck and a disabled vehicle or
disabled combination of vehicles, which exceeds the weight restriction imposed
by this Code may be operated on a public highway in this Village; provided,
that neither the disabled vehicle or any vehicle being towed nor the tow truck
itself shall exceed the weight limitations permitted under this Chapter. During
the operation, neither the tow truck nor the vehicle combination shall exceed
the following axle weight limitations:
   A.   Single rear axle - 24,000 pounds
   B.   Tandem rear axle - 44,000 pounds
Gross weight limits shall not apply to the combination of the tow truck and
vehicles being towed. The tow truck license plate must cover the operating
empty weight of the tow truck only. In addition, the following conditions must
be met:
      (1)   The towing must be:
         a. Specifically designed as a tow truck having a gross vehicle weight
rating of at least eighteen thousand (18,000) pounds and equipped with air
brakes.
         b. Equipped with flashing, rotating or oscillating amber lights,
visible for at least five hundred feet (500') in all directions.
         c. Capable of utilizing the lighting and braking systems of the
disabled vehicle or combination of vehicles.
      (2)   The towing of such vehicles on the highways of this Village shall
not exceed fifteen (15) miles from the initial point of wreck or disablement.
Any additional movement of such vehicles shall only occur upon issuance of
authorization of that movement pursuant to the provisions of sections 15-301
through 15-319 of the Illinois Vehicle Code 1 .
The Department may, by rule or regulation, prescribe additional requirements.
However, nothing in this Code shall prohibit a tow truck, under instructions of
a police officer, from legally clearing a disabled vehicle that may be in
violation of weight limitations of this Chapter from the roadway to the berm or
shoulder of the highway.
For the purpose of this subsection, "gross vehicle weight rating, or GVWR",
shall mean the value specified by the manufacturer as the loaded weight of the
tow truck.
   (f)   No vehicle or combination of vehicles equipped with pneumatic tires
shall be operated, unladen or with load, upon the highways of this Village in
violation of the provisions of any permit issued under the provisions of
sections 15-301 through 15-319 of the Illinois Vehicle Code. 2  
   (g)   Reserved. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
   (h)   No person shall operate a vehicle or combination of vehicles over a
bridge or other elevated structure constituting part of a highway with a gross
weight which is greater than the maximum weight permitted by the Department,
when such structure is properly signposted as provided in the Illinois Vehicle
Code. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90; 1994 Code)
   (i)   Reserved.
   (j)   Upon the trial of any person charged with a violation of subsection
(h) of this Section, proof of the determination of the maximum allowable weight
by the Department and the existence of the signs constitutes conclusive
evidence of the maximum weight which can be maintained with safety to such
bridge or structure. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 625 ILCS.
2 1. S.H.A. 625 ILCS.
15-112.   OFFICERS TO WEIGH VEHICLES; REMOVAL OF EXCESS LOADS:
   (a)   Any police officer, having reason to believe that the weight of a
vehicle and load is unlawful, shall require the driver to stop and submit to a
weighing of the same either by means of a portable or stationary scale. If such
scales are not available at the place where such vehicle is stopped, the police
officer shall require that such vehicle be driven to the nearest available
scale that has been tested and approved by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture.
   (b)   Whenever an officer, upon weighing a vehicle and the load, determines
that the weight is unlawful, such officer shall require the driver to stop the
vehicle in a suitable place and remain standing until such portion of the load
is removed as may be necessary to reduce the weight of the vehicle to the limit
permitted under this Chapter, or to the limit permitted under the terms of a
permit issued pursuant to the Illinois Vehicle Code 1  and shall forthwith
arrest the driver or owner. All material so unloaded shall be cared for by the
owner or operator or the vehicle at the risk of such owner or operator.
   (c)   Reserved.
   (d)   Whenever any axle load of a vehicle exceeds the axle or tandem axle
weight limits permitted by subsection
15-111(a) of this Article by two thousand (2,000) pounds or less, the owner or
operator of the vehicle must shift or remove the excess so as to comply with
subsection
15-111(a) of this Article. No overweight arrest ticket shall be issued to the
owner or operator of the vehicle by any officer if the gross weight is shifted
or removed as required by this subsection.
   (e)   Whenever the gross weight of a vehicle with a registered gross weight
of seventy three thousand two hundred eighty (73,280) pounds or less exceeds
the weight limits of subsection (b) of this Section or of Section
15-111 of this Article by two thousand (2,000) pounds or less, the owner or
operator of the vehicle must remove the excess. Whenever the gross weight of a
vehicle with a registered gross weight of seventy three thousand two hundred
eighty one (73,281) pounds or more exceeds the weight limits of subsection
15-111(b) of this Article by one thousand (1,000) pounds or less, the owner or
operator of the vehicle must remove the excess. In either case, no arrest
ticket for any overweight violation of this Code shall be issued to the owner
or operator of the vehicle by any officer if the excess weight is removed as
required by this subsection.
   (f)   Reserved.
   (g)   Whenever an axle load of a vehicle exceeds axle weight limits allowed
by the provision of a permit, an arrest ticket shall be issued, but the owner
or operator of the vehicle may shift the load so as to comply with the
provision of the permit. Where such shifting of a load to comply with the
permit is accomplished, the owner or operator of the vehicles may then proceed.
   (h)   Any driver of a vehicle who refuses to stop and submit his vehicle and
load to weighing after being directed to do so by an officer or removes or
causes the removal of the load or part of it prior to weighing is guilty of a
business offense and shall be fined not less than five hundred dollars
($500.00). (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 625 ILCS 5/15-301 and 5/15-319.
15-113.   VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   (a)   Whenever any vehicle is operated in violation of the provisions of
Section
15-111, the owner or driver of such vehicle shall be deemed guilty of such
violation and either the owner or the driver of such vehicle may be prosecuted
for such violation. Any person convicted of any violation of Section
15-111, including but not limited to a maximum axle or gross limit specified on
a regulatory sign posted in accordance with the Illinois Vehicle Code shall be
fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) and no more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90; 1994 Code)
ARTICLE II. OVERWEIGHT AND OVERDIMENSION VEHICLES
SECTION:
15-201.   Permits For Overweight And/Or Overdimension Vehicles
15-201.   PERMITS FOR OVERWEIGHT AND/OR OVERDIMENSION VEHICLES:
   (a)   The Village of Shorewood, with respect to any highway or highway under
its jurisdiction, may upon application to the Superintendent of Public Works
department and good cause being shown therefore, issue a special permit
authorizing the applicant to operate or move a vehicle or combination of
vehicles of a size or weight of vehicle or load exceeding the maximum specified
in the Illinois Vehicle Code, specifically 625 ILCS 5/15-111(a) (weight), 15-
102 (width), 15-103 (height) and 15-107 (length), which cannot reasonably be
dismantled or disassembled. The applicant shall furnish, at minimum, the
following information in the special permit application:
      (1)   The name and address of the owner or lessee of the vehicle;
      (2)   Applicant's name;
      (3)   Type of permit request whether it be for a single trip (five (5)
calendar days), round trip (ten (10) calendar days), quarterly (ninety (90)
calendar days) or annual (three hundred sixty five (365) calendar days);
      (4)   Description of the vehicle or vehicles and load to be operated or
moved;
      (5)   The number of axles of the vehicle or combination of vehicles and
the weight of such axles;
      (6)   Gross weight of the vehicle(s);
      (7)   The width, length and height of the vehicle, including load;
      (8)   Requested routing over Village of Shorewood highways and to
specific location, including the point of origin and destination, and;
   (b)   Permits are valid only between the dates and times specified on the
permit and for the specific vehicle, load and routing as established by the
Superintendent of Public Works or his designee. No substitution of vehicle,
load or routing is permitted without expressed written permission by the
Superintendent of Public Works or his designee. The permit must be carried in
the vehicle in either paper or electronic form to which the permit applies.
Revisions to permits are at the discretion of the Superintendent of Public
Works or his designee.
   (c)   The Superintendent of Public Works or his designee is authorized to
approve the permit application. Upon approval, the Superintendent of Public
Works shall issue a permit allowing travel of the oversize and/or overweight
vehicle over Village of Shorewood highways. The permit, issued either on forms
provided by the Village of Shorewood or using an electronic permit service,
shall be specific and contain, at minimum:
      (1)   Permit number;
      (2)   The date the permit is valid and the date the permit expires;
      (3)   Whether the permit is single, round trip, quarterly or annual;
      (4)   The description of object or vehicle to be moved;
      (5)   Authorized gross weight, individual axle weights, width, length and
height;
      (6)   The authorized routing over Village of Shorewood highways including
the origin and termination point within the village; and
      (7)   The date and signature, written or electronic, of the
Superintendent of Public Works or his designee.
      In addition, the permit shall specify general conditions that the
permittee must comply with that are consistent and reasonable for the
protection of the general public and Village of Shorewood highways. The
Superintendent of Public Works shall establish the general conditions of the
permit and is authorized to amend such conditions as needed. A copy of all
permits issued will be made available to the Village of Shorewood Police
Department for information and enforcement purposes.
   (d)   It is the duty of the permittee to read and understand the permit
provisions upon receipt. Undertaking of the permit move is deemed prima facie
evidence of acceptance of the permit and that:
      (1)   The permitee is in compliance with all operational requirements;
      (2)   All dimension and weight limitations specified in the permit will
not be exceeded;
      (3)   All operation, registration and license requirements have been
complied with;
      (4)   All financial responsibilities, obligations, and other legal
requirements have been met; and
      (5)   The permittee assumes all responsibility for injury or damage to
persons or to public or private property, including his own, or to the object
being transported, caused directly or indirectly by the transportation or
movement of vehicles and objects authorized under the permit. The permittee
agrees to hold the Village of Shorewood together with its officers, agents and
employees, harmless from all suits, claims, damages or proceedings of any kind
and to indemnify the Village of Shorewood together with its officers, agents
and employees for any claim it may be required to pay arising from the
movement.
   (e)   The permit shall be carried in the vehicle, in either paper or
electronic form, to which the permit applies at all times while operating on
highways within the Village of Shorewood and shall be exhibited upon demand to
any enforcement officer, police officer or other authorized official of the
Village of Shorewood.
   (f)   Whenever any vehicle is operated in violation of the provisions of a
Village of Shorewood permit whether it be by size, weight or general
provisions, and either or both the owner or driver of such vehicle shall be
deemed guilty and either or both the owner or the driver of such vehicle may be
prosecuted for such violation.
   (g)   Fees For Permits:
 
Overweight (maximum gross weight, in Single Trip Round Trip Quarterly Annual
pounds)
80,000 or more                       $50.00      $95.00     $190.00   $760.00
100,000                              $60.00      $115.00    $230.00   $920.00
120,000                              $70.00      $135.00    $270.00   $1,080.00
150,000                              $80.00      $155.00    $310.00   $1,240.00
> 150,000                            $90.00      $180.00    $360.00   $1,440.00
 
 
Overdimension           Single Trip Round Trip Quarterly Annual
14'W, 14'6" H, 110' L   $25.00      $45.00     $90.00    $360.00
> 14'W, >14'6"H, >110'L $50.00      $95.00     $190.00   $760.00
 
Fees for overweight permits shall include overdimension measurements.
(Ord. 19-1931, 3-26-2019; amd. Ord. 19-1932, 4-9-2019)
CHAPTER 25
CHILD RESTRAINT SYSTEMS 1
SECTION:
25/1.   Reserved
25/2.   Reserved
25/3.   Reserved
25/4.   Children Under the Age of Four Residing in State
25/4(a). Children Four Years of Age or Older but Under the Age of Six
 
Notes
1 1. Sections of this Chapter reflect sections of ILCS 625.
25/1.   RESERVED
25/2.   RESERVED
25/3.   RESERVED
25/4.   CHILDREN UNDER THE AGE OF FOUR RESIDING IN STATE:
When any person is transporting a resident child of this State under the age of
four (4) years in a noncommercial motor vehicle of the first division, a motor
vehicle of the second division with a gross vehicle weight rating of nine
thousand (9,000) pounds or less or a recreational vehicle on the roadways,
streets or highways of this State, such person shall be responsible for
providing for the protection of such child by properly securing him in a child
restraint system, except in cases of medical emergency. The parent or legal
guardian of a child under the age of four (4) years shall provide a child
restraint system to any person who transports his child. Any person who
transports the child of another shall not be in violation of this Section
unless a child restraint system was provided by the parent or legal guardian
but not used to transport the child.
For purposes of this Section and Section 1104(a) of this Chapter, "child
restraint system" means any device which meets the standards of the United
States Department of Transportation designed to restrain, seat or position
children. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
25/4(a).   CHILDREN FOUR YEARS OF AGE OR OLDER BUT UNDER THE AGE OF SIX:
Every person, when transporting a child four (4) years of age or older but
under the age of six (6), as provided in Section 1104 of this Chapter, shall be
responsible for securing that child in either a child restraint system or seat
belts except in cases of medical emergency. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
CHAPTER 40
SNOWMOBILES 1
SECTION:
40/4-1.   Equipment
40/5-1.   Operation Generally
40/5-2.   Operation on Highways
40/5-3.   Youthful Operators
40/5-6.   Other Prohibitions
 
Notes
1 1. Section numbers in this Chapter reflect sections of 625 ILCS.
40/4-1.   EQUIPMENT:
All snowmobiles operating within the Village corporate limits shall be equipped
with:
   (a)   At least one white headlamp having a minimum candlepower of sufficient
in tensity to exhibit a white light plainly visible from a distance of five
hundred feet (500') to the front during hours of darkness under normal
atmospheric conditions.
   (b)   At least one red taillamp having a mini mum candlepower of sufficient
intensity to exhibit a red light plainly visible from a distance of five
hundred feet (500') to the rear during hours of darkness under normal
atmospheric conditions.
   (c)   A brake system in good mechanical condition.
   (d)   Reflective material of a minimum area of sixteen (16) square inches
mounted on each side of the cowling.
   (e)   Identifying numbers may be included in computing the required sixteen
(16) square inch area.
   (f)   Adequate sound suppression equip ment. No snowmobile manufactured
after June 1, 1972, shall be sold or of fered for sale, unless it is equipped
with sound suppression devices that limit total machine noise in accordance
with noise pollution standards established pursuant to the Environmental Protec
tion Act of the State of Illinois 1 . (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
 
Notes
1 2. S.H.A. 415 ILCS 5/1 et seq.
40/5-1.   OPERATION GENERALLY:
It is unlawful for any person to drive or operate any snowmobile in the
following ways:
   (a)   At a rate of speed too fast for conditions, and the fact that the
speed of the snowmobile does not exceed the applicable maximum speed limit
allowed does not relieve the driver from the duty to decrease speed as may be
necessary to avoid colliding with any person or vehicle or object within legal
requirements and the duty of all persons to use due care.
   (b)   In a careless, reckless or negligent manner.
   (c)   While under the influence of intoxicating beverages or narcotic or
dangerous drugs.
   (d)   At any time without at least one lighted headlamp and one lighted
taillamp on the snowmobile.
   (e)   Within five hundred (500) yards of any nature preserve.
   (f)   On the tracks or right of way of any operating railroad.
   (g)   In any tree nursery or planting in a manner which damages or destroys
growing stock or creates a substantial risk thereto.
   (h)   On private property without the written consent of the owner or lessee
thereof. Any person operating a snowmobile upon lands of another shall stop and
identify himself upon the request of the landowner or his duly authorized
representative and, if requested to do so by the landowner, shall promptly
remove the snowmobile from the premises.
   (i)   An owner, lessee or occupant of the premises owes no duty to keep the
premises safe for entry or use by others for snowmobiling or to give warning of
any unsafe condition or use of or structure or activity on such premises. This
subsection does not apply where permission to snowmobile is given for a
valuable consideration other than this State or any political subdivision or
municipality thereof.
   (j)   An owner, lessee or occupant of
premises who has given permission to another to snowmobile upon such premises
does not thereby extend any assurance that the premises are safe for such
purpose or assume responsibility for or incur liability for any injury to
person or property caused by an act of persons to whom the permission is
granted. This subsection shall not apply where permission to snowmobile is
given for a valuable consideration. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
40/5-2.   OPERATION ON HIGHWAYS:
It is unlawful for any person to drive or operate any snowmobile on a highway
in this Village except as follows:
   (a)   On highways other than tollways, interstate highways, and limited-
access highways, snowmobiles may make a direct crossing provided:
      (1)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately ninety degrees
(90°) to the direction of the highway and at a place where no obstruction
prevents a quick and safe crossing; and
      (2)   The snowmobile is brought to a complete stop before crossing a
highway; and
      (3)   The operator yields the right of way to all oncoming traffic which
constitutes a hazard.
   (b)   On highways other than State highways, tollways, interstate highways
and limited-access highways, snowmobiles may be operated not less than fifteen
feet (15') from the roadway and in the same direction as traffic.
   (c)   On highways other than State highways, tollways, interstate highways
and limited-access highways, snowmobiles may be operated on roadways when it is
necessary to cross a bridge or culvert or when it is impracticable to gain
immediate access to an area adjacent to a highway where a snowmobile is to be
operated. (Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
40/5-3.   YOUTHFUL OPERATORS:
It is unlawful for any person without a valid motor vehicle driver's license to
operate a snowmobile on a highway as provided in section 40/5-3 of the Illinois
Vehicle Code, Illinois Compiled Statutes, chapter 625. No person under ten (10)
years of age may operate a snowmobile. Persons at least ten (10) and less than
twelve (12) years of age may operate a snowmobile only if they are either
accompanied on the snowmobile by a parent or guardian or a person at least
eighteen (18) years of age designated by a parent or guardian. Persons at least
twelve (12) and less than sixteen (16) years of age may operate a snowmobile
only if they are either accompanied on the snowmobile by a parent or guardian
or a person at least sixteen (16) years of age designated by a parent or
guardian, or such operator is in possession of a certificate issued by the
Department of Public Safety of the State authorizing the holder to operate
snowmobiles. Violations of this Section done with the knowledge of a parent or
guardian shall be deemed a violation by the parent or guardian and punishable
under Section
6-1-2 of this Title. It is unlawful for any person under sixteen (16) years of
age to operate a snowmobile on a public highway in this Village. (Ord. 90-535,
4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
40/5-6.   OTHER PROHIBITIONS:
   (a)   No person, except persons permitted by law, shall operate or ride any
snowmobile with any firearm in his possession, unless it is unloaded and
enclosed in a carrying case, or any bow, unless it is unstrung in a carrying
case.
   (b)   No person shall operate any snowmobile emitting pollutants in
accordance with standards established pursuant to the Environmental Protection
Act of the State 1 .
   (c)   No person shall deposit from a snowmobile on the snow, ice or ground
surface, trash, glass, garbage, insoluble material or other "offensive matter".
(Ord. 90-535, 4-24-90, eff. 5-1-90)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 415 ILCS 5/1 et seq.
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Uniform Street Name And Address Numbering System
7-1-2: Culvert Construction
7-1-3: Uncovered, Unguarded Sewers, Wells And Drains; Drainage Regrading Or
Reconstruction
7-1-4: Owners And Occupants Shall Maintain Parkways
7-1-5: Penalty
7-1-1: UNIFORM STREET NAME AND ADDRESS NUMBERING SYSTEM:
   A.   Address Numbering System:
      1.   Responsibility For Address Number Assignments And Reassignment:
         a.   Whenever a building has been numbered or renumbered in accordance
with this section, such number shall not be changed or altered unless upon the
direction of the village of Shorewood or those authorized by the same to assign
addresses.
         b.   In all cases where numbers have been assigned on any street, it
shall be the duty of the village of Shorewood to adjust and reassign such
numbers as the same may be required from time to time. In all cases where there
is a mistake or conflict in numbers, the village of Shorewood shall direct and
make proper adjustment of the same. The village of Shorewood shall not be held
liable for any expenses incurred as a result of said address assignment or
adjustment.
         c.   At all times, the village of Shorewood shall keep an up to date
list of the current address for each parcel and property assigned an address
pursuant to this section and located in the village.
         d.   It will be the responsibility of the individual property owner,
renter, lessee or other person(s) having possession or control of the property
to notify all appropriate agencies (post office, fire protection district,
telephone company, electric company, etc.) of the most current assigned address
issued by the village of Shorewood.
      2.   General Information: The village of Shorewood uniform street name
and address numbering system is divided into two (2) separate address areas.
The village address system boundary is shown on exhibit A, attached to
ordinance 03-1179, that incorporates the existing village of Shorewood
surrounded by the five digit address system.
         a.   Village Address System:
            (1)   The numbering system that is currently in use for the village
address system will remain. Given the unique nature of the addressing system in
place, the parcels not addressed within the village address system will be
determined by following the current trends for numbering in that area.
            (2)   Numbers will be assigned sequentially from determined
starting points with even numbers being on the north and east sides and odds
being on the south and west sides.
            (3)   The numbering of the village address system begins at the
intersection of Route 52 and Route 59. The east and west numbering will
increase from Route 59 as being 0 and the north and south numbering will
increase from Route 52 as being 0.
         b.   Five Digit Address System:
            (1)   The numbering for the five digit address system shall begin
at State Street and Madison Street in the city of Chicago and extend outwardly.
The number system shall increase southerly, and westerly beginning with the
corporate limits of the village of Shorewood, as it may change from time to
time with annexations.
            (2)   In cases where an address shall be changed, property owners
shall receive official notification of the new address assignment in advance of
the change. These notices shall state the old and new addresses, effective date
of the change, and penalty for not displaying the new address number.
Notifications of number changes are usually sent thirty (30) days before the
effective date of the change.
            (3)   North and west sides of the street shall have even numbers.
South and east sides of the street shall have odd numbers.
            (4)   The system defines eight (8) blocks equal to one mile. Each
block is approximately six hundred sixty feet (660') long. In addressing there
are sixty six (66) possible numbers per block. They consist of thirty three
(33) odd numbers and thirty three (33) even numbers, being evenly spaced out
every twenty feet (20'). This is the method to be used to assign addresses for
the five digit address system.
            (5)   Every section in each township has a north/south and east/
west corresponding boundary. In each section, there are eight (8) blocks. The
numbers shall increase from north to south and east to west. (See exhibit A,
attached to ordinance 03-1179.)
            (6)   Street directions are designated as either S. for north/south
streets, or W. for east/west streets.
            (7)   Developers shall choose street layouts from the following
designs:
               (A) Crescent (Loop) Streets: A crescent is designed so that a
street has an entrance and exit at two (2) points on the same intersecting
street. Crescents are numbered consecutively from their beginning intersection
(either the north or east intersection) if they have one street name. Even
though crescent street configurations are north/south and east/west, the
numbers are dependent on the direction of the intersecting street if one street
name has been chosen. In addressing a crescent, addresses shall not be
alternated so that odd and even numbers are located on the same side of the
street. Addresses shall be assigned along the crescent continuously in the same
direction as the intersecting street. It shall depend on the length of the
street if more than one street name will be required. This will be left up to
the discretion of the village of Shorewood. Refer to the illustration attached
as exhibit B to ordinance 03-1179.
               (B) Cul-De-Sac Streets: A cul-de-sac is designed so that the
street does not follow through. There is only one common entrance and exit with
a turnaround at the end of the street. Cul-de-sacs shall be addressed in the
same manner as north/south and east/west streets with even numbers located on
the north and west sides of the street and the odd numbers on the south and
east sides of the street. Because of the shape of a cul-de-sac, the center lot
at the end (circular part of the street) of the cul-de-sac shall be the
dividing point for determining whether a lot will receive an even or odd
number. Refer to the illustration attached as exhibit C to ordinance 03-1179.
               (C) North/South - East/West Streets: A north/south or east/west
street is designed to provide vehicular access to abutting property in a grid
system. East/west streets can intersect north/south streets. The north and west
sides of the street shall be even numbers. The south and east sides of the
street shall be assigned odd numbers. Refer to the illustration attached as
exhibit D to ordinance 03-1179.
               (D) Trending Street: A trending street is designed to bend back
and forth with few straight areas. The street will be considered as trending in
the direction in which it covers the greatest distance being north/south or
east/west. Trending streets shall be addressed in the same manner as the north/
south or east/west streets. Refer to the illustration attached as exhibit E to
ordinance 03-1179.
               (E) Diagonal Street: A diagonal street is designed to extend as
a line on an angle. The street shall be addressed in the direction in which it
covers the greatest distance being north/south or east/west. Refer to the
illustration attached as exhibit F to ordinance 03-1179.
            (8)   If one structure has several units designed for individual
occupancy and each unit is accessed from outside of the structure, then each
unit shall have its own address. If individual units are accessed solely from
within the structure, then the structure shall have an address and each unit
within shall use the same address and have an individual sequential unit letter
or number. For structures having several main entrances, each leading to
separate groups of units, each main entrance shall have its own address and
units accessed from within that entrance shall use that address and have an
individual sequential unit letter or number. An exception to this subsection is
a motel/hotel where one address shall be assigned to each building and each
room for rent shall use the same address and have an individual sequential unit
letter or number.
            (9)   For private drives and interior parking bays and group
housing/commercial developments, generally numbers shall be assigned to all
dwelling units or structures facing a parking bay, private drive, or interior
courts, as if they were facing upon the main street to which the driveway
connects. The numbers shall remain in numerical sequence.
            (10)   On a corner lot, the address assigned shall be assigned
according to the direction that the principal building faces. The address
should correspond with the location of the primary entrance door. In some cases
the address shall be assigned by the location of the driveway due to site
design circumstances.
            (11)   When practicable, the continuation of an existing street
shall have the same name as the existing street.
            (12)   When a street makes a ninety degree (90°) turn at any point
and it is determined by the village of Shorewood that it is necessary to avoid
confusion in the delivery of emergency services, a change in street name shall
occur to eliminate confusion.
            (13)   The name of the new street shall not duplicate or mimic the
name of existing streets within the area served by the same post office, fire
department, or other emergency service organizations.
            (14)   In areas where there are numerous structures on a private
road and there are not enough numbers available in the appropriate range, the
village of Shorewood has the authority to increase the number range in that
particular area.
      3.   Procedure For Receiving Village Address:
         a.   Individual Address Assignment:
            (1)   The request shall be made to the village of Shorewood.
Addresses will be provided only with property identification numbers (PINs), or
in cases where it is not possible to obtain a PIN, a legal description and/or
plat of survey or annexation, or subdivision lot number shall be required.
            (2)   Once the request is made, the parcel shall be located on a
map, air photograph, subdivision plat, or other media suitable to determine the
correct address. Surrounding addresses will need to be reviewed to address
parcels based within the village address system.
            (3)   Once the address is assigned, the owners of the property and
the new address shall be listed in the official records of the village of
Shorewood. Said assigned address shall be the official address of the property
on the effective date shown on the notice pursuant to the requirements of this
section.
            (4)   For new structures, addresses shall be given out when a
building permit has been applied for and received if an address has not
previously been assigned to the parcel by the village of Shorewood. If the
parcel has an existing address assigned pursuant to the Will County street
numbering system, that number will be compared to the village system and the
village shall determine if the existing number conforms reasonably to the
village system, in which event, the existing number for the parcel shall be
used for the new structure. No certificate of occupancy will be issued until
the number has been assigned or accepted by the village of Shorewood, and is
permanently attached to the structure in the manner required by this section.
         b.   Residential Subdivision Address Assignments:
            (1)   Prior to final plat approval, two (2) copies of the proposed
plat of subdivision must be submitted to the village of Shorewood at a scale of
one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100') with each lot clearly identified.
The plat must include the legal description of the entire subdivision. These
copies of the plat are in addition to any other copies of the plat required by
the village as part of the review of an application for approval of a final
plat.
            (2)   Once the addresses are assigned, the developer will receive a
printout with the lot number with the corresponding address and one plat.
            (3)   Prior to final plat approval, the developer shall submit to
the village of Shorewood one address plat with the official addresses located
on it at a scale of one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100') and two (2)
reduced, reproducible copies of the plat for convenient dispersal to other
agencies. Developers shall distribute the addresses as lots are sold. The
developer shall provide the police, fire and ambulance services servicing the
subdivision and 9-1-1 with a copy of the address plat. The emergency services
entities will have two (2) weeks from the date of receipt of the address plat
to respond, in writing, to the village of Shorewood and the developer with any
objection(s) to the street names or addresses assigned.
            (4)   The village of Shorewood shall be furnished, by the
developer, with a copy of the subdivision plat with the addresses located on
the parcels, at the scale of one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100') and
one reduced, reproducible copy no larger than eleven inches by seventeen inches
(11" x 17").
            (5)   If changes in the plat of subdivision are made after the
addresses have been assigned the developer shall be required to repeat the
steps in subsections A3b(1), A3b(3), A3b(4) of this section.
      4.   Notification Of Number Change And Enforcement:
         a.   In all cases, property owners, tax assessees of record or person
(s) having use or control of the property shall receive official notification
of the change in address in advance of the change. These notices shall state
the old and new addresses, effective date of the change, and penalty for not
displaying the new number.
         b.   All property owners, tax assessees of record or person(s) having
use or control of the property shall display the address number assigned to the
property by the village of Shorewood within thirty (30) days of the effective
date of said address assignment in the manner provided in this section.
      5.   Display Of Address Numbers:
         a.   Principal Buildings Shall Be Numbered: All principal buildings in
the village of Shorewood shall be numbered with the address number assigned by
the village of Shorewood. It is the duty of the owner, agent, tax assessee or
person in possession or control of every principal building in the village to
display this number prescribed in this section.
         b.   Numbers:
            (1)   The numbers shall be displayed so as to be easily located and
read from the nearest common roadway by emergency personnel (numbers shall not
be placed on doors, gates or other movable objects),
            (2)   For multiple-building facilities which have a common mailing
address, the number should be on the street side of the building nearest the
street or roadway, or
            (3)   For buildings too distant from the street to permit easy
legibility from the street, or for buildings not clearly visible from the
street for whatever cause, numbers shall be affixed to any reasonable,
permanent, freestanding object, readily legible from the street and so located
as to clearly identify the applicable building. Numbers shall not be placed on
doors, gates or other movable objects.
         c.   Number Specifications: Such numbers shall be in Arabic numerals
no less than six inches (6") high and one-half inch (1/2") stroke. Colors
should be of a contrasting color with the surface on which they are mounted.
Industrial and warehouse buildings shall have numerals no less than six inches
(6") high.
         d.   Removal Or Defacement Of Building Numbers Prohibited: No person
shall remove or deface any building number placed upon any building in
accordance with the provisions of this section.
         e.   Display Of Numbers Other Than Address Numbers Prohibited: No
person shall retain any number on his building other than the number provided
by the provisions of this section.
         f.   Conformity Required: No owner, agent, tax assessee, or person in
possession or control of any building shall refuse or neglect to have numbered
such building or permit the same to be numbered not in conformity with this
section.
   B.   Street Signs:
      1.   Design Of Street Signs:
         a.   All street signs located in the village of Shorewood shall:
            (1)   Be erected at all street intersections regardless of other
route marking that may be present.
            (2)   Be lettered with lettering at least four inches (4") high.
Supplementary lettering to indicate the type of street (e.g., street, avenue,
road, etc.) or section of the village (e.g., N., W.) may be in smaller
lettering, but must be at least two inches (2") high. Abbreviations shall not
be used for the street name itself.
            (3)   Have a reflective surface or be illuminated.
            (4)   Have a legend and background of contrasting colors and shall
have a green message (including village name and logo) and border on a white
background.
            (5)   Be placed at least on diagonally opposite corners so that
they will be on the far right hand side of the intersection for traffic on the
major street in business districts and on principal arterials. Signs naming
both streets shall be erected at each location. They shall be mounted on their
faces parallel to the streets they name.
            (6)   Be mounted at each intersection in residential districts.
         b.   On intersection related approaches, a supplemental street name
sign may be erected separately or below an intersection warning sign. When
combined with a yellow diamond sign, the color should be a black message on a
yellow background.
         c.   Street signs for designating street names shall be of the formats
as specified in this section or as near to that format as practicable. The sign
shall tell the common street name and the address boundary for that
intersection.
   C.   Street Names:
      1.   Street Names:
         a.   The continuation of an existing street shall have the same name
as the existing street.
         b.   When a street makes a ninety degree (90°) turn at any point and
it is determined by the village of Shorewood that it is necessary to avoid
confusion in the delivery of emergency services, a change in street name shall
occur to eliminate confusion.
         c.   The name of the new street cannot duplicate, mimic, or resemble
the name of existing streets within the area served by the same post office,
fire department, or other emergency service organizations.
         d.   Unacceptable names: Numerical names (1st, 2nd, etc.);
alphabetical letters (A, B, C, etc.); frivolous, complicated, or undesirable
names; unconventional spellings; compound names. A numerical name, however, can
be used if the street name number is consistent with the adopted address grid
system.
         e.   Names shall not include "east", "west", "north", and "south", as
part of the name, except as they are used in the directional title of the
street by the village of Shorewood.
         f.   The following will be the standard abbreviations for signs:
            Drive -    DR
            Road - RD
            Circle - CIR
            Court - CT
            Street - ST
            Lane -    LN
            Place - PL
            Square - SQ
            Terrace - TERR
            Parkway - PKWY
            Avenue - AVE
            Boulevard - BLVD
            Way -    WAY
            Junction - JCT
            Loop -    LOOP
      2.   Subdivisions:
         a.   It is the responsibility of the developer to propose street names
to the village of Shorewood. The village will in turn verify all street names
to eliminate duplicate or similar names in emergency service areas.
         b.   The developer of all new subdivisions shall furnish the initial
road sign and signpost and ensure the installation of the road signs to
standard specifications. All signs shall be installed prior to the construction
of buildings and shall be maintained by the developer at all times until the
dedication of the streets is accepted by the village of Shorewood.
   D.   Address Map: A map, entitled "The Village Of Shorewood Official Address
Base Map", is attached to ordinance 03-1179 as exhibit A, and made part of this
section. This map shall delineate the address base grid, and indicate all areas
of the village subject to the provisions of this section. In the event that a
parcel or parcels of land become annexed to the village, this section and map
shall be used to assign addresses and to name streets within the area annexed.
   E.   Implementation: The assigning of address numbers and street names under
the provisions of this section shall be a continuing process.
   F.   Penalty: Any person, firm, or corporation who violates, disobeys,
neglects, or refuses to comply with any provision of this section, shall be
subject to a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense. Each day a violation is permitted
to exist after notification thereof shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord.
03-1179, 8-26-2003)
7-1-2: CULVERT CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Permits Required; Expiration: Before commencing with the erection,
enlargement, alteration, construction, repair or removal of any culvert or
similar structure or any part or parts thereof in the village, a permit for
such erection, enlargement, alteration, construction, repair or removal shall
first be obtained by the person desiring to do the same, or his agent, from the
village public works supervisor and it shall be unlawful to proceed with such
erection, enlargement, alteration, construction, repair or removal unless such
permit shall first have been obtained, and if after such permit shall have been
granted, the operations called for by said permit shall not be commenced within
ninety (90) days after the date thereof or if such operations are not completed
within a reasonable time, then such permit shall be void and no operations
thereunder shall be commenced or completed until a new permit shall be issued
and fees as herein fixed for the original permit shall be paid for such new
permit.
   B.   Application For Permit; Fee:
      1.   Application for such permits shall be made by the persons desiring
the same, or their agents, to the village public works supervisor. When such
application is made, plans and specifications shall be submitted for
examination and approval by said village official who shall then issue or cause
to be issued a permit and shall file such application.
      2.   The fee for the issuance of each such permit as herein provided for
shall be the sum of five dollars ($5.00).
   C.   Agreement To Correct Deficient Work: When such application is made, the
applicant shall sign a written agreement with the village to perform all labor
and furnish all materials at the applicant's expense as may be required by the
village public works supervisor to correct or complete any erection,
enlargement, alteration, construction, repair or removal of any culvert not
done or existing in reasonable compliance with the application at the time of
any inspection of the same as provided for in this section, which agreement
shall remain in full force and effect until and unless the work performed
pursuant to the permit is accepted on behalf of the village at the final
inspection thereof provided for in subsection E of this section, and the
applicant shall so correct or complete such work within sixty (60) days after
notification that the same is in need of correction or completion. The
applicant, in said written agreement, shall further grant to the village the
power, right and authority to do or cause to be done the required correction or
completion in the event the applicant shall fail to correct or complete the
same within said sixty (60) day period, all at the applicant's expense, and the
applicant shall, upon notification of the expense of the same, immediately
remit the same to the village.
   D.   Requirements And Specifications:
      1.   Number Of Culverts: The permits which may be granted hereunder shall
be limited to one driveway or entrance culvert for each residential dwelling
building or commercial establishment.
      2.   Specifications: The culverts may not exceed twenty four feet (24')
in length, must be of at least fourteen (14) gauge galvanized iron and have a
diameter of not less than fifteen inches (15"). (Ord. 0-125, 11-10-1970)
      3.   Ends Protected:
         a.   From and after the effective date hereof, all driveway culverts
and culverts installed under and across streets, roads and highways shall be
protected at the ends thereof with suitable concrete structures which shall
conform to the state of Illinois, department of public works and buildings,
construction standard nos. 1564 and 2262, true and correct copies of which are
attached to ordinance 0-145 on file in the office of the village clerk and made
a part hereof by reference.
         b.   The provisions of this section providing for permits for the
construction of entrance culverts shall apply to the construction of the
concrete structures provided for in this subsection D3. (Ord. 0-145, 2-22-1972;
amd. 1994 Code)
   E.   Inspections: The village public works supervisor or his delegate shall
make an inspection of the site of the culvert to be erected, enlarged, altered,
constructed, repaired or removed prior to the issuance of the permit herein
provided for and shall make such additional inspections as may be necessary and
reasonable during the operations for which the permit is issued and shall make
a further inspection of the same after the erection, enlargement, alteration,
construction, repair or removal provided for in the permit shall be completed
and shall make a final inspection of the same as near as conveniently possible
to one year after the date of the completion of the work for which the permit
was issued. In the event that such erection, enlargement, alteration,
construction, repair or removal of any culvert is not done in reasonable
compliance with the application in a good and workmanlike manner so that the
same shall operate properly, the person to whom such permit is issued shall
make such alterations as may be required to cause conformance with the
application so that the same exists in good operating condition, all as
provided for in the written agreement mentioned and set out in subsection C of
this section.
   F.   Variations: Any variations from the provisions provided for in this
section may be granted only by the Village Board of Trustees upon proper
application to it made. (Ord. 0-125, 11-10-1970; amd. 1994 Code)
7-1-3: UNCOVERED, UNGUARDED SEWERS, WELLS AND DRAINS; DRAINAGE REGRADING OR
RECONSTRUCTION:
   A.   No person shall construct, repair or allow to remain or exist any
cesspool, cistern, hydrant, pump, culvert, drain, sewer, well or similar or
related facility in a manner or method so as to permit the same or any
excavation made or constructed in conjunction therewith to remain open,
uncovered, unfenced, unattended or unguarded so that the same may constitute an
unsafe condition or hazard or danger to the safety, health or welfare of any
person. (Ord. 0-58, 5-10-1966; amd. 1994 Code; Ord. 01-1038, 3-13-2001)
   B.   Prior to regrading or reconstructing any drainage swale, the
contractor/owner shall submit to the Village a site plan showing elevations of
property together with the intended improvements. The grading and
reconstruction shall be completed such that the property will properly drain
without adversely affecting other adjacent properties; and
   C.   If the intended improvement requires the contractor/owner to work on an
adjacent property the permit applicant shall obtain the written consent of such
other property owner. This written consent shall accompany the building permit
application; and
   D.   The applications shall be submitted to the Village of Shorewood
Building Department for their review. If in the opinion of the Building
Department the expertise of the Village Engineer is necessary in order to
properly evaluate the application, the applicant shall be responsible for the
reimbursement of those professional fees.
   E.   Fees for the building permit shall be based on the renovation and
remodeling fees as listed in section
8-1A-9 of this Code. (Ord. 01-1038, 3-13-2001)
7-1-4: OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS SHALL MAINTAIN PARKWAYS:
The owners, occupants, lessees and tenants of property abutting any public
streets, roads or ways shall maintain the area between the edge of pavement or
curb and their property line, commonly known as parkway, in a neat, clean and
orderly condition and free of any weeds, and grass or plants in excess of ten
inches (10") in height other than flowers not exceeding eighteen inches (18")
in height. (Ord. 24-2092, - -2024)
7-1-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1994 Code)
 
CHAPTER 2
EXCAVATIONS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Approval And Permit Required
7-2-2: Application For Approval And Permit
7-2-3: Inspection Fee; Security
7-2-4: Issuance Of Permit
7-2-5: Access Requirement
7-2-6: Work Specifications
7-2-7: Emergencies
7-2-8: Excavations In Unpaved Property
7-2-9: Inspections; Restoration By Village
7-2-10: Penalties
7-2-1: APPROVAL AND PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   No person shall begin to construct, cut, alter, grade or excavate the
surface or support for the surface of any street, road, highway, parkway, curb
or curb cut within the village without first obtaining written approval from
the village board and a permit from the village administrator.
   B.   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the construction of
facilities in public rights of way, which is governed by chapter 4 of this
title. (Ord. 07-1437, 9-11-2007)
7-2-2: APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL AND PERMIT:
   A.   An applicant seeking a permit to construct, alter, cut, grade or
excavate the surface or the support for the surface of any street, road,
highway, parkway, curb or curb cut shall file with the village board a written
application, on eight and one-half inch by eleven inch (81/2" x 11") paper,
which shall include:
      1.   Name and address of the owner or agent in charge of the party doing
the work.
      2.   Location of the work areas.
      3.   Explanation of why the proposed cut, alteration or excavation is
needed.
      4.   Explanation of alternatives considered with regard to the proposed
cut, alteration or excavation and why the alternatives were rejected.
      5.   Date the cut, alteration or excavation is proposed to occur and the
date on which the repair will begin and be completed.
      6.   The specifications of the cut, alteration or excavation proposed,
including the length, width and depth of the area.
      7.   A map of the work area, on eight and one-half inch by eleven inch
(81/2" x 11") paper, indicating the names of the surrounding streets, roads or
highways, the location of the proposed cut, alteration or excavation and an
arrow indicating which direction is north.
   B.   Each page of the applicant's written proposal shall be dated and signed
by the applicant. The village board may request such other information as it
determines reasonably necessary to the determination of whether approval should
be granted and a permit issued hereunder. (Ord. 88-476, 8-16-1988)
7-2-3: INSPECTION FEE; SECURITY:
   A.   Fee: The applicant shall pay a nonrefundable inspection fee of one
hundred dollars ($100.00) to accompany the written application for a permit
hereunder.
   B.   Security: The following shall accompany the written application for
permit hereunder:
      1.   Performance Bond: The village administrator shall require a
performance bond to be filed with the application for permit hereunder in an
amount to be determined by the village administrator and conditioned that such
work shall be performed in accordance with this chapter. In lieu of a
performance bond, the applicant may post an irrevocable letter of credit, in a
form acceptable to the village, or cash in an amount deemed sufficient by the
village administrator.
      2.   Indemnity Bond: The village administrator shall have the authority
to require the applicant hereunder to file a bond conditioned to protect and
save harmless the village from all claims for damages or injury to other
persons by reason of the work performed. (Ord. 88-476, 8-16-1988)
7-2-4: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
A permit for the proposed work shall be issued by the village's administrator
or his designee upon review by the village administrator and shall be in the
following form:
   VILLAGE OF SHOREWOOD STREET CUT APPROVAL
   Where cut will be made                                        
   When cut will be made                                       
   Cuts Length            Width              Depth                  
   When will cut be repaired                      
   Date of approval                      Expires                           
   Inspected by                 Approved                  Not
Approved                  
   Date of inspection                     
   Permit Approved by                     Date                      
(Ord. 02-1131, 10-22-2002, eff. 10-22-2002)
7-2-5: ACCESS REQUIREMENT:
No person shall construct, cut, alter, grade or excavate the surface or the
support for the surface of any street, road, highway, parkway, curb or curb cut
within the village in such a manner as to isolate any portion of the village
from vehicular access over said street, road, highway or curb cut or other open
streets, roads or highways. In such cases where the excavation or other work of
the entire width of a road, street or highway would cause such isolation of any
area from vehicular traffic, such excavation or other work shall be performed
in such a manner as to leave one lane of traffic open at all times. (Ord. 88-
476, 8-16-1988)
7-2-6: WORK SPECIFICATIONS:
The following specifications shall be adhered to for work performed pursuant to
a permit issued hereunder:
   A.   Notice Of Excavation: The public works department of the village shall
be notified one working day prior to the commencement of the proposed work.
   B.   Pavement Cuts: The existing pavement shall be removed so that the
interior angles at the inside corners of breaks are not less than forty five
degrees (45°) and so that angle of the pavement being removed (or the remaining
pavement for other types of removal) is not less than sixty degrees (60°). The
end of the patch shall be hand trimmed. The general plane of the cut face shall
not deviate more than one and one-half inches (11/2") from vertical.
   C.   Backfill: The trench shall be backfilled with fine aggregate, gradation
FA 6 (Illinois standard specifications) to the subgrade elevation. Trench
backfill with fine aggregate shall be constructed within two feet (2') of the
edge of the proposed pavement. In all other areas, the trench shall be
backfilled with select materials and leveled to grade.
   D.   Restoration And Repair:
      1.   All repairs shall be made within five (5) working days after the
date on which the cut, alteration or excavation was made.
      2.   The pavement replacement shall consist of eight inches (8") of
crushed stone, CA-6 gradation compacted to one hundred percent (100%) proctor
and two inches (2") of compacted thickness of bituminous concrete surface
course, class 1. The subbase shall be bonded to the surface course by one-tenth
(0.1) gallon per square yard of prime RC-70.
      3.   All landscaping within the public right of way shall be restored by
the contractor.
   E.   Traffic Restrictions:
      1.   Traffic shall be permitted on patches for at least three (3) days
prior to resurfacing if complete resurfacing is planned.
      2.   During construction, the contractor shall furnish, erect and
maintain all traffic control devices as specified by the village.
   F.   Variations: Any alteration in the written proposal shall be submitted
to the village board for a new approval.
   G.   Expiration Of Permit: The proposed cut shall be made within thirty (30)
days of the date indicated on the village board's written approval. If the
proposed cut is not made within said period, the applicant shall submit a new
application to the village board for approval. (Ord. 88-476, 8-16-1988)
7-2-7: EMERGENCIES:
In emergency situations requiring immediate excavation, alteration or cut of a
street, road, highway, curb or curb cut, in order to restore essential
utilities or other such immediate necessity, authority to permit such
excavation is vested in the village president, village administrator, foreman
of the public works department of the village or the utilities superintendent
of the village. (Ord. 88-476, 8-16-1988)
7-2-8: EXCAVATIONS IN UNPAVED PROPERTY:
Written permission is not required for the excavation of unpaved portions of
village rights of way. However, any excavation of such unpaved public property
must be properly backfilled, restored and landscaped so as to be left in its
original condition or better. Failure to restore the excavation site
satisfactorily shall cause the person who directs that the excavation be
performed to be liable for a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00),
plus the cost of restoration of the site by the village. (Ord. 88-476, 8-16-
1988)
7-2-9: INSPECTIONS; RESTORATION BY VILLAGE:
The village administrator shall make or cause to be made such inspections as he
deems necessary during and after the performance of the work for which such
permission is granted. Should he determine that the work area which was
excavated has not been satisfactorily restored in accordance with this chapter
within thirty (30) days after the excavation was begun, he will make a claim on
the security posted and, using the proceeds, cause the excavation to be
properly restored. (Ord. 88-476, 8-16-1988)
7-2-10: PENALTIES:
Any person convicted of violating any provision of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code; provided, that any person convicted of violating section
7-2-8 of this chapter shall, additionally, be liable for the cost of
restoration of the work area. (Ord. 88-476, 8-16-1988; amd. 1994 Code)
CHAPTER 3
WATER AND SEWER USE AND SERVICE
ARTICLE A. PUBLIC AND PRIVATE WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMS
SECTION:
7-3A-1: Utilities Division Created; Enforcement
7-3A-2: Definitions
7-3A-3: Extension of Water Mains
7-3A-4: Connection Required, Wells and Private Water Supply Restrictions
7-3A-5: Supplying Other Premises
7-3A-6: Auxiliary Water Supply Restrictions
7-3A-7: Private Water Wells
7-3A-8: Water Service Connection Permit Procedure; Fees
7-3A-9: Water Connection Design Criteria
7-3A-10: Installation and Maintenance of Service Pipes
7-3A-11: Water Meters; Installation and Maintenance
7-3A-12: Access to Premises
7-3A-13: Access to Water Meter and Remote Reader
7-3A-14: Unauthorized Activity
7-3A-15: Interference Prohibited
7-3A-16: Waiver of Liability
7-3A-17: Conservation of Water
7-3A-18: Authority of Village
7-3A-19: Disconnection of Water Service; Fees
7-3A-20: Owner Liability; Damage to Village Utilities or Other Property
7-3A-21: Penalty
7-3A-1: UTILITIES DIVISION CREATED; ENFORCEMENT:
   BOCA CODE: The Building Officials and Code Administrators National Building
Code.
   BOARD: The Board of Trustees of the Village of Shorewood.
   CHAIRMAN OF PUBLIC WORKS COMMITTEE: The Village Trustee appointed by the
Village President to the position of chairman of the Public Works Committee of
the Village of Shorewood.
   CHIEF BUILDING OFFICIAL: The Chief Building Official of the Village of
Shorewood Building Department.
   CURB STOP: A valve installed at the end of a water service connection with a
riser pipe to give access to the valve from ground level. The curb stop is used
by Village employees to turn a water service on or off.
   EASEMENT: An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   FINANCE DIRECTOR: The Finance Director of the Village of Shorewood.
   IEPA: The Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   MUNICIPAL UTILITIES: The Municipal Utilities Division of the Village of
Shorewood.
   MUNICIPAL UTILITIES SUPERVISOR: The Supervisor of the Municipal Utilities
Division of the Village of Shorewood.
   PLUMBING CODE: State of Illinois Plumbing Code (latest edition).
   PLUMBING INSPECTOR: The Chief Building Official of the Village of Shorewood
Building Department or his or her designee.
   SHALL: Shall is mandatory.
   VILLAGE: The corporate authority of the Village of Shorewood and its
officers, employees and agents.
   VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR: The Village Administrator of the Village of
Shorewood.
   VILLAGE ENGINEER: The Village Engineer of the Village of Shorewood.
   VILLAGE LIMITS: The corporate boundaries of the Village of Shorewood.
   VILLAGE PRESIDENT: The President of the Village of Shorewood.
   VILLAGE TREASURER: The Treasurer of the Village of Shorewood.
   WATER METER: A device used to measure the quantity of water flowing through
a water service extension.
   WATER SERVICE CONNECTION: Consists of a service pipe extending from the
water main to and including a shutoff valve or curb stop.
   WATER SERVICE EXTENSION: Service line from the water service connection
shutoff valve to the water meter located on the premises being served. (Ord.
93-715, 11-9-93; amd. Ord. 20-1982, 8-25-2020)
7-3A-3: EXTENSION OF WATER MAINS:
No water main dedicated or to be dedicated to the Village shall be built, laid
or extended except upon approval by the Village President and Board, directing
the laying or extension of such main or pipe, fixing the location thereof, the
size to be used and, if applicable, the method of financing the cost of the
same. (Ord. 93-715, 11-9-93)
7-3A-4: CONNECTION REQUIRED, WELLS AND PRIVATE WATER SUPPLY RESTRICTIONS:
All existing buildings using domestic water on property in the Village which
are within two hundred feet (200') of a Village water main shall be connected
thereto within one year after notification to connect by the Village Board
unless, in the sole determination of the Village Board, there is insufficient
transmission capacity in the Village water distribution system to properly meet
the needs of the proposed usage or if the proposed usage is such that allowing
the connection would impair the distribution system capacity to other parts of
the Village. At such time as Village water mains are extended to a point
adjacent to properties within the Village limits not served by the Village
water system, said properties shall connect to the Village water system within
one year after date of official notice to do so. (Ord. 93-715, 11-9-1993)
7-3A-5: SUPPLYING OTHER PREMISES:
No persons receiving water through the water system of the Village shall supply
water to other persons or premises unless a permit to do so has been applied
for and obtained from the Village. (Ord. 93-715, 11-9-1993)
7-3A-6: AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY RESTRICTIONS 1 :
   A.   Interconnection Prohibited: Whenever an auxiliary water system which
receives its supply from any well, cistern or other sources apart from the
water system of the Village is installed or maintained inside or outside of any
building or structure or in any public way or other public or private property,
such private water system shall be kept entirely separated from and not
connected, directly or indirectly, with any pipe or system of pipes receiving
water from the water system of the Village.
   B.   Limitations On Use: Except as provided herein, no auxiliary or other
non-Village operated water supply system shall be installed to serve any
premises or property within the Village limits if those premises or property
are within two hundred feet (200') of the water system of the Village.
   C.   Properties Served By Village Water System And Auxiliary Water System:
      1.   If a property with an auxiliary water system connects to the Village
water supply system, the auxiliary water system may be maintained for outside
water uses and fire sprinkling system purposes only. Once connection is made to
the Village water supply system, the property owner will be required to use
Village water for all domestic and potable water purposes. The Village will
allow the auxiliary water system to be maintained only if it is used on a
regular basis and only if the property owner meets one of the following
requirements:
         a.   The piping from the auxiliary water system must be disconnected
before the piping enters the building foundation. The location where the piping
entered the building foundation must be sealed. Appropriate yard hydrants must
be connected to the auxiliary water system. No pipe or system of pipes from the
auxiliary water system may enter any building being served by Village water
supply.
         b.   A reduced pressure principle backflow prevention device (RPZ)
must be installed in the Village water service connection at the point where
the water service connection enters the building being served. The RPZ must be
installed and maintained in accordance with the Village regulations for cross-
connection control devices.
      2.   If these requirements are not met within thirty (30) calendar days
from the date of connection to the Village water system, the private well is to
be properly sealed and abandoned in accordance with all applicable permits and
in conformance with the requirements of the Will County Water Well and Water
Supply Ordinance and the Illinois Water Well Construction Code of the Illinois
Department of Public Health, within thirty (30) days from the date of
connection to the Village water supply.
   D.   Access To Property: The property owner shall provide the Village access
to the property for the purpose of annual cross-connection control inspections.
(Ord. 93-715, 11-9-1993)
   E.   Supplemental Wells: When a residential property is connected to the
Village water supply system, it shall be permissible to install a well on the
property subject to the following conditions:
      1.   The well shall only be used for outdoor purposes such as vegetation
irrigation and vehicle washing; and
      2.   The well must be installed in conformance with all laws and
regulations applicable thereto including the receipt of all applicable permits
from the Will County Health Department or other agencies; and
      3.   Prior to operation of the well, the Village Utilities Department
must be notified in writing. The Village will then inspect the well to ensure
compliance with applicable ordinances. If the well is not in compliance, it
shall not be operated. The owner shall pay a twenty five dollar ($25.00)
inspection fee to the Village; and
      4.   No pipe or system of pipes from the well may enter any building
being served by the Village water supply. Further, there shall be no inter- or
cross-connection with the Village water supply. Appropriate yard hydrants must
be connected to the well and used to distribute the water; and
      5.   At the request of the Village, the property owner shall provide the
Village access to the property and the structures located thereon for the
purpose of cross-connection inspections.
      6.   The well may only be used to serve the property upon which it is
located and no other properties. (Ord. 96-855, 10-22-1996)
 
Notes
1 1. See Article C of this Chapter for cross-connection control.
7-3A-7: PRIVATE WATER WELLS:
   A.   Permit: No water well shall be constructed or deepened, except pursuant
to all applicable permits and in accordance with the provisions of, and with
permits of, Village ordinances, the Will County Water Well Permit and Water
Supply Ordinance, the Illinois Water Well Construction Code and Illinois Water
Well Pump Installation Code of the Illinois Department of Public Health. Proper
permits from the Environmental Division of the Will County Health Department
must be obtained.
   B.   Application For Permit: Applications for a permit for the construction
or deepening of a well shall be in writing on a form prescribed by the Village
and other applicable governmental entities. Each application shall be
accompanied by a plat showing the location of all wells, septic tanks,
subsurface tile systems and privy vaults constructed, or to be constructed,
upon the lot or premises.
   C.   Testing Of Water: Newly constructed water wells shall be disinfected,
and the owners thereof shall have the water analyzed and approved by the Will
County Health Department and other applicable governmental entities before the
well is placed in service.
   D.   Well Abandonment: When a private water well is abandoned, the work
shall be done in accordance with Will County water well permit and water supply
ordinance and the Illinois Water Well Construction Code of the Illinois
Department of Public Health. The owner of the well shall then provide the
Village with a completed water well sealing form from the Will County Health
Department. (Ord. 93-715, 11-9-1993)
7-3A-8: WATER SERVICE CONNECTION PERMIT PROCEDURE; FEES:
   A.   Connection Permit Application:
      1.   Any person desiring to make any connection with the water system of
the Village, or to use the water therefrom, shall first make application to the
Village upon such form as may be furnished for that purpose. There shall be two
(2) classes of building water connection permits: a) for residential water
connection (including multi-family structures), and b) for commercial,
institutional/governmental or industrial water connection. Each applicant shall
state, among other things:
         a.   The location for the premises for which such service is sought.
         b.   The type of improvement thereon.
         c.   The purposes for which the water is to be used.
         d.   The size of the water and sewer service lines requested.
         e.   The size of the water meter needed for the proposed service.
         f.   The number of water meters that will be required for the service.
         g.   The method of metering usage pursuant to this article.
         h.   Whether building will have a landlord/house meter and service
line.
         i.   The number of cross-connection devices.
      2.   The Village will calculate the fees required for such connections,
including tap-on fees, water meter charges and any other applicable fee or
charges. These fees shall be paid at the time of the issuance of a permit.
   B.   Tap-On Fees: The following fees shall be paid to the Village by the
applicant:
      1.   Residential Buildings: A residential building water connection
permit and inspection fee of three thousand eight hundred thirty four dollars
($3,834.00) for each single-family (attached or detached) residential building
or each dwelling unit (in a multi-family residential building) shall be paid to
the Village at the time the application is filed.
      2.   Institutional/Governmental, Commercial And/Or Industrial Buildings:
In addition to water meter fees, a building water connection permit and
inspection fee for each proposed institutional/governmental, commercial or
industrial water connection for any building or portion thereof shall be paid
to the Village at the time of the issuance of a permit. The amount of the water
connection and inspection fee shall be based upon a base fee and a line size
charge. In buildings where the water service extension is branched to separate
units within the building, the water connection and inspection fee shall be
based upon a base fee and a line size charge for each branch serving a unit.
All water connection, and inspection fees and water meter fees shall be paid
for at the issuance of a building permit for the "shell" of a multi- tenant
building. The charges are as follows:
 
a. Base fee                    $ 4,834.00
b. Water and line size charges per unit:
 1 inch                       $ 750.00
 11/2 inch                    1,000.00
 2 inch                       1,250.00
 Per additional inch          250.00
c. Fire sprinkler service line 3,000.00
 
   C.   Liability For Costs: All costs and expenses incident to the
installation and connection of the building water service connection and
extension shall be borne by the owner of the premises being served. The owner
of the premises being served shall indemnify the Village from any loss, claims,
liability or damage that may be directly or indirectly occasioned by the
installation of the building water service connection and extension.
   D.   Right To Refuse Service: The Village reserves the right to refuse
connection if, in its sole determination, there is insufficient transmission
capacity in the Village water distribution system to properly meet the needs of
the proposed usage or if the proposed usage is such that allowing the
connection would impair the distribution system transmission capacity to other
parts of the Village.
   E.   Sewer And Water Capital Improvement Account: All funds collected from
sewer and water tap-on/connection fees shall be accounted for in a separate
account of the Village known as the sewer and water system capital improvement
account (hereinafter sometimes referred to as the capital improvement account).
The designated funds of the capital improvement account may only be expended
for the construction of capital improvements related to the sewer and water
systems including, but not limited to, the construction and/or extension of
sewer/water mains, lines, valves, hydrants, wells, well houses, sewer treatment
facilities, lift stations and other related infrastructure improvements,
together with the acquisition of property and/or easements necessary therefor.
   F.   Retained Earnings - Capital Improvements Account: The balance remaining
in the capital improvement account at the end of each fiscal period will be
held in a restricted retained earnings account. This account, retained earnings
- capital improvements, will only be available for capital improvement spending
as defined in subsection E of this section.
   G.   Pre-Existing Service: In the event of the changes to a non- residential
building, the reconstruction of a building or the change in use of a building
on a lot that already has sewer or water service necessitates a larger service
tap size, the customer shall pay a connection fee equal to the difference
between the existing service fee and the new service fee. No credit will be
given in the event that the tap size decreases. (Ord. 17-1839, 3-28-2017)
7-3A-9: WATER CONNECTION DESIGN CRITERIA:
   A.   Water Connections:
      1.   All connections to the village water supply proposed for any purpose
shall be reviewed and approved by the village prior to construction. This work
will be performed by and at the owner's expense of the owner of the premises
being served and includes the tapping of the water main, insertion of a
corporation cock, installation of water service connection from the corporation
cock to the curb stop and providing materials necessary for such work.
      2.   A separate and independent building water service extension shall be
provided for every building.
   B.   Application For Water Service: Water supply lines shall be turned on at
the water connection point only by authorized village employees and only if the
following conditions have been met:
      1.   No water service shall be turned on until the water meter charges
and any other fees owed to the village have been paid.
      2.   No water shall be turned on for service in any premises in which the
plumbing does not comply with the provisions of the plumbing regulations of the
village and state plumbing code. Water may be turned on for construction uses
in unfinished buildings subject to the provisions of these regulations.
      3.   No individual, contractor, corporation or other entity shall be
eligible to have water turned on for any use whatsoever, if at the time of
application it has any outstanding indebtedness for past water use.
      4.   No water service shall be turned on until the water service
extension has been inspected and approved by the village and a water meter has
been installed.
   C.   Service Pipe Specifications:
      1.   Water service pipe materials shall meet applicable American water
works association (AWWA) specifications and shall be either class K copper or
ductile iron pipe. All water lines shall be not less than five feet (5') below
average grade and protected from frost. Water service connections and water
service extensions less than two inches (2") in diameter shall be one piece,
class K copper with no joint in sections less than the length of one full roll
of class K copper pipe (100 feet for 3/4 inch or 1 inch, 60 feet for 11/2 inch
or 2 inch).
      2.   Connection to any water main or water supply system of the village
shall be made with brass or bronze clow or Mueller Corporation stopcock,
approved by the village.
      3.   A curb stop and riser box (commonly referred to as a buffalo box or
B-box) shall be installed in every water service connection. The shutoff valve
or curb stop shall be located on the street side of the right of way line and
not more than seven and one-half feet (71/2') therefrom and shall be installed
with a valve vault or valve box (B-box). All work and materials shall be in
conformance with village requirements and approved specifications. In no case
shall the curb stop and riser box be installed under a driveway, sidewalk or
other paved area. The riser box shall be a Minneapolis type, one and one-half
inch (11/2") diameter, and shall be adjusted with the top of the riser box at
final grade.
   D.   Proximity Of Water Extensions To Sewer Lines: Sanitary sewer and water
service extension shall comply with all governmental regulations.
   E.   JULIE Notification Requirements: No water service connection will be
allowed unless proper notification (minimum 48 hours) has been given to the
JULIE (joint utility location information for excavators) systems and a JULIE
dig number has been issued. (Ord. 93-715, 11-9-1993)
   F.   Water Main Flushing And Sampling; Charges: For all new subdivisions,
the initial flush, fill and chlorination of a newly installed water main is
routine and will incur no water charge, however, there will be a laboratory
fee. All subsequent water usage will be subject to rates based on estimated
usage with a minimum of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per incident and/or tap.
All bacteriological testing will be done through the village of Shorewood. An
outside laboratory will be used by the village for testing. The applicant shall
reimburse the village for its cost associated with such testing. The water main
being tested will be tested as a unit. There will be no partial approval. If
any sample fails, every sample must be resampled, subject to village review.
There will be adequate sample taps installed as determined by the village
sample collector, including a tap at the source of the water main. (Ord. 01-
1072, 10-23-2001)
7-3A-10: INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE OF SERVICE PIPES:
   A.   Entrance Of Connections, Extensions, Into Buildings: All service
connections or extensions shall be laid in streets, alleys or public grounds
adjacent to the premises so as to enter the building to be served by the most
direct route from the main.
   B.   Persons Authorized To Make Connections: All water service connections
shall be supervised by the village.
   C.   Licensed Plumber To Install Extensions At Owner's Expense: Water
service extensions shall be installed by a licensed plumber at the sole expense
of the owner of the premises being served. The licensed plumber shall, among
other things, have filed with the village a certificate of insurance, in an
amount acceptable to the village, which names the village as an additional
named insured. The village shall be indemnified by such plumber and the
property owner from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be
caused by such installation. The connection shall be made in the presence of
the authorized village representative.
   D.   Guarding Excavations: All excavations for a building water service
connection shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights in compliance
with all applicable standards established for excavations by the state of
Illinois department of transportation, so as to protect the public from hazard.
   E.   Traffic Control Coordination: During any construction which will stop
or impede the normal flow of traffic on any right of way, the contractor or
property owner shall provide any necessary traffic control. The traffic control
shall be coordinated with the village.
   F.   Extensions To Be Inspected: Each service extension shall be inspected
prior to backfilling in the presence of an authorized village representative
and shall show no leakage under full water pressure. No extension shall be
covered until such inspection is completed and found satisfactory. When such
work has been approved, the trench or excavation shall be immediately refilled
with suitable material and properly compacted to prevent settling and the
flagging and sidewalk restored to as good a condition as previous to the
excavation. If said service covered is backfilled prior to inspection, the
village reserves the right to require the contractor to expose the entire
service extension for inspection before service may commence. A service
connection shall be air tested with one hundred (100) psi for fifteen (15)
minutes when temperature is at freezing or below.
   G.   Request For Inspection Of Service Connection: The village requires
twenty four (24) hours advance notice before inspections can be given.
Inspections will not be made outside of the normal working hours of the water
division. It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to ensure that
proper notice is given.
   H.   Restoration Of Public Property: If the installation of the water
service connection or water service extension requires the excavation of any
street, road, parkway or other publicly owned property, the property owner
shall apply for a permit for such excavation, pay fees and post bonds or other
security as required by the village. Such permit must be issued prior to any
excavation. Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other publicly owned property
disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory
to the village. The village shall solely determine if the street should be open
cut or bored.
   I.   Maintenance Of Extensions: Water service extensions, including the
connection to the water service connection, are the property of and shall be
maintained at the sole expense of the owner of the property served.
   J.   Reconstruction Of Existing Connections: Where an existing property is
served by a water service connection extending past adjacent property, such
service connection shall be reconstructed at the expense of the owner of the
property served by such service connection within one year after the placing in
service of a village water main adjacent to said property or, if such main
already exists, within one year following the passage of this article.
   K.   Construction Of Connection, Extensions To Adjoining Premises
Prohibited: No consumer will be permitted to construct a water service
connection or extension across a lot to adjoining premises.
   L.   Repair Of Leaks Or Defects; Owner's Responsibility: Any leaks or
defects in water service extensions shall be promptly repaired by and at the
sole cost of the property owner and water customer. If leaks develop in an
existing service extension not meeting the requirements of this article it
shall be replaced in such a manner and with such materials as to meet the
requirements of the village.
   M.   Failure Of Owner To Repair: In case any leak in a water service
extension is not promptly repaired, the water supply shall be shut off by the
village and not turned on again until such leak has been repaired and any
expense incurred by the village in connection therewith has been paid.
   N.   Compliance Required: All connections to the water system of the
village, whether inside or outside the village corporate limits, shall be
subject to state, county and village rules and regulations. (Ord. 93-715, 11-9-
1993)
7-3A-11: WATER METERS; INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE:
   A.   Water Meter Requirements, Residential: Each residential dwelling unit
shall have a separate water meter. The village reserves the right to determine
the nature of the installation and the location of meters to be installed and
the same will be determined by the village.
   B.   Water Meter Requirements; Governmental/Institutional, Commercial Or
Industrial: In governmental/institutional, commercial or industrial buildings
with multiple units, the water meter installation shall conform to one of the
following standards:
      1.   Individual Water Meters: Individual water meters shall be installed
in each individual building unit. A separate water service extension shall be
installed for each building unit, including an accessible service shut-off
valve (B-box) located outside the building. If this option is chosen, a
separate village utility billing will be issued for each individual unit.
      2.   Water Meter Room:
         a.   In buildings with multiple units, one water service extension
shall be installed for no more than twelve (12) individual units. The water
service extension shall be of adequate size to provide proper water pressure
and volume to each unit served. The water service extension shall include an
accessible single shut-off valve (B-box) located outside the building in the
parkway. (Ord. 93-715, 11-9-1993)
         b.   The water and utility meter room shall be constructed at the
point where the water service extension enters the building. The water and
utility meter room shall be heated and used solely for this purpose and of
adequate square footage to provide ample room for the location, reading and
servicing of all such water and utility meters. Access to the water and utility
meter room shall be secured and fully restricted so that it shall be accessible
from the outside with entry to such room restricted to persons authorized to
read and service such water and utility meters. The door shall have a
nonbattery push button lock for the water and utility meter room for the
purpose of the village municipal utilities department entry to read and service
water and utility meters. (Ord. 14-1723, 2-25-2014, eff. 4-1-2014)
         c.   Branch plumbing shall be provided from the water service
extension such that each unit is served by a separate water service line from
the water and utility meter room. Each branch line shall be labeled as to which
line feeds which building unit. Each branch line shall include a water meter
and couplings, an approved tamperproof/tamper resistant locking ball valve
installed on the inlet side of the water meter, and a ball valve installed on
the outlet side of the meter. Space shall be provided for the installation of
any backflow prevention device that may need to be installed in the future.
      3.   Master Meter: One master water meter shall be installed in each
building, with branch plumbing to the individual units. If the master meter
option is chosen, the owner of the building shall be responsible for all
village utility billing.
   C.   Water Meter Location: All water meters shall be installed in a location
that will be readily accessible and have easy access for routine meter reading
and/or service or replacement. All existing installations which do not comply
with these provisions shall be changed at the property owner's or water user's
expense within thirty (30) days after the date of notice from the village.
(Ord. 93-715, 11-9-1993)
   D.   Supply And Maintenance Of Water Meters: Upon submittal of an
application for service, the property owner shall pay a water meter charge
based upon the size, type and quantity of water meters needed, and the village
will supply and own said water meters. The village will maintain, at its own
expense, residential and commercial water meters. (Ord. 14-1723, 2-25-2014,
eff. 4-1-2014)
   E.   Water Meter Installation Hardware:
      1.   Ball Valve: Two (2) full flow ball valves (Mueller series 300) shall
be provided by the village and shall be installed by a licensed plumber at the
expense of the property owner. Said valves are to be installed in the service
line, one immediately prior to the water meter yoke and within two feet (2') of
the point at which the water service extension enters the premises, and one
foot (1') immediately following the water meter yoke. (Ord. 93-715, 11-9-1993)
      2.   Water Meter: A water meter shall be provided by the village, after a
water meter fee has been paid by the property owner. In all cases, the village
shall specify the size and type of water meter to be installed. The water meter
is to be installed at the owner's cost by an authorized representative of the
village or a licensed plumber. The meter shall be installed in a horizontal
position.
Meter Prices
Meter Prices
3/4 inch  $ 550.00
1 inch    675.00
11/2 inch 1,800.00
2 inch    2,000.00
3 inch    2,400.00
4 inch    4,000.00
6 inch    6,500.00
 
(Ord. 14-1723, 2-25-2014, eff. 4-1-2014)
      3.   Water Meter Yoke: On water services with water meters up to and
including two inch (2") diameters, a water meter yoke (Mueller type H-1412)
shall be provided by the village. The water meter yoke shall be installed by a
licensed plumber, at the expense of the property owner; the water meter yoke
shall be installed immediately following the ball valve. (Ord. 93-715, 11-9-
1993)
      4.   Remote Reader: A remote reading device shall be provided by the
village. This remote reader shall be securely fastened on the front of the
building or on either side of the building within four feet (4') of the front
of the building. Installation of the remote reader shall be done by the
village. In no case is the remote reader to be installed in the rear of a
residential building. In the case of a commercial building, the village
reserves the right to specify the location of the remote reader on a case by
case basis. (Ord. 14-1723, 2-25-2014, eff. 4-1-2014)
      5.   Bypass Required: All water meters larger than one inch (1") shall be
provided with a bypass to allow water to bypass the water meter during
maintenance activities. The valve on the bypass shall be equipped with a
locking device to prevent unauthorized operation of the valve and shall be
approved by the village.
      6.   Conduit: One-half inch (1/2") EMT (thin wall) conduit shall be
installed from a point within twelve inches (12") from the water meter to a
point on the outside of the building where the remote reader is to be located.
The conduit will be provided and installed by the builder, complete with wire.
In any existing building with an existing service without conduit installed,
conduit must be installed before any remodeling is done that would make the
remote wire inaccessible.
      7.   Other Fittings: The village reserves the right to require such other
fittings and valves to be installed as the village deems necessary. Such
fittings may include, but are not limited to, locking ball valves, check valves
and backflow preventers. Said fittings shall be supplied by the property owner
and shall be of types approved by the village.
   F.   Maintenance Of Meter Installation: Should any part of the water meter
installation hardware be found to be faulty, the village may require the
replacement of some or all of the hardware. All materials used in the
replacement of water meter installation hardware shall conform to current
specifications for said hardware. With the exception of the water meter costs,
all material and labor costs for said replacement shall be at the expense of
the property owner and/or utility customer. (Ord. 93-715, 11-9-1993)
   G.   Testing Meters: In case of dispute over the amount of a bill or over
the accuracy of a meter, the village will, at the request of the consumer, test
the meter. If it is found, upon such test, that the meter registers a greater
amount of water than has actually passed through it, the bill will then be
adjusted to conform to the amount passing through the meter, and no charge will
be made for the test. If, however, the meter registers a lesser amount than
actually passes through it, the consumer will be required to pay, on the basis
of the amount passing through the meter, an additional charge of two hundred
fifty dollars ($250.00) and the meter will be reinstalled. (Ord. 14-1723, 2-25-
2014, eff. 4-1-2014)
7-3A-12: ACCESS TO PREMISES:
The village and its employees, including all water meter inspectors, shall be
given ready access to the premises wherein water meters are located for the
purpose of reading, examining, testing and repairing such meters and fixtures.
(Ord. 93-715, 11-9-1993)
7-3A-13: ACCESS TO WATER METER AND REMOTE READER:
The property owner shall not obstruct access to the water meter or remote
reader of any property served by the village water supply. Property owners will
be required to permanently remove any such obstructions within a reasonable
period of time. (Ord. 93-715, 11-9-1993)
7-3A-14: UNAUTHORIZED ACTIVITY:
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall turn on or use water from the water
system unless so authorized by the issuance of a permit by the village to use
the water system.
   B.   Seals: It shall be unlawful for any person to break or cause to be
broken the seal on any water meter, valve, fitting or any other connection
affixed by the municipal utilities, unless authorized to do so by the village
administrator. (Ord. 93-715, 11-9-1993)
   C.   Fire Hydrants: No person, other than an employee of the village shall
open or use water from any fire hydrant connected with the water system of the
village unless specifically authorized to do so by the village. The Troy fire
protection district is specifically authorized to open fire hydrants connected
to the water system without notification for emergencies, training and testing
of fire department equipment and apparatus. (Ord. 93-722, 12-14-1993)
   D.   Tampering Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person not
authorized by the village to connect to, tamper with, alter, operate or in any
way damage any part of the village water supply system.
   E.   Resale Of Water: No water shall be resold or distributed by the
recipient thereof from the village supply to any premises other than that for
which application has been made and the water meter installed, except in cases
of extreme emergency.
   F.   Obstruction: It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct in any
manner whatsoever, the access to any stopcock, shutoff valve (B box), hydrant
or valve connected with any water main or to park any automobile or vehicle
within fifteen feet (15') of any fire hydrant. (Ord. 93-715, 11-9-1993)
7-3A-15: INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any persons to interfere with, prevent or obstruct the
village or its employees, in the performance of the duties under this article.
(Ord. 93-715, 11-9-1993)
7-3A-16: WAIVER OF LIABILITY:
All water connections applied for, and all water used, under this article shall
be upon the expressed condition that the village shall not be liable, nor shall
any claim be made against it, for damages or injury caused by reason of the
breaking of any main, branch, service pipe, apparatus or appurtenance connected
with said water system, or for any interruption of the water supply by reason
of the breakage of equipment or machinery or by reason of stoppage,
alterations, extension or renewal. (Ord. 93-715, 11-9-1993)
7-3A-17: CONSERVATION OF WATER:
   A.   Ban On Use Of Watering: To provide an adequate supply of water and
water pressure available for drinking and health related purposes, fire
protection or other emergency uses, property with odd numbered street addresses
may use water for grass, tree, shrub and other landscaping watering purposes
only on odd numbered calendar days, and property with even numbered street
addresses may use outside water on even numbered calendar days. All such
landscaping and lawn watering must be done between the hours of six o'clock (6:
00) A.M. to ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. to ten o'clock
(10:00) P.M. and is prohibited at all other times.
   B.   Restrictions: The village president, the chairman of the public works
committee or the village administrator, may impose further restrictions on or
prohibit the use of water for nonhealth essential purposes. Such restriction or
prohibition may include, but shall not be limited to, prohibiting or further
restricting the watering or sprinkling of lawns, gardens and other vegetation,
the use of large volumes of water for commercial purposes such as laundromats
or car washes and the filling of swimming pools. (Ord. 05-1309, 9-13-2005)
   C.   Bans: During periods of outside water usage ban, no nonhealth essential
water usage will be allowed.
   D.   Notice Of Restriction Or Prohibition Of Water Usage: Notice of such
restriction or prohibition (bans) of water usage shall be disseminated through
reasonable communication media throughout the village including, but not
limited to, the posting of notice of the same on the front door of the village
municipal building. (Ord. 93-715, 11-9-1993)
   E.   Exemptions: Notwithstanding any such restriction or ban, newly seeded
and sodded lawns may be watered for a period of fourteen (14) days beginning
the day the seed or sod is installed. The property owner must first apply for a
permit for such watering from the village offices. The village will not issue
permits between June 15 and September 15. (Ord. 05-1309, 9-13-2005)
7-3A-18: AUTHORITY OF VILLAGE:
   A.   The village shall be permitted to enter all property served by the
public water supply system of the village for the purpose of inspection,
observation, measurement, maintenance, repair and testing in accordance with
the provisions of this article.
   B.   To enter all private properties through which the village holds an
easement for the purpose of, but not limited to, inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the public
water distribution system lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent
work, if any, on said easement shall be done in full accordance with the terms
of the duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
   C.   In the event the village is not permitted to conduct any inspection,
testing, sampling or maintenance it deems necessary or convenient to assure
compliance with this article or other applicable governmental regulations, the
village shall have the right to request a court of competent jurisdiction to
issue such administrative warrant or order as may be applicable, to fully
inspect any building or premises to determine compliance with this and any
other ordinance or regulation. (Ord. 93-715, 11-9-1993)
7-3A-19: DISCONNECTION OF WATER SERVICE; FEES:
   A.   Disconnection Of Water Service For Nonpayment Of Utility Related Bills:
The water supply may be shut off from any premises for which the water bill,
repair bill or any other utility related bill remains unpaid for forty five
(45) days after the date of such bill. The village utility customer shall be
notified of the village's intent to terminate sewer and/or water service prior
to any such termination. (Ord. 06-1342, 1-24-2006)
      1.   The notice of intent to terminate service shall contain the
following:
         a.   The ordinance being violated and how such violation can be
corrected, if applicable.
         b.   The number of days the account is in arrears.
         c.   The balance due, including late charges and notice or termination
costs.
         d.   That the utility customer may contact a representative of the
village and request an informal hearing to resolve disputes as to the
correctness of bills, arrears and/or violations of ordinances prior to
termination of services.
         e.   The name, business address and telephone number of the village
representative to contact to schedule such informal hearing. (Ord. 93-715, 11-
9-1993)
         f.   That unless the customer contacts the appropriate village
representative in writing within ten (10) days of the date of the notice to
terminate requesting an informal hearing on the correctness of the utility
bill, his/her sewer and/or water service will be terminated. (Ord. 93-715, 11-
9-1993; amd. 1994 Code)
         g.   The date on or after which termination will be effected.
      2.   That an informal hearing shall be held, upon written request of the
utility customer, within ten (10) days after written request is made to the
village administrator or his/her designee (sometimes herein collectively
referred to for the hearing purpose as "village representative"). The purpose
of the informal hearing is to allow the utility customer an opportunity to
present information regarding the correctness of that customer's utility bill.
      3.   If the village representative finds merit to the customer's
contentions on the utility bill's correctness no action shall be taken to
terminate service and the user's bill shall be adjusted accordingly by the
village representative with such adjusted bill to be paid by the utility
customer within seven (7) days of notification of the village representative's
determination.
      4.   In the event a notice of disconnection hearing is requested by a
residential utility customer wherein the customer established he/she or a
member of his/her immediate family residing with the customer has a preexisting
life threatening medical condition certified in writing by a medical doctor
licensed by the state and/or the customer establishes that he/she is
financially unable to pay the utility charge in full or part, the village
representative may allow service continuance so long as the utility customer
makes satisfactory financial arrangements to pay for past and future utility
charges.
      5.   That if the village representative finds no merit to the customer's
contentions on the utility bill's correctness, he/she shall communicate this
decision to the utility customer within seven (7) days after the informal
hearing. The utility customer shall further be notified that termination of
service will be effected if all utility bills are not paid in full or
violations corrected within seven (7) days after receipt of such decision
without further notice. (Ord. 93-715, 11-9-1993)
      6.   That whenever service is terminated (or scheduled for termination) a
termination fee of Fifty ($50.00) Dollars shall be paid prior to reinstating
service or canceling termination. No service shall be reinstated until such
time as past due utility bills are paid in full or other violations corrected.
      7.   All utility customers shall timely pay the undisputed portion of the
utility bill.
      8.   For purposes of this section, any notice regarding disconnection of
service shall be given to the utility customer in the account name and address
indicated in the village utility customer records. Any notices required by this
section to the utility customer may be given by certified mail, return receipt
requested, sufficient postage prepaid or by leaving a copy of the notice
personally with the utility customer or by leaving a copy of the notice at the
utility customer's billing address with some person over thirteen (13) years of
age at such address and mailing a copy of the notice by U.S. mail addressed to
the utility customer at the billing address.
   B.   Disconnection Of Service For Reasons Other Than Nonpayment Of Bills:
      1.   In addition to disconnection for emergencies, the village may
disconnect water service to a building without notice and pretermination
hearing if it finds any of the following:
         a.   False representations have been made in the application for water
service.
         b.   Water is being used for purposes not set forth in the
application.
         c.   Water is being supplied to persons or buildings other than those
for whom the service was introduced.
         d.   The owner or occupant of the premises being served has failed,
after due notice, to repair the service pipes or water meters.
         e.   Employees of the water division, or anyone duly authorized, has
been denied access to the premises for the purpose of examining pipes, water
meter, connections to the water supply system or connections to the sanitary
sewer.
         f.   The water meter has been tampered or otherwise interfered with.
         g.   The property owner has failed, after notice, to provide proper
access to the water meter or remote reader.
         h.   The owner or occupant of the premises fails to comply to any
proper ban or restriction of outside water usage, as set forth in this article.
      2.   The village may allow reconnection of service when the violations
for shutoff have been corrected and the reconnection charges paid to the
village.
   C.   Reconnection Charge: A service fee as provided in subsection A6 of this
section during normal business hours, or a reinstatement fee as provided in
subsection A6 of this section after normal business hours, will be charged
against the owner or occupant of a building receiving water when:
      1.   The water has been shut off due to nonpayment as specified above.
The water service will not be restored until such time as the service charge
has been paid.
      2.   The water service has been scheduled to be shut off due to
nonpayment as above, beginning on the day the service is scheduled for turn
off. The service charge must be paid before the scheduled turn off will be
canceled.
      3.   Any time a water service is shut off due to violations above. This
service fee must be paid before service is restored.
   4.   Any time the property owner/customer requests that water service be
shut off for nonemergency reasons, prior to the water service being restored
the property owner/customer shall pay to the village a reinstatement fee as
provided in subsection A6 of this section during normal business hours. The
reinstatement fee will be as provided in subsection A6 of this section after
normal business hours. (Ord. 93-715, 11-9-1993; amd. Ord. 06-1342, 1-24-2006;
Ord. 14-1723, 2-25-2014, eff. 4-1-2014; Ord. 24-2109, - -2024)
7-3A-20: OWNER LIABILITY; DAMAGE TO VILLAGE UTILITIES OR OTHER PROPERTY:
If at any time, the property owner or his agents, employees or contractors
damage any part of the village utility system, or any other village property,
the property owner shall be responsible for the cost of repairs for said
damages.
   A.   The property owner shall repay, to the village, the costs of any
materials provided by the village for said repairs.
   B.   The property owner shall repay, to the village, the cost of all labor,
materials and other expenses incurred in making said repairs. Such costs will
include any administrative cost the village incurs, such as for additional
inspections or supervision of a private contractor.
   C.   Should the repairs require the services of a private contractor, the
village will have the right to choose the contractor.
   D.   All repairs shall be done according to the specifications of the
village and the village shall have the right to reject any work not done to
those specifications.
   E.   If the repairs are not completed within a reasonable time period, the
village may have the work done at the sole expense of the property owner.
   F.   No occupancy permit shall be issued until such time that any repairs to
the village utility system or other village property are completed and all
penalties are paid. (Ord. 93-715, 11-9-1993)
7-3A-21: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of violating this article or any provision thereof, shall
be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for the first offense and not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for the second
and succeeding offenses. Every day upon which a violation exists shall be
considered a separate and distinct violation. In addition, the village shall
have all such other rights and remedies as may be available at law or equity.
(Ord. 05-1309, 9-13-2005)
ARTICLE B. WATER SERVICE RATES AND CHARGES
SECTION:
7-3B-1: Water Service Application
7-3B-2: Water Rates And Charges
7-3B-3: Water Used For Construction Purposes
7-3B-4: Bulk Water Distribution Charges
7-3B-5: Payment Of Bills; Liability
7-3B-6: Delinquent Accounts
7-3B-7: Administrative Officials
7-3B-8: Disposition Of Funds
7-3B-9: Accounting
7-3B-10: Penalty
7-3B-1: WATER SERVICE APPLICATION:
A "dwelling unit" is defined as each individual housing unit that may be
individually owned such as a house or duplex. Only the property owners may
apply for water service to their respective structures. (Ord. 92-632, 3-24-
1992; amd. Ord. 06-1342, 1-24-2006)
7-3B-2: WATER RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   1.   Residential Rates: A monthly base rate of three dollars and
eighty-eight cents ($3.88) for each residential unit plus:
      An additional rate of:
         a.   Eight dollars and one cent ($8.01) per one thousand (1,000)
gallons for bills rendered commencing April 1, 2024.
         b.   Nine dollars and sixty-five cents ($9.65) per one thousand
(1,000) gallons for bills rendered commencing April 1, 2025.
         c.   Eleven dollars and twenty-nine cents ($11.29) per one thousand
(1,000) gallons for bills rendered commencing April 1, 2026.
      2.   Commercial and Industrial Rates: A monthly base rate of eleven
dollars and fifty-five cents ($11.55) for each commercial and industrial unit
supplied by a one-inch (1") diameter service line, nineteen dollars and eight
cents ($19.08) for each commercial and industrial unit supplied by a one and
one-half (1 ½") diameter or greater plus for each meter:
         a.   For bills rendered commencing April 1, 2024, eight dollars and
one cent ($8.01) per one thousand (1,000) gallons.
         b.   For bills rendered commencing April 1, 2025, nine dollars and
sixty-five cents ($9.65) per one thousand (1,000) gallons.
         c.   For bills rendered commencing April 1, 2026, eleven dollars and
twenty-nine cents ($11.29) per one thousand (1,000) gallons.   
      3.   A sewer and water rehabilitation charge of ten dollars ($10.00) per
month, per account for the use of and service applied by combined water works
and sewer system of the Village.
(Ord. 12-1679, 11-27-2012, eff. 1-1-2013; amd. Ord. 17-1866, 11-28-2017, eff.
12-1-2017; Ord. 22-2035, eff. 2-22-2022; Ord. 22-2051, 9-13-2022; Ord. 23-2064,
3-14-2023; Ord. 23-2084, 12-12-2023)
7-3B-3: WATER USED FOR CONSTRUCTION PURPOSES:
Persons desiring to use Village water for construction purposes where it is
impracticable to measure the consumption of water by meter shall, in such
cases, apply for a permit for that purpose and shall be required to pay for
such water at the time of the issuance of such permit at the following rate:
Water for use during construction shall be charged at a rate of eighty five
dollars ($85.00). The flat rate charged for water supplied for construction
under such permit shall terminate when occupancy of the premises begins or
within one year after the issuance thereof, whichever time is sooner. In no
event shall said permit for water for construction purposes be construed as
permitting the use of such water for landscaping or yard preparation, and it
shall be unlawful to use water under such arrangement for landscaping or yard
preparation. (Ord. 12-1679, 11-27-2012, eff. 1-1-2013)
7-3B-4: BULK WATER DISTRIBUTION CHARGES:
   A.   Purchasing Procedures And Costs: Those persons or businesses desiring
to purchase water in bulk quantities shall make application at the Village
Hall. Upon approval of the Village Administrator or water system operator,
payment shall be made in accordance with the following procedures:
      1.   Upon receipt of a two thousand dollar ($2,000.00) deposit, a meter
shall be issued to the purchaser and this meter must be attached to the hydrant
at the water tower on Black Road every time water is taken. The purchaser must
return the meter to the Village Hall on the fifteenth of each month to be read.
The purchaser shall be billed monthly. When purchaser returns the meter and
pays the final water bill, the two thousand dollar ($2,000.00) deposit shall be
returned to the purchaser.
      2.   No water shall be sold in bulk quantities unless a surplus of water
available for distribution exists.
      3.   The cost of bulk water shall be one hundred fifty (150%) percent of
the volumetric water rate from time to time set from in
7-3B-2(A)(1).
      4.   Bulk water should be purchased at the Village Bulk Water
Distribution Facility. Bulk Water purchase accounts shall by established and
administered by the Finance Department. Upon recommendation by the Public Works
Director, or his Designee, bulk waters hydro put meters may still be utilized
as set front in (1) above.
   B.   Troy Volunteer Fire Department Exempt: Nothing in this section shall be
construed to prevent, limit or otherwise restrict the Troy Volunteer Fire
Department authorized personnel from utilizing the Village’s water distribution
system and related appurtenances in the official discharge of firefighting
duties.
   C.   Penalties: In addition to all such other remedies as may be available
at law, any person convicted of violating any provision of this section shall
be subject to a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense. Each day such violation
shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 91-594, 7-23-1991;
amd. Ord. 00-990, 6-13-2000; Ord. 14-1723, 2-25-2014, eff. 4-1-2014; Ord. 18-
1898, 8-14-2018; Ord. 23-2064, 3-14-2023)
7-3B-5: PAYMENT OF BILLS; LIABILITY:
Said rates or charges for service shall be payable monthly. The owner of the
premises, the occupant thereof and the user of the service shall be jointly and
severally liable to pay for the service on such premises and the service is
furnished to the premises by the Village only upon the condition that the owner
of the premises, occupant and user of the service are jointly and severally
liable therefor to the Village. All bills for service shall be rendered as of
the first day of the month succeeding the period for which the service is
provided and shall be payable not later than the close of business on the
twenty first day after the date of the bill. If payment of the full amount of
the bill is not made within said twenty one (21) day period, then a penalty of
ten percent (10%) of the amount of bill shall be added thereto for each month
or portion of a month that said bill remains unpaid. (Ord. 90-543, 7-2-1990)
7-3B-6: DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS:
   A.   Delinquent Accounts A Lien: Whenever the charges or rates for service
remain unpaid forty five (45) days after rendition of the bill for such monthly
service, such charges or rates shall be deemed to be delinquent, and
thereafter, such charges or rates shall constitute liens upon the real estate
to which the service is supplied. (Ord. 06-1342, 1-24-2006)
   B.   Notice Of Lien: The Village Administrator or his delegate is authorized
and directed to prepare and file sworn statements showing such delinquencies in
the Office of the Recorder of Deeds of Will County, Illinois, and the aforesaid
filing of said statements shall be deemed notice to all persons of said lien
for the payment of delinquent rates or charges for such service.
   C.   Civil Actions: The Village Attorney is authorized to commence and
prosecute any and all civil actions on behalf of the Village in the Circuit
Court of Will County, Illinois, against the user to recover the money due for
services rendered, plus a reasonable attorney fee. The judgment in such civil
action shall constitute a release and waiver of the lien to the extent of the
amount of the judgment. (Ord. 88-487, 11-22-1988; amd. 1994 Code)
   D.   Termination Of Service:
      1.   The Village Administrator or his delegate is hereby authorized,
after a hearing, to terminate water service to any user for which the rates or
charges for water service remain delinquent forty five (45) days after the bill
for said services is due for payment. (Ord. 06-1342, 1-24-2006)
      2.   The Village Administrator or his delegate shall issue a notice of
termination to the user at least seven (7) days prior to the date of
termination. The notice of termination shall contain:
         a.   The amount to be paid.
         b.   The date of the notice of termination.
         c.   The date on or after which the termination may be effected.
         d.   Notice that unless the Village receives complete payment of the
amount shown prior to the date of termination, water and/or sewer service shall
be terminated.
         e.   Notice that in lieu of paying the entire amount shown, the user
should notify the Village of a dispute as to the correctness of all or part of
the amount of the bill and request a hearing before the Village Administrator.
(Ord. 90-558, 10-23-1990)
      3.   The procedure for a hearing on a user dispute shall be as follows:
         a.   Before the date of termination as specified on said notice of
termination, the user shall notify the Village Administrator, in writing, that
he requests a hearing to dispute all or part of the amounts shown on the notice
of termination, stating as completely as possible the basis for the dispute.
(Ord. 88-487, 11-22-1988)
         b.   A formal hearing before the Village Administrator shall be held
within seven (7) days of receipt of the request for hearing on a disputed bill.
(Ord. 90-558, 10-23-1990)
         c.   At the hearing, the user and the Village shall be entitled to
present all evidence that is, in the Village Administrator's view, relevant and
material to the dispute.
         d.   Based on the evidence presented at the hearing, the Village
Administrator, within ten (10) days of the completion of the hearing, shall
issue a written decision formally resolving the dispute. The Village
Administrator's decision shall be final and binding.
         e.   The Village Administrator or his delegate shall be authorized to
resolve any disputed water and/or sewerage bill and shall be authorized to
order the termination of water and/or sewerage service under appropriate
circumstances.
         f.   Utilization of this hearing procedure shall not relieve a user of
the obligation to timely and completely pay all other undisputed water and
sewer bills or charges. Failure to timely and completely pay all such
undisputed amounts shall subject the user to termination of service in
accordance with the provisions of this section.
         g.   Until the date of the Village Administrator's decision, the
Village shall not terminate water and sewer service of the user.
         h.   A user shall not be entitled to dispute the correctness of all or
part of the amount if all or part of the amount was the subject of a previous
dispute under this section.
      4.   The Village shall not terminate service if it has received timely
payment of the entire amount or a portion thereof pursuant to a deferred
payment plan. (Ord. 88-487, 11-22-1988)
7-3B-7: ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIALS:
It is hereby made the duty of the office personnel of the Village to render
bills for service and of all rates and charges made in connection therewith and
to collect all monies due thereon. (Ord. 88-470, 6-21-1988)
7-3B-8: DISPOSITION OF FUNDS:
All revenues and monies derived from the operation of the water distribution
service shall be deposited in the Water Fund accounts of the Village. (Ord. 88-
470, 6-21-1988; amd. 1994 Code)
7-3B-9: ACCOUNTING:
The Village Treasurer, with the aid of the Village Administrator, shall
establish a proper system of accounts and shall keep proper books, records and
accounts in which complete and correct entries shall be made of all
transactions relative to the water pumping and distribution service, and at
intervals not less than semiannually, a written report of all receipts of and
disbursements from such accounts shall be made to the Board of Trustees. (Ord.
88-470, 6-21-1988; amd. 1994 Code)
7-3B-10: PENALTY:
Unless otherwise provided, any person violating any provisions of this article
shall, upon conviction, be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1994 Code)
ARTICLE C. CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
SECTION:
7-3C-1: General Policy
7-3C-2: Definitions
7-3C-3: Water System
7-3C-4: Cross-Connection Prohibited
7-3C-5: Surveys and Investigations
7-3C-6: Where Backflow Protection is Required
7-3C-7: Type of Protection Required
7-3C-8: Backflow Prevention Devices
7-3C-9: Inspection and Maintenance
7-3C-10: Booster Pumps
7-3C-11: Enforcement
7-3C-12: Appeal Process
7-3C-13: Penalties
7-3C-1: GENERAL POLICY:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of these rules and regulations is:
      1.   To protect the public water supply system from contamination or
pollution by isolating within the customer's water system contaminants or
pollutants which could backflow through the service connection into the public
water supply system.
      2.   To promote the elimination or control of existing cross-
connections, actual or potential, between the public or consumer's potable
water system and nonpotable water systems, plumbing fixtures and sources or
systems containing substances of unknown or questionable safety.
      3.   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross-
connection control which will prevent the contamination or pollution of the
public and consumer's potable water systems.
   B.   Application: These rules and regulations shall apply to all premises
served by the public potable water supply system of the Village.
   C.   Policy: The customer shall be responsible for protection of the public
water supply system from contamination due to backflow or back-siphonage of
contaminants through the customer's water service connection. If, in the
judgment of the Municipal Utilities Supervisor or his authorized
representative, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary for the
safety of the public water supply system, the Municipal Utilities Supervisor
shall give notice to the consumer to install such approved backflow prevention
device at each service connection to the premises. The consumer shall
immediately install such device or devices at his own expense; failure, refusal
or inability on the part of the consumer to install such device or devices
immediately shall constitute grounds for discontinuing water service to the
premises until such device or devices have been installed. The consumer shall
retain records of installation, maintenance, testing and repair as required in
subsection
7-3C-5D4 below for a period of at least five (5) years. The Municipal Utilities
Supervisor may require the consumer to submit a cross-connection inspection
report to the Village Municipal Utilities Department Water Division to assist
in determining whether or not service line protection will be required. All
cross- connection inspections shall be conducted by a cross- connection control
device inspector certified by the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
(Ord. 93-683, 3-23-93)
7-3C-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of
these regulations:
   AGENCY: The Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   APPROVED BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: Backflow prevention devices or methods
approved by the Research Foundation for Cross-Connection Control of the
University of Southern California, Association of State Sanitary Engineers,
American Water Works Association, American National Standards Institute or
certified by the National Sanitation Foundation.
   AUXILIARY WATER SYSTEM: Any water source or system on or available to the
premises other than the public water supply system and includes the water
supplied by the system. These auxiliary waters may include water from another
purveyor's public water supply system; or water from a source such as wells,
lakes, streams, process fluids or used water. These waters may be polluted,
contaminated, objectionable or constitute a water source or system over which
the water purveyor does not have control.
   BACKFLOW: The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances into
the distribution pipes of a potable water system from any source other than the
intended source of the potable water supply.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE or CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL DEVICE: Any device,
method or type of construction intended to prevent backflow into a potable
water system. All devices used for backflow prevention in Illinois must meet
the standards of the Illinois Plumbing Code and Illinois Environmental
Protection Agency.
   CONSUMER or CUSTOMER: The owner, official custodian or person in control of
any premises supplied by or in any manner connected to a public water system.
   CONSUMER'S WATER SYSTEM: Any water system located on the customer's
premises. A building plumbing system is considered to be a consumer's water
system.
   CONTAMINATION: An impairment of the quality of the water by entrance of any
substance to a degree which could create a health hazard.
   CROSS-CONNECTION: Any physical connection or arrangement between two (2)
otherwise separate piping systems, one of which contains potable water and the
other a substance of unknown or questionable safety or quality, whereby there
may be a flow from one system into the other.
   A.   Direct Cross-Connection: A cross-connection formed when water system is
physically joined to a source of unknown or unsafe substance.
   B.   Indirect Cross-Connection: A cross-connection through which an unknown
substance can be forced, drawn by vacuum or otherwise introduced into a safe
potable water system.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY: An assembly composed of single, independently
acting check valves approved under ASSE Standard 1015. A double check valve
assembly must include tight shut- off valves located at each end of the
assembly and suitable connections for testing the watertightness of each check
valve.
   FIXED PROPER AIR GAP: The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the water discharge point and the flood level rim of the
receptacle.
   HEALTH HAZARD: Any condition, device or practice in a water system or its
operation resulting from a real or potential danger to the health and well-
being of consumers. The word "severe" as used to qualify health hazard means a
hazard to the health of the user that could be expected to result in death or
significant reduction in the quality of life.
   INSPECTION: A plumbing inspection to examine carefully and critically all
materials, fixtures, piping and appurtenances, appliances and installations of
a plumbing system for compliance with requirements of the Illinois Plumbing
Code, 77 Illinois Administrative Code 890.
   NONPOTABLE WATER: Water not safe for drinking, personal, or culinary use as
determined by the requirements of 35 Illinois Administrative Code 604.
   PLUMBING: The actual installation, repair, maintenance, alteration or
extension of a plumbing system by any person. Plumbing includes all piping,
fixtures, appurtenances and appliances for a supply of water for all purposes,
including without limitation lawn sprinkler systems, from the source of a
private water supply on the premises or from the main in the street, alley or
at the curb to, within and about any building or buildings where a person or
persons live, work or assemble. Plumbing includes all piping, from a discharge
of pumping units to and including pressure tanks in water supply systems.
Plumbing includes all piping, fixtures, appurtenances and appliances for a
building drain and a sanitary drainage and related ventilation system of any
building or buildings where a person or persons live, work or assemble from the
point of connection of such system five feet (5') beyond the foundation walls.
   POLLUTION: The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic,
radiological or biological) in water that tends to degrade its quality so as to
constitute a hazard or impair the usefulness of the water.
   POTABLE WATER: Water which meets the requirements of 35 Illinois
Administrative Code 604 for drinking, culinary and domestic purposes.
   POTENTIAL CROSS-CONNECTION: A fixture or appurtenance with threaded hose
connection, tapered spout or other connection which would facilitate extension
of the water supply line beyond its legal termination point.
   PROCESS FLUID(S): Any fluid or solution which may be chemically,
biologically or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form or concentration
such as would constitute a health, pollutional or system hazard if introduced
into the public or a consumer's potable water system. This includes but is not
limited to:
   A.   Polluted or contaminated waters.
   B.   Process waters.
   C.   Used water originating from the public water supply system which may
have deteriorated in sanitary quality.
   D.   Cooling waters.
   E.   Questionable or contaminated natural waters taken from wells, lakes,
streams or irrigation systems.
   F.   Chemicals in solution or suspension.
   G.   Oils, gases, acids, alkalis and other liquid and gaseous fluids used in
industrial or other processes or for fire- fighting purposes.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY: All mains, pipes and structures operated and maintained
by the Village through which water is obtained and distributed to the public.
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: A device containing a
minimum of two (2) independently acting check valves together with an
automatically operated pressure differential relief valve located between the
two (2) check valves and approved under ASSE Standard 1013. During normal flow
and at the cessation of normal flow, the pressure between these two (2) checks
shall be less than the supply pressure. In case of leakage of either check
valve, the differential relief valve, by discharging to the atmosphere, shall
operate to maintain the pressure between the check valves at less than the
supply pressure. The unit must include tightly closing shut-off valves located
at each end of the device and each device shall be fitted with properly located
test cocks.
   SERVICE CONNECTION: The opening, including all fittings and appurtenances,
at the water main through which water is supplied to the user.
   SURVEY: The collection of information pertaining to a customer's piping
system regarding the location of all connections to the public water supply
system and must include the location, type and most recent inspection and
testing data of all cross-connection control devices and methods located within
that customer's piping system. The survey must be in written form and should
not be an actual plumbing inspection.
   SYSTEM HAZARD: A condition through which an aesthetically objectionable or
degrading material not dangerous to health may enter the public water supply
system or a consumer's potable water system.
   USED WATER: Any water supplied by a public water supply system to a
consumer's water system after it has passed through the service connection and
is no longer under the control of the water supply official custodian.
   WATER PURVEYOR: The owner or official custodian of a public water system.
(Ord. 93-683, 3-23-93)
7-3C-3: WATER SYSTEM:
The water system shall be considered as made up of two (2) parts: the public
water supply system and the customer's water system.
   A.   Public Water Supply System:
      1.   The public water supply system shall consist of the source
facilities and the distribution system and shall include all those facilities
of the potable water system under the control of the Municipal Utilities
Supervisor up to and including the water service connection, after which the
customer's water system begins.
      2.   The source shall include all components of the facilities utilized
in the production, treatment, storage and delivery of water to the public water
supply distribution system.
      3.   The public water supply distribution system shall include the
network of conduits used to deliver water from the source to the customer's
water system.
   B.   Customer's Water System: The customer's water system shall include all
parts of the facilities beyond the service connection used to convey water from
the public water supply distribution system to points of use, beginning with
and including the water service extension. (Ord. 93-683, 3-23-93)
7-3C-4: CROSS-CONNECTION PROHIBITED:
   A.   Connections between potable water systems and other systems or
equipment containing water or other substances of unknown or questionable
quality are prohibited except when and where approved cross-connection control
devices or methods are installed, tested and maintained to insure proper
operation on a continuing basis.
   B.   No physical connection shall be permitted between the potable portion
of a supply and any other water supply not of equal or better bacteriological
and chemical quality as determined by inspection and analysis by the agency.
   C.   There shall be no arrangement or connection by which an unsafe
substance may enter a supply. (Ord. 93-683, 3-23-93)
7-3C-5: SURVEYS AND INVESTIGATIONS:
   A.   The consumer's premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the
approved cross-connection control device inspector for the inspection of the
presence or absence of cross-connections within the consumer's premises and
testing, repair and maintenance of cross-connection control devices within the
consumer's premises.
   B.   On request by the Municipal Utilities Supervisor or his authorized
representative, the consumer shall furnish information regarding the piping
system or systems or water use within the customer's premises. The consumer's
premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the Municipal Utilities
Supervisor or his authorized representative for the verification of information
submitted by the consumer to the Water Division of the Municipal Utilities
Department of the Village regarding cross-connection inspection results.
   C.   It shall be the responsibility of the water consumer to arrange
periodic surveys of water use practices on his premises to determine whether
there are actual or potential cross-connections to his water system through
which contaminants or pollutants could backflow into his or the public potable
water system. All cross-connection control or other plumbing inspections must
be conducted in accordance with 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 320/3 (1).
   D.   It is the responsibility of the water consumer to prevent backflow into
the public water system by insuring that:
      1.   All cross-connections are removed or approved cross- connection
control devices are installed for control of backflow and back-siphonage.
      2.   Cross-connection control devices shall be installed in accordance
with the manufacturer's instructions.
      3.   Cross-connection control devices shall be inspected at the time of
installation and at least annually by a person approved by the Agency as a
cross-connection control device inspector (CCCDI). The inspection of mechanical
devices shall include physical testing in accordance with the manufacturer's
instructions.
      4.   Testing and Records:
         a.   Each device shall be tested at the time of installation and at
least annually or more frequently if recommended by the manufacturer.
         b.   Records submitted to the Water Division of the Municipal
Utilities Department of the Village shall be available for inspection by Agency
personnel in accordance with 415 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/4.
         c.   Each cross-connection control device shall have a tag attached
listing the date of most recent testing, name of CCCDI and type and date of any
repairs made to the device.
         d.   A maintenance log shall be maintained and shall include:
            (1)   Date of each test.
            (2)   Name and approval number of persons performing the test.
            (3)   Test results.
            (4)   Repairs or servicing required.
            (5)   Date and type of repairs completed.
            (6)   Date and type of service performed. (Ord. 93-683, 3-23-93)
7-3C-6: WHERE BACKFLOW PROTECTION IS REQUIRED:
   A.   An approved cross-connection control device shall be installed on all
connections to the public water supply as described in the Plumbing Code, 77
Illinois Administrative Code 890 and the Agency's regulations, 35 Illinois
Administrative Code 680. In addition, an approved cross- connection control
device shall be installed on each water service extension to a consumer's water
system serving premises where, in the judgment of the Municipal Utilities
Supervisor, actual or potential hazards to the public water supply system
exist.
   B.   An approved cross-connection control device shall be installed on each
water service extension line to a consumer's water system serving premises
where the following conditions exist:
      1.   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless such auxiliary
supply is accepted as an additional source of supply by the Municipal Utilities
Supervisor and the source is approved by the Illinois Environmental Protection
Agency.
      2.   Premises on which any substance is handled which can create an
actual or potential hazard to the public water supply system. This shall
include premises having sources or systems containing process fluids or water
originating from the public water supply system which are no longer under the
sanitary control of the Municipal Utilities Supervisor.
      3.   Premises having internal cross-connections that, in the judgment of
the Municipal Utilities Supervisor and/or the cross-connection control device
inspector, are not correctable or intricate plumbing arrangements which make it
impractical to determine whether or not cross-connections exist.
      4.   Premises where, because of the security requirements or other
prohibitions or restrictions, it is impossible or impractical to make a
complete cross-connection survey.
      5.   Premises having a repeated history of cross-connections being
established or reestablished.
   C.   An approved cross-connection control device shall be installed on all
connections to the public water supply as described in the Plumbing Code, 77
Illinois Administrative Code 890 and the Agency's regulations, 35 Illinois
Administrative Code 653. In addition, an approved cross- connection control
device shall be installed in the water service extension line to a consumer's
system serving, but not necessarily limited to, the following types of
facilities unless the Municipal Utilities Supervisor determines that no actual
or potential hazard to the public water supply system exists:
      1.   Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics, nursing homes.
      2.   Laboratories.
      3.   Piers, docks, waterfront facilities.
      4.   Sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations or stormwater
pumping stations.
      5.   Food or beverage processing plants.
      6.   Chemical plants.
      7.   Metal plating industries.
      8.   Petroleum processing or storage plants.
      9.   Radioactive material processing plants or nuclear reactors.
      10.   Car washes.
      11.   Pesticide or herbicide or extermination plants and trucks.
      12.   Farm service and fertilizer plants and trucks. (Ord. 93-683, 3-23-
93)
7-3C-7: TYPE OF PROTECTION REQUIRED:
   A.   The type of protection required under Section
7-3C-6 of these regulations shall depend on the degree of hazard which exists
as follows:
      1.   An approved fixed proper air gap separation shall be installed where
the public water supply system may be contaminated with substances that could
cause a severe health hazard.
      2.   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention assembly shall be installed where the
public water supply system may be contaminated with a substance that could
cause a system or health hazard.
      3.   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention assembly or a double check valve
assembly shall be installed where the public water supply system may be
polluted with substances that could cause a pollution hazard not dangerous to
health.
   B.   The type of protection required under subsections
7-3C-6B4 or B5 of these regulations shall be an approved fixed proper air gap
separation or an approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention
device.
   C.   Where a public water supply or an auxiliary water supply is used for a
fire protection system, approved reduced pressure principle backflow preventers
shall be installed on the fire safety systems connected to the public water
supply when:
      1.   The fire safety system contains antifreeze, fire retardant or other
chemicals.
      2.   Water is pumped into the fire safety system from a source other than
the public water supply system.
      3.   Water flows by gravity from a nonpotable source or water can be
pumped into the fire safety system from any other source.
      4.   There is a connection whereby another source can be introduced into
the fire safety system.
   D.   All other fire safety systems connected to the potable water supply
shall be protected by a double check valve assembly on metered service lines
and a double detector check valve assembly on unmetered service lines. (Ord.
93-683, 3-23-93)
7-3C-8: BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES:
   A.   All backflow prevention devices or methods required by these rules and
regulations shall be approved by the Research Foundation for Cross-Connection
Control of the University of Southern California, American Water Works
Association (AWWA), American Association of Sanitary Engineering or American
National Standards Institute or certified by the National Sanitation Foundation
to be in compliance with applicable industries.
   B.   Installation of approved devices shall be made in accordance with the
manufacturer's instructions. Maintenance as recommended by the manufacturer of
the device shall be performed. Manufacturer's maintenance manual shall be
available on-site. (Ord. 93-683, 3-23-93)
7-3C-9: INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the consumer at any premises on which backflow
prevention devices required by these regulations are installed to have
inspections, tests, maintenance and repairs made in accordance with the
following schedule or more often where inspections indicate a need or are
specified in manufacturer's instructions.
      1.   Fixed proper air gap separations shall be inspected to document that
a proper vertical distance is maintained between the discharge point of the
service line and the flood level rim of the receptacle at the time of
installation and at least annually thereafter. Corrections to improper or
bypassed air gaps shall be made within twenty four (24) hours.
      2.   Double check valve assemblies shall be inspected and tested at time
of installation and at least annually thereafter and required service performed
within five (5) days.
      3.   Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assemblies shall be
tested at the time of installation and at least annually or more frequently if
recommended by the manufacturer and required service performed within five (5)
days.
   B.   Testing shall be performed by a person who has been approved by the
Agency as competent to service the device. Proof of approval shall be in
writing.
   C.   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most recent
test or visual inspection, name of tester and type and date of repairs.
   D.   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
      1.   Date of each test or visual inspection.
      2.   Name and approval number of person performing the test or visual
inspection.
      3.   Test results.
      4.   Repairs and servicing required.
      5.   Repairs performed and dates of completion.
      6.   Servicing performed and dates of completion.
   E.   Whenever backflow prevention devices required by these regulations are
found to be defective, they shall be repaired or replaced at the expense of the
consumer without delay as required by subsection A of this Section.
   F.   Backflow prevention devices shall not be bypassed, made inoperative,
removed or otherwise made ineffective without specific authorization by the
Municipal Utilities Supervisor. (Ord. 93-683, 3-23-93)
7-3C-10: BOOSTER PUMPS:
   A.   Where a booster pump has been installed on the service line to or
within any premises, such pump shall be equipped with a low pressure cut-off
device designed to shut off the booster pump when the pressure in the service
line on the suction side of the pump drops to twenty (20) psi or less.
   B.   It shall be the duty of the water consumer to maintain the low pressure
cut-off device in proper working order and to certify to the Municipal
Utilities Supervisor, at least once per year, that the device is operable.
(Ord. 93-683, 3-23-93)
7-3C-11: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   All plumbing installed within the Village shall be installed in
accordance with the Illinois Plumbing Code, 77 Illinois Administrative Code
890. That, if in accordance with the Illinois Plumbing Code or in the judgment
of the Municipal Utilities Supervisor, an approved backflow prevention device
is necessary for the safety of the public water supply system, the Municipal
Utilities Supervisor will give notice to the water customer to install such an
approved device immediately. The customer shall, at his own expense, install
such an approved device at a location and in a manner in accordance with the
Illinois Plumbing Code, Illinois Environmental Protection Agency and all
applicable local regulations and shall have inspections and tests made of such
approved devices upon installation and as required by the Illinois Plumbing
Code, Illinois Environmental Protection Agency and local regulations.
   B.   No person shall establish or permit to be established or maintain or
permit to be maintained any connection whereby a private, auxiliary or
emergency water supply other than the regular public water supply of the
Village may enter the supply or distribution system of said Municipality,
unless such private, auxiliary or emergency water supply and method of
connection and use of such supply shall have been approved by the Municipal
Utilities Supervisor and the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   C.   It shall be the duty of the Municipal Utilities Supervisor to cause
surveys and investigations to be made of commercial, industrial and other
properties served by the public water supply to determine whether actual or
potential hazards to the public water supply may exist. Such surveys and
investigations shall be made a matter of public record and shall be repeated at
least every two (2) years or as often as the Municipal Utilities Supervisor
shall deem necessary. Records of such surveys shall be maintained and available
for review for a period of at least five (5) years.
   D.   The approved cross-connection control device inspector shall have the
right to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to
the public water supply or distribution system of the village for the purpose
of verifying the presence or absence of cross connections, and that the
municipal utilities supervisor or his authorized agent shall have the right to
enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public
water supply or distribution system of the village for the purpose of verifying
information submitted by the customer regarding the required cross connection
control inspection. On demand the owner, lessees or occupants of any property
so served shall furnish to the municipal utilities supervisor any information
which he may request regarding the piping system or systems or water use on
such property. The refusal of such information, when demanded, shall, within
the discretion of the municipal utilities supervisor, be deemed evidence of the
presence of improper connections as provided in this article.
   E.   The municipal utilities supervisor of the village is hereby authorized
and directed to discontinue, after reasonable notice to the consumer thereof,
the water service to any property wherein any connection in violation of the
provisions of this article is known to exist and to take such other
precautionary measures as he may deem necessary to eliminate any danger of
contamination of the public water supply distribution mains. Water service to
such property shall not be restored until such conditions have been eliminated
or corrected in compliance with the provisions of this article.
   F.   Immediate disconnection with verbal notice can be effected when the
municipal utilities supervisor is assured that imminent danger of harmful
contamination of the public water supply system exists. Such action shall be
followed by written notification of the cause of disconnection.
   G.   Immediate disconnection without notice to any party can be effected to
prevent actual or anticipated contamination or pollution of the public water
supply; provided that, in the reasonable opinion of the municipal utilities
supervisor or the Illinois environmental protection agency, such action is
required to prevent actual or potential contamination or pollution of the
public water supply.
   H.   Neither the public water supply, the municipal utilities supervisor or
its agents or assigns shall be liable to any customer for any injury, damages
or lost revenues which may result from termination of said customer's water
supply in accordance with the terms of this article, whether or not said
termination was with or without notice.
   I.   The consumer responsible for back siphoned or back pressured material
or contamination through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply
system occurs through an illegal cross connection or an improperly installed,
maintained or repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear
the cost of cleanup of the potable water supply system. (Ord. 93-683, 3-23-
1993)
7-3C-12: APPEAL PROCESS:
   A.   Should a property owner or water consumer dispute the findings of the
utilities supervisor regarding the existence of an actual or potential cross
connection, the property owner or water consumer may appeal said findings to
the village administrator. The appeal process shall be as follows:
      1.   The property owner or water consumer shall notify the village
administrator, in writing, that he (she) requests a hearing to dispute all or
part of the findings of the cross connection control inspection or survey and
stating as completely as possible the basis for the dispute.
      2.   A formal hearing before the village administrator shall be held
within fifteen (15) days of receipt of the written request for a hearing on the
dispute.
      3.   At the hearing, the property owner and the village shall be entitled
to present all evidence that is, in the village administrator's view, relevant
and material to the dispute.
      4.   Based upon the evidence presented at the hearing and using any other
resources available to him, the village administrator, within ten (10) days of
completion of the hearing, shall issue a written decision formally resolving
the dispute. The village administrator's decision shall be final and binding.
   B.   The request for a hearing regarding a dispute in the findings of cross
connection control inspection or survey shall not prevent the village from
discontinuing water service to any property in accordance with the terms of
these regulations.
   C.   The village administrator may not alter the type of cross connection
device necessary in any situation, as set forth by the Illinois environmental
protection agency or the Illinois state plumbing code. The purpose of the
appeal hearing is solely to determine if the suspected actual or potential
cross connection exists. (Ord. 93-683, 3-23-1993)
7-3C-13: PENALTIES:
   A.   The municipal utilities supervisor shall deny or discontinue, after
reasonable notice to the occupant thereof, the water service to any premises
wherein any backflow prevention device required by these regulations is not
installed, tested, maintained or repaired in a manner acceptable to the
municipal utilities supervisor or if it is found that the backflow prevention
device has been removed or bypassed or if an unprotected cross connection
exists on the premises or if a low pressure cutoff required by these
regulations is not installed and maintained in working order. (Ord. 93-683, 3-
23-1993; amd. 1994 Code)
   B.   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the consumer
has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in conformance with
these regulations and to the satisfaction of the municipal utilities supervisor
and the required reinstatement fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) during
normal business hours and any fines imposed are paid. The reinstatement fee
will be seventy five dollars ($75.00) after normal business hours. (Ord. 06-
1342, 1-24-2006)
   C.   Neither the village public water supply, the municipal utilities
supervisor or its agents or assigns shall be liable to any customer of the
village public water supply for any injury, damages or lost revenues which may
result from termination of said customer's water supply in accordance with the
terms of this article, whether or not said termination of the water supply was
with or without notice.
   D.   The customer responsible for back siphoned material or contamination
through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs
through an illegal cross connection or an improperly installed, maintained or
repaired device or a device which has been bypassed, must bear the cost of
cleanup of the potable water supply system.
   E.   Any person found to be violating any provision of this article shall be
served with written notice stating the notice of the violation and providing a
reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender
shall, within the period of time stated in such notice, permanently cease all
violation.
   F.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this article in addition
to any fines provided, shall become liable to the village for any expense, loss
or damage occasioned by the village by reason of such violation, whether the
same was caused before or after notice.
   G.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall, upon
conviction, be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 93-683, 3-23-1993; amd. 1994 Code)
ARTICLE D. PUBLIC AND PRIVATE SEWERS
SECTION:
7-3D-1: Definitions
7-3D-2: Use of Public Sewers Required
7-3D-3: Private Sewage Disposal
7-3D-4: Building Sewers and Connections; Fees
7-3D-5: Sewer Connection Procedures
7-3D-6: Use of the Public Sewers
7-3D-7: Protection of Sewage Works from Damage
7-3D-8: Powers and Authority of Inspectors
7-3D-9: Access to System by IEPA
7-3D-10: Penalty
7-3D-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the content specifically indicates a contrary meaning, the terms of this
Article shall be defined by the meanings designated in this Section:
   CLARIFICATION OF WORD USAGE: "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissible.
   FEDERAL GOVERNMENT:
      Administrator: The Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency.
      Federal Act: The Federal Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. 466 et seq.) as
amended. (Pub. L. 95-217)
      Federal Grant: The U.S. government participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by title II - Grants for
Construction of Treatment Works of the Act and implementing regulations.
   LOCAL GOVERNMENT:
      Approving Authority: The Village of Shorewood.
      Village: The Village of Shorewood.
   NPDES PERMIT: Any permit or equivalent document or requirements issued by
the Administrator or, where appropriate, by the Director, after enactment of
the Federal Clean Water Act to regulate the discharge of pollutants pursuant to
section 402 of the Federal Act.
   PERSON: Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, company, Municipal or private corporation, association,
society, institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
   SEWER TYPES AND APPURTENANCES:
      Building Drain: That part of the lowest piping of a drainage system which
receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside the
walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer or other approved
point of discharge, beginning five feet (5') (1.5 meters) outside the inner
face of the building wall.
      Combined Sewer: A sewer which is designed and intended to receive
wastewater, storm, surface and ground water drainage.
      Easement: An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
      Public Sewer: A sewer provided by or subject to the jurisdiction of the
Village. It shall also include sewers within or outside the Village boundaries
that serve one or more persons and ultimately discharge into the Village
sanitary (or combined sewer system), even though those sewers may not have been
constructed with Village funds.
      Sanitary Sewer: A sewer that conveys sewage or industrial wastes or a
combination of both and into which storm, surface and ground waters or polluted
industrial wastes are not intentionally admitted.
      Sewer: A pipe or conduit for conveying sewage or any other waste liquids,
including storm, surface and ground water drainage.
      Sewerage: The system of sewers and appurtenances for the collection,
transportation and pumping of sewage.
      Storm Sewer: A sewer that carries storm, surface and ground water
drainage but excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted
cooling water.
      Storm Water Runoff: That portion of the precipitation that is drained
into the sewers.
   STATE GOVERNMENT:
      Director: The Director of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
      State Act: The Illinois Anti-Pollution Bond Act of 1970.
      State Grant: The State of Illinois participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by the Illinois Anti-Pollution
Bond Act and for making such grants as filed with the Secretary of State of the
State of Illinois.
   TREATMENT:
      Pretreatment: The treatment of wastewaters from sources before
introduction into the wastewater treatment works.
      Wastewater Treatment Works: An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge. Sometimes used as synonymous
with "waste treatment plant" or "wastewater treatment plant" or "pollution
control plant".
   TYPES OF CHARGES:
      Capital Improvement Charge: A charge levied on users to improve, extend
or reconstruct the sewage treatment works.
      Debt Service Charge: The amount to be paid each billing period for
payment of interest, principal and coverage of (loan, bond, etc.) debts
outstanding.
      Local Capital Cost Charge: Charges for costs other than the operation,
maintenance and replacement costs, i.e., debt service and capital improvement
costs.
      Replacement: Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed. The term "operation and maintenance" includes
replacement.
      Sewerage Fund: The principal accounting designation for all revenues
received in the operation of the sewerage system.
      Surcharge: The assessment in addition to the basic user charge and debt
service charge which is levied on those persons whose wastes are greater in
strength than the concentration values established in Article E of this
Chapter.
      Useful Life: The estimated period during which the collection system and/
or treatment works will be operated.
      User Charge: A charge levied on users of treatment works for the cost of
operation, maintenance and replacement.
      Wastewater Service Charge: The charge per quarter or month levied on all
users of the wastewater facilities. The service charge shall be computed as
outlined in this Article and shall consist of the total or the basic user
charge, the local capital cost and a surcharge, if applicable.
   USER TYPES:
      Commercial User: Shall include transit lodging, retail and wholesale
establishments or places engaged in selling merchandise or rendering services.
      Control Manhole: A structure located on a site from which industrial
wastes are discharged. Where feasible, the manhole shall have an interior drop.
The purpose of a control manhole is to provide access for the Village
representative to sample and/or measure discharges.
      Industrial Users: Shall include establishments engaged in manufacturing
activities involving the mechanical or chemical transformation of materials of
substance into products.
      Institutional/Governmental User: Shall include schools, churches, penal
institutions and users associated with Federal, State and local governments.
      Residential User: All dwelling units such as houses, mobile homes,
apartments, permanent multi-family dwellings.
      User Class: The type of user "residential", "institutional/governmental",
"commercial" or "industrial" as defined herein.
   WASTEWATER AND ITS CHARACTERISTICS:
      BOD: (Denoting Biochemical Oxygen Demand): The quantity of oxygen
utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedures in five (5) days at twenty degrees (20o) Celsius
expressed in milligrams per liter.
      Effluent Criteria: Are defined in any applicable NPDES permit.
      Floatable Oil: Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
      Garbage: Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation,
cooking and dispensing of food and from the handling, storage and sale of food.
      Industrial Waste: Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance discharged,
permitted to flow or escaping from any industrial, manufacturing, commercial or
business establishment or process, or from the development, recovery or
processing of any natural resource as distinct from sanitary sewage.
      Major Contributing Industry: An industrial user of the publicly owned
treatment works that: a) has a flow of fifty thousand (50,000) gallons or more
per average work day; or b) has a flow greater than ten percent (10%) of the
flow carried by the Municipal system receiving the waste; or c) has in its
waste, a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in standards issued under
section 307 (a) of the Federal Act; or d) is found by the permit issuant
authority, in connection with the issuance of the NPDES waste, to have
significant impact, either singly or in combination with other contributing
industries, on that treatment works or upon the quality of effluent from that
treatment works.
      Milligrams per Liter: A unit of the concentration of water or wastewater
constituent. It is 0.001 g of the constituent in 1,000 ml of water. It has
replaced the unit formerly used commonly, parts per million, to which it is
approximately equivalent, in reporting the results of water and wastewater
analysis.
      pH: The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen-ion
concentration expressed by one of the procedures outlined in the IEPA Division
of Laboratories Manual of Laboratory Methods.
      ppm: Parts per million by weight.
      Population Equivalent: A term used to evaluate the impact of industrial
or other waste on a treatment works or stream. One population equivalent is one
hundred (100) gallons of sewage per day, containing seventeen one- hundredths
(.17) pounds of BOD per capita and twenty one- hundredths (.20) pounds of
suspended solids per capita.
      Properly Shredded Garbage: The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") (1.27 centimeters)
in any dimension.
      Sewage: Is used interchangeably with "wastewater".
      Slug: Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes more than five (5) times
the average twenty four (24) hour concentration or flows during normal
operation.
      Suspended Solids (SS): Solids that either float on the surface of or are
in suspension in water, sewage or industrial waste and which are removable by a
laboratory filtration device. Quantitative determination of suspended solids
shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in the IEPA Division of
Laboratories Manual of Laboratory Methods.
      Unpolluted Water: Quality equal to or better than the effluent criteria
in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water quality
standards and would not be benefited by discharge to the sanitary sewers and
wastewater treatment facilities provided.
       Wastewater: The spent water of a community. From this standpoint of
course, it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together
with any ground water, surface water and storm water that may be present.
      Water Quality Standards: Are defined in the Water Pollution Regulations
of Illinois.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES: The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes and transport
effluent to a watercourse.
   WATERCOURSE AND CONNECTIONS:
      Natural Outlet: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or ground water.
      Watercourse: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either
continuously or intermittently. (Ord. 685, 4-13-93)
7-3D-2: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
Village or in any area under the jurisdiction of the Village, any human or
animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
Village or in any area under the jurisdiction of the Village, any sewage or
other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this Article and any other applicable
law or regulation.
   C.   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   D.   The owner of all houses, building or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes situated within the Village
and abutting on any street, alley or right of way in which there is now located
or may in the future be located any public sanitary or combined sewer of the
Village, is hereby required at his/her sole cost to install suitable toilet
facilities therein and to connect such facilities directly with the proper
public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this Article and any other
applicable ordinances of the Village, within ninety (90) days after date of
official notice to do so, provided that a public sanitary sewer line is within
two hundred feet (200') of the property line. (Ord. 92-631, 3-24-92)
7-3D-3: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
   A.   Private System Permitted: Where a public sanitary sewer is not
available to existing developments within the Village under the provisions of
this and other applicable ordinances, the building sewer shall be connected to
a private sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this Article
and all other governmental regulations.
   B.   Permit Requirements: Before commencement of construction, installation
or repair of a private sewage disposal system, the owner shall, among other
permits, obtain a written permit signed by the Village. The application for
such permit shall be made on a form furnished by the Village, which the
applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications and other information
as deemed necessary by the Village. A permit and inspection fee of one hundred
dollars ($100.00) shall be paid to the Village at the time the application is
filed.
   C.   Inspection: A permit for usage or operation of a private sewage
disposal system shall not become effective until the installation or repair is
completed to the satisfaction of the Village. The Village shall be allowed to
inspect the work at any stage of construction or repair and, in any event, the
applicant for the permit shall notify the Village when the work is ready for
final inspection and before any underground portions are covered. The
inspection shall be made within five (5) business days of the receipt of
written notice by the Village.
   D.   Construction Specifications: The type, capacities, location and layout
of a private sewage disposal system shall fully comply with all recommendations
and requirements of the State of Illinois Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act
and Code, the State of Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, the County of
Will Private Sewage Disposal Ordinance and all other applicable laws or
regulations.
   E.   Connection to Public Sewer: At such time as a public sewer becomes
available to a property served by a private sewage disposal system, as provided
in this Article, the property owner shall, at his sole cost and expense, make a
direct connection within ninety (90) days to the public sewer in compliance
with this Article, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage
disposal facilities shall be abandoned, cleaned and filled with suitable
material as required by applicable law or regulation.
   F.   Responsibility Of Owner: The owner shall, at all times, operate and
maintain the private sewage disposal facilities in a sanitary manner and in
compliance with all applicable laws and regulations and at no expense to the
Village.
   G.   Provisions Nonlimiting: No statement contained in this article shall be
construed to eliminate or amend any additional requirements that may be imposed
by the Will County Health Department or other government bodies. (Ord. 92-631,
3-24-1992)
7-3D-4: BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS; FEES:
   A.   Permit Required: No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any
connections with or opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or
appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the Village.
   B.   Discharges Restricted: All disposal by any person into the sewer system
is unlawful except those discharges in compliance with Federal standards
promulgated pursuant to the Federal act and more stringent State and local
standards.
   C.   Permit Classifications; Application Form And Requirements:
      1.   There shall be two (2) classes of building sewer connection permits:
a) for residential, wastewater service, and b) for commercial, institutional/
governmental or industrial wastewater service. In either case, the owner or his
agent shall make application on a form furnished by the Village.
      2.   The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of the
Village.
   D.   Connection Permit Fees:
      1.   Residential Connection: A residential building sewer connection
permit and inspection fee of two thousand nine hundred forty dollars
($2,940.00) for each residential building or each dwelling unit shall be paid
to the Village at the time the application is filed.
      2.   Non-Residential Connection: A building sewer connection and
inspection fee for each proposed commercial or industrial waste sewer
connection for any building including all units of a building "shell" shall be
paid to the Village at the time of issuance of a permit.
         a.   An "equivalent residential unit", or PE (population equivalent),
shall be defined as the use of one hundred (100) gallons per day of water/sewer
service. A non-residential unit shall have a minimum of three (3) PE.
         b.   One (1) PE shall have the value of one thousand dollars
($1,000.00).
         c.   After fifteen (15) full months of operation by the nonresidential
user, water usage records may be reviewed for the previous twelve (12)
consecutive months to determine the actual number of equivalent residential
users. The revised connection fee shall be calculated using the actual number
of equivalent residential users, additional fees shall be collected as
necessary. No refunds shall be made.
      3.   Outstanding Obligations: All owners'/developers'/applicants'
outstanding obligations to the Village must be paid in full as a condition
precedent to filing a building sewer connection permit. The commercial or
industrial user, as a condition of permit application, must provide information
describing its wastewater constituents.
   E.   Determination Of Waste Load: A building sewer connection permit will
only be issued and a sewer connection shall only be allowed if it can be
demonstrated by the applicant that the downstream sewerage facilities,
including sewers, pump stations, wastewater treatment facilities and
appurtenances to the wastewater treatment facilities have sufficient reserve
capacity to adequately and efficiently handle the additional anticipated waste
load. Notwithstanding, however, the Village reserves the right to refuse
connection if it, in its sole determination, finds there is insufficient
unreserved or uncommitted capacity to treat the additional anticipated waste
load or that the connection to the sewer or anticipated waste to be discharged
would violate Shorewood's agreement with any entity providing the Village with
sewage treatment or otherwise violate any law or regulation.
   F.   Costs Borne By Owner: All costs and expense incident to the
installation and connection of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner.
The owner shall indemnify the Village from any loss, claims, liability or
damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the
building sewer.
   G.   Separate Sewers; Exception: A separate and independent building sewer
shall be provided for every building, except that where one (1) building stands
at the rear of another on an interior lot and no sewer is available or can be
constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or
driveway. In such instance the building sewer from the front building may be
extended to the rear building so long as a manhole is provided for the
connection.
   H.   New Connection To Existing Building Sewer; Application Fee: Existing
building sewers may be used in connection with the new buildings at the
discretion of the Village. Prior to the connection of the connection of the new
building to the existing building sewer line, the owner shall submit an
application permit to the Village with an application fee of one hundred
dollars ($100.00). At the owner's additional cost and expense, the Village,
prior to issuance of a connection permit, may examine and test the sewer to
confirm it meets the requirements of all Village ordinances.
   I.   Construction Specifications: The size, slope, alignment, materials of
construction of a building sewer and the methods to be used in excavating,
placement of the pipe, jointing, testing and backfilling the trench, shall all
conform to the requirements of the building and Plumbing Codes or other
applicable rules and regulations of the Village. In the absence of Code
provisions or in amplification thereof, the materials and procedures set forth
in appropriate specifications of the American Society of Testing Materials,
"Water Pollution Control Federal Manual of Practice No. 9" and "Standard
Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois" shall apply.
   J.   Overhead Sewers: All structures with any floor including basement
floors below grade at foundation are required to have an overhead sewer. All
plumbing fixtures below grade shall drain to an ejector pit with pump. This pit
shall have a tight seal cover. The discharge outlet of the pump shall be no
less than one and one-fourth inches (11/4") for ejectors serving floor drains,
laundry tubs and washing machines only. A pump with an outlet of no less than
two inches (2") shall be required for pumps serving toilets, lavatories,
bathtubs, showers, kitchens and other uses as determined by the plumbing
inspector. The pit diameter for pumps with a one and one-half inch (11/2")
outlet shall be no less than twenty four inches (24"). The pit diameter for
pumps with an outlet of two inches (2") shall be no less than thirty inches
(30"). The ejector pit shall be sized in accordance with the number of units
draining into the ejector pit. Overhead sewers shall not be required for
structures built with a crawl space or on a concrete slab.
   K.   Surface Runoff Or Ground Water: No person(s) shall make or maintain
connection of roof downspout, exterior foundation drains, areaway drains or
other sources of surface runoff or ground water to a building sewer or building
drain which in turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary
sewer.
   L.   Building Sewer Connection To Public Sewer: The connection of the
building sewer into the public sewer shall conform to the requirements of the
building and Plumbing Codes or other applicable rules and regulations of the
Village or the procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
American Society of Testing Materials, "Water Pollution Control Federal Manual
of Practice No. 9", and "Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main
Construction in Illinois", whichever standard is more restrictive. All such
connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any deviation from the
prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the Village before
installation.
   M.   Inspection: The applicant for the building sewer connection permit
shall notify the Village when the building sewer is ready for inspection and
connection to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the
supervision of the Village or its representative.
   N.   Excavations Guarded: All excavations for building sewer connection
installation shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights in
compliance with all applicable standards established for excavations by the
State Department of Transportation, so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the Village.
   O.   Sewer And Water Capital Improvement Account: All funds collected from
sewer and water tap-on/connection fees shall be accounted for in a separate
account of the Village known as the sewer and water system capital improvement
account (hereinafter sometimes referred to as the capital improvement account).
The designated funds of the capital improvement account may only be expended
for the construction of capital improvements related to the sewer and water
systems including, but not limited to, the construction and/or extension of
sewer/water mains, lines, valves, hydrants, wells, well houses, sewer treatment
facilities, lift stations and other related infrastructure improvements,
together with the acquisition of property and/or easements necessary therefor.
   P.   Retained Earnings - Capital Improvements Account: The balance remaining
in the capital improvement account at the end of each fiscal period will be
held in a restricted retained earnings account. This account, retained earnings
- capital improvements, will only be available for capital improvement spending
as defined in subsection O of this section.
   Q.   Pre-Existing Service: In the event of the changes to a non- residential
building, the reconstruction of a building or the change in use of a building
on a lot that already has sewer or water service necessitates a larger service
tap size, the customer shall pay a connection fee equal to the difference
between the existing service fee and the new service fee. No credit will be
given in the event that the tap size decreases. (Ord. 17-1839, 3-28-2017)
7-3D-5: SEWER CONNECTION PROCEDURES:
   A.   Piercing Or Opening Sewers Or Drains: The Village Department of
Municipal Utilities (hereinafter sometimes referred to as Utilities Department)
shall prescribe the method of piercing or opening any of its sewers or drains
and the materials to be used to the extent that such method is consistent with
the provisions herein.
   B.   Bedding Requirements: All individual sanitary sewer service pipes shall
be embedded on a three inch (3") thick select granular bedding. This bedding
shall extend to two inches (2") above the top of the service pipe.
   C.   Watertight Plugs: All individual sanitary sewer service pipes shall be
plugged with a watertight plug by the Village Utilities Department at the time
of installation to prevent infiltration from basement areas during
construction. The Utilities Department shall affix a seal to the watertight
plug. (Ord. 92-631, 3-24-1992)
   D.   Owner Liable: It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the
Utilities Department to tamper with, alter, break or remove the watertight plug
and/or seal. Further, the owner of the property is prima facie liable for any
tampering, altering, breaking or removal of any watertight plug and/or seal on
his property. (Ord. 92-631, 3-24-1992; amd. Ord. 04-1205, 2-24-2004, eff. 4-1-
2004)
7-3D-6: USE OF THE PUBLIC SEWERS:
   A.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged, any stormwater,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   B.   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as sewers or storm sewers or to a
natural outlet approved by the Village. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted
process waters may be discharged on approval of the Village, to a storm sewer,
combined sewer or natural outlet.
   C.   No person shall discharge or cause to discharge any waters or wastes
into the Village public sewers which at point of discharge fail to fully
conform with the standards imposed for discharge into any public sewer of the
type and operation of the Village by any Federal, State or local body or agency
or any government which provides treatment of the Village's sanitary waste.
These standards include, but are not restricted to, those established by the
City of Joliet, Will County, Illinois, under its code of ordinances including
Joliet ordinance 8379 as from time to time amended, a copy of which ordinance
is on file with the Village.
   D.   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be discharged
to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in this article and/or which are in violation of the
standards for pretreatment provided in 40 CFR 403, June 26, 1978, and any
amendments thereto and which in the judgment of the Village may have a
deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment or receiving
waters or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public
nuisance, the village may:
      1.   Reject the wastes;
      2.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewers;
      3.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      4.   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges, under the provisions
of this article.
If the Village permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows, the
design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject to the
review and approval of the Village and subject to the requirements of all
applicable Codes, ordinances and laws.
   E.   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Village, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing grease in excessive amounts or any flammable wastes, sand or
other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be required
for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a
type and capacity approved by the Village and shall be located as to be readily
and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
   F.   Where preliminary treatment or flow equalizing facilities are provided,
they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation
by the owner at his expense.
   G.   Each industry shall be required to install a control manhole and when
required by the Village, the owner of any property serviced by a building sewer
carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control manhole together
with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building sewer to
facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the wastes. Such manhole,
when required, shall be accessibly and safely located and shall be constructed
in accordance with plans approved by the Village. The manhole shall be
installed by the owner at his expense and shall be maintained by him so as to
be safe and accessible at all times.
   H.   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall provide laboratory measurements, tests and analyses of
waters and wastes to illustrate compliance with this article and any special
conditions for discharge established by the Village or regulatory agencies
having jurisdiction over the discharge.
The number, type and frequency of laboratory analyses to be performed by the
owner shall be as stipulated by the Village but no less than once per year. The
industry must supply a complete analyses of the constituents of the wastewater
discharge to assure that compliance with the Federal, State and local standards
are being met. The owner shall report the results of measurements and
laboratory analyses to the Village at such times and in such a manner as
prescribed by the Village. The owner shall bear the expenses of all
measurements, analyses and reporting required by the Village. At such times as
deemed necessary, the Village reserves the right to take measurements and
samples for analyses by an outside laboratory service.
   I.   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this article shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of "IEPA Division of Laboratories Manual of
Laboratory Methods" and shall be determined at the control manhole provided or
upon suitable samples taken at said control manhole. In the event that no
special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be considered to
be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the
building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily
accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works
and to determine the existence of hazards to life, limb and property. The
particular analyses involved will determine whether a twenty four (24) hour
composite of all outfalls of a premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample
or samples should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids
analyses are obtained from twenty four (24) hour composites of all outfalls,
whereas pHs are determined from periodic grab samples.
   J.   No statement contained in this article shall be construed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangement between the Village and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the Village for treatment, subject to payment therefor, in
accordance with this article, by the industrial concern provided such payments
are in accordance with Federal and State guidelines for user charge system.
(Ord. 92-631, 3-24-1992)
7-3D-7: PROTECTION OF SEWAGE WORKS FROM DAMAGE:
No unauthorized person shall maliciously, wilfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which
is a part of the sewage works. Any person violating this provision shall be
subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct. (Ord. 92-631,
3-24-1992)
7-3D-8: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS:
   A.   The Village and other duly authorized employees or persons authorized
by the Village, the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency and the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency, bearing proper credentials and identification,
shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling and testing in accordance with the
provisions of this article. The Village, or its representative, shall have no
authority to inquire into any processes, including metallurgical, chemical, oil
refining, ceramic, paper or other industries beyond that point having a direct
bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterway or
facilities for waste treatment.
   B.   The Village and other duly authorized employees of the Village, bearing
proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the Village holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
   C.   In the event the Village is not permitted to conduct any inspection,
testing or sampling it deems necessary or convenient to assure compliance with
this article or other applicable governmental regulations, the Village shall
have the right to request a court of competent jurisdiction to issue such
administrative warrant or order as may be applicable, to fully inspect any
building or premises to determine compliance with this and any other ordinance
or regulation. (Ord. 92-631, 3-24-1992)
7-3D-9: ACCESS TO SYSTEM BY IEPA:
The State Environmental Protection Agency shall have such access as permitted
by law to the Village wastewater distribution system. (Ord. 92-631, 3-24-1992)
7-3D-10: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of violating this article, or any provision thereof, shall
be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for the first offense and not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for the second and
succeeding offenses. Every day upon which a violation exists shall be
considered a separate and distinct violation. In addition, the Village shall
have all such other rights and remedies as may be available to it at law or
equity. (Ord. 92-631, 3-24-1992)
ARTICLE E. WASTEWATER SERVICE RATES AND CHARGES
SECTION:
7-3E-1: Definitions
7-3E-2: Wastewater Service Charges
7-3E-3: Billing Procedures; Delinquencies
7-3E-4: Lien For Nonpayment
7-3E-5: Disposition Of Revenues
7-3E-6: System Of Accounts
7-3E-7: Termination Of Service; Hearing
7-3E-8: Access
7-3E-9: Penalty
7-3E-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless contrary definitions are provided or otherwise intended, the terms used
in this article are defined in section
7-3D-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 93-685, 4-13-1993)
7-3E-2: WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGES:
   A.   Basis For Wastewater Service Charges: The wastewater service charge for
the use of and for service supplied by the wastewater facilities of the Village
shall consist of a basic user charge, a capital improvement charge and all
other applicable surcharges as from time to time established by the Village.
   B.   Basic User Charge:
      1.   The basic user charge is levied on all users to recover the
operation, maintenance plus replacement (hereinafter sometimes collectively
referred to as OM&R) costs and shall be based on water usage as recorded by
water meters or sewage meters for wastes having the following normal domestic
concentrations:
         a.   A five (5) day, twenty degree centigrade (20°C) biochemical
oxygen demand (BOD) of four hundred milligrams per liter (400 mg/L).
         b.   A suspended solids content of five hundred twenty milligrams per
liter (520 mg/L).
   C.   Debt Service Charge: (Rep. by Ord. 17-1866, 11-28-2017, eff. 12-1-2017)
   D.   Surcharge:
      1.   In addition to any other surcharges as may from time to time be
imposed, a surcharge will be levied to all users whose waters exceed the normal
domestic concentrations of BOD (400 milligrams per liter) and SS (520
milligrams per liter). The surcharge will be based on water usage as recorded
by water meters or sewage meters for all wastes which exceed the four hundred
milligrams per liter (400 mg/L) and five hundred twenty milligrams per liter
(520 mg/L) concentrations for BOD and SS respectively.
      2.   The concentration of wastes used for computing surcharges shall be
established by waste sampling. Waste sampling shall be performed as often as
may be deemed necessary by the Village and shall be binding and determinative
as a basis for surcharges.
   E.   Rate Review: (Rep. by Ord. 17-1866, 11-28-2017, eff. 12-1-2017)
   F.   OM&R Notification: (Rep. by Ord. 17-1866, 11-28-2017, eff. 12-1-2017)
   G.   Measurement Of Flow: The volume of flow used for computing basic user
charges and surcharges shall be the metered water consumption read to the
lowest even increments of one thousand (1,000) gallons.
      1.   If the person discharging wastes into the public sewers procures any
part, or all, of his water from sources other than the public waterworks
system, all or parts of which are discharged into the public sewers, the person
shall install and maintain, at his expense, water meters of a type approved by
the Village for the purpose of determining the volume of water obtained from
these other sources.
      2.   Devices for measuring the volume of waste discharged may be required
by the Village if these volumes cannot otherwise be determined from the metered
water consumption records.
      3.   Metering devices for determining the volume of waste shall be
installed, owned and maintained by the person. Following approval and
installation, such meters may not be removed, unless service is canceled,
without the consent of the Village.
   H.   Basic User Charge Established: (Rep. by Ord. 17-1866, 11-28-2017, eff.
12-1-2017)
   I.   Debt Service Charge: (Rep. by Ord. 17-1866, 11-28-2017, eff. 12-1-2017)
   J.   Rates:
      1.   Residential Service Charge: A service charge of twelve dollars fifty
five cents ($12.55) per month shall be applied to all residential users.
      2.   Commercial And Industrial Service Charge: A service charge of
seventeen dollars fifty five cents ($17.55) per month shall be applied to all
commercial and industrial users.
      3.   Residential, commercial and industrial user charge:
         a.   For bills rendered commencing April 1, 2024, nine dollars and
forty-five cents ($9.45 per one thousand (1,000) gallons of water usage.
         b.   For bills rendered commencing April 1, 2025, ten dollars and six
cents ($10.06) per one thousand (1,000) gallons of water usage.
         c.   For bills rendered commencing April 1, 2026, ten dollars seventy-
one cents ($10.71) per one thousand (1,000) gallons of water usage.
   K.   Flat Rate:
      1.   All non-metered users of wastewater facilities shall pay a flat rate
of:
         a.   For bills rendered commencing April 1, 2024, seventy eight
dollars and seventy-cents ($78.70) (base fee of $12.55 and OM&R fee of $66.15).
         b.   For bills rendered commencing April 1, 2025, eighty two dollars
ninety-seven cents ($82.97) (base fee of $12.55 and OM&R fee of $70.42).
         c.   For bills rendered commencing April 1, 2026, eighty seven dollars
and fifty-two cents ($87.52) (base fee of $12.55 and OM&R fee of $74.97).
      2.   In the event use of the wastewater facilities is determined by the
Village to be in excess of seven thousand (7,000) gallons per month, the
Village may require such flat rate user to install metering devices on the
water supply or sewer main to measure the amount of service supplied.
   L.   Surcharge Rates: The rates of surcharges for BOD and SS shall be as set
forth in the applicable sections of the City of Joliet ordinance 8379, as from
time to time amended, a copy of which ordinance is on file with the Village.
(Ord. 93-685, 4-13-1993; amd. Ord. 14-1723, 2-25-2014, eff. 4-1-2014; Ord. 17-
1866, 11-28-2017, eff. 12-1-2017; Ord. 18-1871, 1-23-2018; Ord. 22-2051, 9-13-
2022; Ord. 23-2064, 3-14-2023; Ord. 23-2084, 12-12-2023)
7-3E-3: BILLING PROCEDURES; DELINQUENCIES:
   A.   Bills:
      1.   The sewer rates or charges for service, as required herein, shall be
payable monthly. The owner of the premises, the occupant thereof and the user
of the service, by accepting service, acknowledge and agree to be jointly and
severally liable to pay for the service to such premises and the service is
furnished to the premises by the Village only upon the condition that the owner
of the premises, occupant and user of the services are jointly and severally
liable therefor to the Village.
      2.   Bills for sewer service shall be sent out by the Village monthly.
(Ord. 93-685, 4-13-1993)
      3.   All sewer bills are due and payable twenty one (21) days after being
sent out. A penalty of ten percent (10%) per month shall be added to all bills
not paid by the twenty first day after they have been rendered.
   B.   Delinquent Bills: If the charges for such services are not paid within
forty five (45) days after the rendition of the bill for such services, such
services, after notification as provided in this article, may be discontinued
without further notice and shall not be reinstated until such time as all
violations are corrected and/or all past due utility bills are paid in full in
addition to all expenses incurred with termination of the service. (Ord. 06-
1342, 1-24-2006)
7-3E-4: LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT:
   A.   Lien, Notice Of Delinquency:
      1.   Whenever a bill for sewer service remains unpaid for forty five (45)
days for monthly service, the Village may file with the Will County Recorder of
Deeds a statement of lien claim. This statement shall contain a description of
the premises served, the amount of the unpaid bill and a notice that the
Village claims a lien for this amount as well as for all charges, subsequent to
the period covered by the bill, together with all costs associated with the
lien claim and the delinquency.
      2.   If the user whose bill is unpaid is not the owner of the premises,
and the Village has notice of this, notice shall be mailed to the owner of the
premises if his address be known to the Village, whenever such bill remains
unpaid for the period of forty five (45) days for a monthly bill after it has
been rendered. (Ord. 06-1342, 1-24-2006)
      3.   The failure of the Village to record such lien or to mail such
notice or the failure of the owner to receive such notice shall not affect the
right to foreclose the lien for the unpaid bill as mentioned in the foregoing
section.
   B.   Foreclosure Of Lien: Property subject to a lien for unpaid sewer
charges may be sold for nonpayment of the same, and the proceeds of the sale
shall be applied to pay the charges, after deducting costs, as is the case in
the foreclosure of statutory liens. Foreclosure may be instituted in the name
of the Village in any court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 93-685, 4-13-1993;
amd. 1994 Code)
7-3E-5: DISPOSITION OF REVENUES:
All revenues and monies derived from the operation of the sewerage system shall
be deposited in the sewerage account of the Sewerage Fund. All such revenues
and monies shall be held by the Village as required by law. (Ord. 93-685, 4-13-
1993)
7-3E-6: SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS:
   A.   The Village shall establish a proper system of accounts and shall keep
proper books, records and accounts in which complete and correct entries shall
be made of all transactions relative to the sewerage system and at regular
annual intervals shall cause to be made an audit by an independent auditing
concern of the books to show the receipts and disbursements of the sewerage
system.
   B.   In addition to the customary operating statements, the annual audit
report shall also reflect the revenues and operating expenses of the wastewater
facilities, including a replacement cost, to indicate that sewer service
charges under the waste cost recovery system do in fact meet these regulations.
In this regard, the financial information to be shown in the audit report shall
include the following:
      1.   Flow data showing total gallons received at the wastewater plant for
the current fiscal year.
      2.   Billing data to show total number of gallons billed per fiscal year.
      3.   Debt service for the next succeeding fiscal year.
      4.   Number of users connected to the system.
      5.   Number of nonmetered users.
      6.   A list of users discharging nondomestic and industrial wastes and
volume of waste discharged. (Ord. 93-685, 4-13-1993)
7-3E-7: TERMINATION OF SERVICE; HEARING:
   A.   Notice Of Intent To Terminate: If charges for utility services are not
paid in full within forty five (45) calendar days from the date of billing or
if the utility customer is in violation of any Village ordinance relating to
sewer or water services, the Village utility customer shall be notified of the
Village's intent to terminate sewer and/or water service prior to any such
termination. (Ord. 06-1342, 1-24-2006)
   B.   Content Of Notice Of Intent: The termination notice required herein
shall generally contain the following:
      1.   The ordinance being violated and how such violation can be
corrected, if applicable.
      2.   The number of days the account is in arrears.
      3.   The balance due, including late charges as of the notice date.
      4.   That the utility customer may contact a representative of the
Village and request an informal hearing to resolve disputes as to the
correctness of bills, arrears and/or violations of ordinances prior to
termination of services.
      5.   The name, business address and telephone number of the Village
representative to contact to schedule such informal hearing.
      6.   That unless the customer contacts the appropriate Village
representative in writing within seven (7) days of receipt of the termination
notice requesting an informal hearing on the correctness of the utility bill,
his/her sewer and/or water service will be terminated.
      7.   The date on or after which termination will be effected.
   C.   Informal Hearing: An informal hearing shall be held, upon written
request of the utility customer, within seven (7) days after written request is
made to the Village Administrator or his/her designee (sometimes herein
collectively referred to as Village representative). The purpose of the
informal hearing is to allow the utility customer an opportunity to present
information regarding the correctness of that customer's utility bill.
      1.   If the Village representative finds merit to the customer's
contentions on the utility bill's correctness, no action shall be taken to
terminate service and the user's bill shall be adjusted accordingly by the
Village representative with such adjusted bill to be paid by the utility
customer within seven (7) days of notification of the Village representative's
determination.
      2.   In the event a notice of disconnection hearing is requested by a
residential utility customer wherein the customer established he/she or a
member of his/her immediate family residing with the customer have a
preexisting life threatening medical condition certified in writing by a
medical doctor licensed by the State and/or the customer establishes he/she is
financially unable to pay the utility charge in full or part, the Village
representative may allow service continuance so long as the utility customer
makes satisfactory financial arrangements to pay for past and future utility
charges.
      3.   If the Village representative finds no merit to the customer's
contentions on the utility bill's correctness he/she shall communicate this
decision to the utility customer within ten (10) days after the informal
hearing. The utility customer shall further be notified that termination of
service will be effected if all utility bills are not paid in full or
violations corrected within seven (7) days after receipt of such decision
without further notice. (Ord. 93-685, 4-13-1993; amd. 1994 Code)
      4.   If service is terminated as herein provided, no utility service
shall be reinstated until such time as all violations are corrected and/or all
past due utility bills are paid in full in addition to all expenses incurred
with termination of the service. (Ord. 06-1342, 1-24-2006)
   D.   Payment Of Undisputed Charges: All utility customers shall timely pay
the undisputed portion of the utility bill.
   E.   Notices: For purposes of this section, any notice regarding
disconnection of service shall be given to the utility customer in the account
name and address indicated in the Village utility customer records. Any notices
required by this section to the utility customer may be given by certified
mail, return receipt requested, sufficient postage prepaid or by leaving a copy
of the notice personally with the utility customer or by leaving a copy of the
notice at the utility customer's billing address with some person over thirteen
(13) years of age at such address and mailing a copy of the notice by U.S. mail
addressed to the utility customer at the billing address. For purposes of this
section, notice transmitted through United States mail shall be deemed received
by the utility customer on the date shown by the Post Office stamp cancellation
mark stamped on the envelope. (Ord. 93-685, 4-13-1993; amd. 1994 Code)
7-3E-8: ACCESS:
The IEPA or its authorized representative shall have access to any books,
documents, papers and records of the Village which are applicable to the
Village system of user charges for the purpose of making audit, examination,
excerpts and transcriptions thereof to ensure compliance with the terms of the
special and general conditions to any State grant. (Ord. 93-685, 4-13-1993)
7-3E-9: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of violating this article, or any provision thereof, shall
be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for the first offense and not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for the second and
succeeding offenses. Every day upon which a violation exists shall be
considered a separate and distinct violation. The Village shall also have such
other remedies available to it at law and/or equity. (Ord. 93-685, 4-13-1993)
ARTICLE F. CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT FEE
SECTION:
7-3F-1: Capital Improvement Fee Provisions
7-3F-1: CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT FEE PROVISIONS:
   A.   Establishment And Applicability: There is hereby established a capital
improvement fee (hereinafter referred to as the "capital improvement fee")
which shall apply to all residential connections to the sewer and/or water
systems which are made on any property which is not included in a preliminary
and/or final plat of subdivision approved by the Village prior to January 1,
1995.
   B.   Amount Of Capital Improvement Fee: The capital improvement fee shall be
in the amount of one thousand four hundred dollars ($1,400.00) per lot for all
single-family residential developments and one thousand four hundred dollars
($1,400.00) per unit for all multi-family developments.
   C.   Time Of Payment: The capital improvement fee shall be paid as a
condition to issuance of a building permit for all residential developments.
   D.   Use Of Funds: All capital improvement fees received by the Village
shall be utilized for water, sanitary, stormwater, and street related projects,
construction of public buildings and grounds, and the acquisition of land and
easements for the Village related to the impact from residential developments,
and separately accounted for in the capital improvement account. (Ord. 17-1839,
3-28-2017)
CHAPTER 4
CONSTRUCTION OF FACILITIES IN PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAY
SECTION:
7-4-1: Purpose And Scope
7-4-2: Definitions
7-4-3: Annual Registration Required
7-4-4: Permit Required; Applications And Fees
7-4-5: Action On Permit Applications
7-4-6: Effect Of Permit
7-4-7: Revised Permit Drawings
7-4-8: Insurance
7-4-9: Indemnification
7-4-10: Security
7-4-11: Permit Suspension And Revocation
7-4-12: Change Of Ownership
7-4-13: General Construction Standards
7-4-14: Traffic Control
7-4-15: Location Of Facilities
7-4-16: Construction Methods And Materials
7-4-17: Vegetation Control
7-4-18: Removal, Relocation Or Modification Of Facilities
7-4-19: Cleanup And Restoration
7-4-20: Maintenance; Emergencies
7-4-21: Variances
7-4-22: Penalties
7-4-23: Enforcement
7-4-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies and
procedures for constructing facilities on rights of way within the village's
jurisdiction, which will provide public benefit consistent with the
preservation of the integrity, safe usage, and visual qualities of the village
rights of way and the village as a whole.
   B.   Facilities Subject To This Chapter: This chapter applies to all
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or within the public
rights of way within the jurisdiction of the village. A facility lawfully
established prior to the effective date of this chapter may continue to be
maintained, repaired and operated by the utility as presently constructed and
located, except as may be otherwise provided in any applicable franchise,
license or similar agreement.
   C.   Franchises, Licenses Or Similar Agreements: The village, in its
discretion and as limited by law, may require utilities to enter into a
franchise, license or similar agreement for the privilege of locating their
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or within the village
rights of way. Utilities that are not required by law to enter into such an
agreement may request that the village enter into such an agreement. In such an
agreement, the village may provide for terms and conditions inconsistent with
this chapter.
   D.   Effect Of Franchises, Licenses, Or Similar Agreements:
      1.   Utilities Other Than Telecommunications Providers: In the event that
a utility other than a telecommunications provider has a franchise, license or
similar agreement with the village, such franchise, license or similar
agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement and any
lawful renewal or extension thereof.
      2.   Telecommunications Providers: In the event of any conflict with, or
inconsistency between, the provisions of this chapter and the provisions of any
franchise, license or similar agreement between the village and any
telecommunications provider, the provisions of such franchise, license or
similar agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement
and any lawful renewal or extension thereof.
   E.   Conflicts With Other Chapters: This chapter supersedes all chapters or
parts of chapters adopted prior hereto that are in conflict herewith, to the
extent of such conflict.
   F.   Conflicts With State And Federal Laws: In the event that applicable
federal or state laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
chapter, the utility shall comply with the requirements of this chapter to the
maximum extent possible without violating federal or state laws or regulations.
   G.   Sound Engineering Judgment: The village shall use sound engineering
judgment when administering this chapter and may vary the standards, conditions
and requirements expressed in this chapter when the village so determines.
Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the ability of the village to
regulate its rights of way for fire protection or the public health, safety and
welfare. (Ord. 07-1437, 9-11-2007)
7-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter and unless the context clearly requires otherwise, the
words and terms listed shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this
section. Any term not defined in this section shall have the meaning ascribed
to it in 92 Illinois administrative code 530.30, unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
   AASHTO: American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials.
   ANSI: American National Standards Institute.
   ASTM: American Society for Testing and Materials.
   APPLICANT: A person applying for a permit under this chapter.
   BACKFILL: The methods or materials for replacing excavated material in a
trench or pit.
   BORE OR BORING: To excavate an underground cylindrical cavity for the
insertion of a pipe or electrical conductor.
   CARRIER PIPE: The pipe enclosing the liquid, gas or slurry to be
transported.
   CASING: A structural protective enclosure for transmittal devices such as
carrier pipes, electrical conductors and fiber optic devices.
   CLEAR ZONE: The total roadside border area, starting at the edge of the
pavement, available for safe use by errant vehicles. This area may consist of a
shoulder, a recoverable slope, a nonrecoverable slope and a clear runout area.
The desired width is dependent upon the traffic volumes and speeds and on the
roadside geometry. Distances are specified in the AASHTO "Roadside Design
Guide".
   COATING: Protective wrapping or mastic cover applied to buried pipe for
protection against external corrosion.
   CODE: The code of ordinances for the village of Shorewood.
   CONDUCTOR: Wire carrying electrical current.
   CONDUIT: A casing or encasement for wires or cables.
   CONSTRUCTION OR CONSTRUCT: The installation, repair, maintenance, placement,
alteration, enlargement, demolition, modification or abandonment in place of
facilities.
   COVER: The depth of earth or backfill over buried utility pipe or conductor.
   CROSSING FACILITY: A facility that crosses one or more right of way lines of
a right of way.
   DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS: The village director of public works or his or her
designee.
   DISRUPT THE RIGHT OF WAY: For the purposes of this chapter, any work that
obstructs the right of way or causes a material adverse effect on the use of
the right of way for its intended use. Such work may include, without
limitation, the following: excavating or other cutting; placement (whether
temporary or permanent) of materials, equipment, devices or structures; damage
to vegetation; and compaction or loosening of the soil, but shall not include
the parking of vehicles or equipment in a manner that does not materially
obstruct the flow of traffic on a highway.
   EMERGENCY: Any immediate maintenance to the facility required for the safety
of the public using or in the vicinity of the right of way or immediate
maintenance required for the health and safety of the general public served by
the utility.
   ENCASEMENT: Provision of a protective casing.
   EQUIPMENT: Materials, tools, implements, supplies and/or other items used to
facilitate construction of facilities.
   EXCAVATION: The making of a hole or cavity by removing material, or laying
bare by digging.
   EXTRA HEAVY PIPE: Pipe meeting ASTM standards for this pipe designation.
   FACILITY: All structures, devices, objects and materials (including track
and rails, wires, ducts, fiber optic cable, communications and video cables and
wires, poles, conduits, grates, covers, pipes, cables and appurtenances
thereto) located on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or within rights
of way under this chapter, except those owned by the village.
   FREESTANDING FACILITY: A facility that is not a crossing facility or a
parallel facility, such as an antenna, transformer, pump or meter station.
   FRONTAGE ROAD: Roadway, usually parallel, providing access to land adjacent
to the highway where it is precluded by control of access on highway.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Any substance or material which, due to its quantity,
form, concentration, location or other characteristics, is determined by the
village director of public works to pose an unreasonable and imminent risk to
the life, health or safety of persons or property or to the ecological balance
of the environment, including, without limitation, explosives, radioactive
materials, petroleum or petroleum products or gases, poisons, etiology
(biological) agents, flammables, corrosives or any substance determined to be
hazardous or toxic under any federal or state law, statute or regulation.
   HIGHWAY: A specific type of right of way used for vehicular traffic
including, without limitation, rural or urban roads or streets. "Highway"
includes, without limitation, all highway land and improvements, including
roadways, ditches and embankments, bridges, drainage structures, signs,
guardrails, protective structures and appurtenances necessary or convenient for
vehicle traffic.
   HIGHWAY CODE: The Illinois highway code, 605 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-
101 et seq., as amended from time to time.
   ICC: Illinois commerce commission.
   IDOT: Illinois department of transportation.
   JACKING: Pushing a pipe horizontally under a roadway by mechanical means,
with or without boring.
   JETTING: Pushing a pipe through the earth using water under pressure to
create a cavity ahead of the pipe.
   JOINT USE: The use of pole lines, trenches or other facilities by two (2) or
more utilities.
   MAJOR INTERSECTION: The intersection of two (2) or more major arterial
highways.
   OCCUPANCY: The presence of facilities on, over or under right of way.
   PARALLEL FACILITY: A facility that is generally parallel or longitudinal to
the centerline of a right of way.
   PARKWAY: Any portion of the right of way not improved by street or sidewalk.
   PAVEMENT CUT: The removal of an area of pavement for access to a facility or
for the construction of a facility.
   PERMITTEE: That entity to which a permit has been issued pursuant to
sections
 7-4-4 and
7-4-5 of this chapter.
   PETROLEUM PRODUCTS PIPELINES: Pipelines carrying crude or refined liquid
petroleum products, including, without limitation, gasoline, distillates,
propane, butane or coal slurry.
   PRACTICABLE: That which is performable, feasible or possible, rather than
that which is simply convenient.
   PRESSURE: The internal force acting radially against the walls of a carrier
pipe expressed in pounds per square inch gauge (psig).
   PROMPT: Done within a period of time specified by the village. If no time
period is specified, the period shall be thirty (30) days.
   PUBLIC ENTITY: A legal entity that constitutes or is part of the government,
whether at local, state or federal level.
   RESTORATION: The repair of a right of way, highway, roadway or other area
disrupted by the construction of a facility.
   RIGHT OF WAY: Any street, alley, other land or waterway dedicated or
commonly used for utility purposes, including, without limitation, utility
easements, in which the village has the right and authority to authorize,
regulate or permit the location of facilities other than those of the village.
"Right of way" shall not include any real or personal village property that is
not specifically described in the previous sentence of this definition and
shall not include village buildings, fixtures and other structures or
improvements, regardless of whether they are situated in the right of way.
   ROADWAY: That part of the highway that includes the pavement and shoulders.
   SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not
for sale.
   SECURITY FUND: That amount of security required pursuant to section
 7-4-10 of this chapter.
   SHOULDER: A width of roadway, adjacent to the pavement, providing lateral
support to the pavement edge and providing an area for emergency vehicular
stops and storage of snow removed from the pavement.
   SOUND ENGINEERING JUDGMENT: A decision(s) consistent with generally accepted
engineering principles, practices and experience.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS: This term includes, without limitation, messages or
information transmitted through use of local, toll and wide area telephone
service, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer
exchange service, private line services, specialized mobile radio services or
any other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar
means between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave,
radio, satellite or similar facilities. Unless the context clearly requires
otherwise, "telecommunications" shall also include wireless telecommunications
as defined in the Illinois telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee
act, 35 Illinois Compiled Statutes 635/1 et seq. "Telecommunications" shall not
include value added services in which computer processing applications are used
to act on the form, content, code and protocol of the information for purposes
other than transmission. "Telecommunications" shall not include purchase of
telecommunications by a telecommunications service provider for use as a
component part of the service provided by him or her to the ultimate retail
consumer who originates or terminates the end to end communications. Retailer
access charges, right of access charges, charges for use of intercompany
facilities and all telecommunications resold in the subsequent provisions and
used as a component of or integrated into end to end telecommunications service
shall not be included in gross charges as sales for resale.
"Telecommunications" shall not include the provision of cable services through
a cable system as defined in the cable communications act of 1984 (47 USC 521
and following) as now or hereafter amended or cable or other programming
services subject to an open video system fee payable to the village through an
"open video system" as defined in the rules of the federal communications
commission (47 CDF 76.l550 and following) as now or hereafter amended.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER: Any person that installs, owns, operates or
controls facilities in the public right of way used or designed to be used to
transmit telecommunications in any form.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER: Includes every person engaged in making sales
of telecommunications at retail as defined herein.
   TRENCH: A relatively narrow open excavation for the installation of an
underground facility.
   UTILITY: The individual or entity owning or operating any "facility" as
defined in this section.
   VENT: A pipe to allow the dissipation into the atmosphere of gases or vapors
from an underground casing.
   VILLAGE: The village of Shorewood.
   WATER LINES: Pipelines carrying raw or potable water.
   WET BORING: Boring using water under pressure at the cuffing auger to soften
the earth and to provide a sluice for the excavated material. (Ord. 07-1437, 9-
11-2007)
7-4-3: ANNUAL REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
Every utility that occupies right of way within the village shall register on
January 1 of each year with the director of public works, providing the
utility's name, address and regular business telephone and telecopy numbers,
the name of one or more contact persons who can act on behalf of the utility in
connection with emergencies involving the utility's facilities in the right of
way, a twenty four (24) hour telephone number for each such person and evidence
of insurance as required in section
7-4-8 of this chapter, in the form of a certificate of insurance. (Ord. 07-
1437, 9-11-2007)
7-4-4: PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATIONS AND FEES:
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall construct any facility on, over,
above, along, upon, under, across or within any village right of way which: 1)
changes the location of the facility, 2) adds a new facility, 3) disrupts the
right of way, or 4) materially increases the amount of area or space occupied
by the facility on, over, above, along, under, across or within the right of
way, without first filing an application with the village director of public
works and obtaining a permit from the village therefor, except as otherwise
provided in this chapter. No permit shall be required for installation and
maintenance of service connections to customers' premises where there will be
no disruption of the right of way.
   B.   Permit Application: All applications for permits pursuant to this
chapter shall be filed on a form provided by the village and shall be filed in
such number of duplicate copies as the village may designate. The applicant may
designate those portions of its application materials that it reasonably
believes contain proprietary or confidential information as "proprietary" or
"confidential" by clearly marking each page of such materials accordingly.
   C.   Minimum General Application Requirements: The application shall be made
by the utility or its duly authorized representative and shall contain, at a
minimum, the following:
      1.   The utility's name, address, telephone and fax numbers;
      2.   The applicant's name and address, if different than the utility, its
telephone and fax numbers, e-mail address and its interest in the work;
      3.   The names, addresses, telephone and fax numbers and e-mail addresses
of all professional consultants, if any, advising the applicant with respect to
the application;
      4.   A general description of the proposed work, the purposes and intent
of the facility and the uses to which the facility will be put. The scope and
detail of such description shall be appropriate to the nature and character of
the work to be performed, with special emphasis on those matters likely to be
affected or impacted by the work proposed;
      5.   Evidence that the utility has placed on file with the village:
         a.   A written traffic control plan demonstrating the protective
measures and devices that will be employed consistent with the "Illinois Manual
On Uniform Traffic Control Devices" to prevent injury or damage to persons or
property and to minimize disruptions to efficient pedestrian and vehicular
traffic; and
         b.   An emergency contingency plan which shall specify the nature of
potential emergencies, including, without limitation, construction and
hazardous materials emergencies, and the intended response by the applicant.
The intended response shall include notification to the village and shall
promote protection of the safety and convenience of the public. Compliance with
ICC regulations for emergency contingency plans constitutes compliance with
this section unless the village finds that additional information or assurances
are needed;
      6.   Drawings, plans and specifications showing the work proposed,
including, without limitation, the certification of an engineer that such
drawings, plans, and specifications comply with applicable codes, rules, and
regulations;
      7.   Evidence of insurance as required in section
7-4-8 of this chapter;
      8.   Evidence of posting of the security fund as required in section
 7-4-10 of this chapter;
      9.   Any request for a variance from one or more provisions of this
chapter (see section
7-4-21 of this chapter); and
      10.   Such additional information as may be reasonably required by the
village.
   D.   Supplemental Application Requirements For Specific Types Of Utilities:
In addition to the requirements of subsection C of this section, the permit
application shall include the following items as applicable to the specific
utility that is the subject of the permit application:
      1.   In the case of new electric power, communications or natural gas
distribution system installation, evidence that any "certificate of public
convenience and necessity" has been issued by the ICC that the applicant is
required by law, or has elected, to obtain;
      2.   In the case of natural gas systems, state the proposed pipe size,
design, construction class and operating pressures;
      3.   In the case of water lines, indicate that all requirements of the
Illinois environmental protection agency, division of public water supplies,
have been satisfied;
      4.   In the case of sewer line installations, indicate that the land and
water pollution requirements of the Illinois environmental protection agency,
division of water pollution control, and any other local or state entities with
jurisdiction, have been satisfied; or
      5.   In the case of petroleum products pipelines, state the type or types
of petroleum products, pipe size, maximum working pressure and the design
standard to be followed.
   E.   Applicant's Duty To Update Information: Throughout the entire permit
application review period and the construction period authorized by the permit,
any amendments to information contained in a permit application shall be
submitted by the utility in writing to the village within thirty (30) days
after the change necessitating the amendment.
   F.   Application Fees: Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license or
similar agreement, all applications for permits pursuant to this chapter shall
be accompanied by a fee in the amount of one hundred dollars ($100.00). No
application fee is required to be paid by any telecommunications retailer that
is paying the municipal telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee or
the optional state telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee pursuant
to the telecommunications municipal infrastructure maintenance fee act, or by
any electricity utility that is paying the municipal electricity infrastructure
maintenance fee pursuant to the electricity infrastructure maintenance fee act.
(Ord. 07-1437, 9-11-2007)
7-4-5: ACTION ON PERMIT APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Village Review Of Permit Applications: Completed permit applications,
containing all required documentation, shall be examined by the village
director of public works within a reasonable time after filing. If the
application does not conform to the requirements of all applicable ordinances,
codes, laws, rules and regulations, the village director of public works shall
reject such application in writing, stating the reasons therefor. If the
village director of public works is satisfied that the proposed work conforms
to the requirements of this chapter and all applicable ordinances, codes, laws,
rules and regulations, he or she shall issue a permit therefor as soon as
practicable.
   B.   Additional Village Review Of Applications Of Telecommunications
Retailers:
      1.   Pursuant to section 4 of the telephone company act, 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 65/4, a telecommunications retailer shall notify the village
that it intends to commence work governed by this chapter for facilities for
the provision of telecommunications services. Such notice shall consist of
plans, specifications and other documentation sufficient to demonstrate the
purpose and intent of the facilities and shall be provided by the
telecommunications retailer to the village not less than ten (10) days prior to
the commencement of work requiring no excavation and not less than thirty (30)
days prior to the commencement of work requiring excavation. The village
director of public works shall specify the portion of the right of way upon
which the facility may be placed, used and constructed.
      2.   In the event that the village director of public works fails to
provide such specification of location to the telecommunications retailer
within either: a) ten (10) days after service of notice to the village by the
telecommunications retailer in the case of work not involving excavation for
new construction, or b) twenty five (25) days after service of notice by the
telecommunications retailer in the case of work involving excavation for new
construction, the telecommunications retailer may commence work without
obtaining a permit under this chapter.
      3.   Upon the provision of such specification by the village, where a
permit is required for work pursuant to section
7-4-4 of this chapter, the telecommunications retailer shall submit to the
village an application for a permit and any and all plans, specifications and
documentation available regarding the facility to be constructed. Such
application shall be subject to the requirements of subsection A of this
section. (Ord. 07-1437, 9-11-2007)
7-4-6: EFFECT OF PERMIT:
   A.   Authority Granted; No Property Right Or Other Interest Created: A
permit from the village authorizes a permittee to undertake only certain
activities in accordance with this chapter on village rights of way and does
not create a property right or grant authority to the permittee to impinge upon
the rights of others who may have an interest in the public rights of way.
   B.   Compliance With All Laws Required: The issuance of a permit by the
village does not excuse the permittee from complying with other requirements of
the village and all applicable statutes, laws, ordinances, rules and
regulations. (Ord. 07-1437, 9-11-2007)
7-4-7: REVISED PERMIT DRAWINGS:
In the event that the actual locations of any facilities deviate in any
material respect from the locations identified in the plans, drawings and
specifications submitted with the permit application, the permittee shall
submit a revised set of drawings or plans to the village within ninety (90)
days after the completion of the permitted work. The revised drawings or plans
shall specifically identify where the locations of the actual facilities
deviate from the locations approved in the permit. If any deviation from the
permit also deviates from the requirements of this chapter, it shall be treated
as a request for variance in accordance with section
7-4-21 of this chapter. If the village denies the request for a variance, then
the permittee shall either remove the facility from the right of way or modify
the facility so that it conforms to the permit and submit revised drawings or
plans therefor. (Ord. 07-1437, 9-11-2007)
7-4-8: INSURANCE:
   A.   Required Coverages And Limits: Unless otherwise provided by franchise,
license or similar agreement, each utility occupying right of way or
constructing any facility in the right of way shall secure and maintain the
following liability insurance policies insuring the utility as named insured,
and naming the village and its elected and appointed officers, officials,
agents and employees as additional insureds, on the policies listed in
subsections A1 and A2 of this section:
      1.   Commercial general liability insurance, including premises-
operations, explosion, collapse and underground hazard (commonly referred to as
"C" and "U" coverages) and products-completed operations coverage with limits
not less than:
         a.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for bodily injury or death
to each person;
         b.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for property damage
resulting from any one accident; and
         c.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for all other types of
liability;
      2.   Automobile liability for owned, nonowned and hired vehicles with a
combined single limit of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for personal
injury and property damage for each accident;
      3.   Workers' compensation with statutory limits; and
      4.   Employers' liability insurance with limits of not less than one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per employee and per accident.
   B.   Excess Or Umbrella Policies: The coverages required by this section may
be in any combination of primary, excess and umbrella policies. Any excess or
umbrella policy must provide excess coverage over underlying insurance on a
following form basis such that when any loss covered by the primary policy
exceeds the limits under the primary policy, the excess or umbrella policy
becomes effective to cover such loss.
   C.   Copies Required: The utility shall provide copies of any of the
policies required by this section to the village within ten (10) days following
receipt of a written request therefor from the village.
   D.   Maintenance And Renewal Of Required Coverages: The insurance policies
required by this section shall contain the following endorsement:
It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be canceled nor the
intention not to renew be stated until thirty (30) days after receipt by the
Village, by registered mail or certified mail, return receipt requested, of a
written notice addressed to the Village Administrator of such intent to cancel
or not to renew.
Within ten (10) days after receipt by the village of said notice, and in no
event later than ten (10) days prior to said cancellation, the utility shall
obtain and furnish to the village evidence of replacement insurance policies
meeting the requirements of this section.
   E.   Self-Insurance: A utility may self-insure all or a portion of the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required by subsection A of this
section. A utility that self-insures is not required, to the extent of such
self-insurance, to comply with the requirement for the naming of additional
insureds under subsection A of this section, or the requirements of subsections
B, C and D of this section. A utility that elects to self-insure shall provide
to the village evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to
self-insure the insurance coverage and limit requirements required under
subsection A of this section, such as evidence that the utility is a "private
self-insurer" under the workers' compensation act.
   F.   Effect Of Insurance And Self-Insurance On Utility's Liability: The
legal liability of the utility to the village and any person for any of the
matters that are the subject of the insurance policies or self-insurance
required by this section shall not be limited by such insurance policies or
self-insurance or by the recovery of any amounts thereunder. (Ord. 07-1437, 9-
11-2007)
7-4-9: INDEMNIFICATION:
By occupying or constructing facilities in the right of way, a utility shall be
deemed to agree to defend, indemnify and hold the village and its elected and
appointed officials and officers, employees, agents and representatives
harmless from and against any and all injuries, claims, demands, judgments,
damages, losses and expenses, including reasonable attorney fees and costs of
suit or defense, arising out of, resulting from or alleged to arise out of or
result from the negligent, careless or wrongful acts, omissions, failures to
act or misconduct of the utility or its affiliates, officers, employees,
agents, contractors or subcontractors in the construction of facilities or
occupancy of the rights of way, and in providing or offering service over the
facilities, whether such acts or omissions are authorized, allowed or
prohibited by this chapter or by a franchise, license or similar agreement,
provided, however, that the utility's indemnity obligations hereunder shall not
apply to any injuries, claims, demands, judgments, damages, losses or expenses
arising out of or resulting from the negligence, misconduct or breach of this
chapter by the village, its officials, officers, employees, agents or
representatives. (Ord. 07-1437, 9-11-2007)
7-4-10: SECURITY:
   A.   Purpose: The permittee shall establish a security fund in a form and in
an amount as set forth in this section. The security fund shall be continuously
maintained in accordance with this section at the permittee's sole cost and
expense until the completion of the work authorized under the permit. The
security fund shall serve as security for:
      1.   The faithful performance by the permittee of all the requirements of
this chapter;
      2.   Any expenditure, damage or loss incurred by the village occasioned
by the permittee's failure to comply with any codes, rules, regulations,
orders, permits and other directives of the village issued pursuant to this
chapter; and
      3.   The payment by permittee of all liens and all damages, claims, costs
or expenses that the village may pay or incur by reason of any action or
nonperformance by permittee in violation of this chapter, including, without
limitation, any damage to public property or restoration work the permittee is
required by this chapter to perform that the village must perform itself or
have completed as a consequence solely of the permittee's failure to perform or
complete, and all other payments due the village from the permittee pursuant to
this chapter or any other applicable law.
   B.   Form: The permittee shall provide the security fund to the village in
the form, at the permittee's election, of cash or an unconditional letter of
credit in a form acceptable to the village. Any letter of credit provided
pursuant to this subsection shall, at a minimum:
      1.   Provide that it will not be canceled without prior notice to the
village and the permittee;
      2.   Not require the consent of the permittee prior to the collection by
the village of any amounts covered by it; and
      3.   Shall provide a location convenient to the village and within the
state of Illinois at which it can be drawn.
   C.   Amount: The dollar amount of the security fund shall be sufficient to
provide for the reasonably estimated cost to restore the right of way to at
least as good a condition as that existing prior to the construction under the
permit, as determined by the village director of public works, and may also
include reasonable directly related costs that the village estimates are likely
to be incurred if the permittee fails to perform such restoration. Where the
construction of facilities proposed under the permit will be performed in
phases in multiple locations in the village, with each phase consisting of
construction of facilities in one location or a related group of locations, and
where construction in another phase will not be undertaken prior to substantial
completion of restoration in the previous phase or phases, the village director
of public works may, in the exercise of sound discretion, allow the permittee
to post a single amount of security which shall be applicable to each phase of
the construction under the permit. The amount of the security fund for phased
construction shall be equal to the greatest amount that would have been
required under the provisions of this subsection for any single phase.
   D.   Withdrawals: The village, upon fourteen (14) days' advance written
notice clearly stating the reason for and its intention to exercise withdrawal
rights under this subsection, may withdraw an amount from the security fund,
provided that the permittee has not reimbursed the village for such amount
within the fourteen (14) day notice period. Withdrawals may be made if the
permittee:
      1.   Fails to make any payment required to be made by the permittee
hereunder;
      2.   Fails to pay any liens relating to the facilities that are due and
unpaid;
      3.   Fails to reimburse the village for any damages, claims, costs or
expenses which the village has been compelled to pay or incur by reason of any
action or nonperformance by the permittee; or
      4.   Fails to comply with any provision of this chapter that the village
determines can be remedied by an expenditure of an amount in the security fund.
   E.   Replenishment: Within fourteen (14) days after receipt of written
notice from the village that any amount has been withdrawn from the security
fund, the permittee shall restore the security fund to the amount specified in
subsection C of this section.
   F.   Interest: The permittee may request that any and all interest accrued
on the amount in the security fund be returned to the permittee by the village,
upon written request for said withdrawal to the village, provided that any such
withdrawal does not reduce the security fund below the minimum balance required
in subsection C of this section.
   G.   Closing And Return Of Security Fund: Upon completion of the work
authorized under the permit, the permittee shall be entitled to the return of
the security fund, or such portion thereof as remains on deposit, within a
reasonable time after account is taken for all offsets necessary to compensate
the village for failure by the permittee to comply with any provisions of this
chapter or other applicable law. In the event of any revocation of the permit,
the security fund and any and all accrued interest shall become the property of
the village to the extent necessary to cover any reasonable costs, losses or
damages incurred by the village as a result of said revocation, provided that
any amounts in excess of said costs, losses or damages shall be refunded to the
permittee.
   H.   Rights Not Limited: The rights reserved to the village with respect to
the security fund are in addition to all other rights of the village, whether
reserved by this chapter or otherwise authorized by law, and no action,
proceeding or exercise of right with respect to said security fund shall affect
any other right the village may have. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
village shall not be entitled to a double monetary recovery with respect to any
of its rights which may be infringed or otherwise violated. (Ord. 07-1437, 9-
11-2007)
7-4-11: PERMIT SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION:
   A.   Village Right To Revoke Permit: The village may revoke or suspend a
permit issued pursuant to this chapter for one or more of the following
reasons:
      1.   Fraudulent, false, misrepresenting or materially incomplete
statements in the permit application;
      2.   Noncompliance with this chapter;
      3.   Permittee's physical presence or presence of permittee's facilities
on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or within the public rights of way
presents a direct or imminent threat to the public health, safety or welfare;
or
      4.   Permittee's failure to construct the facilities substantially in
accordance with the permit and approved plans.
   B.   Notice Of Revocation Or Suspension: The village shall send written
notice of its intent to revoke or suspend a permit issued pursuant to this
chapter, stating the reason or reasons for the revocation or suspension and the
alternatives available to permittee under this section.
   C.   Permittee Alternatives Upon Receipt Of Notice Of Revocation Or
Suspension: Upon receipt of a written notice of revocation or suspension from
the village, the permittee shall have the following options:
      1.   Immediately provide the village with evidence that no cause exists
for the revocation or suspension;
      2.   Immediately correct, to the satisfaction of the village, the
deficiencies stated in the written notice, providing written proof of such
correction to the village within five (5) working days after receipt of the
written notice of revocation; or
      3.   Immediately remove the facilities located on, over, above, along,
upon, under, across or within the public rights of way and restore the rights
of way to the satisfaction of the village, providing written proof of such
removal to the village within ten (10) days after receipt of the written notice
of revocation.
The village may, in its discretion and for good cause shown, extend the time
periods provided in this subsection.
   D.   Stop Work Order: In addition to the issuance of a notice of revocation
or suspension, the village may issue a stop work order immediately upon
discovery of any of the reasons for revocation set forth within subsection A of
this section.
   E.   Failure Or Refusal Of The Permittee To Comply: If the permittee fails
to comply with the provisions of subsection C of this section, the village or
its designee may, at the option of the village: 1) correct the deficiencies; 2)
upon not less than twenty (20) days' notice to the permittee, remove the
subject facilities or equipment; or 3) after not less than thirty (30) days'
notice to the permittee of failure to cure the noncompliance, deem them
abandoned and property of the village. The permittee shall be liable in all
events to the village for all costs of removal. (Ord. 07-1437, 9-11-2007)
7-4-12: CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP:
   A.   Notification Of Change: A utility shall notify the village no less than
thirty (30) days prior to the transfer of ownership of any facility in the
right of way or change in identity of the utility. The new owner of the utility
or the facility shall have all the obligations and privileges enjoyed by the
former owner under the permit, if any, and all applicable laws, ordinances,
rules and regulations, including this chapter, with respect to the work and
facilities in the right of way.
   B.   Amended Permit: A new owner shall request that any current permit be
amended to show current ownership. If the new owner fails to have a new or
amended permit issued in its name, the new owner shall be presumed to have
accepted and agreed to be bound by the terms and conditions of the permit if
the new owner uses the facility or allows it to remain on the village's right
of way.
   C.   Insurance And Letters Of Credit: All required insurance coverage or
letters of credit must be changed to reflect the name of the new owner upon
transfer. (Ord. 07-1437, 9-11-2007)
7-4-13: GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
   A.   Standards And Principles: All construction in the right of way shall be
consistent with applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules and regulations, and
commonly recognized and accepted traffic control and construction principles,
sound engineering judgment and, where applicable, the principles and standards
set forth in the following IDOT publications:
      1.   "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction";
      2.   "Supplemental Specifications And Recurring Special Provisions";
      3.   "Highway Design Manual";
      4.   "Highway Standards Manual";
      5.   "Standard Specifications For Traffic Control Items";
      6.   "Illinois Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices" (92 Illinois
administrative code 545);
      7.   "Flagger's Handbook"; and
      8.   "Work Site Protection Manual For Daylight Maintenance Operations".
   B.   Interpretation Of Municipal Standards And Principles: If a discrepancy
exists between or among differing principles and standards required by this
chapter, the village director of public works shall determine, in the exercise
of sound judgment, which principles apply. Such decisions shall be final. If
requested, the village director of public works shall state which standard or
principle will apply to the construction, maintenance or operation of a
facility in the future. (Ord. 07-1437, 9-11-2007)
7-4-14: TRAFFIC CONTROL:
   A.   Minimum Requirements: The village's minimum requirements for traffic
protection are contained in IDOT's "Illinois Manual On Uniform Traffic Control
Devices" and this code.
   B.   Warning Signs, Protective Devices, And Flaggers: The utility is
responsible for providing and installing warning signs, protective devices and
flaggers, when necessary, meeting all applicable federal, state and local
requirements for protection of the public and the utility's workers when
performing any work on the public rights of way.
   C.   Interference With Traffic: All work shall be phased so that there is
minimum interference with pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   D.   Notice When Access Is Blocked: At least forty eight (48) hours prior to
beginning work that will partially or completely block access to any residence,
business or institution, the utility shall notify the resident, business or
institution of the approximate beginning time and duration of such work;
provided, however, that in cases involving emergency repairs pursuant to
section 7-4-20 of this chapter, the utility shall provide such notice as is
practicable under the circumstances.
   E.   Compliance: The utility shall take immediate action to correct any
deficiencies in traffic protection requirements that are brought to the
utility's attention by the village. (Ord. 07-1437, 9-11-2007)
7-4-15: LOCATION OF FACILITIES:
   A.   Parallel Facilities Located Within Highways:
      1.   Overhead Parallel Facilities: An overhead parallel facility may be
located within the right of way lines of a highway only if:
         a.   Lines are located as near as practicable to the right of way line
and as nearly parallel to the right of way line as reasonable pole alignment
will permit;
         b.   Where pavement is curbed, poles are as remote as practicable from
the curb, with a minimum distance of two feet (2') behind the face of the curb,
where available;
         c.   Where pavement is curbed, poles are as remote from pavement edge
as practicable, with minimum distance of four feet (4') outside the outer
shoulder line of the roadway, and are not within the clear zone;
         d.   No pole is located in the ditch line of a highway; and
         e.   Any ground mounted appurtenance is located within one foot (1')
of the right of way line or as near as possible to the right of way line.
      2.   Underground Parallel Facilities: An underground parallel facility
may be located within the right of way lines of a highway only if:
         a.   The facility is located as near the right of way line as
practicable and not more than eight feet (8') from and parallel to the right of
way line;
         b.   A new facility may be located under the paved portion of a
highway only if other locations are impracticable or inconsistent with sound
engineering judgment (e.g., a new cable may be installed in existing conduit
without disrupting the pavement); and
         c.   In the case of an underground power or communications line, the
facility shall be located as near the right of way line as practicable and not
more than five feet (5') from the right of way line, and any aboveground
appurtenance shall be located within one foot (1') of the right of way line or
as near as practicable.
   B.   Facilities Crossing Highways:
      1.   No Future Disruption: The construction and design of crossing
facilities installed between the ditch lines or curb lines of village highways
may require the incorporation of materials and protections (such as encasement
or additional cover) to avoid settlement or future repairs to the roadbed
resulting from the installation of such crossing facilities.
      2.   Cattle Passes, Culverts Or Drainage Facilities: Crossing facilities
shall not be located in cattle passes, culverts or drainage facilities.
      3.   Ninety Degree Crossing Required: Crossing facilities shall cross at
or as near to a ninety degree (90°) angle to the centerline as practicable.
      4.   Overhead Power Or Communication Facility: An overhead power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         a.   It has a minimum vertical line clearance as required by ICC's
rules entitled, "Construction Of Electric Power And Communication Lines" (83
Illinois administrative code 305);
         b.   Poles are located within one foot (1') of the right of way line
of the highway and outside of the clear zone; and
         c.   Overhead crossings at major intersections are avoided.
      5.   Underground Power Or Communication Facility: An underground power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         a.   The design materials and construction methods will provide
maximum maintenance free service life; and
         b.   Capacity for the utility's foreseeable future expansion needs is
provided in the initial installation.
      6.   Markers: The village may require the utility to provide a marker at
each right of way line where an underground facility, other than a power or
communication facility, crosses a highway. Each marker shall identify the type
of facility, the utility and an emergency phone number. Markers may also be
eliminated as provided in 49 CFR 192.707.
   C.   Facilities To Be Located Within Particular Right Of Way: The village
may require that facilities be located within particular rights of way that are
not highways, rather than within particular highways.
   D.   Freestanding Facilities:
      1.   The village may restrict the location and size of any freestanding
facility located within a right of way.
      2.   The village may require any freestanding facility located within a
right of way to be screened from view.
   E.   Appearance Standards:
      1.   The village may prohibit the installation of facilities in
particular locations in order to preserve visual quality.
      2.   A facility may be constructed only if its construction does not
require extensive removal or alteration of trees or terrain features visible to
the highway user or impair the aesthetic quality of the lands being traversed.
   F.   Aboveground Installation: Aboveground facilities may be installed only
if:
      1.   No other existing facilities in the area are located underground;
      2.   New underground installation is not technically feasible; and
      3.   The proposed installation will be made at a location, and will
employ suitable design and materials, to provide the greatest protection of
aesthetic qualities of the area being traversed without adversely affecting
safety. Suitable designs include, without limitation, self-supporting armless,
single pole construction with vertical configuration of conductors and cable.
   G.   Facility Attachments To Bridges Or Roadway Structures:
      1.   Facilities may be installed as attachments to bridges or roadway
structures only where the utility has demonstrated that all other means of
accommodating the facility are not practicable. Other means shall include,
without limitation, underground, underwater, independent poles, cable supports
and tower supports, all of which are completely separated from the bridge or
roadway structure. Facilities transmitting commodities that are volatile,
flammable, corrosive or energized, especially those under significant pressure
or potential, present high degrees of risk, and such installations are not
permitted.
      2.   A utility shall include, in its request to accommodate a facility
installation on a bridge or roadway structure, supporting data demonstrating
the impracticability of alternate routing. Approval or disapproval of an
application for facility attachment to a bridge or roadway structure will be
based upon the following considerations:
         a.   The type, volume, pressure or voltage of the commodity to be
transmitted and an evaluation of the resulting risk to persons and property in
the event of damage to or failure of the facility;
         b.   The type, length, value and relative importance of the highway
structure in the transportation system;
         c.   The alternative routings available to the utility and their
comparative practicability;
         d.   The proposed method of attachment;
         e.   The ability of the structure to bear the increased load of the
proposed facility;
         f.   The degree of interference with bridge maintenance and painting;
         g.   The effect on the visual quality of the structure; and
         h.   The public benefit expected from the utility service as compared
to the risk involved. (Ord. 07-1437, 9-11-2007)
7-4-16: CONSTRUCTION METHODS AND MATERIALS:
   A.   Standards And Requirements For Particular Types Of Construction
Methods:
      1.   Boring Or Jacking:
         a.   Pits And Boring: Boring or jacking under rights of way shall be
accomplished from pits located at a minimum distance specified by the village
director of public works from the edge of the pavement. Pits for boring or
jacking shall be excavated no more than forty eight (48) hours in advance of
boring or jacking operations and backfilled within forty eight (48) hours after
boring or jacking operations are completed. While pits are open, they shall be
clearly marked and protected by barricades. Boring shall be designed, erected,
supported, braced and maintained so that it will safely support all vertical
and lateral loads that may be imposed upon it during the boring or jacking
operation.
         b.   Wet Boring Or Jetting: Wet boring or jetting shall not be
permitted under the roadway.
         c.   Borings With Diameters Greater Than Six Inches: Borings over six
inches (6") in diameter shall be accomplished with an auger and following pipe,
and the diameter of the auger shall not exceed the outside diameter of the
following pipe by more than one inch (1").
         d.   Borings With Diameters Six Inches Or Less: Borings of six inches
(6") or less in diameter may be accomplished by either jacking, guided with
auger or auger and following pipe method.
         e.   Tree Preservation: Any facility located within the drip line of
any tree designated by the village to be preserved shall be bored under or
around the root system.
      2.   Trenching: Trenching for facility installation, repair or
maintenance on rights of way shall be done in accord with the applicable
portions of section 603 of IDOT's "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge
Construction".
         a.   Length: The length of open trench shall be kept to the
practicable minimum consistent with requirements for pipeline testing. Only
one-half (1/2) of any intersection may have an open trench at any time unless
special permission is obtained from the village director of public works.
         b.   Open Trench And Excavated Material: Open trench and windrowed
excavated material shall be protected as required by chapter 6 of the "Illinois
Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices". Where practicable, the excavated
material shall be deposited between the roadway and the trench as added
protection. Excavated material shall not be allowed to remain on the paved
portion of the roadway. Where right of way width does not allow for windrowing
excavated material off the paved portion of the roadway, excavated material
shall be hauled to an off road location.
         c.   The utility shall not trench within the drip line of any tree
designated by the village to be preserved.
      3.   Backfilling:
         a.   Any pit, trench or excavation created during the installation of
facilities shall be backfilled for its full width, depth and length using
methods and materials in accordance with IDOT's "Standard Specifications For
Road And Bridge Construction". When excavated material is hauled away or is
unsuitable for backfill, suitable granular backfill shall be used.
         b.   For a period of three (3) years from the date construction of a
facility is completed, the utility shall be responsible to remove and restore
any backfilled area that has settled due to construction of the facility. If so
ordered by the village director of public works, the utility at its expense
shall remove any pavement and backfill material to the top of the installed
facility, place and properly compact new backfill material and restore new
pavement, sidewalk, curbs and driveways to the proper grades, as determined by
the director of public works.
      4.   Pavement Cuts: Pavement cuts for facility installation or repair
shall be permitted on a highway only if that portion of the highway is closed
to traffic. If a variance to the limitation set forth in this subsection A4 is
permitted under section
7-4-21 of this chapter, the following requirements shall apply:
         a.   Any excavation under pavements shall be backfilled as soon as
practicable with granular material of CA-6 or CA-10 gradation, as designated by
the village director of public works.
         b.   Restoration of pavement in kind shall be accomplished as soon as
practicable, and temporary repair with bituminous mixture shall be provided
immediately. Any subsequent failure of either the temporary repair or the
restoration shall be rebuilt upon notification by the village.
         c.   All saw cuts shall be full depth.
         d.   For all rights of way which have been reconstructed with a
concrete surface/base in the last seven (7) years, or resurfaced in the last
three (3) years, permits shall not be issued unless such work is determined to
be an emergency repair or other work considered necessary and unforeseen before
the time of the reconstruction or unless a pavement cut is necessary for a
JULIE locate.
      5.   Encasement:
         a.   Casing pipe shall be designed to withstand the load of the
highway and any other superimposed loads. The casing shall be continuous either
by one-piece fabrication or by welding or jointed installation approved by the
village.
         b.   The venting, if any, of any encasement shall extend within one
foot (1') of the right of way line. No aboveground vent pipes shall be located
in the area established as clear zone for that particular section of the
highway.
         c.   In the case of water main or service crossing, encasement shall
be furnished between bore pits unless continuous pipe or village approved
jointed pipe is used under the roadway. Casing may be omitted only if pipe is
installed prior to highway construction and carrier pipe is continuous or
mechanical joints are of a type approved by the village. Bell and spigot type
pipe shall be encased regardless of installation method.
         d.   In the case of gas pipelines of sixty (60) psig or less,
encasement may be eliminated.
         e.   In the case of gas pipelines or petroleum products pipelines with
installations of more than sixty (60) psig, encasement may be eliminated only
if: 1) extra heavy pipe is used that precludes future maintenance or repair,
and 2) cathodic protection of the pipe is provided.
         f.   If encasement is eliminated for a gas or petroleum products
pipeline, the facility shall be located so as to provide that construction does
not disrupt the right of way.
      6.   Minimum Cover Of Underground Facilities: Cover shall be provided and
maintained at least in the amount specified in the following table for minimum
cover for the type of facility:
 
Type Of Facility                           Minimum Cover
Power or communication line (in general)   30 inches
Communication line installed by the plowed 24 inches
method
Gas or petroleum products                  30 inches
Water line                                 Sufficient cover to provide freeze
                                           protection
Sanitary sewer, storm sewer, or drainage   Sufficient cover to provide freeze
line                                       protection
 
   B.   Standards And Requirements For Particular Types Of Facilities:
      1.   Electric Power Or Communication Lines:
         a.   Code Compliance: Electric power or communications facilities
within village rights of way shall be constructed, operated and maintained in
conformity with the provisions of 83 Illinois administrative code 305 and the
national electrical safety code.
         b.   Overhead Facilities: Overhead power or communication facilities
shall use single pole construction and, where practicable, joint use of poles
shall be used. Utilities shall make every reasonable effort to design the
installation so guys and braces will not be needed. Variances may be allowed if
there is no feasible alternative and if guywires are equipped with guy guards
for maximum visibility.
         c.   Underground Facilities: Cable may be installed by trenching or
plowing, provided that special consideration is given to boring in order to
minimize damage when crossing improved entrances and side roads. If a crossing
is installed by boring or jacking, encasement shall be provided between jacking
or bore pits. Encasement may be eliminated only if: 1) the crossing is
installed by the use of "moles", "whip augers" or other approved methods which
compress the earth to make the opening for cable installation, or 2) the
installation is by the open trench method which is only permitted prior to
roadway construction. Cable shall be grounded in accordance with the national
electrical safety code.
      2.   Underground Facilities Other Than Electric Power Or Communication
Lines: Underground facilities other than electric power or communication lines
may be installed by:
         a.   The use of "moles", "whip augers" or other approved methods which
compress the earth to move the opening for the pipe;
         b.   Jacking or boring with vented encasement provided between the
ditch lines or toes of slopes of the highway;
         c.   Open trench with vented encasement between ultimate ditch lines
or toes of slopes, but only if prior to roadway construction; or
         d.   Tunneling with vented encasement, but only if installation is not
possible by other means.
      3.   Gas Transmission, Distribution And Service: Gas pipelines within
rights of way shall be constructed, maintained and operated in a village
approved manner and in conformance with 49 CFR 192, IDOT's "Standard
Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction" and all other applicable laws,
rules and regulations.
      4.   Petroleum Products Pipelines: Petroleum products pipelines within
rights of way shall conform to the applicable sections of ANSI standard code
for pressure piping (liquid petroleum transportation piping systems, ANSI-
B 31.4).
      5.   Water Lines, Sanitary Sewer Lines, Storm Water Sewer Lines Or
Drainage Lines: Water lines, sanitary sewer lines, storm water sewer lines and
drainage lines within rights of way shall meet or exceed the recommendations of
the current "Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer Main Construction" in
Illinois.
      6.   Ground Mounted Appurtenances: Ground mounted appurtenances to
overhead or underground facilities, when permitted within a right of way, shall
be provided with a vegetation free area extending one foot (1') in width beyond
the appurtenance in all directions. The vegetation free area may be provided by
an extension of the mounting pad or by heavy duty plastic or similar material
approved by the village director of public works. With the approval of the
director of public works, shrubbery surrounding the appurtenance may be used in
place of vegetation free area. The housing for ground mounted appurtenances
shall be painted a neutral color to blend with the surroundings.
   C.   Materials:
      1.   General Standards: The materials used in constructing facilities
within rights-of-way shall be those meeting the accepted standards of the
appropriate industry, the applicable portions of IDOT's "Standard
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction", the requirements of the
Illinois Commerce Commission or the standards established by other official
regulatory agencies for the appropriate industry.
      2.   Material Storage On Right-Of-Way: All pipe, conduit, wire, poles,
cross arms or other materials shall be distributed along the right-of-way prior
to and during installation in a manner to minimize hazards to the public or an
obstacle to right-of-way maintenance or damage to the right-of-way and other
property. If material is to be stored on right-of-way, prior approval must be
obtained from the Village.
      3.   Hazardous Materials: The plans submitted by the utility to the
Village shall identify any hazardous materials that may be involved in the
construction of the new facilities or removal of any existing facilities.
   D.   Operational Restrictions:
      1.   Construction operations on rights-of-way may, at the discretion of
the Village, be required to be discontinued when such operations would create
hazards to traffic or the public health, safety and welfare. Such operations
may also be required to be discontinued or restricted when conditions are such
that construction would result in extensive damage to the right-of-way or other
property.
      2.   These restrictions may be waived by the Village Director of Public
Works when emergency work is required to restore vital utility services.
      3.   Unless otherwise permitted by the Village, the hours of construction
are those set forth in section
8-1B-1 of this Code.
   E.   Location Of Existing Facilities: Any utility proposing to construct
facilities in the Village shall contact JULIE and ascertain the presence and
location of existing aboveground and underground facilities within the rights-
of-way to be occupied by its proposed facilities. The Village will make its
permit records available to a utility for the purpose of identifying possible
facilities. When notified of an excavation or when requested by the Village or
by JULIE, a utility shall locate and physically mark its underground facilities
within forty eight (48) hours, excluding weekends and holidays, in accordance
with the Illinois Underground Facilities Damage Prevention Act 1 . (Ord. 07-
1437, 9-11-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. 220 ILCS 50/1 et seq.
7-4-17: VEGETATION CONTROL:
   A.   Tree Trimming Permit Required: Tree trimming shall not be considered a
normal maintenance operation, but shall require the application for and the
issuance of a permit, in addition to any other permit required under this
chapter.
      1.   Application For Tree Trimming Permit: Applications for tree trimming
permits shall include assurance that the work will be accomplished by competent
workers with supervision who are experienced in accepted tree pruning
practices. Tree trimming permits shall designate an expiration date in the
interest of assuring that the work will be expeditiously accomplished.
      2.   Damage To Trees: Poor pruning practices resulting in damaged or
misshapen trees will not be tolerated and shall be grounds for cancellation of
the tree trimming permit and for assessment of damages. The Village will
require compensation for trees extensively damaged and for trees removed
without authorization. The formula developed by the International Society of
Aboriculture will be used as a basis for determining the compensation for
damaged trees or unauthorized removal of trees. The Village may require the
removal and replacement of trees if trimming or radical pruning would leave
them in an unacceptable condition.
   B.   Specimen Trees Or Trees Of Special Significance: The Village may
require that special measures be taken to preserve specimen trees or trees of
special significance. The required measures may consist of higher poles, side
arm extensions, covered wire or other means.
   C.   Chemical Use: Spraying of any type of brush killing chemicals will not
be permitted on rights-of-way unless the utility demonstrates to the
satisfaction of the Village Director of Public Works that such spraying is the
only practicable method of vegetation control. (Ord. 07-1437, 9-11-2007)
7-4-18: REMOVAL, RELOCATION OR MODIFICATION OF FACILITIES:
   A.   Notice: Within ninety (90) days following written notice from the
Village, a utility shall, at its own expense, temporarily or permanently
remove, relocate, change or alter the position of any utility facilities within
the rights-of-way whenever the Corporate Authorities have determined that such
removal, relocation, change or alteration is reasonably necessary for the
construction, repair, maintenance or installation of any Village improvement,
or the operations of the Village, in or upon the rights-of-way.
   B.   Removal Of Unauthorized Facilities: Within thirty (30) days following
written notice from the Village, any utility that owns, controls or maintains
any unauthorized facility or related appurtenances within the public rights-of-
way shall, at its own expense, remove all or any part of such facilities or
appurtenances from the public rights-of-way. A facility is unauthorized and
subject to removal in the following circumstances:
      1.   Upon expiration or termination of the permittee's license or
franchise, unless otherwise permitted by applicable law;
      2.   If the facility was constructed or installed without the prior grant
of a license or franchise, if required;
      3.   If the facility was constructed or installed without prior issuance
of a required permit in violation of this chapter; or
      4.   If the facility was constructed or installed at a location not
permitted by the permittee's license or franchise.
   C.   Emergency Removal Or Relocation Of Facilities: The village retains the
right and privilege to cut or move any facilities located within the rights of
way of the village, as the village may determine to be necessary, appropriate
or useful in response to any public health or safety emergency. If
circumstances permit, the municipality shall attempt to notify the utility, if
known, prior to cutting or removing a facility and shall notify the utility, if
known, after cutting or removing a facility.
   D.   Abandonment Of Facilities: Upon abandonment of a facility within the
public rights of way of the village, the utility shall notify the village
within ninety (90) days. Following receipt of such notice, the village may
direct the utility to remove all or any portion of the facility if the village
director of public works determines that such removal will be in the best
interest of the public health, safety and welfare. In the event that the
village does not direct the utility that abandoned the facility to remove it,
the abandoning utility shall be deemed by giving notice of abandonment to the
village to consent to the alteration or removal of all or any portion of the
facility by another utility or person. (Ord. 07-1437, 9-11-2007)
7-4-19: CLEANUP AND RESTORATION:
Upon completion of all construction or maintenance of facilities, the utility
shall remove all excess material and restore all turf and terrain in a timely
manner and to the satisfaction of the village. This includes restoration of
entrances and side roads. Restoration of roadway surfaces shall be made using
materials and methods approved by the village director of public works. Such
cleanup and repair may be required to consist of backfilling, regrading,
reseeding, resodding or any other requirement to restore the right of way to a
condition substantially equivalent to that which existed prior to the
commencement of the project. (Ord. 07-1437, 9-11-2007)
7-4-20: MAINTENANCE; EMERGENCIES:
   A.   General: Facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or
within rights of way are to be maintained by or for the utility in a manner
satisfactory to the village and at the utility's expense.
   B.   Emergency Maintenance Procedures: Emergencies may justify noncompliance
with normal procedures for securing a permit.
      1.   If an emergency creates a hazard on the traveled portion of the
right of way, the utility shall take immediate steps to provide all necessary
protection for traffic on the highway or the public on the right of way,
including the use of signs, lights, barricades or flaggers. If a hazard does
not exist on the traveled way, but the nature of the emergency is such as to
require the parking on the shoulder of equipment required in repair operations,
adequate signs and lights shall be provided. Parking on the shoulder in such an
emergency will only be permitted when no other means of access to the facility
are available.
      2.   The utility shall notify the village director of public works or his
or her duly authorized agent of the emergency as soon as possible, informing
him or her as to what steps have been taken for protection of the traveling
public and what will be required to make the necessary repairs. If the nature
of the emergency is such as to interfere with the free movement of traffic, the
village police shall be notified immediately.
      3.   In an emergency, the utility shall use all means at hand to complete
repairs as rapidly as practicable and with the least inconvenience to the
traveling public.
   C.   Emergency Repairs: The utility must file in writing with the village a
description of the repairs undertaken in the right of way within forty eight
(48) hours after an emergency repair. (Ord. 07-1437, 9-11-2007)
7-4-21: VARIANCES:
   A.   Request For Variance: A utility requesting a variance from one or more
of the provisions of this chapter must do so in writing to the village director
of public works as a part of the permit application. The request shall identify
each provision of this chapter from which a variance is requested and the
reasons why a variance should be granted.
   B.   Authority To Grant Variances: The village director of public works
shall decide whether a variance is authorized for each provision of this
chapter identified in the variance request on an individual basis.
   C.   Conditions For Granting Of Variance: The village director of public
works may authorize a variance only if the utility requesting the variance has
demonstrated that:
      1.   One or more conditions not under the control of the utility (such as
terrain features or an irregular right of way line) create a special hardship
that would make enforcement of the provision unreasonable, given the public
purposes to be achieved by the provision; and
      2.   All other designs, methods, materials, locations or facilities that
would conform with the provision from which a variance is requested are
impracticable in relation to the requested approach.
   D.   Additional Conditions For Granting Of A Variance: As a condition for
authorizing a variance, the village director of public works may require the
utility requesting the variance to meet reasonable standards and conditions
that may or may not be expressly contained within this chapter but which carry
out the purposes of this chapter. (Ord. 07-1437, 9-11-2007)
7-4-22: PENALTIES:
Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with
any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to a fine in accordance
with the penalty provisions of this code. There may be times when the village
will incur delay or other costs, including third party claims, because the
utility will not or cannot perform its duties under its permit and this
chapter. Unless the utility shows that another allocation of the cost of
undertaking the requested action is appropriate, the utility shall bear the
village's damages and its costs of installing, maintaining, modifying,
relocating or removing the facility that is the subject of the permit. No other
administrative agency or commission may review or overrule a permit related
cost apportionment of the village. Sanctions may be imposed upon a utility
which does not pay the costs apportioned to it. (Ord. 07-1437, 9-11-2007)
7-4-23: ENFORCEMENT:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the village may have for enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 07-1437, 9-11-2007)
TITLE 8
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES
SECTION:
8-1-1: Adoption Of Codes
8-1-2: Permits/Variations Not To Be Issued To Persons Indebted To The Village
8-1-3: Foundation Elevation; Grading Requirements
8-1-4: Safety Fencing
8-1-5: Construction Site Requirements
8-1-1: ADOPTION OF CODES:
International Building Codes/2018 in accordance with 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/1-3-2, a municipality may adopt by reference, as criteria for the
issuance of construction, reconstruction, alteration, or installation permits.
The 2018 edition of the International Code Council (ICC) International Building
Codes/2018 as set forth below are hereby adopted by reference as the Building
Codes for the Village of Shorewood, Illinois, as the regulations governing the
construction, alteration, addition, repair, removal, demolition, use, location,
occupancy and maintenance of all buildings and structures and their service
equipment in the Village. Three (3) copies of which have been on file in the
Office of the Village Clerk of the Village of Shorewood, Illinois and duly
filed with the State of Illinois Capital Development Board (CDB), Division of
Building Codes and Regulations at a minimum of thirty (30) days prior to the
effective date of February 1, 2019.
These codes are adopted together with the additions, insertions, deletions, and
changes prescribed in this chapter for governing and regulating the conditions
and standards for supplied utilities and facilities and other physical things
and conditions essential to ensure that structures are safe, sanitary and fit
for occupation and use; and the condemnation of buildings and structures unfit
for human occupancy and use and the demolition of such structures as herein
provided; providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees thereof;
and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and
terms of said Building Codes on file in the Office of the Village Clerk of the
Village of Shorewood, Illinois and filed with the Capital Development Board are
hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof as if fully set forth in
this chapter:
International Building Code (IBC) - 2018 edition
International Residential Code for One- and Two-Family Dwellings (IRC) - 2018
edition
International Plumbing Code (IPC) - 2018 edition (chapter 11 Storm Drainage and
section 403.3.2 only)
International Mechanical Code (IMC) - 2018 edition
International Fuel Gas Code (IFGC) - 2018 edition
International Swimming Pool and Spa Code (ISPSC) - 2018 edition
International Existing Building Code (IEBC) - 2018 edition
International Property Maintenance Code (IPMC) - 2018 edition
National Electrical Code (NEC) - 2017 edition - NFPA 70
State of Illinois Plumbing Code - 2014 edition - title 77 part 890
Illinois Energy Conservation Code - current edition - title 71 part 600
Illinois Accessibility Code - 2018 edition - title 71 part 400
Illinois Radon Resistant Construction Act - 2013 edition - 420 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 52/
Illinois Elevator Safety Act - 2007 edition - title 41 part 1000
Illinois Smoke Detector Act - 1987 edition - 425 Illinois Compiled Statutes 60
Illinois Carbon Monoxide Alarm Detector Act - 2007 edition - 425 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 135 (Ord. 19-1925, 1-22-2019, eff. 2-1-2019)
8-1-2: PERMITS/VARIATIONS NOT TO BE ISSUED TO PERSONS INDEBTED TO THE VILLAGE:
   A.   Notwithstanding any provision contained in this chapter and/or the ICC
International Codes in effect to the contrary, no permit nor variation,
required or permitted by the provisions of this chapter shall be issued to:
      1.   Any individual, partnership, corporation, land trustee, or other
business entity, if the individual, partnership, corporation, land trustee, or
other business entity or any partner, shareholder, beneficiary or member
thereof is financially indebted to the Village; or
      2.   For any property, for which a valid lien has been filed and not
released for outstanding debts related to the real estate. (Ord. 19-1925, 1-22-
2019, eff. 2-1-2019)
8-1-3: FOUNDATION ELEVATION; GRADING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   1. Permit Plat/Proposed Grading Plan:
         a.   The Permit Plat/Proposed Grading Plan is required prior to
issuance of building permit, the plan shall be included with the building
permit application submitted to the Village, and the plan shall illustrate the
proposed foundation grades for any structure to be constructed. An Illinois
registered land surveyor or an Illinois registered professional engineer shall
prepare and seal the submitted plan. The submitted plan shall also illustrate
existing elevations of the property boundaries, elevations of the streets
adjacent to the property, and the topographical studies of the proposed method
of drainage. This plan is a required condition of permit issuance, and shall be
subject to approval by the Village Engineer.
      2.   Foundation/Spot Survey:
         a.   The Foundation/Spot Survey is required to be submitted to the
Village prior to backfilling any foundation. An Illinois registered land
surveyor or an Illinois registered professional engineer shall prepare and seal
the submitted survey. The top of foundation elevation of any permitted
structure shall be in compliance with the approved Permit Plat/Proposed Grading
Plan. This survey is a required condition of construction, and shall be subject
to approval by the Village Engineer.
         b.   Top of foundation shall be six inches (6") higher than the pad
elevation as shown on the Permit Plat/Proposed Grading Plan. Before framing can
start, the top of foundation elevations must be within the allowable tolerance
of plus four inches (+4") or minus three inches (-3") of the elevations as
shown on the Permit Plat/Proposed Grading Plan submitted.
         c.   If any type of structure is placed on the foundation prior to
review and approval of submitted foundation elevations by the Village Engineer,
the contractor may be required to remove such structures in order to make
corrections to foundation elevations not in compliance with the approved Permit
Plat/Proposed Grading Plan.
      3.   As-Built Grading Survey:
         a.   The As-Built Grading Survey is required to be submitted to the
Village prior to the issuance of any certificate of occupancy. An Illinois
registered land surveyor or an Illinois registered professional engineer shall
prepare and seal the submitted survey. The As-Built Grading Survey shall
indicate that the grading is consistent with the approved Permit Plat/Proposed
Grading Plan. This survey is a required condition of occupancy, and shall be
subject to approval by the Village Engineer.
      4.   As-Built Grading Surveys Required Prior To Subdivision Acceptance:
         a.   The requirements outlined in this chapter do not waive an owner
or contractor's responsibility to provide As-Built Grading Surveys at the time
of subdivision acceptance.
      5.   Proper Drainage: Lot grades must be maintained to provide proper
drainage. Landscaping or other land improvements must not alter the proper
drainage of the lot. (Ord. 19-1925, 1-22-2019, eff. 2-1-2019)
8-1-4: SAFETY FENCING:
   A.   1. Continuous Six Foot Chain Link Fence:
         a.   All commercial (not residential one- and two-family dwellings or
townhouses not more than 3 stories) sites shall be enclosed by a continuous
chain link fence, without barbs, six feet (6') in height, which shall be
installed around the perimeter of the area under construction. The fencing
shall be installed not more than seven (7) days prior to the commencement of
any work on the construction site. Such fencing shall remain in place and be
maintained by the owner or the contractor until a certificate of occupancy is
issued for the structure, or as approved by the chief building official or
their designee.
      2.   Security/Access:
         a.   The safety fencing shall be anchored to sufficiently resist wind
loads of thirty (30) psf without deflection of more than three inches (3")
between the top and bottom of the safety fence. No advertising shall be placed
on the safety fence without approval of the chief building official or their
designee, a sign permit shall be required for any advertising. "No Trespassing"
signs shall be attached to the safety fence at conspicuous locations at the
perimeter of the construction site. Any access opening in the safety fence
shall be protected by gates secured with locks when there is no construction
activity. (Ord. 19-1925, 1-22-2019, eff. 2-1-2019)
8-1-5: CONSTRUCTION SITE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All construction sites shall have the following required facilities and
amenities except if otherwise approved by the chief building official or their
designee.
   B.   All construction sites and lots shall be identified with the correct
approved address as assigned on a sign of adequate size and stability (not to
exceed 25 square feet), located at the entry point of the specific site or lot.
Once a front wall has been erected, the numerical address shall be applied to
the front of the structure facing the public right-of-way and legible.
   C.   All developers, contractors, service providers, permit holder or
property owners, day or night conducting work within the Village shall restrict
the parking of vehicles to the non-hydrant side of the roadway.
   D.   All developers, contractors, service providers, permit holder or
property owner conducting work with the Village shall keep all roadways and
pedestrian sidewalks or bike paths free from construction materials, debris,
dirt or mud from their projects at all times. Provision shall be made to abate
problems immediately, not at end of shift, day or week. Contractors utilizing
the services of any utility installer shall accept the responsibility of and
provide for the cleanup as required. When in the opinion of the chief building
official or their designee and/or Public Works Director the abatement of such
conditions are not conducted in an expeditious manner, stop work orders will be
issued and/or cleanup will be conducted by Public Works at the rate of three
hundred dollars ($300.00) per hour or any increment award per man and/or
equipment utilized in the cleanup. In addition, citations may be issued for
each and every day of violation.
   E.   On all new construction sites, designated areas for driveways shall be
at a minimum, graveled from the back of the curb or end of the paved right-of-
way surface, to the garage entry or the edge of a building where the garage is
not attached. Prior to an occupancy certificate being issued, all driveway
surfaces shall be constructed in accordance with Village requirements.
   F.   Portable toilet facilities shall be provided at all construction sites
within one hundred feet (100') of the building being constructed. Portable
toilets shall not be located on a property after a certificate of occupancy has
been issued.
   G.   In order to maintain safe and sanitary building sites, dumpsters or
other suitable receptacles for refuse must be located on all residential,
commercial and industrial building sites. Such dumpsters or receptacles shall
be required for all construction projects and for major remodeling projects at
the discretion of the chief building official. (Ord. 19-1925, 1-22-2019, eff.
2-1-2019)
   8-1A.txt ()CHAPTER 1
   BUILDING CODES
ARTICLE A. CONTRACTORS, PERMIT FEES AND INSPECTION FEES
SECTION:
8-1A-1: Definitions
8-1A-2: Registration Required
8-1A-3: Application For Registration
8-1A-4: Registration Fees
8-1A-5: Insurance And Bond Requirements
8-1A-6: After The Fact Registrations
8-1A-7: Registration Revocation And Hearing
8-1A-8: Penalties
8-1A-9: Permit And Inspection Fees
8-1A-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, forms and phrases when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   CONTRACTOR:
   A.   The term "contractor" means any person engaged in the business of
construction, or altering, repairing, or demolishing buildings, structures,
utilities, site improvements or topography, including but not limited to:
      1.   Acoustical.
      2.   Asphalt, cement and concrete contractors.
      3.   Blacktop sealing contractors.
      4.   Carpentry contractors.
      5.   Drywall contractors.
      6.   Electrical contractors.
      7.   Excavation contractors.
      8.   Fencing contractors.
      9.   Flooring.
      10.   Garage contractors.
      11.   General building contractors.
      12.   Glazing contractors.
      13.   Heating, air conditioning, and ventilation contractors (HVAC).
      14.   Insulation contractors.
      15.   Irrigation contractors.
      16.   Landscaping.
      17.   Masonry contractors.
      18.   Painting.
      19.   Plastering contractors.
      20.   Plumbing.
      21.   Porch and deck contractors.
      22.   Roofing.
      23.   Sewer and drainage contractors.
      24.   Siding, soffit, fascia and gutter contractors.
      25.   Sign contractors.
      26.   Swimming pool contractors.
      27.   Water and damp-proofing contractors.
      28.   Window and door contractors.
      29.   Wrecking contractors.
The term "contractor" does not include any person performing as a contractor
solely for or on behalf of a government entity.
An owner of property performing work on property that the owner will occupy or
has occupied continuously for a period of at least six (6) months shall not be
considered a contractor as set forth in this article. However, any person hired
by such owner to perform work on such property shall be considered a
contractor.
   PERSON: Means any person or individual, partnership, firm, association,
corporation, trust or other legal entity.
   STATE OF ILLINOIS DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH LICENSED PLUMBING CONTRACTORS:
   A.   All planning and design of plumbing systems shall be performed only as
defined by the Illinois State Plumbing Code (2014) and the Village of Shorewood
plumbing regulations.
   B.   The inspection of plumbing and plumbing systems shall be performed only
by the plumbing inspector of the Village of Shorewood, as defined by the
Illinois State Plumbing Code or, in his/her absence, by a licensed plumber
appointed by the Village Administrator.
   C.   Nothing herein contained shall prohibit the owner occupant of a single
family residence or the owner of a single family residence from himself/herself
planning, installing, altering or repairing the plumbing of such residence.
   D.   For purposes of this definition, a person shall be considered an
"occupant" if and only if he/she has taken possession of and is living in the
premises as his/her bona fide sole and exclusive residence, or in the case of
an owner of a single family residence under construction for his/her occupancy,
he/she expects to take possession of and live in the premises as his/her bona
fide sole and exclusive residence, and he/she has a current intention to live
in such.
   E.   Neither tenant nor a landlord may perform plumbing work as defined by
the Illinois State Plumbing Code (2014).
   STATE OF ILLINOIS LICENSED FIRE SPRINKLER CONTRACTORS:
   A.   All fire sprinkler contractors shall meet the requirements of the Fire
Sprinkler Contractors Licensing Act.
   STATE OF ILLINOIS LICENSED PRIVATE ALARM CONTRACTORS:
   A.   All fire alarm contractors shall meet the requirements of the Private
Fire Alarm Contractors Licensing Act.
   STATE OF ILLINOIS LICENSED ROOFING CONTRACTORS:
   A.   All roofing contractors shall meet the requirements of the State of
Illinois Roofing Industry Licensing Act. (Ord. 19-1925, 1-22-2019, eff. 2-1-
2019)
8-1A-2: REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity, to engage in the work of
a contractor as defined in this article within the Village without being
registered as a contractor in the manner set forth in this article.
      1.   Any person desiring to engage in the business of contractor within
the Village shall file an application for registration with the chief building
official or their designee. If an applicant desires to engage in an area of
construction or demolition that requires licensure from the State of Illinois,
each such applicant shall file proof of valid licensure with the application.
The registration of any and all contractors upon filing of the appropriate
application and application contingencies, and compliance thereof, shall be
within the sole discretion of the chief building official or their designee.
      2.   Upon verification of the applicant's application, bond and
insurance, and payment of all fees, the chief building official or their
designee shall issue a certificate of registration and classify the applicant
in the proper category which will authorize the applicant to engage in such
business for the applicable calendar year within which it is issued. (Ord. 19-
1925, 1-22-2019, eff. 2-1-2019)
8-1A-3: APPLICATION FOR REGISTRATION:
All applications for contractor registration shall be made, in writing, to the
chief building official or their designee, upon forms furnished by the Village.
(Ord. 19-1925, 1-22-2019, eff. 2-1-2019)
8-1A-4: REGISTRATION FEES:
Every contractor, except current State licensed contractors, referenced above,
shall pay an annual one hundred twenty dollar ($120.00) registration fee to the
chief building official or their designee at the time of filing of the
application. (Ord. 19-1925, 1-22-2019, eff. 2-1-2019)
8-1A-5: INSURANCE AND BOND REQUIREMENTS:
All applicants for contractor registration shall provide proof of insurance and
license and permit bond as set forth as follows:
   A.   Permit Bond Requirement:
      1.   Prior to receiving a contractor's registration, the applicant shall
deposit with the Village a permit bond issued by a company approved and
authorized by the State to issue said bond and in a form suitable to the
Village in the following sums:
         a.   Ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) for a general contractor.
         b.   Five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) for a subcontractor.
      2.   The applicant shall well and faithfully observe all the provisions
of the Building Code and other ordinances and regulations of the Village
relating to the business conducted by the contractor and conditioned further to
indemnify, save, and keep harmless the Village for any loss which it may suffer
or which may occur against it or be charged to or recover from the Village by
reason of any act or omission by the contractor or subcontractor or by any
servant, agent, or employee thereof, including the damage or destruction of
public improvements and the prompt removal of dirt, mud, stone or debris on any
street, alley or sidewalk within the Village.
   B.   Liability Insurance Requirement:
      1.   Prior to receiving a contractor's registration, the applicant shall
deposit with the Village a certificate of liability insurance issued by a
company approved and authorized by the State to issue said insurance, for the
full period of the contractor's registration and in the following amounts:
         a.   General contractor:
            (1)   General liability: Five hundred thousand dollars
($500,000.00).
            (2)   Auto liability: Five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00).
            (3)   Excess liability: Two million dollars ($2,000,000.00).
            (4)   Workers' compensation and employers' liability.
         b.   Subcontractor:
            (1)   General liability: Five hundred thousand dollars
($500,000.00).
            (2)   Auto liability: Two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000.00).
            (3)   Excess liability: One million dollars ($1,000,000.00).
            (4)   Workers' compensation and employers' liability.
      2.   The certificate of insurance shall provide that the insurance is not
cancelable during the policy period without ninety (90) days' prior written
notice to the Village. (Ord. 19-1925, 1-22-2019, eff. 2-1-2019)
8-1A-6: AFTER THE FACT REGISTRATIONS:
Any contractor where work has been done without the required contractor
registration having been first obtained as required, shall make an application
to the chief building official or their designee and obtain the required
contractor registration after the fact. However, the contractor shall allow the
Building Department to conduct a Building Code compliance inspection and obtain
a building permit to correct any deficiencies noted during the Building Code
compliance inspection. After the fact contractor registrations and Building
Code compliance inspections shall be subject to payment of double the
registration fees and permit and inspection fees based on the Building
Department Fee Ordinance. (Ord. 19-1925, 1-22-2019, eff. 2-1-2019)
8-1A-7: REGISTRATION REVOCATION AND HEARING:
   A.   Registration Revocation, Refusal To Issue Registration And
Reinstatement:
      1.   The chief building official or their designee may revoke a
contractor's registration if the contractor violates the Building Code or other
applicable ordinances of the Village. The contractor must be notified of the
intent to revoke the contractor's registration and of the alleged violations,
and the contractor will have ten (10) days from the date notice is given to
correct the violations, to show cause why there are no violations, or to file
an appeal with the Village Administrator who shall conduct a hearing on such
revocation.
      2.   Notice shall be given by any of the following means:
         a.   Certified mail at the address provided on the contractor's
registration.
         b.   Personal delivery.
         c.   Posting on the site in which the contractor is working.
      3.   The chief building official or their designee may refuse to issue a
registration in the event that any of the provisions of this section which are
conditions precedent to the issuance of the registration have not been met.
         a.   Any appeals from an action of the chief building official or
their designee to refuse to issue a registration should be filed within ten
(10) days of such refusal with the Village Administrator who shall conduct a
hearing on such refusal to issue a registration.
      4.   Upon a hearing, the Village Administrator may, in his sole
discretion, after considering all the facts, direct the chief building official
or their designee to issue the registration. (Ord. 19-1925, 1-22-2019, eff. 2-
1-2019)
8-1A-8: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any provision of this article shall for each offense, be
fined as set forth in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 19-1925, 1-22-2019, eff. 2-1-2019)
8-1A-9: PERMIT AND INSPECTION FEES:
   A.   Construction, Remodeling And Repair: Fees for construction and
inspection for construction, remodeling or repair (unless excepted by Ordinance
0-122) for various zoning classifications and specified project descriptions
are as provided in this section.
The Village, all school districts, fire districts, Township, library district,
and the County shall be exempt from the payment of fees for building or
occupancy permits as well as water and sewer tap-on fees as provided for under
ordinances existing from time to time. Each entity, in lieu of the fees
provided for by ordinance, shall pay all the supplemental direct costs,
including, but not limited to, plan review, implementation, inspection,
consultants, and additions to forces which represent expenditures of the
Village beyond present budgets then existing.
   B.   Multiple-Units: For the purposes of this section, Village zoning
classifications "B-1 through B-4, multiple-units", as provided in this section,
means a single commercial structure which is designed or intended to be
occupied by more than one business enterprise irrespective of ownership or
proprietorship.
PERMIT AND INSPECTION FEES
New construction:                              
 Single family and duplex dwelling:           
  Per square foot of living area            $ 1.00
  Zoning review                             200.00
  Plan review                               200.00 plus
   Each revision                           50.00
 Multi-family dwellings (3 or more units):    
  Per $1,000.00 of valuation to $40,000.00  10.00
  Per $1,000.00 of valuation over           6.00
    $40,000.00
  Plumbing inspection (per unit)            42.00
   Minimum                                 175.00
  Sewer and water inspection (per service)  40.00
  Electrical inspection (per unit)          25.00
   Minimum                                 80.00
  Zoning review                             200.00
  Certificate of occupancy (per unit)       50.00
  Plan review                               200.00 plus
   Each revision                           50.00
 Non-residential (commercial, industrial,     
  institutional):
  Base permit                               750.00 plus
   Per $1,000.00 valuation to $40,000.00   10.00
   Per $1,000.00 valuation over $40,000.00 6.00
   Zoning and plan review up to 10,000     200.00
      square feet
      And each additional 10,000 square 200.00
      feet
   Certificate of occupancy                50.00
Additions, alterations, remodeling, repairs    
and miscellaneous work:
 Residential and commercial:                  
  Up to $2,500.00 valuation                 35.00
  $2,501.00 to $5,000.00 valuation          50.00
  $5,001.00 to $7,000.00 valuation          75.00
  $7,001.00 to $10,000.00 valuation         100.00
  Per $100.00 over $10,000.00               1.00
 Residential accessory structures and         
  exterior work:
  Deck up to 400 square feet                75.00
   Each additional square foot             0.25
  Exterior remodeling (siding, gutters,     50.00
    soffits, fascia, windows, doors, etc.)
  Fence up to 200 linear feet               50.00
   Each additional linear foot             0.25
    Mechanical equipment (furnace, air
  conditioner, water heater, generator,     50.00
    etc.)
  Patio                                     50.00
  Roof                                      50.00
  Sewer/water repair                        50.00
  Shed                                      50.00
   Plus slab                               25.00
   Plus electrical                         25.00
  Walk (service or public)                  50.00
  Basketball hoop or flagpole               50.00
  Fire pit                                  50.00
  Irrigation (lawn sprinklers)              70.00
  Inground pool                             250.00
  Aboveground pool, hot tub or spa          75.00
Signs:                                         
 Temporary                                   25.00
 Real estate and development                 25.00
 Monument - panel change only                50.00
 Monument - new or substantially altered     200.00
 Wall mounted - non-electrical               50.00 plus
  Per additional sign                       25.00
 Wall mounted - electrical                   100.00 plus
  Per additional sign                       50.00
Moving of house:                               
 Fee for inspection before moving            100.00
Elevators:                                     
 New installation or alteration inspection   100.00
 Inspection - annual                         60.00
 Plan review                                 $100.00 per review
Demolition of buildings:                       
 Residential buildings                       $250.00
 Nonresidential buildings                    500.00
Reinspections:                                 
 Per reinspection                            50.00
Additional fees:                               
 Outside consultants:                         
    In the event it shall appear from the plans and specifications submitted
    for any building permit for the construction, reconstruction or alteration
    of any improvement or building that the approval of the same, the issuance
    of a permit therefor or the inspection of the same during and after
    construction requires the special expertise of an engineer or other
    consultant, the cost to be incurred by the Village for the services of such
    engineer or consultant shall be determined, and the same shall be charged
  as additional building permit fee in addition to such other fee which may
    be provided, and the permit for the same shall not be issued until the same
    has been paid. Such engineer or consultant shall be engaged by the chief
    building official or their designee as a Deputy Building Inspector to
    perform such services as determined necessary. Submittal of a building
    permit application shall be considered acknowledgment that the applicant is
    responsible for all engineer or consultant fees incurred by the Village
    regardless of application status.
  The additional building permit fees provided for herein shall be used to
    defray the costs for which they are provided.
Zoning and plan review fees:
  All zoning and plan review fees as set forth above shall be paid at the time
 of submittal of a building permit application. Said review fee is
  nonrefundable regardless of permit status. Consultant invoiced plan review
  fees shall be paid at the time of the issuance of the permit.
Deferral of fees:
  Effective April 1, 2012, all fees and costs associated with the issuance of a
  building permit for residential structures, except the zoning and plan review
 fee, building permit fee, water meter, construction water and any fee to
  reimburse the Village for an out of pocket expense, shall be paid prior to
  issuance of an occupancy permit or from 1 year of issuance of the building
  permit, whichever comes first.
Damage bond:
  Effective March 1, 2013, in all instances where there are public improvements
  that have been accepted by the Village adjacent to new residential
  construction, in addition to any bond or surety that is required, prior to
  issuance of a building permit for a new residential structure, a bond in the
  following amounts shall be submitted to the Village Clerk. The purpose of the
 bond is to assure the prompt removal of dirt, mud, stone, or debris on any
  street, sidewalk or alley within the Village and for the purpose of assuring
  the repair of any damage done to any public improvement as a result of the
  construction activity whether such damage is by the owner or any person or
  entity acting on behalf of the owner including a general contractor or any of
  their subcontractors, namely:
  1. Single-family and two-family           $5,000.00 per building
    residential
  2. Multi-family                           $5,000.00 per building
    3. For all projects including, but not    As deemed necessary by the
  limited to, the following: additions,     Village Administrator or his/her
    pools, accessory structures, and          designee
    nonresidential structures
    The bond will be in a form acceptable to the Village. The balance of the
  bond, if any shall be released upon the issuance of any occupancy permit or
    certificate of completion.
 
   C.   Fire Protection District Fees:
      1.   As a condition to the issuance of a building permit for any project
situated in an area for which the Village has not approved a preliminary plat
prior to May 1, 2000, the building permit applicant shall pay to the Village a
Fire Protection District fee per residential dwelling unit in an amount of one
thousand one hundred twenty five dollars ($1,125.00) and per non- residential
building in an amount of ten cents ($0.10) per square foot. Such fee shall be
collected by the Village for the benefit of the Fire Protection District in
whose jurisdiction the property is situated. The Village shall disburse such
contributions to the Fire Protection District quarterly.
      2.   All fees collected under this subsection C shall only be expended
toward the purchase of capital improvements, including, but not limited to,
property acquisition, construction of structures, additions and improvements to
existing structures, purchase of fire apparatus and purchase of ambulance or
other rescue equipment. (Ord. 19-1925, 1-22-2019, eff. 2-1-2019)
ARTICLE B. ADDITIONS, INSERTIONS, DELETIONS, AND MODIFICATIONS
SECTION:
8-1B-1: International Building Code (IBC)
8-1B-2: International Residential Code For One- And Two-Family Dwellings (IRC)
8-1B-3: International Plumbing Code
8-1B-4: International Mechanical Code
8-1B-5: International Fuel Gas Code (IFGC)
8-1B-6: International Swimming Pool And Spa Code
8-1B-7: International Existing Building Code (IEBC)
8-1B-8: International Property Maintenance Code (IPMC)
8-1B-9: 2017 National Electrical Code (NEC)
8-1B-10: State Of Illinois Plumbing Code
8-1B-11: State Of Illinois Energy Conservation Code
8-1B-1: INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE (IBC):
The following sections of the International Building Code, 2018 edition, are
hereby revised as follows: In all chapters and sections, where "name of
jurisdiction" and/or "chief appointing authority of the jurisdiction" is
written, insert "Village of Shorewood". In all chapters and sections where
"building official" is written, insert "chief building official or their
designee". In all chapters and sections where "Department of Building Safety"
is written, insert "Building Department".
101.4.3 Plumbing. Amended as follows: The provisions of the International
Plumbing Code shall apply only to Chapter 11, Storm Drainage, and Section
403.3.2 Prohibited toilet room location. Toilet rooms shall not open directly
into a room used for the preparation of food for service to the public.
101.4.6 Energy. Amended as follows: The provisions of the Illinois Energy
Conservation Code, the most current edition, shall apply to all matters
governing the design and construction of buildings for energy efficiency.
103.1 Creation of enforcement agency. Amended as follows: Chief Building
Official or their designee shall be responsible for the interpretation and
enforcement of this code.
105.2 Work Exempt From Permit. Delete in its entirety..
111.3 Temporary Occupancy. Amended as follows: Upon written request, the Chief
Building Official or their designee may issue a temporary certificate of
occupancy for the use of any building or structure prior to the completion and
occupancy of the entire building or structure and general development standards
of such property, provided that such portion or portions shall be occupied
safely prior to full completion of the structure or the general development
standards of such property without endangering life or public welfare and upon
the following conditions:
   1) The owner or general contractor deposits sufficient funds reasonably
calculated for the cost of full compliance with all the applicable ordinances
or state law payable to the village in an escrow account established by the
village;
   2) Said temporary certificate of occupancy may be revoked if conditions are
not complied with as determined in writing by the Chief Building Official or
their designee;
   3) Such temporary certificate of occupancy shall expire up to six (6) months
from the date of issuance; An extension of the expiration of the deposit may be
granted due to adverse weather conditions with approval from the Chief Building
Official or their designee. Any portion remaining unfinished after the six (6)
month period will be just cause for the forfeiture of total amount deposited;
   4) Temporary certificates of occupancy issued prior to the passage of this
amendment to this section shall expire six (6) months from the passage date of
this amendment;
   5) No temporary certificate of occupancy shall be issued to an owner or
general contractor if the owner, general contractor or any of the principal
officers of the owner or general contractor owe any monetary obligation
including, but not limited to fines and fees, to the village for any purpose.
The village shall return the above-referenced funds maintained in the escrow
account to the owner or general contractor upon the following conditions:
      a.   Final certificate of occupancy was granted upon the expiration of
the temporary certificate of occupancy;
      b.   Upon the final inspection, the building or structure and general
development standards of such property are in full compliance with all
applicable ordinances or state law;
      c.   There are no unpaid fines against the owner or general contractor by
an administrative hearing officer or a circuit court for violations of this
division or other provisions of the Village Code including, but not limited to
the Zoning and Land Subdivisions Code related to construction, erection,
alteration or repair of the building or structure and land development of such
property for which the temporary certificate was issued;
      d.   The above-referenced funds maintained in the escrow account shall be
applied to any unpaid fees or monetary obligations owed to the village
including, but not limited to fines against the owner or general contractor
imposed by an administrative hearing officer or a circuit court for violations
of this division or other provisions of the Village Code related to
construction, erection, alteration, repair or occupancy of the building or
structure or general development standards of such property for which the
temporary certificate was issued;
      e.   The person depositing for the unfinished work shall request the
return of said deposit on a form acceptable to the village within six (6)
months and one week of the deposit being posted.
113.1 General. Amended as follows: Decisions or determinations made by the
Chief Building Official or their designee, relative to the application and
interpretation of this code, are final.
113.2 Limitations on authority. Delete in its entirety.
113.3 Qualifications. Delete in its entirety.
114.4 Violation Penalties. Amended as follows: Unless otherwise specifically
noted, any person who shall violate a provision of this Code or shall fail to
comply with any of the requirements thereof or who shall erect, construct,
alter or repair a building or structure in violation of an approved plan or
directive of the Chief Building Official or their designee, or of a permit or
certificate issued under the provisions of this Code, in addition to any other
remedies, shall be liable and shall pay a penalty as set forth in Section
 1-4-1  of the Village Code. Each day that a violation continues shall be
deemed a separate offense.
Add. 117 Daily start and stop times for construction work: Any construction,
remodeling, or heavy equipment work which emanates noise beyond the property
line shall not commence before seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. on weekdays and on
Saturday seven thirty o'clock (7:30) A.M. and Sunday eight thirty o'clock (8:
30) A.M. All construction work, as described herein, shall cease prior to seven
o'clock (7:00) P.M. for both weekends and weekdays.
202. DEFINITIONS.
Add. COMMERCIAL. Commercial is defined as anything NOT Residential (One- and
Two-Family Dwellings and Townhouses not more than three stories above grade
plane in height with a separate means of egress and their accessory
structures).
Add. 411.1.1 Haunted Houses. A temporary or existing structure used or intended
to be used as a haunted house shall be permitted in accord with Section 3103.1,
Section 411.1.2 and 411.1.3.
Add. 411.1.2 Haunted houses submittal documents. In addition to the submittal
documents required by Section 3103.1, the following information shall be
provided at the time of application, additional information may be required as
determined by the Chief Building Official or their designee:
   1) Site plan locating parking, vehicular access and circulation routes,
existing structures on the subject property and immediately adjacent to the
subject property, location of the structure to be occupied, proposed occupant
load for the structure, pedestrian circulation and gathering spaces, and other
amenities proposed or required by the Temporary Use Permit requirements.
   2) Floor plan with over all dimensions, proposed partition layout, and all
means of egress and circulation paths.
   3) Specifications of interior finishes and materials to be installed.
   4) Plans showing permanent, temporary and emergency lighting.
   5) Method of assuring continuous movement of occupants through the amusement
including, but not limited to:
      a.   Permanently stationed supervisory personnel.
      b.   Directional arrows.
      c.   Other means.
   6) Method and location of fire suppression and protection including, but not
limited to:
      a.   Sprinkler system.
      b.   Fire detection and/or alarm systems.
      c.   Portable fire extinguishers.
Add. 411.1.3 Inspection. Temporary structure(s) or existing structure(s) shall
not be operated or maintained for the use as a haunted house without an
inspection by the Chief Building Official or their designee and the fire code
official verifying compliance with this Section and Section 3103.1.
1008.3.2 Buildings. Delete the following phrase: "in buildings that require two
or more means of egress".
Chapter 11 Accessibility. Delete in its entirety and replace with:
1101.1 Scope. The provisions of the current edition of the Illinois
Accessibility Code (IAC) shall control the design and construction of
facilities for accessibility for individuals with disabilities.
Chapter 13 Energy Efficiency. Delete in its entirety and replace with:
1301.1.1 Criteria. Buildings shall be designed and constructed in accordance
with the current edition of the Illinois Energy Conservation Code (IECC).
1604.8.3 Decks. Amended as follows. Where supported by attachment to an
exterior wall, decks shall be positively anchored to the primary structure and
designed for both vertical and lateral loads as applicable. Such attachment
shall be accomplished by the use of lag bolts or through bolts with a minimum
diameter of 1/2 inch. Where positive connection to the primary building
structure cannot be verified during inspection, decks shall be self-
supporting. Connections of decks with cantilevered framing members to exterior
walls or other framing members shall be designed for both of the following:
   1) The reactions resulting from the dead load and live load specified in
Table 1607.1, or the snow load specified in Section 1608, in accordance with
Section 1605, acting on all portions of the deck.
   2) The reactions resulting from the dead load and live load specified in
Table 1607.1, or the snow load specified in Section 1608, in accordance with
Section 1605, acting on the cantilevered portion of the deck, and no live load
or snow load on the remaining portion of the deck."
1608.2 Ground snow loads. Amended as follows. The ground snow loads to be used
in determining the design snow loads for roofs shall be 30-psf or as determined
in accordance with ASCE 7. Site (project) specific ground snow load
determinations shall be based on an extreme value statistical analysis of data
available in the vicinity of the site using a value with a 2-percent annual
probability of being exceeded (50-year mean recurrence interval).
INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE (IBC) Appendix adoption.
(1)  Add    Appendices A EMPLOYEE QUALIFICATIONS
(2)  Delete Appendices B BOARD OF APPEALS
(3)  Add    Appendices C GROUP U - AGRICULTURE BUILDINGS
(4)  Delete Appendices D FIRE DISTRICTS
(5)  Delete Appendices E SUPPLEMENTARY
(6)  Add    Appendices F RODENT PROOFING
(7)  Add    Appendices G FLOOD-RESISTANT CONSTRUCTION
(8)  Delete Appendices H SIGNS
(9)  Delete Appendices I PATIO COVERS
(10) Delete Appendices J GRADING
(11) Add    Appendices K ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
(12) Delete Appendices L EARTHQUAKE RECORDING INSTRUMENTATION
(13) Delete Appendices M TSUNAMI-GENERATE FLOOD HAZARD
 
(Ord. 19-1925, 1-22-2019, eff. 2-1-2019; amd. Ord. 23-2081, 11-28-2023; Ord.
25-2143, 5-27-2025)
8-1B-2: INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE FOR ONE- AND TWO-FAMILY DWELLINGS (IRC):
The following sections of the International Residential Code for One- and Two-
Family Dwellings, 2018 edition, are hereby revised as follows: In all chapters
and sections, where "name of jurisdiction" and/or "chief appointing authority
of the jurisdiction" is written, insert "Village of Shorewood". In all chapters
and sections where "code official" is written, insert "chief building official
or their designee". In all chapters and sections where "Department of Building
Safety" is written, insert "Building Department".
R104.1 Authority. Amended as follows: The Building Official, hereinafter known
as the "Chief Building Official or their designee" is hereby authorized and
directed to administer and enforce all of the provisions of this Code.
Add. R104.12 Prefabricated Construction. A certificate of approval by the
Illinois Department of Public Health and a certificate of approval by an
approved agency shall be furnished with each prefabricated assembly.
Manufacturers of modular housing construction shall be licensed and bonded with
the Village of Shorewood in accordance with Section
8-1A-2  of the Village Code when applicable or as the Chief Building Official
or their designee or may direct.
105.2 Work Exempt From Permit. Delete in its entirety.
Add. R105.5.1 Expiration. Penalties For Noncompleted Construction Work
Requiring A Permit:
   1) Commercial and Residential New Construction: Construction is required to
be completed and successfully pass a final inspection by the Chief Building
Official or their designee within twelve (12) months from the issue date of the
permit. If the work is not completed within twelve (12) months, then the permit
applicant must reapply for a new permit. The reapplication cost will be based
on fifteen cents ($0.15) per square foot.
   2) Other Permitted Construction: Construction is required to be completed
within six (6) months of the time of issuance of the permit. If the work is not
completed at that time, the permit holder must reapply for the permit at fifty
percent (50%) of the original permit cost.
Add. R105.8 After the fact permits and building code compliance inspections.
Any owner of property where work has been done without the required permit
having been first obtained as required by Section R105.1, shall make an
application to the Chief Building Official or their designee and obtain the
required permit after the fact. However, the property owner shall allow the
Building Department to conduct a building code compliance inspection and obtain
a building permit to correct any deficiencies noted during the building code
compliance inspection. After the fact permits and building code compliance
inspections shall be subject to payment of double the permit and inspection
fees based on the Building Department Fee Ordinance.
R106.1 Submittal documents. Amended as follows. Construction documents for new
single-family dwellings, two-family dwellings, townhouse dwellings, duplex
dwellings, additions to dwelling units, modifications which alter the roof of a
dwelling unit of a substantial scope as determined by the Chief Building
Official or their designee, shall be sealed and signed by an Illinois licensed
architect or structural engineer, prior to submittal.
R109.1.1 Through R109.1.4 Delete and Add. R109.1.1 Inspections:
Footing Inspection:
Footings shall be drained of standing water and inspected prior to pouring.
• Storm water inlets protected with silt fence, filter fabric/logs.
• Keep site, parkway and street clean; Port-o-let required.
• Footings minimum eighteen inch by ten inch (18" X 10").
• Required Setbacks for foundation.
• Elevations with respect to approved grading plan.
• NO standing water or mud in footings.
• Concrete encased electrode installed to reinforcing bars and clamp listed for
concrete encasement.
• Submit Soils Test Report signed and sealed by State of Illinois licensed
engineer confirming the soil load bearing capacity.
Foundation Wall Inspection:
Reinforcing rods required in walls and prior to pouring.
• Horizontal Rebar: three (3) #4 one half inch (1/2") rods: one foot up from
top of footing, midpoint of wall and one foot down from top of wall. The top
rod must offset over top of escape window.
• Vertical Rebar: per IRC requirements.
• Wall centered on the footing.
• Proper size of wall.
• Straightness & plumb of foundation wall.
Backfill Inspection:
Inspection prior to backfilling the wall.
• Wall damp proofing.
• Footing drain pipe with filter fabric and gravel, minimum twelve inches (12")
over tile.
• Location of sump pit & drain.
• Window wells securely attached.
• Drains in the window wells.
• Anchor bolts & spacing, maximum six feet (6') o.c. and minimum twelve inches
(12") from the corners.
• Bracing of walls if beams and concrete slab are not installed.
Underground Inspections:
Inspections shall be made prior to concealing.
• Underground plumbing (underground electric, if slab) inspection required.
Provide ladder on site.
Garage Inspection:
Inspection made prior to pouring the concrete.
• Welded wire six inch by six inch (6" X 6") or fiber mesh.
• Fill with three to four inches (3-4") stone, topped with four inches (4") of
three quarter inch (3/4") stone (no clay or dirt fill).
• Slab shall be minimum four inches (4") thick.
• Four inch (4") gas ledge into house.
• Slope floor towards garage door opening for drainage.
Basement Inspection:
Inspection made prior to pouring concrete.
• 6-mil vapor barrier seams overlapped twelve inches (12").
• Underground plumbing must be approved prior to pouring; Radon mitigation
required by State Energy Code.
• Slab shall be minimum four inches (4") thick.
• Sump pit shall be a minimum of two inches (2") above basement floor.
• Basements must have access to the outside by means of an escape window
thirty-two inches (32") in width and thirty- six inches (36") in height;
horizontal rebar above and vertical at sides.
• Protective covers shall be required over basement window well openings per
code requirements.
Spot Survey Inspection/Review:
• Submit Foundation Survey prior to Electric Service inspection.
Electric Service Inspection:
• Ground connected to ground rod and electrode.
• Panel box covered, protected from elements.
• Upon approval, Village will notify Com-Ed to connect service.
Water & Sewer Tap Inspections:
• Water service and sanitary sewer shall be installed in separate trenches with
a minimum of ten feet (10') horizontal separation.
• Water service shall be a minimum of five feet (5') below grade. Full size
sewer cleanout shall be located within five feet (5') of building.
• Water service buffalo boxes cannot be located within concrete (driveway,
drive apron or public walk) under any circumstances.
• No couplings, splices, joints, etc. are allowed between the tap and the b-
box, and the b-box and the house.
Storm Sewer Connection Inspection:
• Sump pumps installed to receive and discharge groundwaters or other
stormwaters shall be connected to the storm sewer. See section R328.
Rough Inspections:
Inspection of all MEP rough-ins made prior to installation of insulation. The
roof shall be weather tight and the window openings shall be sealed. Ice and
water shield and housewrap will also be inspected at this time.
• Framing: Truss drawings on-site; drywall backing; fire stopping around all
holes in floors, studs and walls; chimney fire stopping and clearance; double
floor joist below interior load bearing walls; headers; bracing; joist overlap
minimum four inch (4"); stairways thirty-six inch (36") width, ten inch (10")
minimum tread, seven and three quarter inch (7-3/4") maximum rise; handrails
required for four (4) or more risers; six foot eight inches (6'-8") minimum
head room clearance; bridging; flashing; beam bolts and anchor bolt spacing;
anchor bolts tightened; anchor bolts on middle third of sill; hurricane clips;
lateral wall bracing for walls over eight feet (8'0") high; stiff backs;
notching; boring; shield plates; safety glass in hazardous locations; window
child fall protection.
• Electrical: Wires are required to be pulled prior to rough inspection.
Conduit must be metallic - EMT, IMC, or RMC can be used for interior
electrical. GFCI, arc-fault and tamper resistant receptacles where required per
NEC 2011.
• Mechanical: Submit Blower Door or Air Leakage Reports, as required by IL
Energy Code; dryer exhaust length labeled, maximum thirty-five foot (35') run,
capped if dryer not installed by final; Whole house mechanical ventilation
required. Range hoods that exhaust over 400 cfm require fresh air intake/makeup
air.
• Plumbing: Submit Stack Test Results (at inspection). System shall be tested
with water or air; all hot water piping shall be insulated from the water
heater to the fixture(s); fixtures shall be labeled Water Sense product, as
specified by EPA, when such labeled fixtures are available per municipal
ordinance.
• Radon: Passive Radon system requires future power source in attic and must be
accessible, sump pit shall be covered with a gasketed sealed lid, and exposed
and visible vent pipes identified.
Insulation Inspection:
Inspection made prior to the installation of the drywall.
• Fire-stopping (non-combustible materials) for penetrations. Fire-stopping all
vertical and horizontal connections.
• All joints, penetrations, doors and windows shall be caulked, gasketed
weather-stripped, or otherwise sealed. Conduit in slabs, gaps and openings in
concrete (behind tubs and shower on exterior walls) need to be sealed.
• Attic R-38 (performance) or R-49 (prescriptive); Walls R-13.
• Engineered floor joist (I-beams, TJI's, trusses) on first floor require fire
protected basement ceiling (drywall, flak jacket, etc.)
• NO paper-backed insulation in unfinished basements.
• Drywall under stairs required.
• Garage drywall on interior walls.
• Type X drywall on garage ceiling if second floor above.
Final Inspections:
Inspection is made when all work is completed and prior to occupancy. No
furniture can be brought in until the Occupancy permit is issued. If there are
workers still doing work when the inspector arrives he will red tag the job and
a re-inspection will be required.
• Completed Electrical:   GFCI, arc-fault and tamper- resistant receptacles
where required per NEC 2017; interior & exterior lighting; ground panel box;
bonding of water pipe at water meter; bonding of gas and water line;
interconnected smoke detectors; carbon monoxide detectors required outside each
separate sleeping area. All lights in working condition. Access to whirlpool
motor.
• Completed Plumbing: Plumbing fixtures; water heater; future openings capped;
sump pump connection & overhead sewers.
• Completed HVAC: Installation of furnace, ducts, vents & flue. Covers on duct
openings; Energy certificate at furnace.
• Completed General: Interior and exterior painting, staining, caulking;
interior trim; kitchen & bath counter tops, cabinets & flooring; guardrails and
handrails; interior & exterior doors; windows, screens; safety glass in
hazardous locations; garage doors; one (1) hour separation between house &
garage; house numbers six inch (6") minimum height per municipal code, no
script; chimney spark arrestor; fireplace chimney cricket.
• Completed Utilities: Buffalo Box set to final grade and water meter remote
reader installed by Utility Division.
• Completed Concrete: Driveway shall be minimum five inches (5") concrete on
minimum four inches (4") compacted three quarter inch (3/4") clean or crushed
stone (no pea gravel). All portions of the driveway shall include six inch by
six inch (6"x6") welded wire or fiber mesh.
   1) Construction Specifications:
      a.   Any residential unit in a development for which a plat of
subdivision or planned unit development has been approved prior to June 10,
1997, shall have a paved driveway constructed of either five inch (5") 6-bag
mix concrete or two inches (2") of bituminous asphalt. In such developments
where a preliminary plat has been approved prior to said effective date,
asphalt driveway approach aprons (aprons) are permitted. Such aprons shall be
constructed of three inch (3") bituminous asphalt on top of a minimum of six
inches (6") of compacted CA-6 stone. Such asphalt shall be installed using two
(2) lifts of one and one-half inches (11/2") each.
      b.   All residences except as mentioned above shall have paved driveways
constructed with five inches (5") 6-bag mix concrete installed on minimum four
inch (4") clean gravel or crushed stone. The driveway apron and public sidewalk
at the driveway shall be constructed per the land subdivision ordinance
standard construction details. Private residential concrete patios and service
walks shall be constructed with minimum four inch (4") 6-bag mix concrete
installed on minimum four inch (4") compacted clean gravel or crushed stone.
      c.   All driveways and aprons shall be installed prior to the issuance of
an occupancy permit. If weather does not permit completion of the driveway
prior to occupancy, the Chief Building Inspector or their designee may issue a
conditional certificate of occupancy and the driveway and the apron must be
completed within six (6) months from date of occupancy.
      d.   All developments which are subject to subsection 1b of this section
(i.e., no preliminary plat has been approved prior to the effective date of
this subsection 1) may request a variance to allow asphalt driveways instead of
concrete driveways. The Village Board may grant such a variance if it deems it
is to be in the best interest of the Village.
      e.   Variances are not authorized with regard to the aprons which all
must be concrete as provided in subsection 1b of this section.
   2) Exemption From Slope Requirements: The Chief Building Inspector or their
designee may, upon request, waive the driveway maximum slope provision of eight
percent (8%) and allow a greater or steeper slope, when, in his sole
discretion, the natural grade of the building site requires the same for proper
driveway construction.
• Completed Concrete: Driveway apron (and public sidewalk within apron) shall
be six inches (6") of concrete on four inches (4") compacted three quarter inch
(3/4") clean crushed stone (CA-6 preferred). Expansion joint shall be used
between driveway and sidewalks. Two (2) #4 reinforcing bars, ten (10) feet long
shall be used over all utility trenches for new sidewalks. New public walk must
be pinned to existing with three (3) rebar.
• Completed Concrete: Public Walk (not within apron) shall be five inches (5")
of concrete on four inches (4") compacted three quarter inch (3/4") clean
crushed stone.
• Completed Concrete: Patios and Service Walks shall be minimum four inches
(4") concrete on minimum four inches (4") compacted three quarter inch (3/4")
clean or crushed stone (no pea gravel). Patios shall include six inch by six
inch (6"x6") welded wire or fiber mesh.
• Completed Concrete: Stoops shall be poured on a minimum four inches (4")
compacted three quarter inch (3/4") clean or crushed stone (no pea gravel).
• Completed Final Grading: Submit As-Built Survey two (2) weeks prior to
request for Final Inspection. Sump pump line connected to storm sewer system.
• Completed Landscaping and Parkway Tree(s): Downspouts directed away from
foundation, walks and driveways. Parkway tree(s) planted and compliant with
species, size, location, number and tag requirements. For complete parkway tree
requirements, see Village of Shorewood Municipal Code,
Title 4, Chapter 7 , Trees and Shrubs.
Cold Weather Regulations: If, for more than three (3) consecutive days, the
average daily temperature is less than forty degrees (<40°) Fahrenheit or Air
temperature is less than forty degrees (<40°) Fahrenheit for more than 12 hours
(average daily air temperature is the average of the highest and lowest
temperatures occurring from midnight to midnight):
• Footings must be poured only on dry soil when the temperature is greater than
twenty-five degrees (>25°) Fahrenheit. Forms must be kept in place for a
minimum of forty-eight (48) hours before removal. Footings must be protected
with either insulation blankets or at least one (1) foot of straw covered with
plastic to prevent air and water infiltration. Straw must cover the top and
sides of the footing completely.
• Foundation Walls must be poured only when the temperature is greater than
twenty-five degrees (>25°) Fahrenheit. The pour must be completed by (12) noon
to maximize curing time prior to falling temperatures at night. Forms must be
kept in place for a minimum of seventy-two (72) hours before removal. Walls
must be protected with insulation blankets for a minimum of seventy-two (72)
hours prior to any removal of form work.
• Basement and Garage Slabs can be poured from January 1 - April 1 only if the
concrete is roofed over, has been heated prior to and after the pour and the
temperature is greater than twenty-five degrees (>25°) Fahrenheit. Forms must
be kept in place for a minimum of twenty-four (24) hours before removal.
• Stoops and Porches can be poured from January 1 - April 1 only if the
concrete is roofed over, has been heated prior to and after the pour and the
temperature is greater than twenty-five degrees (>25°) Fahrenheit. Forms must
be kept in place for a minimum of twenty-four (24) hours before removal.
• Outside Flat Work (walks, patios, driveways, slabs, etc.) are NOT allowed to
be poured from January 1st through April 1st due to inclement weather
conditions. When applicable, temperature must be greater than forty degrees
(>40°) Fahrenheit for more than twelve (12) hours.
Adequate equipment must be provided for heating and protecting concrete
materials, forms and fillers during freezing or near freezing weather. All
ground where installing concrete must also be free of frost and ice. Frozen
materials or materials containing ice must not be used.
Construction Completion Cash Bond Requirements: Bonds may be posted when winter
or adverse weather prevents completion of work. All work shall be completed no
later than six (6) months from date of occupancy, and request for return of any
cash deposits must also be submitted to the Village within six (6) months from
date of occupancy (Request for Release of Bond form). Re-inspection fees are
non-refundable.
Cash Bond Amounts:
Final Survey $1,000, Landscaping (sod) $5,000, Parkway Tree $500 (corner lot
$1,000), Drive/Apron $5,000 (asphalt $2,000), Public Walk $1,500 (corner lot
$3,000), Service Walk $500
R110.2 Change in use or occupancy. Delete in its entirety and replace with: The
use or occupancy of any building shall not be changed until a certificate of
occupancy permitting the new use or occupancy is issued by the Chief Building
Official or their designee. No such certificate of occupancy shall be issued
unless the building substantially complies with the requirements of this
chapter.
R110.4 Temporary Occupancy. Amended as follows: Upon written request, the Chief
Building Official or their designee may issue a temporary certificate of
occupancy for the use of any building or structure prior to the completion and
occupancy of the entire building or structure and general development standards
of such property, provided that such portion or portions shall be occupied
safely prior to full completion of the structure or the general development
standards of such property without endangering life or public welfare and upon
the following conditions:
   1) The owner or general contractor deposits sufficient funds reasonably
calculated for the cost of full compliance with all the applicable ordinances
or state law payable to the village in an escrow account established by the
village;
   2) Said temporary certificate of occupancy may be revoked if conditions are
not complied with as determined in writing by the Chief Building Official or
their designee;
   3) Such temporary certificate of occupancy shall expire up to six (6) months
from the date of issuance;
   4) Temporary certificates of occupancy issued prior to the passage of this
amendment to this section shall expire six (6) months from the passage date of
this amendment and
   5) No temporary certificate of occupancy shall be issued to an owner or
general contractor if the owner, general contractor or any of the principal
officers of the owner or general contractor owe any monetary obligation
including, but not limited to fines and fees, to the village for any purpose.
The village shall return the above-referenced funds maintained in the escrow
account to the owner or general contractor upon the following conditions:
      a) Final certificate of occupancy was granted upon the expiration of the
temporary certificate of occupancy;
      b) Upon the final inspection, the building or structure and general
development standards of such property are in full compliance with all
applicable ordinances or state law;
      c) There are no unpaid fines against the owner or general contractor by
an administrative hearing officer or a circuit court for violations of this
division or other provisions of the Village Code including, but not limited to
the Zoning and Land Subdivision Code related to construction.
The above-referenced funds maintained in the escrow account shall be applied to
any unpaid fees or monetary obligations owed to the village including, but not
limited to fines against the owner or general contractor imposed by an
administrative hearing officer or a circuit court for violations of this
division or other provisions of the Village Code related to construction,
erection, alteration, repair or occupancy of the building or structure or
general development standards of such property for which the temporary
certificate was issued.
R112.1 General. Amended as follows: Decisions or determinations made by the
Chief Building Official or their designee, relative to the application and
interpretation of this code, are final.
R112.2 Limitations on authority. Delete in its entirety.
R112.3 Qualifications. Delete in its entirety.
R113.4 Violation Penalties. Amended as follows: Unless otherwise specifically
noted, any person who shall violate a provision of this Code or shall fail to
comply with any of the requirements thereof or who shall erect, construct,
alter or repair a building or structure in violation of an approved plan or
directive of the Chief Building Official or their designee, or of a permit or
certificate issued under the provisions of this Code, in addition to any other
remedies, shall be liable and shall pay a penalty as set forth in Section
1-4-1  of the Village Code. Each day that a violation continues shall be deemed
a separate offense.
R301.2(1)
 
Table R301.2(1) CLIMATIC AND GEOGRAPHIC DESIGN CRITERIA
GroundSnow Wind Design                                        Seismic Design
Load       Speedd (mph) Topographic Special Wind Wind-Borne   Categoryf
                        Effectsk    Regionl      Debris Zonem
30psf      115 90       No          No           No           A
 
Subject To Damage From           Winter Ice Barrier           Air      Mean
            Frost Line           Design Underlayment Flood    Freezing Annual
Weatheringa Depthb     Termitec  Tempe  Requiredh    Hazardsg Indexi   Tempj

Severe      42"        Moderate/ -4°F  Yes          FIRM     2000     47.8°F
                       heavy
 
For SI: 1 pound per square foot = 0.0479kPa, 1 mile per hour = 0.447 m/s
a.Weathering may require a higher strength concrete or grade of masonry than
necessary to satisfy the structural requirements of this Code. The weathering
column shall be filled in with the weathering index, "negligible," "moderate"
or "severe" for concrete as determined from Figure R301.2(3). The grade of
masonry units shall be determined from ASTM C 34, C 55, C 62, C 73, C 90, C
129, C 145, C 216 or C 652.
b.The frost line depth may require deeper footings than indicated in Figure
R403.1(1). The jurisdiction shall fill in the frost line depth column with the
minimum depth of footing below finish grade.
c.The jurisdiction shall fill in this part of the table to indicate the need
for protection depending on whether there has been a history of local
subterranean termite damage.
d.The jurisdiction shall fill in this part of the table with the wind speed
from the basic wind speed map [Figure R301.2(4)A]. Wind exposure category shall
be determined on a site-specific basis in accordance with Section R301.2.1.4.
e.The outdoor design dry-bulb temperature shall be selected from the columns of
971/2-percent values for winter from Appendix D of the International Plumbing
Code. Deviations from the Appendix D temperatures shall be permitted to reflect
local climates or local weather experience as determined by the Chief Building
Official or their designee.
f.The jurisdiction shall fill in this part of the table with the seismic design
category determined from section R301.2.2.1.
g.The jurisdiction shall fill in this part of the table with (a) the date of
the jurisdiction's entry into the National Flood Insurance Program (date of
adoption of the first code or ordinance for management of the flood hazard
areas), (b) the date(s) of the Flood Insurance Study and (c) the panel numbers
and dates of the currently effective FIRMs and FBFMs or other flood hazard map
adopted by the authority having jurisdiction, as amended.
h.In accordance with Sections R905.1.2, R905.4.3.1, R905.5.3.1, R905.6.3.1,
R905.7.3.1, and R905.8.3.1, where there has been a history of local damage from
the effects of ice damming, the jurisdiction shall fill in this part of the
table with "YES". Otherwise, the jurisdiction shall fill in this part of the
table with "NO".
i.The jurisdiction shall fill in this part of the table with the 100-year
return period air freezing index (BF- days) from Figure R403.3(2) or from the
100-year (99 percent) value on the National Climatic Data Center data table"
"Air Freezing Index-USA Method (Base 32°F)."
j.The jurisdiction shall fill in this part of the table with the mean annual
temperature from the National Climatic Data Center table "Air Freezing Index-
USA Method (Base 32°F).
k.In accordance with Section R301.2.1.5, where there is local historical data
documenting structural damage to buildings due to topographic wind speed-up
effects, the jurisdiction shall fill in this part of the table with "YES".
Otherwise, the jurisdiction shall indicate "NO" in this part of the table.
l.In accordance with Figure R301.2(4)A, where there is local historical data
documenting unusual wind conditions, the jurisdiction shall fill in this part
of the table with "YES" and identify any specific requirements. Otherwise, the
jurisdiction shall indicate "NO" in this part of the table.
m.In accordance with Section R301.2.1.2.1, the jurisdiction shall indicate the
wind-borne debris wind zone(s). Otherwise, the jurisdiction shall indicate "NO"
in this part of the table.
R302.6 Dwelling-garage fire separation. Amended as follows: The garage shall be
separated from the residence and its attic area by means of minimum 5/8 inch
(16.51mm) Fire Code gypsum board applied to the garage side. This application
shall be continuous on all walls, ceilings and soffits when habitable space
exists above the garage area.
R306.5 Sewer Depth. Building sewers that connect to a private sewage disposal
system shall be not less than 42 inches below finished grade at the point of
septic tank connection. Building sewers shall be not less than 42 inches below
grade.
Add. R309.6 Gas Curb. A concrete curb extending at least four inches (4") above
the garage floor and around all below grade openings shall be provided for
attached garages.
R309.1 Floor Surface. Amended as follows. Garage and carports floor surfaces
shall be of approved noncombustible material. That area of floor used for
parking of automobiles or other vehicles shall be sloped to facilitate the
movement of liquids towards the main vehicle entry doorway. The common wall of
garage and living space, including stairwells, shall have a four (4) inch
concrete curb to protect separation wall from liquids.
Add. R311.7.1 Width. Stair stringer maximum width, measured outside to outside,
shall not exceed 36 inches.
R313 Automatic Fire Sprinkler Systems. Delete in its entirety. Refer to R302.13
Fire protection of floors.
R313.1 Townhouse automatic fire sprinkler systems. Delete in its entirety.
R313.1.1 Design and installation. Delete in its entirety.
R313.2 One- and two-family dwellings automatic fire sprinkler system. Delete in
its entirety.
R313.2.1 Design and installation. Delete in its entirety.
Add. R327.1 Post Holes. Post hole depth of minimum forty-two inches (42") are
required for the installation of all poles and posts including, but not limited
to, fences, flagpoles and basketball hoops.
Add. R328. Downspout and sump pump discharges.
   1) New Connections and New Construction. Except as set forth in subsection
2) of this section, the following requirements for new connections and new
construction apply:
      a.   Downspouts:
         1)    All downspouts or roof drains shall discharge onto the ground or
be connected to a storm sewer and must be channeled and directed away from the
adjacent properties. No downspouts or roof drains shall be connected to the
sanitary sewer.
         2)    A downspout or roof drain shall be terminated no more than ten
feet from the building unless written approval is granted from the Village
Engineer.
      b.   Footing Drains: Footing drains shall be connected to sump pumps and
discharge shall be made into a storm sewer. No footing drains or drainage tile
shall be connected to the sanitary sewer.
      c.   Floor Drains: Floor drains in basements shall be connected to a sump
pump and discharged to the sanitary sewer.
      d.   Sump Pumps:
         1)    Sump pumps installed to receive and discharge groundwaters or
other stormwaters shall be connected to the storm sewer. Sump pumps installed
to receive and discharge floor drain flow or other sanitary sewage shall be
connected to the sanitary sewer. A sump pump shall be used for one function
only, either the discharge of stormwaters or the discharge of sanitary sewage.
         2)    Sump pump discharges to the storm sewer system shall be a
conduit of four-inch minimum diameter P.V.C. pipe, at a minimum slope of one
percent, and a minimum depth from finished grade to the top of pipe of eighteen
inches.
   2) Existing Stormwater Sump Pump Discharges. The discharge piping from
existing sump pumps installed to receive and discharge groundwaters or other
stormwaters shall be terminated no more than ten feet from the building unless
written approval is granted by the Village Engineer.
   3) Unlawful Discharge. It is unlawful to cause or permit the discharge from
any sump pump, grinder pump, downspout or roof drain to flow onto public
streets, sidewalks or parkways or onto adjacent properties.
Chapter 11 Energy Efficiency. Delete in its entirety and replace with:
N1101.1 Scope. Buildings shall be designed and constructed in accordance with
the current edition of the Illinois Energy Conservation Code (IECC).
PART VII - Plumbing
Chapter 25 THROUGH 32. Delete in its entirety and replace with: The provisions
of the 2014 State of Illinois Plumbing Code as adopted separately by the
Village of Shorewood shall govern the erection, installation, alteration,
repairs, relocation, replacement, addition to, use or maintenance of plumbing
equipment.
PART VIII - Electrical
Chapter 24 THROUGH 43. Delete in its entirety and replace with: The provisions
of the National Electrical Code as adopted separately by the Village of
Shorewood shall govern the installation of electrical systems, equipment and
components indoors and outdoors that are within the scope of this code,
including services, power, distribution systems, fixtures, appliances, devices
and appurtenances.
INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE (IRC) Appendix adoption.
(1)  Delete Appendices A SIZING CAPACITIES OF GAS PIPING
                         SIZING OF VENTING SYSTEMS SERVING APPLIANCES EQUIPPED
(2)  Delete Appendices B WITH DRAFT HOODS, CATEGORY I APPLIANCES, AND
                         APPLIANCES LISTED FOR USE WITH TYPE B VENTS
(3)  Add    Appendices C EXIT TERMINALS OF MECHANICAL DRAFT AND DIRECT-VENT
                         VENTING SYSTEMS
(4)  Delete Appendices D RECOMMENDED PROCEDURE FOR SAFETY INSPECTION OF AN
                         EXISTING APPLIANCE INSTALLATION
(5)  Delete Appendices E MANUFACTURED HOUSING USED AS DWELLINGS
(6)  Delete Appendices F PASSIVE RADON GAS CONTROLS
(7)  Delete Appendices G PIPING STANDARDS FOR VARIOUS APPLICATIONS
(8)  Delete Appendices H PATIO COVERS
(9)  Delete Appendices I PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL
(10) Delete Appendices J EXISTING BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES
(11) Delete Appendices K SOUND TRANSMISSION
                         PERMIT FEES APPENDIX L PERMIT FEES
(12) Add    Appendices L Permit fees shall be in accordance to the Fee
                         Ordinance as adopted by the Village of Shorewood
(13) Delete Appendices M HOME DAY CARE - R-3 OCCUPANCY
(14) Delete Appendices N VENTING METHODS
(15) Delete Appendices O AUTOMATIC VEHICULAR GATES
(16) Delete Appendices P SIZING OF WATER PIPING SYSTEM
(17) Delete Appendices Q RESERVED
(18) Delete Appendices R LIGHT STRAW-CLAY CONSTRUCTION
(19) Delete Appendices S STRAWBALE CONSTRUCTION
                         RECOMMENDED PROCEDURE FOR WORST-CASE TESTING OF
(20) Delete Appendices T ATMOSPHERIC VENTING SYSTEMS UNDER N1102.4 OR N1105
                         CONDITIONS = 5ACH
                         SOLAR-READY PROVISIONS - DETACHED ONE- AND TWO-FAMILY
(21) Delete Appendices U DWELLINGS, MULTIPLE SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLINGS
                         (TOWNHOUSES)
 
(Ord. 19-1925, 1-22-2019, eff. 2-1-2019; amd. Ord. 23-2081, 11-28-2023)
8-1B-3: INTERNATIONAL PLUMBING CODE:
The following sections of the International Plumbing Code, 2018 edition, are
hereby revised as follows: In all chapters and sections, where "name of
jurisdiction" and/or "chief appointing authority of the jurisdiction" is
written, insert "Village of Shorewood". In all chapters and sections where
"code official" is written, insert "chief building official or their designee".
In all chapters and sections where "Department of Building Safety" is written,
insert "Building Department".
101.2 Scope. Amended as follows: The provisions of the International Plumbing
Code shall apply only to Chapter 11 Storm Drainage and Section 403.3.2
Prohibited toilet room location. Toilet rooms shall not open directly into a
room used for the preparation of food for service to the public.
109.1 Application for appeal. Amended as follows: Decisions or determinations
made by the Chief Building Official or their designee, relative to the
application and interpretation of this code, are final.
109.2 Membership of Board. Delete in its entirety.
109.2.1 Qualifications. Delete in its entirety.
109.2.2 Alternate members. Delete in its entirety.
109.2.3 Chairman. Delete in its entirety.
109.2.4 Disqualification of member. Delete in its entirety.
109.2.5 Secretary. Delete in its entirety.
109.2.6 Compensation of members. Delete in its entirety.
109.3 Notice of meeting. Delete in its entirety.
109.4 Open hearing. Delete in its entirety.
109.4.1 Procedure. Delete in its entirety.
109.5 Postponed hearing. Delete in its entirety.
109.6 Board decision. Delete in its entirety.
109.6.1 Resolution. Delete in its entirety.
109.6.2 Administration. Delete in its entirety.
109.7 Court review. Delete in its entirety.
(Ord. 19-1925, 1-22-2019, eff. 2-1-2019)
8-1B-4: INTERNATIONAL MECHANICAL CODE:
The following sections of the International Mechanical Code, 2018 edition, are
hereby revised as follows: In all chapters and sections, where "name of
jurisdiction" and/or "chief appointing authority of the jurisdiction" is
written, insert "Village of Shorewood". In all chapters and sections where
"code official" is written, insert "chief building official or their designee".
In all chapters and sections where "Department of Building Safety" is written,
insert "Building Department".
108.4 Violation Penalties. Amended as follows: Unless otherwise specifically
noted, any person who shall violate a provision of this Code or shall fail to
comply with any of the requirements thereof or who shall erect, construct,
alter or repair a building or structure in violation of an approved plan or
directive of the Chief Building Official or their designee, or of a permit or
certificate issued under the provisions of this Code, in addition to any other
remedies, shall be liable and shall pay a penalty as set forth in Section
 1-4-1  of the Village Code. Each day that a violation continues shall be
deemed a separate offense.
109.1 Application for appeal. Amended as follows: Decisions or determinations
made by the Chief Building Official or their designee, relative to the
application and interpretation of this code, are final.
109.1.1 Limitations on authority. Delete in its entirety.
109.2 Membership of Board. Delete in its entirety.
109.2.1 Qualifications. Delete in its entirety.
109.2.2 Alternate members. Delete in its entirety.
109.2.3 Chairman. Delete in its entirety.
109.2.4 Disqualification of member. Delete in its entirety.
109.2.5 Secretary. Delete in its entirety.
109.2.6 Compensation of members. Delete in its entirety.
109.3 Notice of meeting. Delete in its entirety.
109.4 Open hearing. Delete in its entirety.
109.4.1 Procedure. Delete in its entirety.
109.5 Postponed hearing. Delete in its entirety.
109.6 Board decision. Delete in its entirety.
109.6.1 Resolution. Delete in its entirety.
109.6.2. Administration. Delete in its entirety.
109.7 Court review. Delete in its entirety.
603.6.1.1 Duct length. Amended as follows: Flexible air ducts shall be limited
in length to 8 feet overall from the termination point and contain no more than
to be the equivalent of one 90 degree turn with no offset greater than 45
degrees. All flexible air ducts shall be of the insulated type. Flexible ducts
shall only be used for branches.
Add. 801.2.2 Fuel burning appliances. PVC vent piping for a fuel burning
appliance that is located in a concealed space shall be marked/labeled every 36
inches so as to distinguish it from plumbing or other piping.
801.18 Existing Chimneys and Vents. Amended as follows: This shall apply to one
and two-family dwellings also.
Add. 918.7 Furnace cement or welding. The use of furnace cement or welding for
the repair of furnace heat exchangers is prohibited.
Add. 1507.4 Bath Fan Venting. All bath fans in concealed locations to be vented
with hard pipe with insulation and vapor barrier.
The following sections of the International Residential Code 2018, Part V
Mechanical, are hereby revised as follows:
Add. M1401.6 Furnace Repair. The use of furnace cement or welding for the
repair of a furnace heat exchanger is prohibited.
Add. M1506.4 Bath Fan Venting: All bath fans in concealed locations to be
vented with hard pipe with insulation and vapor barrier.
M1602.2 Return air openings. Amended as follows: Return air openings for HVAC
systems for all dwelling units, including manufactured and modular homes shall
comply with all of the following:
(Ord. 19-1925, 1-22-2019, eff. 2-1-2019)
8-1B-5: INTERNATIONAL FUEL GAS CODE (IFGC):
The following sections of the International Fuel Gas Code, 2018 edition, are
hereby revised as follows: In all chapters and sections, where "name of
jurisdiction" and/or "chief appointing authority of the jurisdiction" is
written, insert "Village of Shorewood". In all chapters and sections where
"code official" is written, insert "chief building official or their designee".
In all chapters and sections where "Department of Building Safety" is written,
insert "Building Department".
108.4 Violation Penalties. Amended as follows: Unless otherwise specifically
noted, any person who shall violate a provision of this Code or shall fail to
comply with any of the requirements thereof or who shall erect, construct,
alter or repair a building or structure in violation of an approved plan or
directive of the Chief Building Official or their designee, or of a permit or
certificate issued under the provisions of this Code, in addition to any other
remedies, shall be liable and shall pay a penalty as set forth in Section
1-4-1  of the Village Code. Each day that a violation continues shall be deemed
a separate offense.
109.1 Application for appeal. Amended as follows: Decisions or determinations
made by the Chief Building Official or their designee, relative to the
application and interpretation of this code, are final.
109.2 Membership of Board. Delete in its entirety.
109.2.1 Qualifications. Delete in its entirety.
109.2.2 Alternate members. Delete in its entirety.
109.2.3 Chairman. Delete in its entirety.
109.2.4 Disqualification of member. Delete in its entirety.
109.2.5 Secretary. Delete in its entirety.
109.2.6 Compensation of members. Delete in its entirety.
109.3 Notice of meeting. Delete in its entirety.
109.4 Open hearing. Delete in its entirety.
109.4.1 Procedure. Delete in its entirety.
109.5 Postponed hearing. Delete in its entirety.
109.6 Board decision. Delete in its entirety.
109.6.1 Resolution. Delete in its entirety.
109.6.2. Administration. Delete in its entirety.
109.7 Court review. Delete in its entirety.
404.2.1 Corrugated stainless steel tubing. Corrugated stainless steel tubing
(CSST) shall not be installed outdoors.
Add. 404.3.1 Corrugated stainless steel tubing. Corrugated stainless steel
tubing (CSST) shall not be used underground.
503.4.1 Plastic piping. Amended as follows: Vent piping.
Vinyl flexible vent piping shall not be used in the following applications:
      (a)   In clothes dryers as a transitional exhaust duct hook- up.
      (b)   As part of an exhaust system discharge where any or all of the
following exhaust conditions occur: addition of heat or cooling, moisture,
debris, or where a combination of any of the aforementioned is present in the
exhausting air.
503.5.5 Size of Chimney. Amended as follows:
      (4)   Chimney venting systems using natural draft shall be sized in
accordance with approved engineering methods.
(Ord. 19-1925, 1-22-2019, eff. 2-1-2019)
8-1B-6: INTERNATIONAL SWIMMING POOL AND SPA CODE:
The following sections of the International Swimming Pool and Spa Code, 2018
edition, are hereby revised as follows: In all chapters and sections, where
"name of jurisdiction" and/or "chief appointing authority of the jurisdiction"
is written, insert "Village of Shorewood". In all chapters and sections where
"code official" is written, insert "chief building official or their designee".
In all chapters and sections where "Department of Building Safety" is written,
insert "Building Department".
107.4 Violation Penalties. Amended as follows: Unless otherwise specifically
noted, any person who shall violate a provision of this Code or shall fail to
comply with any of the requirements thereof or who shall erect, construct,
alter or repair a building or structure in violation of an approved plan or
directive of the Chief Building Official or their designee, or of a permit or
certificate issued under the provisions of this Code, in addition to any other
remedies, shall be liable and shall pay a penalty as set forth in Section
 1-4-1  of the Village Code. Each day that a violation continues shall be
deemed a separate offense.
108.1 Application for appeal. Amend as follows: Decisions or determinations
made by the Chief Building Official or their designee, relative to the
application and interpretation of this code, are final.
108.2 Membership of Board. Delete in its entirety.
108.2.1 Qualifications. Delete in its entirety.
108.2.2 Alternate members. Delete in its entirety.
108.2.3 Chairman. Delete in its entirety.
108.2.4 Disqualification of member. Delete in its entirety.
108.2.5 Secretary. Delete in its entirety.
108.2.6 Compensation of members. Delete in its entirety.
108.3 Notice of meeting. Delete in its entirety.
108.4 Open hearing. Delete in its entirety.
108.4.1 Procedure. Delete in its entirety.
108.5 Postponed hearing. Delete in its entirety.
108.6 Board decision. Delete in its entirety.
108.6.1 Resolution. Delete in its entirety.
108.6.2. Administration. Delete in its entirety.
108.7 Court review. Delete in its entirety.
202 DEFINITIONS
Add. SWIMMING POOL: Any structure intended for swimming, recreational bathing,
or wading that contains water over eighteen (18) inches deep. This includes in-
ground, above-ground and on- ground swimming pools, hot tubs, spas and fixed in
place wading pools.
(Ord. 19-1925, 1-22-2019, eff. 2-1-2019)
8-1B-7: INTERNATIONAL EXISTING BUILDING CODE (IEBC):
The following sections of the International Existing Building Code, 2018
edition, are hereby revised as follows: In all chapters and sections, where
"name of jurisdiction" and/or "chief appointing authority of the jurisdiction"
is written, insert "Village of Shorewood". In all chapters and sections where
"code official" is written, insert "chief building official or their designee".
In all chapters and sections where "Department of Building Safety" is written,
insert "Building Department".
112.1 General. Amend as follows: Decisions or determinations made by the Chief
Building Official or their designee, relative to the application and
interpretation of this code, are final.
112.2. Limitations on authority. Delete in its entirety.
112.3 Qualifications. Delete in its entirety.
113.4 Violation Penalties. Amended as follows: Unless otherwise specifically
noted, any person who shall violate a provision of this Code or shall fail to
comply with any of the requirements thereof or who shall erect, construct,
alter or repair a building or structure in violation of an approved plan or
directive of the Chief Building Official or their designee, or of a permit or
certificate issued under the provisions of this Code, in addition to any other
remedies, shall be liable and shall pay a penalty as set forth in Section
1-4-1  of the Village Code. Each day that a violation continues shall be deemed
a separate offense.
(Ord. 19-1925, 1-22-2019, eff. 2-1-2019)
8-1B-8: INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE (IPMC):
The following sections of the International Property Maintenance Code, 2018
edition, are hereby revised as follows: In all chapters and sections, where
"name of jurisdiction" and/or "chief appointing authority of the jurisdiction"
is written, insert "Village of Shorewood". In all chapters and sections where
"code official" is written, insert "chief building official or their designee".
In all chapters and sections where "Department of Property Maintenance
Inspection" is written, insert "Building Department".
Words and terms defined in Chapter 2, Definitions, are italicized where they
appear in code text and the Chapter 2 definition applies. Where such words are
terms are not italicized, common- use-definitions apply. The words and terms
selected have code- specific definitions that the user should read carefully to
facilitate better understanding of the code.
CHAPTER 1 SCOPE AND ADMINISTRATION
PART 1 - SCOPE AND APPLICATION
SECTION 101 GENERAL
101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the International Property
Maintenance Code of Village of Shorewood hereinafter referred to as "this
code."
101.2 Scope. The provisions of this code shall apply to all existing
residential and nonresidential structures and all existing premises and
constitute minimum requirements and standards for premises, structures,
equipment and facilities for light, ventilation, space, heating, sanitation,
protection from the elements, a reasonable level of safety from fire and other
hazards, and for a reasonable level of sanitary maintenance; the responsibility
of owners, an owner's authorized agent, operators and occupants; the occupancy
of existing structures and premises, and for administration, enforcement and
penalties.
101.3 Intent. This code shall be construed to secure its expressed intent,
which is to ensure public health, safety and welfare insofar as they are
affected by the continued occupancy and maintenance of structures and premises.
Existing structures and premises that do not comply with these provisions shall
be altered or repaired to provide a minimum level of health and safety as
required herein.
101.4 Severability. If a section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of
this code is, for any reason, held to be unconstitutional, such decision shall
not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this code.
SECTION 102 APPLICABILITY
102.1 General. Where there is a conflict between a general requirement and a
specific requirement, the specific requirement shall govern. Where differences
occur between provisions of this code and the referenced standards, the
provisions of this code shall apply. Where, in a specific case, different
sections of this code specify different requirements, the most restrictive
shall govern.
102.2 Maintenance. Equipment, systems, devices and safeguards required by this
code or a previous regulation or code under which the structure or premises was
constructed, altered or repaired shall be maintained in good working order. An
owner, owner's authorized agent, operator or occupant shall not cause any
service, facility, equipment or utility that is required under this section to
be removed from, shut off from or discontinued for any occupied dwelling,
except for such temporary interruption as necessary while repairs or
alterations are in progress. The requirements of this code are not intended to
provide the basis for removal or abrogation of fire protection and safety
systems and devices in existing structures. Except as otherwise specified
herein, the owner or the owner's authorized agent shall be responsible for the
maintenance of buildings, structures and premises.
102.3 Application of other codes. Repairs, additions or alterations to a
structure, or changes of occupancy, shall be done in accordance with the
procedures and provisions of the International Building Code, International
Existing Building Code, International Energy Conservation Code, International
Fire Code, International Fuel Gas Code, International Mechanical Code,
International Residential Code, International Plumbing Code and NFPA 70.
Nothing in this code shall be construed to cancel, modify or set aside any
provision of the International Zoning Code.
102.4 Existing remedies. The provisions in this code shall not be construed to
abolish or impair existing remedies of the jurisdiction or its officers or
agencies relating to the removal or demolition of any structure that is
dangerous, unsafe and insanitary.
102.5 Workmanship. Repairs, maintenance work, alterations or installations that
are caused directly or indirectly by the enforcement of this code shall be
executed and installed in a workmanlike manner and installed in accordance with
the manufacturer's instructions.
102.6 Historic buildings. The provisions of this code shall not be mandatory
for existing buildings or structures designated as historic buildings where
such buildings or structures are judged by the Chief Building Official or their
designee to be safe and in the public interest of health, safety and welfare.
102.7 Referenced codes and standards. The codes and standards referenced in
this code shall be those that are listed in Chapter 8 and considered part of
the requirements of this code to the prescribed extent of each such reference
and as further regulated in Sections 102.7.1 and 102.7.2.
Exception: Where enforcement of a code provision would violate the conditions
of the listing of the equipment or appliance, the conditions of the listing
shall apply.
102.7.1 Conflicts. Where conflicts occur between provisions of this code and
the referenced standards, the provisions of this code shall apply.
102.7.2 Provisions in referenced codes and standards. Where the extent of the
reference to a referenced code or standard includes subject matter that is
within the scope of this code, the provisions of this code, as applicable,
shall take precedence over the provisions in the referenced code or standard.
102.8 Requirements not covered by code. Requirements necessary for the
strength, stability or proper operation of an existing fixture, structure or
equipment, or for the public safety, health and general welfare, not
specifically covered by this code, shall be determined by the Chief Building
Official or their designee.
102.9 Application of references. References to chapter or section numbers, or
to provisions not specifically identified by number, shall be construed to
refer to such chapter, section or provision of this code.
102.10 Other laws. The provisions of this code shall not be deemed to nullify
any provisions of local, state or federal law.
PART 2 - ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION 103 BUILDING DEPARTMENT
103.1 General. Amended as follows: The Chief Building Official or their
designee shall be responsible for the interpretation and enforcement of this
code.
103.2 Appointment. The Chief Building Official or their designee shall be
appointed by the chief appointing authority of the jurisdiction.
103.3 Deputies. In accordance with the prescribed procedures of this
jurisdiction and with the concurrence of the appointing authority, the Chief
Building Official or their designee shall have the authority to appoint a
deputy(s). Such employees shall have powers as delegated by the Chief Building
Official or their designee.
103.4 Liability. The Chief Building Official or their designee or employee
charged with the enforcement of this code, while acting for the jurisdiction,
in good faith and without malice in the discharge of the duties required by
this code or other pertinent law or ordinance, shall not thereby be rendered
civilly or criminally liable personally, and is hereby relieved from all
personal liability for any damage accruing to persons or property as a result
of an act or by reason of an act or omission in the discharge of official
duties.
103.4.1 Legal defense. Any suit or criminal complaint instituted against any
officer or employee because of an act performed by that officer or employee in
the lawful discharge of duties and under the provisions of this code shall be
defended by the legal representative of the jurisdiction until the final
termination of the proceedings. The Chief Building Official or their designee
or any subordinate shall not be liable for costs in an action, suit or
proceeding that is instituted in pursuance of the provisions of this code.
103.5 Fees. Delete in its entirety.
SECTION 104 DUTIES AND POWERS OF THE CHIEF BUILDING OFFICIAL OR THEIR DESIGNEE
104.1 General. The Chief Building Official or their designee is hereby
authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of this code. The Chief
Building Official or their designee shall have the authority to render
interpretations of this code and to adopt policies and procedures in order to
clarify the application of its provisions. Such interpretations, policies and
procedures shall be in compliance with the intent and purpose of this code.
Such policies and procedures shall not have the effect of waiving requirements
specifically provided for in this code.
104.2 Inspections. The Chief Building Official or their designee shall make all
of the required inspections, or shall accept reports of inspection by approved
agencies or individuals. Reports of such inspections shall be in writing and be
certified by a responsible officer of such approved agency or by the
responsible individual. The Chief Building Official or their designee is
authorized to engage such expert opinion as deemed necessary to report on
unusual technical issues that arise, subject to the approval of the appointing
authority.
104.3 Right of entry. Where it is necessary to make an inspection to enforce
the provisions of this code, or whenever the Chief Building Official or their
designee has reasonable cause to believe that there exists in a structure or
upon a premises a condition in violation of this code, the Chief Building
Official or their designee is authorized to enter the structure or premises at
reasonable times to inspect or perform the duties imposed by this code,
provided that if such structure or premises is occupied the Chief Building
Official or their designee shall present credentials to the occupant and
request entry. If such structure or premises is unoccupied, the Chief Building
Official or their designee shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the
owner, owner's authorized agent or other person having charge or control of the
structure or premises and request entry. If entry is refused, the Chief
Building Official or their designee shall have recourse to the remedies
provided by law to secure entry.
Add. 104.3.1 Refusal of Entry. If any owner, occupant or other person in charge
of a structure subject to the provision of this code refuses, impedes,
inhibits, interferes with, restricts or obstructs entry and free access to any
part of the structure or premises where inspection authorized by this code is
sought, the Chief Building Official or their designee may promptly apply for an
administrative search warrant to a court of competent jurisdiction and shall
supply all necessary affidavits and testimony to indicate that there is
reasonable or probable cause to conduct an inspection. For the purpose of this
section, a reasonable or probable cause to gain access for an inspection shall
include, without being limited to, the following:
   1) That the inspection of the area is part of a planned routine inspection
being conducted pursuant to a systematic or concentrated code enforcement
program;
   2) That the Chief Building Official or their designee, after investigation
or upon receiving information, has knowledge, information or a reasonable
belief that a violation of this code or other codes and ordinances of the
Village of Shorewood exist;
   3) That such entry is for the purpose of inspecting a previous notice of
violation;
   4) That the Chief Building Official or their designee has received a
complaint concerning a violation on the premises; or
   5) That such entry is necessary to determine if the building, structure,
premises, dwelling or dwelling units meet the standards of this code and
building, fire and health codes, and for the safety and welfare of the public.
104.4 Identification. The Chief Building Official or their designee shall carry
proper identification when inspecting structures or premises in the performance
of duties under this code.
104.5 Notices and orders. The Chief Building Official or their designee shall
issue all necessary notices or orders to ensure compliance with this code.
104.6 Department records. The Chief Building Official or their designee shall
keep official records of all business and activities of the department
specified in the provisions of this code. Such records shall be retained in the
official records for the period required for retention of public records.
SECTION 105 APPROVAL
105.1 Modifications. Whenever there are practical difficulties involved in
carrying out the provisions of this code, the Chief Building Official or their
designee shall have the authority to grant modifications for individual cases
upon application of the owner or owner's authorized agent, provided that the
Chief Building Official or their designee shall first find that special
individual reason makes the strict letter of this code impractical, the
modification is in compliance with the intent and purpose of this code and that
such modification does not lessen health, life and fire safety requirements.
The details of action granting modifications shall be recorded and entered in
the department files.
105.2 Alternative materials, design and methods of construction and equipment.
The provisions of this code are not intended to prevent the installation of any
material or to prohibit any design or method of construction not specifically
prescribed by this code, provided that any such alternative has been approved.
An alternative material, design or method of construction shall be approved
where the Chief Building Official or their designee finds that the proposed
design is satisfactory and complies with the intent of the provisions of this
code, and that the material, method or work offered is, for the purpose
intended, not less than the equivalent of that prescribed in this code in
quality, strength, effectiveness, fire resistance, durability and safety. Where
the alternative material, design or method of construction is not approved, the
Chief Building Official or their designee shall respond in writing, stating the
reasons why the alternative was not approved.
105.3 Required testing. Whenever there is insufficient evidence of compliance
with the provisions of this code or evidence that a material or method does not
conform to the requirements of this code, or in order to substantiate claims
for alternative materials or methods, the Chief Building Official or their
designee shall have the authority to require tests to be made as evidence of
compliance without expense to the jurisdiction.
105.3.1 Test methods. Test methods shall be as specified in this code or by
other recognized test standards. In the absence of recognized and accepted test
methods, the Chief Building Official or their designee shall be permitted to
approve appropriate testing procedures performed by an approved agency.
105.3.2 Test reports. Reports of tests shall be retained by the Chief Building
Official or their designee for the period required for retention of public
records.
105.4 Used material and equipment. Materials that are reused shall comply with
the requirements of this code for new materials. Materials, equipment and
devices shall not be reused unless such elements are in good repair or have
been reconditioned and tested where necessary, placed in good and proper
working condition and approved by the Chief Building Official or their
designee.
105.5 Approved materials and equipment. Materials, equipment and devices
approved by the Chief Building Official or their designee shall be constructed
and installed in accordance with such approval.
105.6 Research reports. Supporting data, where necessary to assist in the
approval of materials or assemblies not specifically provided for in this code,
shall consist of valid research reports from approved source.
SECTION 106 VIOLATIONS
106.1 Unlawful acts. It shall be unlawful for a person, firm or corporation to
be in conflict with or in violation of any of the provisions of this code.
106.2 Notice of violation. The Chief Building Official or their designee shall
serve a notice of violation or order in accordance with Section 107.
106.3 Prosecution of violation. Any person failing to comply with a notice of
violation or order served in accordance with Section 107 shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor or civil infraction as determined by the local municipality,
and the violation shall be deemed a strict liability offense. If the notice of
violation is not complied with, the Chief Building Official or their designee
shall institute the appropriate proceeding at law or in equity to restrain,
correct or abate such violation, or to require the removal or termination of
the unlawful occupancy of the structure in violation of the provisions of this
code or of the order or direction made pursuant thereto. Any action taken by
the authority having jurisdiction on such premises shall be charged against the
real estate upon which the structure is located and shall be a lien upon such
real estate.
106.4 Violation Penalties. Amended as follows: Unless otherwise specifically
noted, any person who shall violate a provision of this Code or shall fail to
comply with any of the requirements thereof or who shall erect, construct,
alter or repair a building or structure in violation of an approved plan or
directive of the Chief Building Official or their designee, or of a permit or
certificate issued under the provisions of this Code, in addition to any other
remedies, shall be liable and shall pay a penalty as set forth in Section
1-4-1  of the Village Code. Each day that a violation continues shall be deemed
a separate offense.
106.5 Abatement of violation. The imposition of the penalties herein prescribed
shall not preclude the legal officer of the jurisdiction from instituting
appropriate action to restrain, correct or abate a violation, or to prevent
illegal occupancy of a building, structure or premises, or to stop an illegal
act, conduct, business or utilization of the building, structure or premises.
SECTION 107 NOTICES AND ORDERS
107.1 Notice to person responsible. Whenever the Chief Building Official or
their designee determines that there has been a violation of this code or has
grounds to believe that a violation has occurred, notice shall be given in the
manner prescribed in Sections 107.2 and 107.3 to the person responsible for the
violation as specified in this code. Notices for condemnation procedures shall
comply with Section 108.3.
107.2 Form. Such notice prescribed in Section 107.1 shall be in accordance with
all of the following:
   1) Be in writing.
   2) Include a description of the real estate sufficient for identification.
   3) Include a statement of the violation or violations and why the notice is
being issued.
   4) Include a correction order allowing a reasonable time to make the repairs
and improvements required to bring the dwelling unit or structure into
compliance with the provisions of this code.
   5) Inform the property owner or owner's authorized agent of the right to
appeal.
   6) Include a statement of the right to file a lien in accordance with
Section 106.3.
107.3 Method of service. Such notice shall be deemed to be properly served if a
copy thereof is: delivered personally, or sent by certified or first-class mail
addressed to the last known address. If the notice is returned showing that the
letter was not delivered, a copy thereof shall be posted in a conspicuous place
in or about the structure affected by such notice.
107.4 Unauthorized tampering. Signs, tags or seals posted or affixed by the
Chief Building Official or their designee shall not be mutilated, destroyed or
tampered with, or removed without authorization from the Chief Building
Official or their designee.
107.5 Penalties. Penalties for noncompliance with orders and notices shall be
as set forth in Section 106.4.
107.6 Transfer of ownership. It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dwelling
unit or structure who has received a compliance order or upon whom a notice of
violation has been served to sell, transfer, mortgage, lease or otherwise
dispose of such dwelling unit or structure to another until the provisions of
the compliance order or notice of violation have been complied with, or until
such owner or the owner's authorized agent shall first furnish the grantee,
transferee, mortgagee or lessee a true copy of any compliance order or notice
of violation issued by the Chief Building Official or their designee and shall
furnish to the Chief Building Official or their designee a signed and notarized
statement from the grantee, transferee, mortgagee or lessee, acknowledging the
receipt of such compliance order or notice of violation and fully accepting the
responsibility without condition for making the corrections or repairs required
by such compliance order or notice of violation.
SECTION 108 UNSAFE STRUCTURES AND EQUIPMENT
108.1 General. When a structure or equipment is found by the Chief Building
Official or their designee to be unsafe, or when a structure is found unfit for
human occupancy, or is found unlawful, such structure shall be condemned
pursuant to the provisions of this code.
108.1.1 Unsafe structures. An unsafe structure is one that is found to be
dangerous to the life, health, property or safety of the public or the
occupants of the structure by not providing minimum safeguards to protect or
warn occupants in the event of fire, or because such structure contains unsafe
equipment or is so damaged, decayed, dilapidated, structurally unsafe or of
such faulty construction or unstable foundation, that partial or complete
collapse is possible.
108.1.2 Unsafe equipment. Unsafe equipment includes any boiler, heating
equipment, elevator, moving stairway, electrical wiring or device, flammable
liquid containers or other equipment on the premises or within the structure
that is in such disrepair or condition that such equipment is a hazard to life,
health, property or safety of the public or occupants of the premises or
structure.
108.1.3 Structure unfit for human occupancy. A structure is unfit for human
occupancy whenever the Chief Building Official or their designee finds that
such structure is unsafe, unlawful or, because of the degree to which the
structure is in disrepair or lacks maintenance, is insanitary, vermin or rat
infested, contains filth and contamination, or lacks ventilation, illumination,
sanitary or heating facilities or other essential equipment required by this
code, or because the location of the structure constitutes a hazard to the
occupants of the structure or to the public.
108.1.4 Unlawful structure. An unlawful structure is one found in whole or in
part to be occupied by more persons than permitted under this code, or was
erected, altered or occupied contrary to law.
108.1.5 Dangerous structure or premises. For the purpose of this code, any
structure or premises that has any or all of the conditions or defects
described as follows shall be considered to be dangerous:
   1) Any door, aisle, passageway, stairway, exit or other means of egress that
does not conform to the approved building or fire code of the jurisdiction as
related to the requirements for existing buildings.
   2) The walking surface of any aisle, passageway, stairway, exit or other
means of egress is so warped, worn, loose, torn or otherwise unsafe as to not
provide safe and adequate means of egress.
   3) Any portion of a building, structure or appurtenance that has been
damaged by fire, earthquake, wind, flood, deterioration, neglect, abandonment,
vandalism or by any other cause to such an extent that it is likely to
partially or completely collapse, or to become detached or dislodged.
   4) Any portion of a building, or any member, appurtenance or ornamentation
on the exterior thereof that is not of sufficient strength or stability, or is
not so anchored, attached or fastened in place so as to be capable of resisting
natural or artificial loads of one and one-half the original designed value.
   5) The building or structure, or part of the building or structure, because
of dilapidation, deterioration, decay, faulty construction, the removal or
movement of some portion of the ground necessary for the support, or for any
other reason, is likely to partially or completely collapse, or some portion of
the foundation or underpinning of the building or structure is likely to fail
or give way.
   6) The building or structure, or any portion thereof, is clearly unsafe for
its use and occupancy.
   7) The building or structure is neglected, damaged, dilapidated, unsecured
or abandoned so as to become an attractive nuisance to children who might play
in the building or structure to their danger, becomes a harbor for vagrants,
criminals or immoral persons, or enables persons to resort to the building or
structure for committing a nuisance or an unlawful act.
   8) Any building or structure has been constructed, exists or is maintained
in violation of any specific requirement or prohibition applicable to such
building or structure provided by the approved building or fire code of the
jurisdiction, or of any law or ordinance to such an extent as to present either
a substantial risk of fire, building collapse or any other threat to life and
safety.
   9) A building or structure, used or intended to be used for dwelling
purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay, damage,
faulty construction or arrangement, inadequate light, ventilation, mechanical
or plumbing system, or otherwise, is determined by the Chief Building Official
or their designee to be unsanitary, unfit for human habitation or in such a
condition that is likely to cause sickness or disease.
   10) Any building or structure, because of a lack of sufficient or proper
fire-resistance-rated construction, fire protection systems, electrical system,
fuel connections, mechanical system, plumbing system or other cause, is
determined by the Chief Building Official or their designee to be a threat to
life or health.
   11) Any portion of a building remains on a site after the demolition or
destruction of the building or structure or whenever any building or structure
is abandoned so as to constitute such building or portion thereof as an
attractive nuisance or hazard to the public.
108.2 Closing of vacant structures. If the structure is vacant and unfit for
human habitation and occupancy, and is not in danger of structural collapse,
the Chief Building Official or their designee is authorized to post a placard
of condemnation on the premises and order the structure closed up so as not to
be an attractive nuisance. Upon failure of the owner or owner's authorized
agent to close up the premises within the time specified in the order, the
Chief Building Official or their designee shall cause the premises to be closed
and secured through any available public agency or by contract or arrangement
by private persons and the cost thereof shall be charged against the real
estate upon which the structure is located and shall be a lien upon such real
estate and shall be collected by any other legal resource.
108.2.1 Authority to disconnect service utilities. The Chief Building Official
or their designee shall have the authority to authorize disconnection of
utility service to the building, structure or system regulated by this code and
the referenced codes and standards set forth in Section 102.7 in case of
emergency where necessary to eliminate an immediate hazard to life or property
or where such utility connection has been made without approval. The Chief
Building Official or their designee shall notify the serving utility and,
whenever possible, the owner or owner's authorized agent and occupant of the
building, structure or service system of the decision to disconnect prior to
taking such action. If not notified prior to disconnection the owner, owner's
authorized agent or occupant of the building structure or service system shall
be notified in writing as soon as practical thereafter.
108.3 Notice. Whenever the Chief Building Official or their designee has
condemned a structure or equipment under the provisions of this section, notice
shall be posted in a conspicuous place in or about the structure affected by
such notice and served on the owner, owner's authorized agent or the person or
persons responsible for the structure or equipment in accordance with Section
107.3. If the notice pertains to equipment, it shall be placed on the condemned
equipment. The notice shall be in the form prescribed in Section 107.2.
108.4 Placarding. Upon failure of the owner, owner's authorized agent or person
responsible to comply with the notice provisions within the time given, the
Chief Building Official or their designee shall post on the premises or on
defective equipment a placard bearing the word "Condemned" and a statement of
the penalties provided for occupying the premises, operating the equipment or
removing the placard.
108.4.1 Placard removal. The Chief Building Official or their designee shall
remove the condemnation placard whenever the defect or defects upon which the
condemnation and placarding action were based have been eliminated. Any person
who defaces or removes a condemnation placard without the approval of the Chief
Building Official or their designee shall be subject to the penalties provided
by this code.
108.5 Prohibited occupancy. Any occupied structure condemned and placarded by
the Chief Building Official or their designee shall be vacated as ordered by
the Chief Building Official or their designee. Any person who shall occupy a
placarded premises or shall operate placarded equipment, and any owner, owner's
authorized agent or person responsible for the premises who shall let anyone
occupy a placarded premises or operate placarded equipment shall be liable for
the penalties provided by this code.
108.6 Abatement methods. Amended by adding the following underlined text: The
owner, owner's authorized agent, operator or occupant of a building, premises
or equipment deemed unsafe by the Chief Building Official or their designee
shall abate or cause to be abated or corrected such unsafe conditions either by
repair, rehabilitation, demolition or other approved corrective action. The
owner, owner's authorized agent, operator or occupant of the building, premises
or equipment shall notify the Chief Building Official or their designee when
the corrective action has been completed. The Chief Building Official or their
designee shall then inspect the building, premises or equipment and shall
notify the owner, owner's authorized agent, operator or occupant that the
corrective action either does or does not comply with this code. If not, the
Chief Building Official or their designee may take such other action as is
provided by this code.
108.7 Record. The Chief Building Official or their designee shall cause a
report to be filed on an unsafe condition. The report shall state the occupancy
of the structure and the nature of the unsafe condition.
SECTION 109 EMERGENCY MEASURES
109.1 Imminent danger. When, in the opinion of the Chief Building Official or
their designee, there is imminent danger of failure or collapse of a building
or structure that endangers life, or when any structure or part of a structure
has fallen and life is endangered by the occupation of the structure, or when
there is actual or potential danger to the building occupants or those in the
proximity of any structure because of explosives, explosive fumes or vapors or
the presence of toxic fumes, gases or materials, or operation of defective or
dangerous equipment, the Chief Building Official or their designee is hereby
authorized and empowered to order and require the occupants to vacate the
premises forthwith. The Chief Building Official or their designee shall cause
to be posted at each entrance to such structure a notice reading as follows:
"This Structure Is Unsafe and Its Occupancy Has Been Prohibited by the Chief
Building Official or their designee." It shall be unlawful for any person to
enter such structure except for the purpose of securing the structure, making
the required repairs, removing the hazardous condition or of demolishing the
same.
109.2 Temporary safeguards. Notwithstanding other provisions of this code,
whenever, in the opinion of the Chief Building Official or their designee,
there is imminent danger due to an unsafe condition, the Chief Building
Official or their designee shall order the necessary work to be done, including
the boarding up of openings, to render such structure temporarily safe whether
or not the legal procedure herein described has been instituted; and shall
cause such other action to be taken as the Chief Building Official or their
designee deems necessary to meet such emergency.
109.3 Closing streets. When necessary for public safety, the Chief Building
Official or their designee shall temporarily close structures and close, or
order the authority having jurisdiction to close, sidewalks, streets, public
ways and places adjacent to unsafe structures, and prohibit the same from being
utilized.
109.4 Emergency repairs. For the purposes of this section, the Chief Building
Official or their designee shall employ the necessary labor and materials to
perform the required work as expeditiously as possible.
109.5 Costs of emergency repairs. Costs incurred in the performance of
emergency work shall be paid by the jurisdiction. The legal counsel of the
jurisdiction shall institute appropriate action against the owner of the
premises or owner's authorized agent where the unsafe structure is or was
located for the recovery of such costs.
109.6 Hearing. Delete in its entirety.
SECTION 110 DEMOLITION
110.1 General. The Chief Building Official or their designee shall order the
owner or owner's authorized agent of any premises upon which is located any
structure, which in the Chief Building Official or their designee's or owner's
authorized agent's judgment after review is so deteriorated or dilapidated or
has become so out of repair as to be dangerous, unsafe, insanitary or otherwise
unfit for human habitation or occupancy, and such that it is unreasonable to
repair the structure, to demolish and remove such structure; or if such
structure is capable of being made safe by repairs, to repair and make safe and
sanitary, or to board up and hold for future repair or to demolish and remove
at the owner's option; or where there has been a cessation of normal
construction of any structure for a period of more than two years, the Chief
Building Official or their designee shall order the owner or owner's authorized
agent to demolish and remove such structure, or board up until future repair.
Boarding the building up for future repair shall not extend beyond one year,
unless approved by the building official.
110.2 Notices and orders. Notices and orders shall comply with Section 107.
110.3 Failure to comply. If the owner of a premises or owner's authorized agent
fails to comply with a demolition order within the time prescribed, the Chief
Building Official or their designee shall cause the structure to be demolished
and removed, either through an available public agency or by contract or
arrangement with private persons, and the cost of such demolition and removal
shall be charged against the real estate upon which the structure is located
and shall be a lien upon such real estate.
110.4 Salvage materials. Where any structure has been ordered demolished and
removed, the governing body or other designated officer under said contract or
arrangement aforesaid shall have the right to sell the salvage and valuable
materials. The net proceeds of such sale, after deducting the expenses of such
demolition and removal, shall be promptly remitted with a report of such sale
or transaction, including the items of expense and the amounts deducted, for
the person who is entitled thereto, subject to any order of a court. If such a
surplus does not remain to be turned over, the report shall so state.
SECTION 111 MEANS OF APPEAL
111.1 Application for appeal. Amended as follows: Decisions or determinations
made by the Chief Building Official or their designee, relative to the
application and interpretation of this code, are final.
111.2 Membership of board. Delete in its entirety.
111.2.1 Alternate members. Delete in its entirety.
111.2.2 Chairman. Delete in its entirety.
111.2.3 Disqualification of member. Delete in its entirety.
111.2.4 Secretary. Delete in its entirety.
111.2.5 Compensation of members. Delete in its entirety.
111.3 Notice of meeting. Delete in its entirety.
111.4 Open hearing. Delete in its entirety.
111.4.1 Procedure. Delete in its entirety.
111.5 Postponed hearing. Delete in its entirety.
111.6 Board decision. Delete in its entirety.
111.6.1 Records and copies. Delete in its entirety.
111.6.2 Administration. Delete in its entirety.
111.7 Court review. Delete in its entirety.
111.8 Stays of enforcement. Delete in its entirety.
SECTION 112 STOP WORK ORDER
112.1 Authority. Whenever the Chief Building Official or their designee finds
any work regulated by this code being performed in a manner contrary to the
provisions of this code or in a dangerous or unsafe manner, the Chief Building
Official or their designee is authorized to issue a stop work order.
112.2 Issuance. A stop work order shall be in writing and shall be given to the
owner of the property, to the owner's authorized agent, or to the person doing
the work. Upon issuance of a stop work order, the cited work shall immediately
cease. The stop work order shall state the reason for the order and the
conditions under which the cited work is authorized to resume.
112.3 Emergencies. Where an emergency exists, the Chief Building Official or
their designee shall not be required to give a written notice prior to stopping
the work.
112.4 Failure to comply. Any person who shall continue any work after having
been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed
to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be liable to a fine
of not less than $25.00 dollars or more than $750.00 dollars.
CHAPTER 2 DEFINITIONS
SECTION 201 GENERAL
201.1 Scope. Unless otherwise expressly stated, the following terms shall, for
the purposes of this code, have the meanings shown in this chapter.
201.2 Interchangeability. Words stated in the present tense include the future;
words stated in the masculine gender include the feminine and neuter; the
singular number includes the plural and the plural, the singular.
201.3 Terms defined in other codes. Where terms are not defined in this code
and are defined in the International Building Code, International Existing
Building Code, International Fire Code, International Fuel Gas Code,
International Mechanical Code, International Plumbing Code, International
Residential Code, International Zoning Code or NFPA 70, such terms shall have
the meanings ascribed to them as stated in those codes.
201.4 Terms not defined. Where terms are not defined through the methods
authorized by this section, such terms shall have ordinarily accepted meanings
such as the context implies.
201.5 Parts. Whenever the words "dwelling unit," "dwelling," "premises,"
"building," "rooming house," "rooming unit," "housekeeping unit" or "story" are
stated in this code, they shall be construed as though they were followed by
the words "or any part thereof."
SECTION 202 GENERAL DEFINITIONS
ANCHORED. Secured in a manner that provides positive connection.
APPROVED. Acceptable to the Chief Building Official or their designee.
BASEMENT. That portion of a building that is partly or completely below grade.
BATHROOM. A room containing plumbing fixtures including a bathtub or shower.
BEDROOM. Any room or space used or intended to be used for sleeping purposes in
either a dwelling or sleeping unit.
CHIEF BUILDING OFFICIAL OR THEIR DESIGNEE. The official who is charged with the
administration and enforcement of this code, or any duly authorized
representative.
CONDEMN. To adjudge unfit for occupancy.
COST OF SUCH DEMOLITION OR EMERGENCY REPAIRS. The costs shall include the
actual costs of the demolition or repair of the structure less revenues
obtained if salvage was conducted prior to demolition or repair. Costs shall
include, but not be limited to, expenses incurred or necessitated related to
demolition or emergency repairs, such as asbestos survey and abatement if
necessary; costs of inspectors, testing agencies or experts retained relative
to the demolition or emergency repairs; costs of testing; surveys for other
materials that are controlled or regulated from being dumped in a landfill;
title searches; mailing(s); postings; recording; and attorney fees expended for
recovering of the cost of emergency repairs or to obtain or enforce an order of
demolition made by a Chief Building Official or their designee, the governing
body.
DETACHED. When a structural element is physically disconnected from another and
that connection is necessary to provide a positive connection.
DETERIORATION. To weaken, disintegrate, corrode, rust or decay and lose
effectiveness.
DWELLING UNIT. A single unit providing complete, independent living facilities
for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for living, sleeping,
eating, cooking and sanitation.
EASEMENT. That portion of land or property reserved for present or future use
by a person or agency other than the legal fee owner(s) of the property. The
easement shall be permitted to be for use under, on or above said lot or lots.
EQUIPMENT SUPPORT. Those structural members or assemblies of members or
manufactured elements, including braces, frames, lugs, snuggers, hangers or
saddles, that transmit gravity load, lateral load and operating load between
the equipment and the structure.
EXTERIOR PROPERTY. The open space on the premises and on adjoining property
under the control of owners or operators of such premises.
GARBAGE. The animal or vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
GUARD. A building component or a system of building components located at or
near the open sides of elevated walking surfaces that minimizes the possibility
of a fall from the walking surface to a lower level.
HABITABLE SPACE. Space in a structure for living, sleeping, eating or cooking.
Bathrooms, toilet rooms, closets, halls, storage or utility spaces, and similar
areas are not considered habitable spaces.
HISTORIC BUILDING. Any building or structure that is one or more of the
following:
   1) Listed or certified as eligible for listing, by the State Historic
Preservation Officer or the Keeper of the National Register of Historic Places,
in the National Register of Historic Places.
   2) Designated as historic under an applicable state or local law.
   3) Certified as a contributing resource within a National Register or state
or locally designated historic district.
HOUSEKEEPING UNIT. A room or group of rooms forming a single habitable space
equipped and intended to be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating that
does not contain, within such a unit, a toilet, lavatory and bathtub or shower.
IMMINENT DANGER. A condition that could cause serious or life- threatening
injury or death at any time.
INFESTATION. The presence, within or contiguous to, a structure or premises of
insects, rodents, vermin or other pests.
INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle that cannot be driven upon the public
streets for reason including but not limited to being unlicensed, wrecked,
abandoned, in a state of disrepair, or incapable of being moved under its own
power.
LABELED. Equipment, materials or products to which have been affixed a label,
seal, symbol or other identifying mark of a nationally recognized testing
laboratory, approved agency or other organization concerned with product
evaluation that maintains periodic inspection of the production of the above-
labeled items and whose labeling indicates either that the equipment, material
or product meets identified standards or has been tested and found suitable for
a specified purpose.
LET FOR OCCUPANCY or LET. To permit, provide or offer possession or occupancy
of a dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit, building, premises or structure by
a person who is or is not the legal owner of record thereof, pursuant to a
written or unwritten lease, agreement or license, or pursuant to a recorded or
unrecorded agreement of contract for the sale of land.
NEGLECT. The lack of proper maintenance for a building or structure.
OCCUPANCY. The purpose for which a building or portion thereof is utilized or
occupied.
OCCUPANT. Any individual living or sleeping in a building, or having possession
of a space within a building.
OPENABLE AREA. That part of a window, skylight or door which is available for
unobstructed ventilation and which opens directly to the outdoors.
OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care or control of a structure or premises
that is let or offered for occupancy.
OWNER. Any person, agent, operator, firm or corporation having legal or
equitable interest in the property; or recorded in the official records of the
state, county or municipality as holding title to the property; or otherwise
having control of the property, including the guardian of the estate of any
such person, and the executor or administrator of the estate of such person if
ordered to take possession of real property by a court.
PERSON. An individual, corporation, partnership or any other group acting as a
unit.
PEST ELIMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents or other
pests by eliminating their harborage places; by removing or making inaccessible
materials that serve as their food or water; by other approved pest elimination
methods.
PREMISES. A lot, plot or parcel of land, easement or public way, including any
structures thereon.
PUBLIC WAY. Any street, alley or other parcel of land that: is open to the
outside air; leads to a street; has been deeded, dedicated or otherwise
permanently appropriated to the public for public use; and has a clear width
and height of not less than 10 feet (3048 mm).
ROOMING HOUSE. A building arranged or occupied for lodging, with or without
meals, for compensation and not occupied as a one- or two-family dwelling.
ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
occupied or intended to be occupied for sleeping or living, but not for cooking
purposes.
RUBBISH. Combustible and noncombustible waste materials, except garbage; the
term shall include the residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke and other
combustible materials, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior, rubber,
leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral matter,
glass, crockery and dust and other similar materials.
SLEEPING UNIT. A room or space in which people sleep, which can also include
permanent provisions for living, eating and either sanitation or kitchen
facilities, but not both. Such rooms and spaces that are also part of a
dwelling unit are not sleeping units.
STRICT LIABILITY OFFENSE. An offense in which the prosecution in a legal
proceeding is not required to prove criminal intent as a part of its case. It
is enough to prove that the defendant either did an act which was prohibited,
or failed to do an act which the defendant was legally required to do.
STRUCTURE. That which is built or constructed.
TENANT. A person, corporation, partnership or group, whether or not the legal
owner of record, occupying a building or portion thereof as a unit.
TOILET ROOM. A room containing a water closet or urinal but not a bathtub or
shower.
ULTIMATE DEFORMATION. The deformation at which failure occurs and that shall be
deemed to occur if the sustainable load reduces to 80 percent or less of the
maximum strength.
VENTILATION. The natural or mechanical process of supplying conditioned or
unconditioned air to, or removing such air from, any space.
WORKMANLIKE. Executed in a skilled manner; e.g., generally plumb, level,
square, in line, undamaged and without marring adjacent work.
YARD. An open space on the same lot with a structure.
CHAPTER 3 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
SECTION 301 GENERAL
301.1 Scope. The provisions of this chapter shall govern the minimum conditions
and the responsibilities of persons for maintenance of structures, equipment
and exterior property.
301.2 Responsibility. The owner of the premises shall maintain the structures
and exterior property in compliance with these requirements, except as
otherwise provided for in this code. A person shall not occupy as owner-
occupant or permit another person to occupy premises that are not in a sanitary
and safe condition and that do not comply with the requirements of this
chapter. Occupants of a dwelling unit, rooming unit or housekeeping unit are
responsible for keeping in a clean, sanitary and safe condition that part of
the dwelling unit, rooming unit, housekeeping unit or premises they occupy and
control.
301.3 Vacant structures and land. Vacant structures and premises thereof or
vacant land shall be maintained in a clean, safe, secure and sanitary condition
as provided herein so as not to cause a blighting problem or adversely affect
the public health or safety.
Add. 301.3.1 Exterior Conditions. The exterior of every vacant structure,
accessory structure or premises shall be maintained free of broken windows,
loose or deteriorating shingles, siding or decorative features or building
materials, crumbling stone or brick, or excessive peeling paint.
SECTION 302 EXTERIOR PROPERTY AREAS
302.1 Sanitation. Exterior property and premises shall be maintained in a
clean, safe and sanitary condition. The occupant shall keep that part of the
exterior property that such occupant occupies or controls in a clean and
sanitary condition.
302.2 Grading and drainage. Premises shall be graded and maintained to prevent
the erosion of soil and to prevent the accumulation of stagnant water thereon,
or within any structure located thereon.
Exception: Approved retention areas and reservoirs.
Add. 302.2.1 Lot Grades. Lot grades must be maintained to provide proper
drainage. Landscaping or other land improvements must not alter the proper
drainage of the lot.
302.3 Sidewalks and driveways. Amended by adding the following underlined text.
Sidewalks, walkways, stairs, driveways, parking spaces and similar areas shall
be kept in a proper state of repair, and maintained free from hazardous
conditions. Excessive cracking of the driveway pavement, surface or depressions
shall be patched or seal coated.
302.4 Weeds. Premises and exterior property shall be maintained free from weeds
or plant growth in excess of ten inches (10"). Noxious weeds shall be
prohibited. Weeds shall be defined as all grasses, annual plants and
vegetation, other than trees or shrubs provided; however, this term shall not
include cultivated flowers and gardens. Upon failure of the owner or agent
having charge of a property to cut and destroy weeds after service of a notice
of violation, they shall be subject to prosecution in accordance with Section
106.3 and as prescribed by the authority having jurisdiction. Upon failure to
comply with the notice of violation, any duly authorized employee of the
jurisdiction or contractor hired by the jurisdiction shall be authorized to
enter upon the property in violation and cut and destroy the weeds growing
thereon, and the costs of such removal shall be paid by the owner or agent
responsible for the property.
302.5 Rodent harborage. Structures and exterior property shall be kept free
from rodent harborage and infestation. Where rodents are found, they shall be
promptly exterminated by approved processes that will not be injurious to human
health. After pest elimination, proper precautions shall be taken to eliminate
rodent harborage and prevent reinfestation.
302.6 Exhaust vents. Pipes, ducts, conductors, fans or blowers shall not
discharge gases, steam, vapor, hot air, grease, smoke, odors or other gaseous
or particulate wastes directly on abutting or adjacent public or private
property or that of another tenant.
302.7 Accessory structures. Accessory structures, including detached garages,
fences and walls, shall be maintained structurally sound and in good repair.
302.8 Motor vehicles. Except as provided for in other regulations, inoperative
or unlicensed motor vehicles shall not be parked, kept or stored on any
premises, and vehicles shall not at any time be in a state of major
disassembly, disrepair, or in the process of being stripped or dismantled.
Painting of vehicles is prohibited unless conducted inside an approved spray
booth.
Exception: A vehicle of any type is permitted to undergo major overhaul,
including body work, provided that such work is performed inside a structure or
similarly enclosed area designed and approved for such purposes.
Add. 302.8.1 Motorized Construction Equipment. All motorized construction
equipment shall be stored in a garage or shed. Motorized construction equipment
shall be considered to be skid loaders and other machines of similar type as
determined by the Chief Building Official or their designee.
302.9 Defacement of property. A person shall not willfully or wantonly damage,
mutilate or deface any exterior surface of any structure or building on any
private or public property by placing thereon any marking, carving or graffiti.
It shall be the responsibility of the owner to restore said surface to an
approved state of maintenance and repair.
Add. 302.10 Dangerous Trees, Bushes and Shrubs. All trees, bushes, and shrubs
shall be maintained to prevent the creation of a dangerous condition as
determined by the Chief Building Official or their designee. No dead trees
shall be allowed to remain on real estate within the Village for more than
three (3) months. Live or dead vegetation shall not encroach on adjacent
properties or public utilities.
SECTION 303 SWIMMING POOLS, SPAS AND HOT TUBS
303.1 Swimming pools. Swimming pools shall be maintained in a clean and
sanitary condition, and in good repair.
303.2 Enclosures. Amended by adding the following underlined text. Private
swimming pools, hot tubs and spas, containing water more than (18) inches (457
mm) in depth shall be completely surrounded by a fence or barrier not less than
48 inches (1219 mm) in height above the finished ground level measured on the
side of the barrier away from the pool. Gates and doors in such barriers shall
be self-closing and self-latching. Where the self-latching device is less than
54 inches (1372 mm) above the bottom of the gate, the release mechanism shall
be located on the pool side of the gate. Self-closing and self-latching gates
shall be maintained such that the gate will positively close and latch when
released from an open position of 6 inches (152 mm) from the gatepost. An
existing pool enclosure shall not be removed, replaced or changed in a manner
that reduces its effectiveness as a safety barrier.
Exception: Spas or hot tubs with a safety cover that complies with ASTM F1346
shall be exempt from the provisions of this section.
SECTION 304 EXTERIOR STRUCTURE
304.1 General. The exterior of a structure shall be maintained in good repair,
structurally sound and sanitary so as not to pose a threat to the public
health, safety or welfare.
304.1.1 Unsafe conditions. The following conditions shall be determined as
unsafe and shall be repaired or replaced to comply with the International
Building Code or the International Existing Building Code as required for
existing buildings:
   1) The nominal strength of any structural member is exceeded by nominal
loads, the load effects or the required strength.
   2) The anchorage of the floor or roof to walls or columns, and of walls and
columns to foundations is not capable of resisting all nominal loads or load
effects.
   3) Structures or components thereof that have reached their limit state.
   4) Siding and masonry joints including joints between the building envelope
and the perimeter of windows, doors and skylights are not maintained, weather
resistant or water tight.
   5) Structural members that have evidence of deterioration or that are not
capable of safely supporting all nominal loads and load effects.
   6) Foundation systems that are not firmly supported by footings, are not
plumb and free from open cracks and breaks, are not properly anchored or are
not capable of supporting all nominal loads and resisting all load effects.
   7) Exterior walls that are not anchored to supporting and supported elements
or are not plumb and free of holes, cracks or breaks and loose or rotting
materials, are not properly anchored or are not capable of supporting all
nominal loads and resisting all load effects.
   8) Roofing or roofing components that have defects that admit rain, roof
surfaces with inadequate drainage, or any portion of the roof framing that is
not in good repair with signs of deterioration, fatigue or without proper
anchorage and incapable of supporting all nominal loads and resisting all load
effects.
   9) Flooring and flooring components with defects that affect serviceability
or flooring components that show signs of deterioration or fatigue, are not
properly anchored or are incapable of supporting all nominal loads and
resisting all load effects.
   10) Veneer, cornices, belt courses, corbels, trim, wall facings and similar
decorative features not properly anchored or that are anchored with connections
not capable of supporting all nominal loads and resisting all load effects.
   11) Overhang extensions or projections including, but not limited to, trash
chutes, canopies, marquees, signs, awnings, fire escapes, standpipes and
exhaust ducts not properly anchored or that are anchored with connections not
capable of supporting all nominal loads and resisting all load effects.
   12) Exterior stairs, decks, porches, balconies and all similar appurtenances
attached thereto, including guards and handrails, are not structurally sound,
not properly anchored or that are anchored with connections not capable of
supporting all nominal loads and resisting all load effects.
   13) Chimneys, cooling towers, smokestacks and similar appurtenances not
structurally sound or not properly anchored, or that are anchored with
connections not capable of supporting all nominal loads and resisting all load
effects.
Exceptions:
   1) Where substantiated otherwise by an approved method.
   2) Demolition of unsafe conditions shall be permitted where approved by the
Chief Building Official or their designee.
304.2 Protective treatment. Exterior surfaces, including but not limited to,
doors, door and window frames, cornices, porches, trim, balconies, decks and
fences, shall be maintained in good condition. Exterior wood surfaces, other
than decay-resistant woods, shall be protected from the elements and decay by
painting or other protective covering or treatment. Peeling, flaking and
chipped paint shall be eliminated and surfaces repainted. Siding and masonry
joints, as well as those between the building envelope and the perimeter of
windows, doors and skylights, shall be maintained weather resistant and water
tight. Metal surfaces subject to rust or corrosion shall be coated to inhibit
such rust and corrosion, and surfaces with rust or corrosion shall be
stabilized and coated to inhibit future rust and corrosion. Oxidation stains
shall be removed from exterior surfaces. Surfaces designed for stabilization by
oxidation are exempt from this requirement.
304.3 Premises identification. Amended by adding the following underlined text.
Buildings shall have approved address numbers placed in a position to be
plainly legible and visible from the street or road fronting the property.
These numbers shall contrast with their background. Address numbers shall be
Arabic numerals or alphabet letters. Numbers shall be not less than 6 inches
(152 mm) in height with a minimum stroke width of 0.5 inch (12.7 mm).
Add. 304.3.1 Address Numbers. Commercial buildings shall have the same address
posted and visible on the rear door(s). Individual tenant spaces shall be
identified with a suite number in a similar manner. All other exterior doors
shall be labeled for the room or space accessed.
Add. 304.3.2 Abandoned Doors. Entry or exit doors that have been abandoned or
no longer are in service, but not removed, shall be identified from the
interior and exterior by signage indicating "No Exit" or "No Entry". Operating
hardware shall be removed in an approved manner.
304.4 Structural members. Structural members shall be maintained free from
deterioration, and shall be capable of safely supporting the imposed dead and
live loads.
304.5 Foundation walls. Foundation walls shall be maintained plumb and free
from open cracks and breaks and shall be kept in such condition so as to
prevent the entry of rodents and other pests.
304.6 Exterior walls. Exterior walls shall be free from holes, breaks, and
loose or rotting materials; and maintained weatherproof and properly surface
coated where required to prevent deterioration.
304.7 Roofs and drainage. The roof and flashing shall be sound, tight and not
have defects that admit rain. Roof drainage shall be adequate to prevent
dampness or deterioration in the walls or interior portion of the structure.
Roof drains, gutters and downspouts shall be maintained in good repair and free
from obstructions. Roof water shall not be discharged in a manner that creates
a public nuisance.
304.8 Decorative features. Cornices, belt courses, corbels, terra cotta trim,
wall facings and similar decorative features shall be maintained in good repair
with proper anchorage and in a safe condition.
304.9 Overhang extensions. Overhang extensions including, but not limited to,
canopies, marquees, signs, metal awnings, fire escapes, standpipes and exhaust
ducts shall be maintained in good repair and be properly anchored so as to be
kept in a sound condition. Where required, all exposed surfaces of metal or
wood shall be protected from the elements and against decay or rust by periodic
application of weather-coating materials, such as paint or similar surface
treatment.
304.10 Stairways, decks, porches and balconies. Every exterior stairway, deck,
porch and balcony, and all appurtenances attached thereto, shall be maintained
structurally sound, in good repair, with proper anchorage and capable of
supporting the imposed loads.
304.11 Chimneys and towers. Chimneys, cooling towers, smoke stacks, and similar
appurtenances shall be maintained structurally safe and sound, and in good
repair. Exposed surfaces of metal or wood shall be protected from the elements
and against decay or rust by periodic application of weathercoating materials,
such as paint or similar surface treatment.
304.12 Handrails and guards. Every handrail and guard shall be firmly fastened
and capable of supporting normally imposed loads and shall be maintained in
good condition.
304.13 Window, skylight and door frames. Every window, skylight, door and frame
shall be kept in sound condition, good repair and weather tight.
304.13.1 Glazing. Glazing materials shall be maintained free from cracks and
holes.
304.13.2 Openable windows. Every window, other than a fixed window, shall be
easily openable and capable of being held in position by window hardware.
304.14 Insect screens. Every door, window and other outside opening required
for ventilation of habitable rooms, food preparation areas, food service areas
or any areas where products to be included or utilized in food for human
consumption are processed, manufactured, packaged or stored shall be supplied
with approved tightly fitting screens of minimum 16 mesh per inch (16 mesh per
25 mm), and every screen door used for insect control shall have a self-closing
device in good working condition.
Exception: Screens shall not be required where other approved means, such as
air curtains or insect repellent fans, are employed.
304.15 Doors. Exterior doors, door assemblies, operator systems if provided,
and hardware shall be maintained in good condition. Locks at all entrances to
dwelling units and sleeping units shall tightly secure the door. Locks on means
of egress doors shall be in accordance with Section 702.3.
304.16 Basement hatchways. Every basement hatchway shall be maintained to
prevent the entrance of rodents, rain and surface drainage water.
304.17 Guards for basement windows. Every basement window that is openable
shall be supplied with rodent shields, storm windows or other approved
protection against the entry of rodents.
304.18 Building security. Doors, windows or hatchways for dwelling units, room
units or housekeeping units shall be provided with devices designed to provide
security for the occupants and property within.
304.18.1 Doors. Doors providing access to a dwelling unit, rooming unit or
housekeeping unit that is rented, leased or let shall be equipped with a
deadbolt lock designed to be readily openable from the side from which egress
is to be made without the need for keys, special knowledge or effort and shall
have a minimum lock throw of 1 inch (25 mm). Such deadbolt locks shall be
installed according to the manufacturer's specifications and maintained in good
working order. For the purpose of this section, a sliding bolt shall not be
considered an acceptable deadbolt lock.
304.18.2 Windows. Operable windows located in whole or in part within 6 feet
(1828 mm) above ground level or a walking surface below that provide access to
a dwelling unit, rooming unit or housekeeping unit that is rented, leased or
let shall be equipped with a window sash locking device.
304.18.3 Basement hatchways. Basement hatchways that provide access to a
dwelling unit, rooming unit or housekeeping unit that is rented, leased or let
shall be equipped with devices that secure the units from unauthorized entry.
304.19 Gates. Exterior gates, gate assemblies, operator systems if provided,
and hardware shall be maintained in good condition. Latches at all entrances
shall tightly secure the gates.
SECTION 305 INTERIOR STRUCTURE
305.1 General. The interior of a structure and equipment therein shall be
maintained in good repair, structurally sound and in a sanitary condition.
Occupants shall keep that part of the structure that they occupy or control in
a clean and sanitary condition. Every owner of a structure containing a rooming
house, housekeeping units, a hotel, a dormitory, two or more dwelling units or
two or more nonresidential occupancies, shall maintain, in a clean and sanitary
condition, the shared or public areas of the structure and exterior property.
305.1.1 Unsafe conditions. The following conditions shall be determined as
unsafe and shall be repaired or replaced to comply with the International
Building Code or the International Existing Building Code as required for
existing buildings:
   1) The nominal strength of any structural member is exceeded by nominal
loads, the load effects or the required strength.
   2) The anchorage of the floor or roof to walls or columns, and of walls and
columns to foundations is not capable of resisting all nominal loads or load
effects.
   3) Structures or components thereof that have reached their limit state.
   4) Structural members are incapable of supporting nominal loads and load
effects.
   5) Stairs, landings, balconies and all similar walking surfaces, including
guards and handrails, are not structurally sound, not properly anchored or are
anchored with connections not capable of supporting all nominal loads and
resisting all load effects.
   6) Foundation systems that are not firmly supported by footings are not
plumb and free from open cracks and breaks, are not properly anchored or are
not capable of supporting all nominal loads and resisting all load effects.
Exceptions:
   1) Where substantiated otherwise by an approved method.
   2) Demolition of unsafe conditions shall be permitted where approved by the
Chief Building Official or their designee.
305.2 Structural members. Structural members shall be maintained structurally
sound, and be capable of supporting the imposed loads.
305.3 Interior surfaces. Interior surfaces, including windows and doors, shall
be maintained in good, clean and sanitary condition. Peeling, chipping, flaking
or abraded paint shall be repaired, removed or covered. Cracked or loose
plaster, decayed wood and other defective surface conditions shall be
corrected.
305.4 Stairs and walking surfaces. Every stair, ramp, landing, balcony, porch,
deck or other walking surface shall be maintained in sound condition and good
repair.
305.5 Handrails and guards. Every handrail and guard shall be firmly fastened
and capable of supporting normally imposed loads and shall be maintained in
good condition.
305.6 Interior doors. Every interior door shall fit reasonably well within its
frame and shall be capable of being opened and closed by being properly and
securely attached to jambs, headers or tracks as intended by the manufacturer
of the attachment hardware.
SECTION 306 COMPONENT SERVICEABILITY
306.1 General. The components of a structure and equipment therein shall be
maintained in good repair, structurally sound and in a sanitary condition.
306.1.1 Unsafe conditions. Where any of the following conditions cause the
component or system to be beyond its limit state, the component or system shall
be determined as unsafe and shall be repaired or replaced to comply with the
International Building Code or the International Existing Building Code as
required for existing buildings:
   1.   Soils that have been subjected to any of the following conditions:
      1.1. Collapse of footing or foundation system.
      1.2. Damage to footing, foundation, concrete or other structural element
due to soil expansion.
      1.3. Adverse effects to the design strength of footing, foundation,
concrete or other structural element due to a chemical reaction from the soil.
      1.4. Inadequate soil as determined by a geotechnical investigation.
      1.5. Where the allowable bearing capacity of the soil is in doubt.
      1.6. Adverse effects to the footing, foundation, concrete or other
structural element due to the ground water table.
   2.   Concrete that has been subjected to any of the following conditions:
      2.1. Deterioration.
      2.2. Ultimate deformation.
      2.3. Fractures.
      2.4. Fissures.
      2.5. Spalling.
      2.6. Exposed reinforcement.
      2.7. Detached, dislodged or failing connections.
   3.   Aluminum that has been subjected to any of the following conditions:
      3.1. Deterioration.
      3.2. Corrosion.
      3.3. Elastic deformation.
      3.4. Ultimate deformation.
      3.5. Stress or strain cracks.
      3.6. Joint fatigue.
      3.7. Detached, dislodged or failing connections.
   4.   Masonry that has been subjected to any of the following conditions:
      4.1. Deterioration.
      4.2. Ultimate deformation.
      4.3. Fractures in masonry or mortar joints.
      4.4. Fissures in masonry or mortar joints.
      4.5. Spalling.
      4.6. Exposed reinforcement.
      4.7. Detached, dislodged or failing connections.
   5.   Steel that has been subjected to any of the following conditions:
      5.1. Deterioration.
      5.2. Elastic deformation.
      5.3. Ultimate deformation.
      5.4. Metal fatigue.
      5.5. Detached, dislodged or failing connections.
   6.   Wood that has been subjected to any of the following conditions:
      6.1. Ultimate deformation.
      6.2. Deterioration.
      6.3. Damage from insects, rodents and other vermin.
      6.4. Fire damage beyond charring.
      6.5. Significant splits and checks.
      6.6. Horizontal shear cracks.
      6.7. Vertical shear cracks.
      6.8. Inadequate support.
      6.9. Detached, dislodged or failing connections.
      6.10. Excessive cutting and notching.
Exceptions:
   1) Where substantiated otherwise by an approved method.
   2) Demolition of unsafe conditions shall be permitted where approved by the
Chief Building Official or their designee.
SECTION 307 HANDRAILS AND GUARDRAILS
307.1 General. Every exterior and interior flight of stairs having more than
four risers shall have a handrail on one side of the stair and every open
portion of a stair, landing, balcony, porch, deck, ramp or other walking
surface that is more than 30 inches (762 mm) above the floor or grade below
shall have guards. Handrails shall be not less than 30 inches (762 mm) in
height or more than 42 inches (1067 mm) in height measured vertically above the
nosing of the tread or above the finished floor of the landing or walking
surfaces. Guards shall be not less than 30 inches (762 mm) in height above the
floor of the landing, balcony, porch, deck, or ramp or other walking surface.
Exception: Guards shall not be required where exempted by the adopted building
code.
SECTION 308 RUBBISH AND GARBAGE
308.1 Accumulation of rubbish or garbage. Exterior property and premises, and
the interior of every structure, shall be free from any accumulation of rubbish
or garbage.
308.2 Disposal of rubbish. Every occupant of a structure shall dispose of all
rubbish in a clean and sanitary manner by placing such rubbish in approved
containers.
308.2.1 Rubbish storage facilities. The owner of every occupied premises shall
supply approved covered containers for rubbish, and the owner of the premises
shall be responsible for the removal of rubbish.
308.2.2 Refrigerators. Amended by adding the following underlined text.
Refrigerators and similar equipment not in operation shall not be discarded,
abandoned or stored on premises without first removing the doors. Refrigerators
and similar equipment shall not be stored outside of any premises at any time
unless the item is curbside awaiting proper disposal.
308.3 Disposal of garbage. Every occupant of a structure shall dispose of
garbage in a clean and sanitary manner by placing such garbage in an approved
garbage disposal facility or approved garbage containers.
308.3.1 Garbage facilities. The owner of every dwelling shall supply one of the
following: an approved mechanical food waste grinder in each dwelling unit; an
approved incinerator unit in the structure available to the occupants in each
dwelling unit; or an approved leak proof, covered, outside garbage container.
308.3.2 Containers. The operator of every establishment producing garbage shall
provide, and at all times cause to be utilized, approved leak proof containers
provided with close-fitting covers for the storage of such materials until
removed from the premises for disposal.
SECTION 309 PEST ELIMINATION
309.1 Infestation. Structures shall be kept free from insect and rodent
infestation. Structures in which insects or rodents are found shall be promptly
exterminated by approved processes that will not be injurious to human health.
After pest elimination, proper precautions shall be taken to prevent
reinfestation.
309.2 Owner. The owner of any structure shall be responsible for pest
elimination within the structure prior to renting or leasing the structure.
309.3 Single occupant. The occupant of a one-family dwelling or of a single-
tenant nonresidential structure shall be responsible for pest elimination on
the premises.
309.4 Multiple occupancy. The owner of a structure containing two or more
dwelling units, a multiple occupancy, a rooming house or a nonresidential
structure shall be responsible for pest elimination in the public or shared
areas of the structure and exterior property. If infestation is caused by
failure of an occupant to prevent such infestation in the area occupied, the
occupant and owner shall be responsible for pest elimination.
309.5 Occupant. The occupant of any structure shall be responsible for the
continued rodent and pest-free condition of the structure.
Exception: Where the infestations are caused by defects in the structure, the
owner shall be responsible for pest elimination.
CHAPTER 4 LIGHT, VENTILATION AND OCCUPANCY LIMITATIONS
SECTION 401 GENERAL
401.1 Scope. The provisions of this chapter shall govern the minimum conditions
and standards for light, ventilation and space for occupying a structure.
401.2 Responsibility. The owner of the structure shall provide and maintain
light, ventilation and space conditions in compliance with these requirements.
A person shall not occupy as owner-occupant, or permit another person to
occupy, any premises that do not comply with the requirements of this chapter.
401.3 Alternative devices. In lieu of the means for natural light and
ventilation herein prescribed, artificial light or mechanical ventilation
complying with the International Building Code shall be permitted.
SECTION 402 LIGHT
402.1 Habitable spaces. Every habitable space shall have not less than one
window of approved size facing directly to the outdoors or to a court. The
minimum total glazed area for every habitable space shall be 8 percent of the
floor area of such room. Wherever walls or other portions of a structure face a
window of any room and such obstructions are located less than 3 feet (914 mm)
from the window and extend to a level above that of the ceiling of the room,
such window shall not be deemed to face directly to the outdoors nor to a court
and shall not be included as contributing to the required minimum total window
area for the room.
Exception: Where natural light for rooms or spaces without exterior glazing
areas is provided through an adjoining room, the unobstructed opening to the
adjoining room shall be not less than 8 percent of the floor area of the
interior room or space, or not less than 25 square feet (2.33 m2), whichever is
greater. The exterior glazing area shall be based on the total floor area being
served.
402.2 Common halls and stairways. Every common hall and stairway in residential
occupancies, other than in one- and two-family dwellings, shall be lighted at
all times with not less than a 60-watt standard incandescent light bulb for
each 200 square feet (19 m2) of floor area or equivalent illumination, provided
that the spacing between lights shall not be greater than 30 feet (9144 mm). In
other than residential occupancies, interior and exterior means of egress,
stairways shall be illuminated at all times the building space served by the
means of egress is occupied with not less than 1 foot candle (11 lux) at
floors, landings and treads.
402.3 Other spaces. Other spaces shall be provided with natural or artificial
light sufficient to permit the maintenance of sanitary conditions, and the safe
occupancy of the space and utilization of the appliances, equipment and
fixtures.
SECTION 403 VENTILATION
403.1 Habitable spaces. Every habitable space shall have not less than one
openable window. The total openable area of the window in every room shall be
equal to not less than 45 percent of the minimum glazed area required in
Section 402.1.
Exception: Where rooms and spaces without openings to the outdoors are
ventilated through an adjoining room, the unobstructed opening to the adjoining
room shall be not less than 8 percent of the floor area of the interior room or
space, but not less than 25 square feet (2.33 m2). The ventilation openings to
the outdoors shall be based on a total floor area being ventilated.
403.2 Bathrooms and toilet rooms. Every bathroom and toilet room shall comply
with the ventilation requirements for habitable spaces as required by Section
403.1, except that a window shall not be required in such spaces equipped with
a mechanical ventilation system. Air exhausted by a mechanical ventilation
system from a bathroom or toilet room shall discharge to the outdoors and shall
not be recirculated.
403.3 Cooking facilities. Unless approved through the certificate of occupancy,
cooking shall not be permitted in any rooming unit or dormitory unit, and a
cooking facility or appliance shall not be permitted to be present in the
rooming unit or dormitory unit.
Exceptions:
   1) Where specifically approved in writing by the Chief Building Official or
their designee.
   2) Devices such as coffee pots and microwave ovens shall not be considered
cooking appliances.
403.4 Process ventilation. Where injurious, toxic, irritating or noxious fumes,
gases, dusts or mists are generated, a local exhaust ventilation system shall
be provided to remove the contaminating agent at the source. Air shall be
exhausted to the exterior and not be recirculated to any space.
403.5 Clothes dryer exhaust. Clothes dryer exhaust systems shall be independent
of all other systems and shall be exhausted outside the structure in accordance
with the manufacturer's instructions.
Exception: Listed and labeled condensing (ductless) clothes dryers.
SECTION 404 OCCUPANCY LIMITATIONS
404.1 Privacy. Dwelling units, hotel units, housekeeping units, rooming units
and dormitory units shall be arranged to provide privacy and be separate from
other adjoining spaces.
404.2 Minimum room widths. A habitable room, other than a kitchen, shall be not
less than 7 feet (2134 mm) in any plan dimension. Kitchens shall have a minimum
clear passageway of 3 feet (914 mm) between counterfronts and appliances or
counterfronts and walls.
404.3 Minimum ceiling heights. Habitable spaces, hallways, corridors, laundry
areas, bathrooms, toilet rooms and habitable basement areas shall have a
minimum clear ceiling height of 7 feet (2134 mm).
Exceptions:
   1) In one- and two-family dwellings, beams or girders spaced not less than 4
feet (1219 mm) on center and projecting not greater than 6 inches (152 mm)
below the required ceiling height.
   2) Basement rooms in one- and two-family dwellings occupied exclusively for
laundry, study or recreation purposes, having a minimum ceiling height of 6
feet 8 inches (2033 mm) with a minimum clear height of 6 feet 4 inches (1932
mm) under beams, girders, ducts and similar obstructions.
   3) Rooms occupied exclusively for sleeping, study or similar purposes and
having a sloped ceiling over all or part of the room, with a minimum clear
ceiling height of 7 feet (2134 mm) over not less than one-third of the required
minimum floor area. In calculating the floor area of such rooms, only those
portions of the floor area with a minimum clear ceiling height of 5 feet (1524
mm) shall be included.
404.4 Bedroom and living room requirements. Every bedroom and living room shall
comply with the requirements of Sections 404.4.1 through 404.4.5.
404.4.1 Room area. Every living room shall contain not less than 120 square
feet (11.2 m2) and every bedroom shall contain not less than 70 square feet
(6.5 m2) and every bedroom occupied by more than one person shall contain not
less than 50 square feet (4.6 m2) of floor area for each occupant thereof.
404.4.2 Access from bedrooms. Bedrooms shall not constitute the only means of
access to other bedrooms or habitable spaces and shall not serve as the only
means of egress from other habitable spaces.
Exception: Units that contain fewer than two bedrooms.
404.4.3 Water closet accessibility. Every bedroom shall have access to not less
than one water closet and one lavatory without passing through another bedroom.
Every bedroom in a dwelling unit shall have access to not less than one water
closet and lavatory located in the same story as the bedroom or an adjacent
story.
404.4.4 Prohibited occupancy. Kitchens and nonhabitable spaces shall not be
used for sleeping purposes.
404.4.5 Other requirements. Bedrooms shall comply with the applicable
provisions of this code including, but not limited to, the light, ventilation,
room area, ceiling height and room width requirements of this chapter; the
plumbing facilities and water- heating facilities requirements of Chapter 5;
the heating facilities and electrical receptacle requirements of Chapter 6; and
the smoke detector and emergency escape requirements of Chapter 7.
404.5 Overcrowding. Dwelling units shall not be occupied by more occupants than
permitted by the minimum area requirements of Table 404.5.
   TABLE 404.5 MINIMUM AREA REQUIREMENTS
Table 404.5
 
Space          Minimum Area In Square Feet
               1 - 2 Occupants 3 - 5 Occupants 6 Or More Occupants
Living rooma,b 120             120             150
Dining rooma,b No requirement  80              100
Bedrooms       Shall comply with Section 404.4.1
 
For SI: 1 square foot = 0.0929 m2.
a.      See Section 404.5.2 for combined living room/dining room spaces.
b.      See Section 404.5.1 for limitations on determining the minimum
occupancy area for sleeping purposes.
404.5.1 Sleeping area. The minimum occupancy area required by Table 404.5 shall
not be included as a sleeping area in determining the minimum occupancy area
for sleeping purposes. Sleeping areas shall comply with Section 404.4.
404.5.2 Combined spaces. Combined living room and dining room spaces shall
comply with the requirements of Table 404.5 if the total area is equal to that
required for separate rooms and if the space is located so as to function as a
combination living room/dining room.
404.6 Efficiency unit. Nothing in this section shall prohibit an efficiency
living unit from meeting the following requirements:
   1) A unit occupied by not more than one occupant shall have a minimum clear
floor area of 120 square feet (11.2 m2). A unit occupied by not more than two
occupants shall have a minimum clear floor area of 220 square feet (20.4 m2). A
unit occupied by three occupants shall have a minimum clear floor area of 320
square feet (29.7 m2). These required areas shall be exclusive of the areas
required by Items 2 and 3.
   2) The unit shall be provided with a kitchen sink, cooking appliance and
refrigeration facilities, each having a minimum clear working space of 30
inches (762 mm) in front. Light and ventilation conforming to this code shall
be provided.
   3) The unit shall be provided with a separate bathroom containing a water
closet, lavatory and bathtub or shower.
   4) The maximum number of occupants shall be three.
404.7 Food preparation. Spaces to be occupied for food preparation purposes
shall contain suitable space and equipment to store, prepare and serve foods in
a sanitary manner. There shall be adequate facilities and services for the
sanitary disposal of food wastes and refuse, including facilities for temporary
storage.
CHAPTER 5 PLUMBING FACILITIES AND FIXTURE REQUIREMENTS
SECTION 501 GENERAL
501.1 Scope. The provisions of this chapter shall govern the minimum plumbing
systems, facilities and plumbing fixtures to be provided.
501.2 Responsibility. The owner of the structure shall provide and maintain
such plumbing facilities and plumbing fixtures in compliance with these
requirements. A person shall not occupy as owner-occupant or permit another
person to occupy any structure or premises that does not comply with the
requirements of this chapter.
SECTION 502 REQUIRED FACILITIES
502.1 Dwelling units. Every dwelling unit shall contain its own bathtub or
shower, lavatory, water closet and kitchen sink that shall be maintained in a
sanitary, safe working condition. The lavatory shall be placed in the same room
as the water closet or located in close proximity to the door leading directly
into the room in which such water closet is located. A kitchen sink shall not
be used as a substitute for the required lavatory.
502.2 Rooming houses. Not less than one water closet, lavatory and bathtub or
shower shall be supplied for each four rooming units.
502.3 Hotels. Where private water closets, lavatories and baths are not
provided, one water closet, one lavatory and one bathtub or shower having
access from a public hallway shall be provided for each 10 occupants.
502.4 Employees' facilities. Not less than one water closet, one lavatory and
one drinking facility shall be available to employees.
502.4.1 Drinking facilities. Drinking facilities shall be a drinking fountain,
water cooler, bottled water cooler or disposable cups next to a sink or water
dispenser. Drinking facilities shall not be located in toilet rooms or
bathrooms.
502.5 Public toilet facilities. Public toilet facilities shall be maintained in
a safe, sanitary and working condition in accordance with the International
Plumbing Code. Except for periodic maintenance or cleaning, public access and
use shall be provided to the toilet facilities at all times during occupancy of
the premises.
SECTION 503 TOILET ROOMS
503.1 Privacy. Toilet rooms and bathrooms shall provide privacy and shall not
constitute the only passageway to a hall or other space, or to the exterior. A
door and interior locking device shall be provided for all common or shared
bathrooms and toilet rooms in a multiple dwelling.
503.2 Location. Toilet rooms and bathrooms serving hotel units, rooming units
or dormitory units or housekeeping units, shall have access by traversing not
more than one flight of stairs and shall have access from a common hall or
passageway.
503.3 Location of employee toilet facilities. Toilet facilities shall have
access from within the employees' working area. The required toilet facilities
shall be located not more than one story above or below the employees' working
area and the path of travel to such facilities shall not exceed a distance of
500 feet (152 m). Employee facilities shall either be separate facilities or
combined employee and public facilities.
Exception: Facilities that are required for employees in storage structures or
kiosks, which are located in adjacent structures under the same ownership,
lease or control, shall not exceed a travel distance of 500 feet (152 m) from
the employees' regular working area to the facilities.
503.4 Floor surface. In other than dwelling units, every toilet room floor
shall be maintained to be a smooth, hard, nonabsorbent surface to permit such
floor to be easily kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
SECTION 504 PLUMBING SYSTEMS AND FIXTURES
504.1 General. Plumbing fixtures shall be properly installed and maintained in
working order, and shall be kept free from obstructions, leaks and defects and
be capable of performing the function for which such plumbing fixtures are
designed. Plumbing fixtures shall be maintained in a safe, sanitary and
functional condition.
504.2 Fixture clearances. Plumbing fixtures shall have adequate clearances for
usage and cleaning.
504.3 Plumbing system hazards. Where it is found that a plumbing system in a
structure constitutes a hazard to the occupants or the structure by reason of
inadequate service, inadequate venting, cross connection, backsiphonage,
improper installation, deterioration or damage or for similar reasons, the
Chief Building Official or their designee shall require the defects to be
corrected to eliminate the hazard.
SECTION 505 WATER SYSTEM
505.1 General. Every sink, lavatory, bathtub or shower, drinking fountain,
water closet or other plumbing fixture shall be properly connected to either a
public water system or to an approved private water system. Kitchen sinks,
lavatories, laundry facilities, bathtubs and showers shall be supplied with hot
or tempered and cold running water in accordance with the International
Plumbing Code.
505.2 Contamination. The water supply shall be maintained free from
contamination, and all water inlets for plumbing fixtures shall be located
above the flood-level rim of the fixture. Shampoo basin faucets, janitor sink
faucets and other hose bibs or faucets to which hoses are attached and left in
place, shall be protected by an approved atmospheric-type vacuum breaker or an
approved permanently attached hose connection vacuum breaker.
505.3 Supply. The water supply system shall be installed and maintained to
provide a supply of water to plumbing fixtures, devices and appurtenances in
sufficient volume and at pressures adequate to enable the fixtures to function
properly, safely, and free from defects and leaks.
505.4 Water heating facilities. Water heating facilities shall be properly
installed, maintained and capable of providing an adequate amount of water to
be drawn at every required sink, lavatory, bathtub, shower and laundry facility
at a temperature not less than 110°F (43°C). A gas-burning water heater shall
not be located in any bathroom, toilet room, bedroom or other occupied room
normally kept closed, unless adequate combustion air is provided. An approved
combination temperature and pressure-relief valve and relief valve discharge
pipe shall be properly installed and maintained on water heaters.
505.5 Nonpotable water reuse systems. Nonpotable water reuse systems and
rainwater collection and conveyance systems shall be maintained in a safe and
sanitary condition. Where such systems are not properly maintained, the systems
shall be repaired to provide for safe and sanitary conditions, or the system
shall be abandoned in accordance with Section 505.5.1.
505.5.1 Abandonment of systems. Where a nonpotable water reuse system or a
rainwater collection and distribution system is not maintained or the owner
ceases use of the system, the system shall be abandoned in accordance with
Section 1301.10 of the International Plumbing Code.
SECTION 506 SANITARY DRAINAGE SYSTEM
506.1 General. Plumbing fixtures shall be properly connected to either a public
sewer system or to an approved private sewage disposal system.
506.2 Maintenance. Every plumbing stack, vent, waste and sewer line shall
function properly and be kept free from obstructions, leaks and defects.
506.3 Grease interceptors. Grease interceptors and automatic grease removal
devices shall be maintained in accordance with this code and the manufacturer's
installation instructions. Grease interceptors and automatic grease removal
devices shall be regularly serviced and cleaned to prevent the discharge of
oil, grease, and other substances harmful or hazardous to the building drainage
system, the public sewer, the private sewage disposal system or the sewage
treatment plant or processes. Records of maintenance, cleaning and repairs
shall be available for inspection by the Chief Building Official or their
designee.
SECTION 507 STORM DRAINAGE
507.1 General. Drainage of roofs and paved areas, yards and courts, and other
open areas on the premises shall not be discharged in a manner that creates a
public nuisance.
CHAPTER 6 MECHANICAL AND ELECTRICAL REQUIREMENTS
SECTION 601 GENERAL
601.1 Scope. The provisions of this chapter shall govern the minimum mechanical
and electrical facilities and equipment to be provided.
601.2 Responsibility. The owner of the structure shall provide and maintain
mechanical and electrical facilities and equipment in compliance with these
requirements. A person shall not occupy as owner-occupant or permit another
person to occupy any premises that does not comply with the requirements of
this chapter.
SECTION 602 HEATING FACILITIES
602.1 Facilities required. Heating facilities shall be provided in structures
as required by this section.
602.2 Residential occupancies. Dwellings shall be provided with heating
facilities capable of maintaining a room temperature of 68°F (20°C) in all
habitable rooms, bathrooms and toilet rooms based on the winter outdoor design
temperature for the locality indicated in Appendix D of the International
Plumbing Code. Cooking appliances shall not be used, nor shall portable
unvented fuel-burning space heaters be used, as a means to provide required
heating.
Exception: In areas where the average monthly temperature is above 30°F (-1°C),
a minimum temperature of 65°F (18°C) shall be maintained.
602.3 Heat supply. Every owner and operator of any building who rents, leases
or lets one or more dwelling units or sleeping units on terms, either expressed
or implied, to furnish heat to the occupants thereof shall supply heat during
the period from November 1 to April 1 to maintain a minimum temperature of 68°F
(20°C) in all habitable rooms, bathrooms and toilet rooms.
Exceptions:
   1) When the outdoor temperature is below the winter outdoor design
temperature for the locality, maintenance of the minimum room temperature shall
not be required provided that the heating system is operating at its full
design capacity. The winter outdoor design temperature for the locality shall
be as indicated in Appendix D of the International Plumbing Code.
   2) In areas where the average monthly temperature is above 30°F (-1°C), a
minimum temperature of 65°F (18°C) shall be maintained.
602.4 Occupiable work spaces. Indoor occupiable work spaces shall be supplied
with heat during the period from November 1 to April 1 to maintain a minimum
temperature of 65°F (18°C) during the period the spaces are occupied.
Exceptions:
   1) Processing, storage and operation areas that require cooling or special
temperature conditions.
   2) Areas in which persons are primarily engaged in vigorous physical
activities.
602.5 Room temperature measurement. The required room temperatures shall be
measured 3 feet (914 mm) above the floor near the center of the room and 2 feet
(610 mm) inward from the center of each exterior wall.
SECTION 603 MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT
603.1 Mechanical equipment and appliances. Mechanical equipment, appliances,
fireplaces, solid fuel-burning appliances, cooking appliances and water heating
appliances shall be properly installed and maintained in a safe working
condition, and shall be capable of performing the intended function.
603.2 Removal of combustion products. Fuel-burning equipment and appliances
shall be connected to an approved chimney or vent.
Exception: Fuel-burning equipment and appliances that are labeled for unvented
operation.
603.3 Clearances. Required clearances to combustible materials shall be
maintained.
603.4 Safety controls. Safety controls for fuel-burning equipment shall be
maintained in effective operation.
603.5 Combustion air. A supply of air for complete combustion of the fuel and
for ventilation of the space containing the fuel- burning equipment shall be
provided for the fuel-burning equipment.
603.6 Energy conservation devices. Devices intended to reduce fuel consumption
by attachment to a fuel-burning appliance, to the fuel supply line thereto, or
to the vent outlet or vent piping therefrom, shall not be installed unless
labeled for such purpose and the installation is specifically approved.
SECTION 604 ELECTRICAL FACILITIES
604.1 Facilities required. Every occupied building shall be provided with an
electrical system in compliance with the requirements of this section and
Section 605.
604.2 Service. The size and usage of appliances and equipment shall serve as a
basis for determining the need for additional facilities in accordance with
NFPA 70. Dwelling units shall be served by a three-wire, 120/240 volt, single-
phase electrical service having a minimum rating of 60 amperes.
604.3 Electrical system hazards. Where it is found that the electrical system
in a structure constitutes a hazard to the occupants or the structure by reason
of inadequate service, improper fusing, insufficient receptacle and lighting
outlets, improper wiring or installation, deterioration or damage, or for
similar reasons, the Chief Building Official or their designee shall require
the defects to be corrected to eliminate the hazard.
604.3.1 Abatement of electrical hazards associated with water exposure. The
provisions of this section shall govern the repair and replacement of
electrical systems and equipment that have been exposed to water.
604.3.1.1 Electrical equipment. Electrical distribution equipment, motor
circuits, power equipment, transformers, wire, cable, flexible cords, wiring
devices, ground fault circuit interrupters, surge protectors, molded case
circuit breakers, low-voltage fuses, luminaires, ballasts, motors and
electronic control, signaling and communication equipment that have been
exposed to water shall be replaced in accordance with the provisions of the
International Building Code.
Exception: The following equipment shall be allowed to be repaired where an
inspection report from the equipment manufacturer or approved manufacturer's
representative indicates that the equipment has not sustained damage that
requires replacement:
   1) Enclosed switches, rated not more than 600 volts or less.
   2) Busway, rated not more than 600 volts.
   3) Panelboards, rated not more than 600 volts.
   4) Switchboards, rated not more than 600 volts.
   5) Fire pump controllers, rated not more than 600 volts.
   6) Manual and magnetic motor controllers.
   7) Motor control centers.
   8) Alternating current high-voltage circuit breakers.
   9) Low-voltage power circuit breakers.
   10) Protective relays, meters and current transformers.
   11) Low- and medium-voltage switchgear.
   12) Liquid-filled transformers.
   13) Cast-resin transformers.
   14) Wire or cable that is suitable for wet locations and whose ends have not
been exposed to water.
   15) Wire or cable, not containing fillers, that is suitable for wet
locations and whose ends have not been exposed to water.
   16) Luminaires that are listed as submersible.
   17) Motors.
   18) Electronic control, signaling and communication equipment.
604.3.2 Abatement of electrical hazards associated with fire exposure. The
provisions of this section shall govern the repair and replacement of
electrical systems and equipment that have been exposed to fire.
604.3.2.1 Electrical equipment. Electrical switches, receptacles and fixtures,
including furnace, water heating, security system and power distribution
circuits, that have been exposed to fire, shall be replaced in accordance with
the provisions of the International Building Code.
Exception: Electrical switches, receptacles and fixtures that shall be allowed
to be repaired where an inspection report from the equipment manufacturer or
approved manufacturer's representative indicates that the equipment has not
sustained damage that requires replacement.
SECTION 605 ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
605.1 Installation. Electrical equipment, wiring and appliances shall be
properly installed and maintained in a safe and approved manner.
605.2 Receptacles. Every habitable space in a dwelling shall contain not less
than two separate and remote receptacle outlets. Every laundry area shall
contain not less than one grounding-type receptacle or a receptacle with a
ground fault circuit interrupter. Every bathroom shall contain not less than
one receptacle. Any new bathroom receptacle outlet shall have ground fault
circuit interrupter protection. All receptacle outlets shall have the
appropriate faceplate cover for the location.
605.3 Luminaires. Every public hall, interior stairway, toilet room, kitchen,
bathroom, laundry room, boiler room and furnace room shall contain not less
than one electric luminaire. Pool and spa luminaires over 15 V shall have
ground fault circuit interrupter protection.
605.4 Wiring. Flexible cords shall not be used for permanent wiring, or for
running through doors, windows, or cabinets, or concealed within walls, floors,
or ceilings.
SECTION 606 ELEVATORS, ESCALATORS AND DUMBWAITERS
606.1 General. Elevators, dumbwaiters and escalators shall be maintained in
compliance with ASME A17.1. The most current certificate of inspection shall be
on display at all times within the elevator or attached to the escalator or
dumbwaiter, be available for public inspection in the office of the building
operator or be posted in a publicly conspicuous location approved by the Chief
Building Official or their designee. The inspection and tests shall be
performed at not less than the periodic intervals listed in ASME A17.1,
Appendix N, except where otherwise specified by the authority having
jurisdiction.
606.2 Elevators. In buildings equipped with passenger elevators, not less than
one elevator shall be maintained in operation at all times when the building is
occupied.
Exception: Buildings equipped with only one elevator shall be permitted to have
the elevator temporarily out of service for testing or servicing.
SECTION 607 DUCT SYSTEMS
607.1 General. Duct systems shall be maintained free of obstructions and shall
be capable of performing the required function.
CHAPTER 7 FIRE SAFETY REQUIREMENTS
SECTION 701 GENERAL
701.1 Scope. The provisions of this chapter shall govern the minimum conditions
and standards for fire safety relating to structures and exterior premises,
including fire safety facilities and equipment to be provided.
701.2 Responsibility. The owner of the premises shall provide and maintain such
fire safety facilities and equipment in compliance with these requirements. A
person shall not occupy as owner- occupant or permit another person to occupy
any premises that do not comply with the requirements of this chapter.
SECTION 702 MEANS OF EGRESS
702.1 General. A safe, continuous and unobstructed path of travel shall be
provided from any point in a building or structure to the public way. Means of
egress shall comply with the International Fire Code.
702.2 Aisles. The required width of aisles in accordance with the International
Fire Code shall be unobstructed.
702.3 Locked doors. Means of egress doors shall be readily openable from the
side from which egress is to be made without the need for keys, special
knowledge or effort, except where the door hardware conforms to that permitted
by the International Building Code.
702.4 Emergency escape openings. Required emergency escape openings shall be
maintained in accordance with the code in effect at the time of construction,
and the following. Required emergency escape and rescue openings shall be
operational from the inside of the room without the use of keys or tools. Bars,
grilles, grates or similar devices are permitted to be placed over emergency
escape and rescue openings provided that the minimum net clear opening size
complies with the code that was in effect at the time of construction and such
devices shall be releasable or removable from the inside without the use of a
key, tool or force greater than that which is required for normal operation of
the escape and rescue opening.
SECTION 703 FIRE-RESISTANCE RATINGS
703.1 Fire-resistance-rated assemblies. The provisions of this chapter shall
govern maintenance of the materials, systems and assemblies used for structural
fire resistance and fire- resistance-rated construction separation of adjacent
spaces to safeguard against the spread of fire and smoke within a building and
the spread of fire to or from buildings.
703.2 Unsafe conditions. Where any components are not maintained and do not
function as intended or do not have the fire resistance required by the code
under which the building was constructed or altered, such components or
portions thereof shall be deemed unsafe conditions in accordance with Section
111.1.1 of the International Fire Code. Components or portions thereof
determined to be unsafe shall be repaired or replaced to conform to that code
under which the building was constructed or altered. Where the condition of
components is such that any building, structure or portion thereof presents an
imminent danger to the occupants of the building, structure or portion thereof,
the Chief Building Official or their designee shall act in accordance with
Section 111.2 of the International Fire Code.
703.3 Maintenance. The required fire-resistance rating of fire- resistance-
rated construction, including walls, firestops, shaft enclosures, partitions,
smoke barriers, floors, fire-resistive coatings and sprayed fire-resistant
materials applied to structural members and joint systems, shall be maintained.
Such elements shall be visually inspected annually by the owner and repaired,
restored or replaced where damaged, altered, breached or penetrated. Records of
inspections and repairs shall be maintained. Where concealed, such elements
shall not be required to be visually inspected by the owner unless the
concealed space is accessible by the removal or movement of a panel, access
door, ceiling tile or entry to the space. Openings made therein for the passage
of pipes, electrical conduit, wires, ducts, air transfer and any other reason
shall be protected with approved methods capable of resisting the passage of
smoke and fire. Openings through fire-resistance-rated assemblies shall be
protected by self- or automatic-closing doors of approved construction meeting
the fire protection requirements for the assembly.
703.3.1 Fire blocking and draft stopping. Required fire blocking and draft
stopping in combustible concealed spaces shall be maintained to provide
continuity and integrity of the construction.
703.3.2 Smoke barriers and smoke partitions. Required smoke barriers and smoke
partitions shall be maintained to prevent the passage of smoke. Openings
protected with approved smoke barrier doors or smoke dampers shall be
maintained in accordance with NFPA 105.
703.3.3 Fire walls, fire barriers, and fire partitions. Required fire walls,
fire barriers and fire partitions shall be maintained to prevent the passage of
fire. Openings protected with approved doors or fire dampers shall be
maintained in accordance with NFPA 80.
703.4 Opening protectives. Opening protectives shall be maintained in an
operative condition in accordance with NFPA 80. The application of field-
applied labels associated with the maintenance of opening protectives shall
follow the requirements of the approved third-party certification organization
accredited for listing the opening protective. Fire doors and smoke barrier
doors shall not be blocked or obstructed, or otherwise made inoperable. Fusible
links shall be replaced whenever fused or damaged. Fire door assemblies shall
not be modified.
703.4.1 Signs. Where required by the Chief Building Official or their designee,
a sign shall be permanently displayed on or near each fire door in letters not
less than 1 inch (25 mm) high to read as follows:
   1) For doors designed to be kept normally open:   FIRE DOOR - DO NOT BLOCK.
   2) For doors designed to be kept normally closed:   FIRE DOOR - KEEP CLOSED.
703.4.2 Hold-open devices and closers. Hold-open devices and automatic door
closers shall be maintained. During the period that such a device is out of
service for repairs, the door it operates shall remain in the closed position.
703.4.3 Door operation. Swinging fire doors shall close from the full-open
position and latch automatically. The door closer shall exert enough force to
close and latch the door from any partially open position.
703.5 Ceilings. The hanging and displaying of salable goods and other
decorative materials from acoustical ceiling systems that are part of a fire-
resistance-rated horizontal assembly shall be prohibited.
703.6 Testing. Horizontal and vertical sliding and rolling fire doors shall be
inspected and tested annually to confirm operation and full closure. Records of
inspections and testing shall be maintained.
703.7 Vertical shafts. Interior vertical shafts, including stairways, elevator
hoistways and service and utility shafts, which connect two or more stories of
a building shall be enclosed or protected as required in Chapter 11 of the
International Fire Code. New floor openings in existing buildings shall comply
with the International Building Code.
703.8 Opening protective closers. Where openings are required to be protected,
opening protectives shall be maintained self- closing or automatic-closing by
smoke detection. Existing fusible-link-type automatic door-closing devices
shall be replaced if the fusible link rating exceeds 135°F (57°C).
SECTION 704 FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS
704.1 Inspection, testing and maintenance. Fire detection, alarm and
extinguishing systems, mechanical smoke exhaust systems, and smoke and heat
vents shall be maintained in accordance with the International Fire Code in an
operative condition at all times, and shall be replaced or repaired where
defective.
704.1.1 Installation. Fire protection systems shall be maintained in accordance
with the original installation standards for that system. Required systems
shall be extended, altered or augmented as necessary to maintain and continue
protection where the building is altered or enlarged. Alterations to fire
protection systems shall be done in accordance with applicable standards.
704.1.2 Required fire protection systems. Fire protection systems required by
this code, the International Fire Code or the International Building Code shall
be installed, repaired, operated, tested and maintained in accordance with this
code. A fire protection system for which a design option, exception or
reduction to the provisions of this code, the International Fire Code or the
International Building Code has been granted shall be considered to be a
required system.
704.1.3 Fire protection systems. Fire protection systems shall be inspected,
maintained and tested in accordance with the following International Fire Code
requirements.
   1) Automatic sprinkler systems, see Section 903.5.
   2) Automatic fire-extinguishing systems protecting commercial cooking
systems, see Section 904.12.5.
   3) Automatic water mist extinguishing systems, see Section 904.11.
   4) Carbon dioxide extinguishing systems, see Section 904.8.
   5) Carbon monoxide alarms and carbon monoxide detection systems, see Section
915.6.
   6) Clean-agent extinguishing systems, see Section 904.10.
   7) Dry-chemical extinguishing systems, see Section 904.6.
   8) Fire alarm and fire detection systems, see Section 907.8.
   9) Fire department connections, see Sections 912.4 and 912.7.
   10) Fire pumps, see Section 913.5.
   11) Foam extinguishing systems, see Section 904.7.
   12) Halon extinguishing systems, see Section 904.9.
   13) Single- and multiple-station smoke alarms, see Section 907.10.
   14) Smoke and heat vents and mechanical smoke removal systems, see Section
910.5.
   15) Smoke control systems, see Section 909.20.
   16) Wet-chemical extinguishing systems, see Section 904.5.
704.2 Standards. Fire protection systems shall be inspected, tested and
maintained in accordance with the referenced standards listed in Table 704.2
and as required in this section.
TABLE 704.2 FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEM MAINTENANCE STANDARDS
   Table 704.2
System Standard
System                              Standard
Portable fire extinguishers         NFPA 10
Carbon dioxide fire-extinguishing   NFPA 12
Halon 1301 fire-extinguishing       NFPA 12A
Dry-chemical extinguishing systems  NFPA 17
Wet-chemical extinguishing systems  NFPA 17A
Water-based fire protection systems NFPA 25
Fire alarm systems                  NFPA 72
Smoke and heat vents                NFPA 204
Water-mist systems                  NFPA 750
Clean-agent extinguishing systems   NFPA 2001
 
704.2.1 Records. Records shall be maintained of all system inspections, tests
and maintenance required by the referenced standards.
704.2.2 Records information. Initial records shall include the: name of the
installation contractor; type of components installed; manufacturer of the
components; location and number of components installed per floor; and
manufacturers' operation and maintenance instruction manuals. Such records
shall be maintained for the life of the installation.
704.3 Systems out of service. Where a required fire protection system is out of
service, the fire department and the Chief Building Official or their designee
shall be notified immediately and, where required by the Chief Building
Official or their designee, either the building shall be evacuated or an
approved fire watch shall be provided for all occupants left unprotected by the
shutdown until the fire protection system has been returned to service. Where
utilized, fire watches shall be provided with not less than one approved means
for notification of the fire department and shall not have duties beyond
performing constant patrols of the protected premises and keeping watch for
fires. Actions shall be taken in accordance with Section 901 of the
International Fire Code to bring the systems back in service.
704.3.1 Emergency impairments. Where unplanned impairments of fire protection
systems occur, appropriate emergency action shall be taken to minimize
potential injury and damage. The impairment coordinator shall implement the
steps outlined in Section 901.7.4 of the International Fire Code.
704.4 Removal of or tampering with equipment. It shall be unlawful for any
person to remove, tamper with or otherwise disturb any fire hydrant, fire
detection and alarm system, fire suppression system or other fire appliance
required by this code except for the purposes of extinguishing fire, training,
recharging or making necessary repairs.
704.4.1 Removal of or tampering with appurtenances. Locks, gates, doors,
barricades, chains, enclosures, signs, tags and seals that have been installed
by or at the direction of the Chief Building Official or their designee shall
not be removed, unlocked, destroyed or tampered with in any manner.
704.4.2 Removal of existing occupant-use hose lines. The Chief Building
Official or their designee is authorized to permit the removal of existing
occupant-use hose lines where all of the following apply:
   1) The installation is not required by the International Fire Code or the
International Building Code.
   2) The hose line would not be utilized by trained personnel or the fire
department.
   3) The remaining outlets are compatible with local fire department fittings.
704.4.3 Termination of monitoring service. For fire alarm systems required to
be monitored by the International Fire Code, notice shall be made to the Chief
Building Official or their designee whenever alarm monitoring services are
terminated. Notice shall be made in writing by the provider of the monitoring
service being terminated.
704.5 Fire department connection. Where the fire department connection is not
visible to approaching fire apparatus, the fire department connection shall be
indicated by an approved sign mounted on the street front or on the side of the
building. Such sign shall have the letters "FDC" not less than 6 inches (152
mm) high and words in letters not less than 2 inches (51 mm) high or an arrow
to indicate the location. Such signs shall be subject to the approval of the
Chief Building Official or their designee.
704.5.1 Fire department connection access. Ready access to fire department
connections shall be maintained at all times and without obstruction by fences,
bushes, trees, walls or any other fixed or movable object. Access to fire
department connections shall be approved by the fire chief.
Exception: Fences, where provided with an access gate equipped with a sign
complying with the legend requirements of Section 912.5 of the International
Fire Code and a means of emergency operation. The gate and the means of
emergency operation shall be approved by the fire chief and maintained
operational at all times.
704.5.2 Clear space around connections. A working space of not less than 36
inches (914 mm) in width, 36 inches (914 mm) in depth and 78 inches (1981 mm)
in height shall be provided and maintained in front of and to the sides of
wall-mounted fire department connections and around the circumference of free-
standing fire department connections.
704.6 Single- and multiple-station smoke alarms. Single- and multiple-station
smoke alarms shall be installed in existing Group I-1 and R occupancies in
accordance with Sections 704.6.1 through 704.6.3.
704.6.1 Where required. Existing Group I-1 and R occupancies shall be provided
with single-station smoke alarms in accordance with Sections 704.6.1.1 through
704.6.1.4. Interconnection and power sources shall be in accordance with
Sections 704.6.2 and 704.6.3.
   Exceptions:
   1) Where the code that was in effect at the time of construction required
smoke alarms and smoke alarms complying with those requirements are already
provided.
   2) Where smoke alarms have been installed in occupancies and dwellings that
were not required to have them at the time of construction, additional smoke
alarms shall not be required provided that the existing smoke alarms comply
with requirements that were in effect at the time of installation.
   3) Where smoke detectors connected to a fire alarm system have been
installed as a substitute for smoke alarms.
704.6.1.1 Group R-1. Single- or multiple-station smoke alarms shall be
installed in all of the following locations in Group R-1:
   1) In sleeping areas.
   2) In every room in the path of the means of egress from the sleeping area
to the door leading from the sleeping unit.
   3) In each story within the sleeping unit, including basements. For sleeping
units with split levels and without an intervening door between the adjacent
levels, a smoke alarm installed on the upper level shall suffice for the
adjacent lower level provided that the lower level is less than one full story
below the upper level.
704.6.1.2 Groups R-2, R-3, R-4 and I-1. Single- or multiple- station smoke
alarms shall be installed and maintained in Groups R-2, R-3, R-4 and I-
1 regardless of occupant load at all of the following locations:
   1) On the ceiling or wall outside of each separate sleeping area in the
immediate vicinity of bedrooms.
   2) In each room used for sleeping purposes.
   3) In each story within a dwelling unit, including basements but not
including crawl spaces and uninhabitable attics. In dwellings or dwelling units
with split levels and without an intervening door between the adjacent levels,
a smoke alarm installed on the upper level shall suffice for the adjacent lower
level provided that the lower level is less than one full story below the upper
level.
704.6.1.3 Installation near cooking appliances.
Smoke alarms shall not be installed in the following locations unless this
would prevent placement of a smoke alarm in a location required by Section
704.6.1.1 or 704.6.1.2.
   1) Ionization smoke alarms shall not be installed less than 20 feet (6096
mm) horizontally from a permanently installed cooking appliance.
   2) Ionization smoke alarms with an alarm-silencing switch shall not be
installed less than 10 feet (3048 mm) horizontally from a permanently installed
cooking appliance.
   3) Photoelectric smoke alarms shall not be installed less than 6 feet (1829
mm) horizontally from a permanently installed cooking appliance.
704.6.1.4 Installation near bathrooms. Smoke alarms shall be installed not less
than 3 feet (914 mm) horizontally from the door or opening of a bathroom that
contains a bathtub or shower unless this would prevent placement of a smoke
alarm required by Section 704.6.1.1 or 704.6.1.2.
704.6.2 Interconnection. Where more than one smoke alarm is required to be
installed within an individual dwelling or sleeping unit, the smoke alarms
shall be interconnected in such a manner that the activation of one alarm will
activate all of the alarms in the individual unit. Physical interconnection of
smoke alarms shall not be required where listed wireless alarms are installed
and all alarms sound upon activation of one alarm. The alarm shall be clearly
audible in all bedrooms over background noise levels with all intervening doors
closed.
   Exceptions:
   1) Interconnection is not required in buildings that are not undergoing
alterations, repairs or construction of any kind.
   2) Smoke alarms in existing areas are not required to be interconnected
where alterations or repairs do not result in the removal of interior wall or
ceiling finishes exposing the structure, unless there is an attic, crawl space
or basement available that could provide access for interconnection without the
removal of interior finishes.
704.6.3 Power source. Single-station smoke alarms shall receive their primary
power from the building wiring provided that such wiring is served from a
commercial source and shall be equipped with a battery backup. Smoke alarms
with integral strobes that are not equipped with battery backup shall be
connected to an emergency electrical system. Smoke alarms shall emit a signal
when the batteries are low. Wiring shall be permanent and without a
disconnecting switch other than as required for overcurrent protection.
   Exceptions:
   1) Smoke alarms are permitted to be solely battery operated in existing
buildings where construction is not taking place.
   2) Smoke alarms are permitted to be solely battery operated in buildings
that are not served from a commercial power source.
   3) Smoke alarms are permitted to be solely battery operated in existing
areas of buildings undergoing alterations or repairs that do not result in the
removal of interior walls or ceiling finishes exposing the structure, unless
there is an attic, crawl space or basement available that could provide access
for building wiring without the removal of interior finishes.
704.6.4 Smoke detection system. Smoke detectors listed in accordance with UL
268 and provided as part of the building's fire alarm system shall be an
acceptable alternative to single- and multiple-station smoke alarms and shall
comply with the following:
   1) The fire alarm system shall comply with all applicable requirements in
Section 907 of the International Fire Code.
   2) Activation of a smoke detector in a dwelling or sleeping unit shall
initiate alarm notification in the dwelling or sleeping unit in accordance with
Section 907.5.2 of the International Fire Code.
   3) Activation of a smoke detector in a dwelling or sleeping unit shall not
activate alarm notification appliances outside of the dwelling or sleeping
unit, provided that a supervisory signal is generated and monitored in
accordance with Section 907.6.6 of the International Fire Code.
704.7 Single- and multiple-station smoke alarms. Single- and multiple-station
smoke alarms shall be tested and maintained in accordance with the
manufacturer's instructions. Smoke alarms that do not function shall be
replaced. Smoke alarms installed in one- and two-family dwellings shall be
replaced not more than 10 years from the date of manufacture marked on the
unit, or shall be replaced if the date of manufacture cannot be determined.
SECTION 705 CARBON MONOXIDE ALARMS AND DETECTION
705.1 General. Carbon monoxide alarms shall be installed in dwellings in
accordance with Section 1103.9 of the International Fire Code, except that
alarms in dwellings covered by the International Residential Code shall be
installed in accordance with Section R315 of that code.
705.2 Carbon monoxide alarms and detectors. Carbon monoxide alarms and carbon
monoxide detection systems shall be maintained in accordance with NFPA 720.
Carbon monoxide alarms and carbon monoxide detectors that become inoperable or
begin producing end- of-life signals shall be replaced.
CHAPTER 8 REFERENCED STANDARDS
ASME   
American Society of Mechanical Engineers
Two Park Avenue
New York, NY 10016-5990
ASME A17.1-2016/CSA B44-16: Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators
606.1
ASTM   
ASTM International
100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box C700
West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959
F1346-91 (2010): Performance Specifications for Safety Covers and Labeling
Requirements for All Covers for Swimming Pools, Spas and Hot Tubs
303.2
ICC   
International Code Council
500 New Jersey Avenue, NW
6th Floor
Washington, DC 20001
IBC-18: International Building Code®
102.3, 201.3, 304.1.1, 305.1.1, 306.1.1, 401.3, 604.3.1.1, 604.3.2.1, 702.3,
704.4.2
IECC-18: International Energy Conservation Code®
102.3
IEBC-18: International Existing Building Code®
102.3, 201.3, 304.1.1, 305.1.1, 306.1.1
IFC-18: International Fire Code®
102.3, 201.3, 604.3.1.1, 702.1, 702.2, 704.1, 704.1.2, 704.1.3, 704.3, 704.3.1,
704.4.2, 704.4.3, 704.5.1, 704.6.4, 705.1
IFGC-18: International Fuel Gas Code®
102.3, 201.3
IMC-18: International Mechanical Code®
102.3, 201.3
IPC-18: International Plumbing Code®
102.3, 201.3, 502.5, 505.1, 505.5.1, 602.2, 602.3
IRC-18: International Residential Code®
102.3, 201.3
IZC-18: International Zoning Code®
102.3, 201.3
NFPA   
National Fire Protection Association
1 Batterymarch Park
Quincy, MA 02169-7471
10-17: Standard for Portable Fire Extinguishers
Table 704.2
12-15: Standard on Carbon Dioxide Extinguishing Systems
Table 704.2
12A-15: Standard on Halon 1301 Fire Extinguishing Systems
Table 704.2
17-17: Standard for Dry Chemical Extinguishing Systems
Table 704.2
17A-17: Standard for Wet Chemical Extinguishing Systems
Table 704.2
25-17: Standard for the Inspection, Testing and Maintenance of Water-Based Fire
Protection Systems
Table 704.2
70-17: National Electrical Code
102.3, 201.3, 604.2
72-16: National Fire Alarm and Signaling Code
Table 704.2
80-16: Standard for Fire Doors and Other Opening Protectives
703.3.3, 703.4
105-16: Standard for Smoke Door Assemblies and Other Opening Protectives
703.3.2
204-15: Standard for Smoke and Heat Venting
Table 704.2
720-15: Standard for the Installation of Carbon Monoxide (CO) Detection and
Warning Equipment
705.2
750-14: Standard on Water Mist Fire Protection Systems
Table 704.2
2001-15: Standard on Clean Agent Fire Extinguishing Systems
Table 704.2
UL   
Underwriters Laboratories, LLC
333 Pfingsten Road
Northbrook, IL 60062
268-09: Smoke Detectors for Fire Alarm Systems
704.6.4
APPENDIX A BOARDING STANDARD
A101 GENERAL
A101.1 General. Windows and doors shall be boarded in an approved manner to
prevent entry by unauthorized persons and shall be painted to correspond to the
color of the existing structure.
A102 MATERIALS
A102.1 Boarding sheet material. Boarding sheet material shall be minimum 1/2-
inch-thick (12.7 mm) wood structural panels complying with the International
Building Code.
A102.2 Boarding framing material. Boarding framing material shall be minimum
nominal 2-inch by 4-inch (51 mm by 102 mm) solid sawn lumber complying with the
International Building Code.
A102.3 Boarding fasteners. Boarding fasteners shall be minimum 3/8-inch-
diameter (9.5 mm) carriage bolts of such a length as required to penetrate the
assembly and as required to adequately attach the washers and nuts. Washers and
nuts shall comply with the International Building Code.
A103 INSTALLATION
A103.1 Boarding installation. The boarding installation shall be in accordance
with Figures A103.1(1) and A103.1(2) and Sections A103.2 through A103.5.
A103.2 Boarding sheet material. The boarding sheet material shall be cut to fit
the door or window opening neatly or shall be cut to provide an equal overlap
at the perimeter of the door or window.
A103.3 Windows. The window shall be opened to allow the carriage bolt to pass
through or the window sash shall be removed and stored. The 2-inch by 4-inch
(51 mm by 102 mm) strong back framing material shall be cut minimum 2 inches
(51 mm) wider than the window opening and shall be placed on the inside of the
window opening 6 inches (152 mm) minimum above the bottom and below the top of
the window opening. The framing and boarding shall be pre-drilled. The assembly
shall be aligned and the bolts, washers and nuts shall be installed and
secured.
A103.4 Door walls. The door opening shall be framed with minimum 2-inch by 4-
inch (51 mm by 102 mm) framing material secured at the entire perimeter and
vertical members at a maximum of 24 inches (610 mm) on center. Blocking shall
also be secured at a maximum of 48 inches (1219 mm) on center vertically.
Boarding sheet material shall be secured with screws and nails alternating
every 6 inches (152 mm) on center.
A103.5 Doors. Doors shall be secured by the same method as for windows or door
openings. One door to the structure shall be available for authorized entry and
shall be secured and locked in an approved manner.
A104 REFERENCED STANDARD
   IBC-18 International Building Code A102.1, A102.2, A102.3
(Ord. 19-1925, 1-22-2019, eff. 2-1-2019)
8-1B-9: 2017 NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE (NEC):
The following sections of the National Electrical Code, 2017 edition, are
hereby revised as follows:
ARTICLE 90.1 PURPOSE.
Add. 90.1(D) "Title".
(D) Title. These regulations shall be known as the Electrical Code of the
Village of Shorewood, hereinafter referred to as "this Code".
Add. 90.1 (E) "Information on Construction Documents"
(E) Information on Construction Documents. Construction documents shall be of
sufficient clarity to indicate the location, nature and extent of the work
proposed and show in detail that it will conform to the provisions of this code
and relevant laws, ordinances, rules and regulations as determined by the Chief
Building Official.
ARTICLE 90.4 ENFORCEMENTS
Add. 90.4(A) "Permits".
(A) Permits. Electrical wiring and equipment associated with an electrical
service shall not be installed, replaced or otherwise modified without first
submitting a permit application, securing approval and a permit through the
Village of Shorewood Building Department.
Add. 90.4(B) "Exemptions".
(B) Exemptions. It shall not be necessary to obtain a permit for minor repair
work. Such work shall include the following:
   (1)   Repairs and Maintenance: A permit shall not be required for the
replacement of lamps or the connection of approved portable electrical
equipment to approved permanently installed receptacles.
   (2)   Radio and television transmitting stations: The provisions of this
code shall not apply to electrical equipment used for radio and television
transmissions, but do apply to equipment and wiring for a power supply and the
installations of towers and antennas.
   (3)   Temporary testing systems. A permit shall not be required for the
installation of any temporary system required for the testing or servicing of
electrical equipment or apparatus.
   (4)   Referenced Exemptions: A permit shall not be required for work
prescribed as exempt in the International Building Code as adopted by the
Village of Shorewood, the International Residential Code as adopted by Village,
or as referred to in Article 90.2 Scope.
Add. 90.4(C) "Inspections".
(C) Inspections. Electrical wiring and equipment associated with an electrical
service installed, replaced, or otherwise modified that required a permit shall
be inspected by the Chief Building Official or their designee.
   (1)   Upon the installation of an electrical service or alteration of any
electrical equipment associated with the electrical service the owner or
owner's agent shall be responsible for notifying the Chief Building Official or
their designee to conduct a Service Inspection. If the installation or
alterations are in compliance with this code, then the Chief Building Official
or their designee shall issue written notification to the electric utility
company authorizing the electric utility company to energize the system.
   (2)   Rough inspections of electrical systems shall be made prior to
covering or concealment, before fixtures or appliances are set or installed,
prior to framing inspections.
Add. 90.4.1 Chief Building Official or their designee of his/her designee. The
Chief Building Official or their designee shall have the right during
reasonable hours to enter any building in the discharge of his/her official
duties, or for the purpose of making any inspection or test of the installation
or alteration of electrical equipment contained therein, and shall have the
authority to cause the turning off of all electrical current and to cut or
disconnect any wire where such electrical current is dangerous to life or
property or may interfere with the work of the Fire Department when performing
its duties.
Add. 90.4.2 Inspections.
   (1)   The Chief Building Official or their designee shall, in the
performance of his/her official duties, render his/her opinion as to the proper
installation or alteration of installations of electrical wiring systems and
service equipment.
   (2)   Upon the completion of the installation or alteration of electrical
equipment in any building, it shall be the duty of the person installing or
altering the same to notify the Chief Building Official or their designee, who
shall inspect or cause the work to be inspected with a minimum 48 hour notice.
   (3)   All wires which are to be hidden from view shall be inspected before
concealment, and any person installing such wires shall notify the Chief
Building Official or their designee, giving him/her 48 hours in which to make
the required inspection, before such wires are concealed.
Add. 90.4.3 Electrical Branch Wiring; Heating and Cooling. All new branch
wiring, (anytime wire is tied into the main or sub- panel) for the installation
of electrical connections of heating equipment, auxiliary equipment and cooling
equipment shall require that a permit be obtained by a licensed and bonded
electrical contractor with the Village of Shorewood when applying for a
heating, cooling unit or both. Any re-connections that are not properly sized
or installed shall be corrected by an electrical contractor. Emergency change-
outs can be temporarily connected by the heating contractor without an
electrical permit.
Add. 90.8.1 Classification of Wiring Methods And Materials:
(A) New work class A (Commercial, Industrial, Institutional, and Multi-Family
Dwellings): Wiring in the fire zone and all other locations shall be installed
in metal raceways of the type approved for the location. Flexible metal
conduits shall be permissible only in short lengths where flexible connections
are necessary or by special permission.
(B) Remodeling class A: Wiring in the fire zone and all other locations with
the exception of class B wiring shall be installed in metal raceways of the
type approved for the location. Flexible metal conduits shall be permissible
only in short lengths where flexible connections are necessary or by special
permission.
(C) New work class B (One- and Two-Family Dwellings and Townhouses not more
than three stories) and remodeling class B: Wiring shall be installed in metal
rigid conduits, electrical metallic tubing or flexible metal conduit in short
lengths where flexible connections are necessary or by special permission.
Add. 90.8.2 Extensions:
Where a building structure, area or enclosure has been previously wired in
complete metallic wiring, no nonmetallic circuit extensions will be permitted,
irrespective of class of wiring required by occupancy of location.
Add. 90.8.3 Boxes:
(A) All boxes shall be metal and proper size to prevent overcrowding of the
wiring.
(B) Switches, outlets and tap devices of any material shall not be permitted to
be used without boxes in any type of wiring with the following exceptions:
Underground cable in trenches shall be permitted to be spliced or tapped
without use of splice boxes. The splices or taps shall be made by methods and
with material approved for the purpose.
Add. 90.8.4 Service Entrance Conductors And Switches:
Service entrance conductors and service switches (including underground
services) shall have a current carrying capacity sufficient to carry the load
as determined by recommendations stated in the national electrical code, latest
edition. However, in no case shall service entrance conductors or service
switches have a rating less than one hundred (100) amperes for new installation
or where electrical remodeling is being done.
Add. 90.8.5 Location Of Service Entrance Equipment:
Service entrance equipment shall not be located in bathrooms or toilets,
clothes closets, near easily ignitable material, stoves, radiators, sinks,
laundry tubs, piping, heating ducts or heating plants.
Add. 90.8.6 Existing Dwelling:
(A) Existing dwellings requiring complete remodeling due to fire damage or
modernization shall comply to that section of the national electrical code for
new dwellings.
(B) The installation of a new service shall constitute rewiring, each habitable
room shall have or be supplied with not less than two (2) duplex receptacles
located on different walls. There shall be one receptacle in each bath or
powder room and a minimum of two (2) appliance receptacles in the kitchen
supplied from a separate circuit. General lighting in the kitchen, bathrooms,
powder rooms, hall and stairwells shall be controlled by wall switches.
Basement lighting shall comply with the national electrical code.
Add. 90.8.7 Service Attachments:
It shall be the responsibility of the electrical contractor to have the service
drop attachment installed at such locations as may be agreed upon by the
utility company.
Add. 90.8.8 Service On Exterior Or Interior Of Buildings:
(A) Service conductors extending along the exterior of or entering buildings
shall be contained in rigid, heavy wall steel, aluminum or electric metallic
tubing.
(B) Whenever a new service is installed, whether it replaces an old service or
otherwise, it shall be equipped with a disconnecting device complying with the
provisions of the national electrical code. The device shall be placed in a
readily accessible location, and if the service is such that more than one
device is required, they shall be placed next to each other. All disconnecting
devices shall be clearly marked and labeled as such if there are multiple
devices (not to exceed 6). They shall be clearly labeled as mains. Each
electrical service shall be provided with overcurrent protection by a device
located immediately after entering the building. If the extent of the service
conduit within the building exceeds five feet (5') or more the overcurrent
protection device may be located in the branch circuit panel or adjacent
thereto. Where multiple disconnecting devices are installed, the maximum
overcurrent protection of such devices shall not exceed the ampere rating of
the service entrance conductors.
Add. 90.8.9 Grounding:
(A) All metal conduits, cabinets and other enclosures and neutral conductor or
grounded phase conductor of the service entrance equipment shall be permanently
grounded by means of a ground connection. One end of the ground connection (the
grounding conductor and its metallic protection) shall be connected by means of
an approved ground clamp to a metallic underground water piping system (a
grounding electrode) of the village where such piping system is available or by
a well on the premises. Where an acceptable water piping system is not
available, the ground connection shall be connected in accordance with the
requirements of the national electrical code to a grounding electrode such as:
1) a metal frame of a building, if such building is effectively grounded, or 2)
a made grounding electrode, such as a ground rod.
(B) The other end of the ground connection shall be connected at the
disconnecting means, or in the case of an outdoor made grounding electrode, at
the outdoor meter connection device (where such device is installed). If
connected at the disconnecting means: 1) the grounding conductor shall be
connected to the ground lug (attached to the neutral or grounded phase bus) and
the grounding screw or the disconnecting means, and 2) the metallic protection
of the grounding conductor, if any, shall be connected to the ground stud of
such device and the metallic protection, to the enclosure of such device.
(C) The neutral conductor or the grounded phase conductor of the service
entrance equipment conductors shall be connected to the neutral or grounded
phase bus or terminal of the disconnecting means and to the ground stud of the
outdoor meter connection device.
(D) The size of the conductors used for ground connections and the metallic
protection for such conductors shall conform with the requirements of the
national electrical code.
(E) Where the ground connection is connected to an acceptable water piping
system, an electrically continuous connection shall be maintained at all times
between the ground connection and the water piping system. Where the water is
metered, the ground connection shall be connected on the unmetered side of the
system if practicable. Where such connection is made on the metered side, a
bypass consisting of a conductor of the same size as the grounding conductor
and clamps shall be connected around the water meter.
Add. 90.8.10: Wire And Cable:
(A) Aluminum wire or cable will not be permitted for grounding.
(B) Aluminum wire of any size will not be permitted for any type of
installation without special permission.
Add. 90.8.11 Electrical Metallic Tubing:
Electrical metallic tubing shall not be permitted in direct contact with the
earth.
Add. 90.8.12 Additional Load On Existing Service:
It shall be the responsibility of the contractor or other person adding
additional authorized circuits and for equipment to existing services to
determine beforehand if said service is of sufficient size and capacity to
carry such additional load according to the rules established under this Code,
and if not, it shall be unlawful to make said addition until the service has
been increased to required size.
Add. 90.8.13 Contractor To Identify Work:
Every electrical contractor is required to stencil or attach his name and
address and telephone number on the service equipment cabinet.
Add. 90.8.14 Carbon Monoxide Detectors: All residential buildings constructed
after the effective date of this subsection shall be equipped with operating
carbon monoxide detectors.
(A) Power Source Required: Carbon monoxide detectors shall receive their
primary power from the building wiring when such wiring is served from a
commercial source, and when primary power is interrupted, shall receive power
from a battery. Wiring shall be permanent and without a disconnecting switch
other than those required for overcurrent protection.
(B) Location: A carbon monoxide detector shall be installed on the same level
as and within the immediate vicinity of each sleeping area(s) of the
residential building.
(C) Compliance: All approved carbon monoxide detectors herein required shall
comply with all federal, state and local standards for such devices. Carbon
monoxide detectors shall bear the label of a nationally recognized standards
testing laboratory, which indicates that each such detector has been tested and
listed as a single carbon monoxide detector.
Add. 90.8.15 Violation Penalties. Amended as follows: Unless otherwise
specifically noted, any person who shall violate a provision of this Code or
shall fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof or who shall erect,
construct, alter or repair a building or structure in violation of an approved
plan or directive of the Chief Building Official or their designee, or of a
permit or certificate issued under the provisions of this Code, in addition to
any other remedies, shall be liable and shall pay a penalty as set forth in
Section
1-4-1  of the Village Code. Each day that a violation continues shall be deemed
a separate offense.
ARTICLE 210 BRANCH CIRCUITS
Section II. BRANCH-CIRCUIT RATINGS
Add. 210.8(A)(2) "Exception to (2)". Receptacles that are not readily
accessible and for essential equipment, such as an overhead door opener, or an
approved appliance located in a dedicated space that, in normal use, is not
easily moved from one place to another and that is cord-and-plug connected in
accordance with Article 400 shall be permitted to be installed without GFCI
protection.
Add. 210.8(A)(5) "Exception to (5) No. 2". A single receptacle for essential
equipment located in a dedicated space, such as a sump pump or ejector pump, or
an approved appliance that, in normal use, is not easily moved from one place
to another and that is cord-and-plug connected in accordance with Article 400
shall be permitted to be installed without GFCI protection.
Add. 210.8(A)(10) "Exception to (10)". A single receptacle that is not readily
accessible and for essential equipment, such as a clothes washer, gas dryers,
or an approved appliance located in a dedicated space that, in normal use, is
not easily moved from one place to another and that is cord-and-plug connected
in accordance with Article 400 shall be permitted to be installed without GFCI
protection.
Add. 210.8(B)(6) "Exception to (6)". A single receptacle installed in attics
intended for use with the radon mitigation system and that is cord-and-plug
connected in accordance with Article 400 shall be within 3'-0" of radon stack
pipe and permitted to be installed without GFCI protection.
Add. 210.8(B)(8) "Exception to (8)". Receptacles that are not readily
accessible and for essential equipment, such as an overhead door opener, or an
approved appliance located in a dedicated space that, in normal use, is not
easily moved from one place to another and that is cord-and plug connected in
accordance with Article 400 shall be permitted to be installed without GFCI
protection.
Add. 210.8(D) Dishwashers hard-wired directly to the circuit shall be permitted
to be installed without GFCI protection.
Add. 210.8.(E) A single receptacle installed in attics intended for use with
the radon mitigation system and that is cord-and- plug connected in accordance
with Article 400 shall be within 3'-0" of radon stack pipe and permitted to be
installed without GFCI protection.
(Ord. 19-1925, 1-22-2019, eff. 2-1-2019)
8-1B-10: STATE OF ILLINOIS PLUMBING CODE:
The 2014 State of Illinois Plumbing Code as mandated by the State of Illinois,
title 77 part 890, and any amendments thereto, or subsequent edition thereof,
together with the additions, insertions, deletions, and changes prescribed in
this section, is hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this section as
if fully set forth herein as the standards, rules and regulations for the
design, construction, repair, use and maintenance of buildings and structural
appurtenances in the Village.
Add. Section 890.610 d) All new plumbing fixtures and irrigation controllers
shall bear the WaterSense label (as designated by the U.S. environmental
protection agency WaterSense program), when such labeled fixtures are
available.
(Ord. 19-1925, 1-22-2019, eff. 2-1-2019)
8-1B-11: STATE OF ILLINOIS ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE:
The most current edition of the International Energy Conservation Code as
mandated by the State of Illinois, title 71 part 600, and any amendments
thereto, or subsequent edition thereof, together with the additions,
insertions, deletions, and changes prescribed in this section, is hereby
adopted by reference and made a part of this section as if fully set forth
herein as the standards, rules and regulations for the design, construction,
repair, use and maintenance of buildings and structural appurtenances in the
Village. (Ord. 19-1925, 1-22-2019, eff. 2-1-2019)
CHAPTER 2
DEMOLITION OF BUILDINGS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Permit Requirements
8-2-2: Notice Prior To Demolition
8-2-3: Safety Precautions
8-2-4: Demolition Procedure
8-2-5: Supervision
8-2-6: Building Wrecking Contractors
8-2-7: Penalty
8-2-1: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: Before proceeding with the demolition of any building
or structure, a permit for demolition shall first be obtained from the Chief
Building Official by the owner of the building or his agent, and it shall be
unlawful to proceed with the demolition of any building or structure or any
structural part thereof within the Village unless a permit required by this
subsection shall first have been obtained.
   B.   Application For Permit: An application for a permit required by this
section shall state the location of the building to be demolished and shall
also describe the building.
   C.   Permit Fees: The fees for a permit required by this section shall be as
provided in section
8-1A-9 of this title.
   D.   Bond And Insurance: Application for a permit required by this section
shall be accompanied by a certificate of insurance as required by subsection
8-2-6E of this chapter and a wrecking bond to the Village in the sum of fifty
thousand dollars ($50,000.00) conditioned upon the faithful observance of all
the provisions of this chapter and other ordinances of the Village relevant to
the demolition, tearing down of the building, the transportation of material
obtained therefrom, the restoration and leveling the premises upon which the
demolition takes place and the removal of other hazards occasioned by the
demolition of the building, and shall bind the surety for a period of one year
from the date demolition is completed or until a new structure occupies the
entire site, whichever occurs first.
The Village Board shall have the discretion to allow a person who is wrecking
or tearing down any building or structure on premises owned by the applicant
for the permit to carry on the work without a wrecking bond. (Ord. 93-725, 12-
14-1993; amd. Ord. 20-1982, 8-25-2020)
8-2-2: NOTICE PRIOR TO DEMOLITION:
A notice stating the date on which the demolition work is to begin shall be
given to the Chief Building Official at least twenty four (24) hours before
beginning the demolition of any building or other structure. (Ord. 93-725, 12-
14-1993; amd. Ord. 20-1982, 8-25-2020)
8-2-3: SAFETY PRECAUTIONS:
   A.   Generally: During the removal, demolition or wrecking or tearing down
of any building or structure, proper provisions shall be made for the
protection of public sidewalks or other public thoroughfares in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Buildings Exceeding Height Limits: Buildings or structures exceeding
two (2) stories or twenty five feet (25') in height and intended to be
demolished shall comply with the following protection requirements:
      1.   The owner or his agent shall submit a drawing indicating fences,
barricades, aprons, canopies and other safeguards which are to be used in
connection with the wrecking program. This drawing shall be approved by the
Chief Building Official before a permit is issued to wreck the building or
structure, and the safeguards indicated on the drawing shall be erected in
strict compliance therewith.
      2.   One apron shall be constructed for each three (3) stories above the
adjoining sidewalk grade, with the lowest apron located in this third story.
   C.   Construction Standards For Safety Devices: When required in this
chapter for the protection of sidewalks or other public ways, sidewalk sheds,
fences, barricades and aprons shall comply with the following requirements:
      1.   Sidewalk Sheds: Sidewalk sheds shall consist of a roof deck
extending over the entire sidewalk, together with its supporting structural
framework. The roof deck shall be constructed of not less than two (2) layers
of two inch (2") planking or of other approved materials of equal strength and
shall be designed to support a superimposed load of not less than two hundred
fifty (250) pounds per square foot.
      2.   Fences: Fences shall be not less than six feet (6') high of solid
construction, sheathed with one inch (1") lumber or other approved materials of
equal strength.
      3.   Barricades: Barricades shall consist of substantial railings or
other barriers which will effectively prevent public access to the barricaded
area.
      4.   Aprons: An "apron" is defined as a platform extending from the
exterior wall of a building at any level. Aprons shall be constructed of not
less than two (2) layers of two inch (2") planking or of other approved
materials of equal strength and shall be designed to support a superimposed
load of not less than two hundred fifty (250) pounds per square foot. Aprons
shall extend not less than six feet (6') from the building wall and shall slope
downward toward the building wall or shall be provided with a substantial curb
not less than twelve inches (12") high at the outer edge.
   D.   Sidewalk Shed Required; Exceptions: When a building to be wrecked is
located not less than twenty five feet (25') from the street line, a sidewalk
shed shall be provided, except under the following conditions:
      1.   When the height of the building does not exceed two (2) stories or
thirty feet (30'), a barricade located not less than ten feet (10') from the
building may be used in lieu of a sidewalk shed.
      2.   When the height of the building does not exceed three (3) stories or
forty feet (40'), a barricade located not less than fifteen feet (15') from the
building may be used in lieu of a sidewalk shed.
      3.   When the height of a building does not exceed four (4) stories or
fifty feet (50'), a fence located not less than twenty five feet (25') from the
building may be used in lieu of a sidewalk shed. (Ord. 93-725, 12-14-1993; amd.
Ord. 20-1982, 8-25-2020)
8-2-4: DEMOLITION PROCEDURE:
   A.   Generally: In the demolition of the structural elements of any building
or structure, the work shall begin at the top thereof, and each story shall be
completely razed or demolished and the material therefrom completely removed
before beginning work on the next lower story.
   B.   Removal Of Debris; Storage Of Salvaged Material: Debris caused from the
demolition of a building or structure in excess of that required to fill and
grade the site shall be removed from the site as wrecking progresses. Salvaged
material, if left on the premises, shall be neatly stored and for a period of
not more than thirty (30) days.
   C.   Filling And Grading Of Demolition Site: On completion of demolition,
the site shall be filled where necessary with clean soil, cinders or other
inorganic material and graded to a level not lower or more than twelve inches
(12") above or below the level of sidewalks, alleys or adjoining property, with
proper allowance for settlement.
   D.   Time Limitation On Operations: All demolition operations shall be
completed within the time set by the Chief Building Official. (Ord. 93-725, 12-
14-1993; amd. Ord. 20-1982, 8-25-2020)
8-2-5: SUPERVISION:
Upon the issuance of permits required by this chapter and the notice required
by section
8-2-2 of this chapter, the building for which the permit was issued may be
wrecked or torn down. All work done under the permits shall be subject to the
supervision of the Chief Building Official and to such reasonable restrictions
as he may impose in regard to the elements of safety and health, and said work
shall be performed under the same requirements as govern the erection of
buildings. (Ord. 93-725, 12-14-1993; amd. Ord. 20-1982, 8-25-2020)
8-2-6: BUILDING WRECKING CONTRACTORS:
   A.   Definition: The term "building wrecking contractor" is hereby defined
as every person engaged in the business of the removal, demolition or wrecking
or tearing down of any building or structure within the Village.
   B.   Permit Required; Posting: The removal, demolition, wrecking or tearing
down of any building or structure within the Village, shall only be performed
by a building wrecking contractor issued a permit under this section. The
building wrecking contractor shall make application for a permit to the Chief
Building Official who shall issue the permit if the applicant meets all the
requirements as provided by law/ordinance. The permit shall be posted in a
conspicuous place upon the exterior of the premises for which it is issued and
shall remain posted at all times until the work is completed.
   C.   Application For Permit: The application for a permit required by this
section shall be in such form as shall be prescribed by the Chief Building
Official. Every application for a permit required by this section shall state
the location and describe the building which it is proposed to wreck or tear
down.
   D.   Permit Fees: Fees for the issuance of permits required by this section
shall be paid to the Village and shall be as provided in section
8-1A-9 of this title.
   E.   Insurance Requirements:
      1.   Before any permit required by this section is issued, the person
engaged in the work of demolishing the building shall file with the Village
Clerk a comprehensive public liability insurance policy in an amount of not
less than three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) for injuries, including
accidental death, to any one person and in an amount of five hundred thousand
dollars ($500,000.00) for injuries, including accidental death, sustained by
two (2) or more persons as a result of any one accident and a property damage
insurance policy in an amount of not less than three hundred thousand dollars
($300,000.00), which policy shall note the Village as co-insured. The Village
Board of Trustees may, upon request, vary or waive the required insurance
coverages.
      2.   The policies of insurance required by the preceding subsection shall
be approved as to form by the Village Attorney prior to the issuance of a
permit and shall be in such form as to indemnify, keep and save harmless the
Village against any loss, cost, damage, expenses, judgment or liability of any
kind whatsoever which the Village may suffer or which may accrue against, be
charged to or be recovered from the Village or any of its officials from or by
reason or on account of accidents to persons or property during any demolition
operations and from or by reason or on account of anything done under or by
virtue of any permit granted for any demolition operations.
      3.   In case of accident or casualty in the progress of any demolition
operations carried on under any permit issued pursuant to this section or the
happening of any circumstances which might, in the findings of the Chief
Building Official, render the policies of insurance inadequate, the Village
Board may, in its discretion, require such additional insurance as it may deem
necessary to fully protect the Village from loss resulting from the issuance of
the permit before it allows the work to proceed or before any additional
permits are issued. (Ord. 93-725, 12-14-1993; amd. Ord. 20-1982, 8-25-2020)
8-2-7: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 93-725, 12-14-1993; amd. 1994 Code)
CHAPTER 3
MOBILE HOMES AND MOBILE HOME PARKS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Short Title; Scope
8-3-2: Definitions
8-3-3: License and Permit Requirements
8-3-4: Mobile Home Park and Mobile Home Lot Requirements
8-3-5: Sewage Disposal
8-3-6: Fire Protection
8-3-7: Mobile Home Requirements in Parks
8-3-8: Existing Mobile Home Parks
8-3-9: Office; Registration
8-3-10: Reserved
8-3-11: Enforcement; Inspections
8-3-12: Revocation or Suspension of License; Refusal of License or Permit
8-3-13: Exemptions from Provisions
8-3-14: Violation and Penalty
8-3-1: SHORT TITLE; SCOPE:
This Chapter shall be known and referred to as the SHOREWOOD MOBILE HOME PARK
ORDINANCE and covers the granting of annual licenses and permits to construct,
alter or add to planned developments of areas restricted to the location of
independent mobile homes and related facilities. (Ord. 93-725, 12-14-93)
8-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, the words and phrases set forth
in this Section shall have the meanings set forth herein when used in this
Chapter:
   CHIEF BUILDING OFFICIAL: The Chief Building Official is as defined in Title
1, Chapter 5, Article C of this Code.
   DEPENDENT MOBILE HOME: A mobile home which does not have a toilet and bath
or shower facilities. The mobile home park, as defined, excludes the dependent
trailer coach or dependent mobile home from the mobile home park.
   INDEPENDENT MOBILE HOME: A mobile home with self-contained toilet and bath
or shower with provisions for connection to sewer and water riser pipes as
defined in this Chapter.
   MOBILE HOME: As defined in Title 10, Chapter 2 of this Code.
   MOBILE HOME PARK: An area of land upon which two (2) or more occupied
independent mobile homes are harbored, either free of charge or for revenue
purposes, and shall include any building, structure, or enclosure used or
intended for use as a part of the equipment of such mobile home park.
   MOBILE HOME LOT: Any portion of a mobile home park designed for use or
occupancy of one mobile home.
   SCHOOL DISTRICT: Any district created or operated under the provisions of
the "The School Code" (105 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.). (Ord. 93-725, 12-14-93; amd.
Ord. 20-1982, 8-25-2020)
8-3-3: LICENSE AND PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   License and Permit Required:
      1.   No person shall establish, maintain, conduct or operate a mobile
home park after the effective date hereof without first obtaining a license
therefor from the Village. Such a license shall be issued for one year and
shall expire at twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on December 31 of each year.
The license shall be renewed from year to year upon payment of the annual
license fee herein provided. Licenses shall be issued by the Chief Building
Official.
      2.   No person shall construct a mobile home park without first obtaining
a permit from the Chief Building Official.
      3.   Each mobile home park permit holder shall secure an annual license
on or before December 31 following the date on which the construction permit is
issued. Application for the annual license shall be made on forms supplied by
the Chief Building Official or, if no such forms are available, may be made by
letter containing all of the matters required by this Chapter.
   B.   Application for Permit or License: In order to obtain a permit to
construct or an original license to operate a mobile home park, the applicant
shall file with the Chief Building Official a written application on a form
setting forth:
      1.   The full name and address of the applicant or applicants or names
and addresses of the partners if the applicant is a partnership, of the names
and addresses of the officers if the applicant is a corporation and the present
or last occupation of the applicant at the time of the filing of the
application.
      2.   The location and legal description of the tract of land upon which
it is proposed to operate and maintain a mobile home park.
      3.   The proposed and existing facilities in the park for water supply,
sewage, garbage and solid waste disposal and fire protection.
      4.   The proposed method of lighting structures and land upon which the
park is located.
      5.   The plat plans of the park drawn on a scale of one hundred feet to
one inch (1" = 100'), building plans and specifications for existing buildings
and facilities and specifications for new buildings and facilities or the
proposed alterations in existing facilities, all showing compliance with the
provisions of this chapter, the plat plans to be drawn on a scale of one
hundred feet to one inch (1" = 100'), and shall contain, among other things,
the following:
         a.   The date on which such plat plans were prepared.
         b.   An arrow indicating north.
         c.   All mobile home lots shall be properly numbered on plat plans.
         d.   Complete information regarding storm sewers.
         e.   Stormwater runoff shall be shown on a separate plat.
         f.   Contour lines at two foot (2') intervals shall be shown on a
separate plat and United States Geological Survey data shall be used for the
preparation of such plat.
         g.   Grades of driveways and all ditches shall be shown on a separate
plat.
         h.   All maps and plans must be signed by and bear the seal of a
registered professional engineer.
      6.   A statement of the firefighting facilities, public or private, which
are available to the mobile home park.
An affidavit as to the truth of the matters contained in the application shall
be attached thereto. Where a permit to construct as well as an original license
to operate is sought by the applicant, request therefor shall be made in the
same application. Each application for a permit to construct or for an original
license shall be made in the same application and shall be accompanied by an
application fee and shall be paid to the Village in the amount of the
application fee.
   C.   Investigation Of Applicants; Approval Or Disapproval Of License Or
Permit; Issuance:
      1.   The Chief Building Official shall examine the application for a
permit to construct or an application for a license to operate and maintain a
mobile home park, and the Chief Building Official shall, if the park is, or the
proposed mobile home park will be, in conformity with this chapter, Title 10 of
this Code (Zoning Ordinance) and other applicable ordinances as determined by
the Chief Building Official, issue a permit to construct or an original
license, as the case may be.
      2.   If the application for a permit to construct or a license to operate
and maintain is declined, the Chief Building Official shall give the reasons
therefor, in writing, to the applicant, and if the deficiencies can be
corrected, the applicant may amend his application and resubmit it for
approval.
      3.   If a permit to construct a mobile home park has been issued, the
applicant shall, upon completion thereof, notify the Chief Building Official.
The Chief Building Official shall then inspect the mobile home park, and if
completion is in accordance with the accepted application, the Chief Building
Official shall issue a license to operate and maintain said mobile home park.
      4.   Such a permit does not relieve the applicant from complying with the
Village Zoning Ordinance, Building Codes 1  and the sewerage treatment and
disposal provisions of the Village and other applicable bodies. No mobile home
park permit shall be issued if such mobile home park is in violation of the
Zoning Ordinance.
      5.   A permit to construct or a license to operate and maintain or the
yearly renewal of a license to operate and maintain such mobile home park shall
not be issued by the Chief Building Official until evidence exists to
demonstrate adequate facilities and services that pertain to the disposal of
sewage, water supply and system, garbage and solid waste storage and final
disposal and any other health related facilities or conditions at the mobile
home park site.
   D.   License Fees: In addition to the application fee provided for herein,
the licensee shall pay the Village on or before January 1 of each year an
annual license fee, which shall be as follows:
For mobile home parks with:
 
1 to 10 lots      $150.00 plus $10.00 a lot
11 to 50 lots     $250.00 plus $10.00 a lot
51 to 100 lots    $500.00 plus $10.00 a lot
101 to 500 lots   $750.00 plus $10.00 a lot
501 to 1,000 lots $1,000.00 plus $10.00 a lot
 
Each license for a mobile home park shall be paid to the Village in the amount
of the license fee, and any license fee or any part thereof, once paid to and
accepted by the Village, shall not be refundable.
   E.   Construction Alterations And Modifications:
      1.   In the event the licensee of a mobile home park wishes to add on or
change whatsoever in the mobile home park as covered by the construction permit
or license, a new application for construction permit is required. This
application shall be accompanied by a fee of two hundred dollars ($200.00) for
each mobile home lot. This fee is not refundable.
      2.   The Chief Building Official shall not issue a construction permit to
make any alterations, modifications, add ons or changes whatsoever in the
mobile home park if the issuance would violate this chapter, the Zoning
Ordinance, or other applicable ordinances.
   F.   Conditions of Licenses and Permits:
      1.   Display of License or Permit: Each permit to construct, each license
to operate and each permit to make alterations therein shall be prominently
displayed in the office of the mobile home park for which the same was issued.
      2.   Separate Permit and License for Each Location: Each permit or
license shall apply only to the premises described in the application and in
the license issued thereon, and only one location shall be so described in each
license.
      3.   Nontransferability of License: A license which has been issued to a
person may not be transferred without the written consent of the Chief Building
Official. However, the Chief Building Official may not withhold such consent
where the provisions of this Chapter have been met. A license which has been
issued for a particular premises may not be removed or made to apply to any
other premises. (Ord. 93-725, 12-14-93; amd. Ord. 20-1982, 8-25-2020)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 1 of this title.
8-3-4: MOBILE HOME PARK AND MOBILE HOME LOT REQUIREMENTS:
Except as provided in Section
 8-3-7 of this Chapter, every mobile home park licensed or to be constructed
under the provisions of this Chapter shall comply with the following
provisions:
   A.   Park Attendant: Every mobile home park shall be in the charge of a
responsible attendant or manager at all times whose duties shall be to maintain
the park, its facilities and equipment in a clean, orderly and sanitary
condition and be answerable with the licensee for any violation of the
provisions of this Chapter.
   B.   Park Drainage:
      1.   All such parks shall be well drained and shall be located in areas
free from ponds, swamps and similar places in which mosquitos may breed.
      2.   All sewage from mobile homes shall be discharged into a sanitary
sewer system.
   C.   Maximum Density of Units Per Acre shall be in accordance with Title 10,
Chapter 5, Article I.
   D.   Mobile Home Lots:
      1.   Minimum Area: The minimum area for each mobile home lot shall be in
accordance with Title 10, Chapter 5, Article I.
      2.   Mobile Home Stand: That part of an individual lot reserved for the
placement of the mobile home shall be called the mobile home stand and shall
conform to the following standards:
         a.   Placement: The mobile home stand shall be so placed as to provide
for the practical placement on the site of both the mobile home and its
appurtenant structures and the retention of the mobile home on the site in a
stable condition and in satisfactory relationship to its surroundings.
         b.   Size: The size of the mobile home stand shall be suitable for the
mobile home to be served by the individual park and suitable to fit dimensions
of the mobile home anticipated, including mobile home appurtenant structures or
appendages.
         c.   Location: The location of each mobile home stand shall be at such
elevation, distance and angle in relation to the access street and the mobile
home lot driveway that placement and removal of the mobile home is practical.
         d.   Construction Specifications: Concrete slab or concrete runways.
         e.   Gradient: There shall be a minimum of two percent (2%)
longitudinal and adequate crown or cross-gradient and surface drainage.
         f.   Base Enclosure: All mobile homes which are placed on piers shall
have the entire perimeter enclosed. The enclosure shall be of a material
approved by the Village. Panels manufactured specifically for mobile home
enclosures shall be considered to meet these requirements.
      3.   Minimum Width: The minimum width for each mobile home lot shall be
in accordance with Title 10, Chapter 5, Article I.
      4.   Minimum Distance Between Mobile Homes: No mobile home shall be
placed closer than permitted in Title 10, Chapter 5, Article I.
      5.   Yards Abutting Common Areas: Every mobile home shall be setback from
common areas, park boundary line and lot lines in accordance with Title 10,
Chapter 5, Article I.
      6.   Site Specifications: Every mobile home lot shall be clearly defined
on the ground by permanent markers. There shall be posted and maintained in a
conspicuous place on each site a number corresponding to the number of each
site as shown on the plot plan submitted, as required by this Chapter, so that
each lot may be easily identified. Each mobile home lot shall have provided
thereon a patio and adequate storage conforming to Title 10, Chapter 5, Article
I.
   E.   Streets and Walks:
      1.   Streets:
         a.   The construction of all private streets shall conform to the
requirements of the Title 11 of this Code.
         b.   For private streets provided within the mobile home park, a
right-of-way width of fifty feet (50') shall be required. A minimum of twenty
four feet (24') in width of pavement, back- to-back of curbs, shall be provided
in the center of such right of way. All private streets shall have unobstructed
access to a public street or highway.
         c.   All arterial streets constructed in connection with a mobile home
park, no matter where the park may be located within the Village, shall be
designed and laid out in accordance with the provisions of Title 11 of this
Code, except as may be modified by this Chapter.
      2.   Walks: Walks shall be provided for safe, convenient, all season
pedestrian access, of adequate width for intended use, durable and convenient
to maintain and shall be designed and laid out in accordance with the
requirements of Title 11 of this Code except as may be modified by this
Chapter. There shall be:
         a.   Individual walks to each mobile home stand from a paved driveway
or parking space connecting to a paved street.
         b.   Common walks in such locations required by the requirements of
Title 11 of this Code and in locations where pedestrian traffic is
concentrated; for example, at the park entrance to the court office and other
important facilities.
         c.   Width, alignment and gradient of walks shall be appropriate for
safety, convenience and appearance and shall be suitable for use by both
pedestrians and for the circulation of small wheeled vehicles such as baby
carriages and service carts.
         d.   Walks shall be constructed of concrete in accordance with the
specifications of the requirements of Title 11 of this Code as modified by this
Chapter. Widths shall be at least four feet (4') for common walks. Private
walks on mobile home lots shall be two feet (2') minimum width. Sudden changes
in alignment and gradient shall be avoided. Required walks are not to be used
as drainageways.
      3.   Parking Spaces: Required parking spaces for each mobile home lot
shall be provided in accordance with Title 10, Chapter 8 of this Code and
parking may be in tandem. In addition, there shall be a sufficient number of
parking spaces in conveniently located parking bays to bring the total number
of parking spaces up to the two and one-half (21/2) car spaces per mobile home
lot. Each such parking space shall be designed and constructed in accordance
with Title 10, Chapter 8 of this Code.
   F.   Water Supply:
      1.   An adequate supply of water of safe, sanitary quality, shall be
furnished in each mobile home park. The water supply system of the park must be
connected to a public water supply if one is located within two hundred feet
(200') of a mobile home park. When a public water supply is not located within
two hundred feet (200') of a mobile home park, then a public water supply and
system shall be provided at the park site which complies with the requirements
of all applicable laws and administrative regulations.
      2.   The park water supply and system shall be provided with sufficient
storage and a rate of pumpage to deliver at least thirty seven (37) pounds'
pressure at all times. Each mobile home site shall be provided with a cold
water riser located at least four inches (4") above ground level. Each such
riser shall be located within or at the edge of the mobile home site which it
supplies and each such riser shall have at least thirty seven (37) pounds of
pressure at all times.
   G.   Sewers And Sewage 1 :
      1.   All sewage and other water-carried waste designated as sewage shall
be disposed of into a public sewerage system when one is located within two
hundred feet (200') of the mobile home park. When a public sewerage system is
not available, a park sewer system and sewage treatment works shall be provided
at the park site which complies with the requirements of the Village sewerage
treatment and disposal provisions 2  and the rules and regulations of the
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
      2.   When a water-carried system of sewage is used, each mobile home lot
shall be provided with a sewer connection for the combined liquid waste outlet
or outlets of each mobile home. It shall be the duty of the owner or operator
of said mobile home park to provide an approved type of water- and odor-tight
connection from the trailer water drainage to the sewer connection, and it
shall be the duty of said owner or operator to make such connection and keep
all occupied mobile home connection to said sewer while located in a mobile
home park. Sewer connections in unoccupied mobile home lots shall be so closed
that they will emit no odors or cause a breeding place for flies. No water or
waste shall be allowed to fall on the ground from a mobile home. All sewerage
shall comply with the Illinois Plumbing Code 3  and Village ordinances.
   H.   Garbage Removal; Insect And Rodent Control:
      1.   An adequate flyproof and watertight container shall be used for the
storage of garbage.
      2.   Garbage and rubbish shall be disposed of in a manner which creates
neither a nuisance nor a menace to health.
      3.   Adequate insect and rodent control measures shall be employed. All
buildings shall be flyproof and rodent-proof, and rodent harborages shall not
be permitted to exist in the park.
   I.   Electric Lighting And Outlets:
      1.   All street entrances, exits and driveways shall be lighted at night.
Not less than one hundred watt (100 W) or equivalent electric light shall be
provided for each two hundred (200) lineal feet of private streets and at each
entrance and exit to the mobile home.
      2.   Each mobile home lot shall be provided with a fused or breaker-
controlled disconnect with a minimum rating of one hundred (100) amperes, all
conforming to the Title 8 of this Code.
      3.   Street lighting on public streets shall conform to the Village
regulations.
      4.   All electrical distribution wiring shall be underground.
      5.   A cable TV antenna system with all cabling underground is required.
   J.   Storage Tanks: No individual storage facilities for gasoline, oil, gas,
liquefied petroleum or other fuel storage tanks or cylinders shall be installed
underground and shall not be located inside or beneath any mobile home or
structure or less than five feet (5') from any coach exit. A piping from such
tanks shall be permanently installed and have an earth cover of eighteen inches
(18").
   K.   Playgrounds: A recreational area shall be provided of a size not less
than eight percent (8%) of the gross site area generally provided in a central
location, including suitable landscaping, fencing and benches. In larger parks,
decentralization will be allowed. Recreation areas shall include space for
community use facilities such as adult recreation, child playgrounds and
natural open space.
   L.   Lot Coverage: The lot coverage of a mobile home shall be in accordance
with Title 10, Chapter 5, Article I.
   M.   Certificates Of Occupancy:
      1.   No mobile home park shall be occupied until a certificate of
occupancy shall have been issued by the Chief Building Official to the effect
that the mobile home park, or the portion thereof for which such certificate is
required, is in compliance with all applicable provisions of this chapter and
Title 10, Chapter 5, Article I of this Code.
      2.   Each mobile home occupied as a dwelling unit in a mobile home park
located in the Village after the effective date hereof shall meet the minimum
standards for plumbing, heating and electrical systems, as defined by Title 8
of this Code. Mobile homes that, upon initial installation, display the
official seal and register number of the Mobile Home Manufacturers' Association
will be considered to comply with the above Building Codes. Mobile homes that
do not meet these minimum standards for plumbing, heating and electrical
systems will not be issued a certificate of occupancy by the Chief Building
Official.
      3.   The minimum standards for plumbing, heating and electrical systems
as defined by the various accepted Building, Plumbing and Electrical Codes, as
amended and revised periodically, are hereby made a part of and incorporated by
reference into this chapter. (Ord. 93-725, 12-14-1993; amd. Ord. 20-1982, 8-25-
2020)
 
Notes
1 3. See also section
  8-3-5 of this chapter.
2 4. See title 7, chapter 3, article D of this Code.
3 3. See section
  8-1B-10 of this title.
8-3-5: SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
   A.   Each mobile home park shall be provided with a sanitary sewerage system
connected to a public sewerage system or park sewage treatment works. The
sanitary sewerage system shall comply with the Village sewerage treatment and
disposal provisions 1 , the Illinois Plumbing Code 2  and the rules and
regulations of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency as well as the
rules and regulations of the Chief Building Official as approved by the Board
of Trustees.
   B.   Septic tank sewerage disposal systems shall not be approved for use in
all mobile home parks established after the effective date hereof. (Ord. 93-
725, 12-14-1993; amd. Ord. 20-1982, 8-25-2020)
 
Notes
1 2. See title 7, chapter 3, article D of this Code.
2 3. See section
  8-1B-10 of this title.
8-3-6: FIRE PROTECTION:
Fire hydrants shall be provided in accordance with the National Fire Protection
Association Fire Code (NFPA 1) and any other applicable codes as adopted by the
Village or the Troy Fire Protection District. (Ord. 93-725, 12-14-1993; amd.
Ord. 20-1982, 8-25-2020)
8-3-7: MOBILE HOME REQUIREMENTS IN PARKS:
Every park licensed, to be constructed or to be modified under the provisions
of this chapter in a proper zoning district shall comply with the following
provision: no dependent mobile home, as defined in Section 8-3-2 of this
chapter, shall be allowed in any licensed mobile home park . (Ord. 93-725, 12-
14-1993; amd. Ord. 20-1982, 8-25-2020)
8-3-8: EXISTING MOBILE HOME PARKS:
   A.   Requirements for Mobile Homes Moved to Vacant Sites:
      1.   Whenever a mobile home is removed from an existing mobile home park,
the lot or space left vacant shall not again be occupied by another mobile
home; except, that the mobile home be made to meet the requirements of this
Chapter and Title 10, Chapter 5, Article I of this Code. Permits may be issued
for alterations of existing structures or installations which tend to make the
mobile home park conform with this Chapter.
      2.   When the Chief Building Official has approved an application for a
permit to construct or make alterations upon a mobile home park or the
appurtenances thereto or a license to operate and maintain the same, it shall
retain the original and keep a file thereof, and one copy shall be returned to
the applicant or his agent.
      3.   The Chief Building Official shall draft and supply all forms and
specify the number and detail necessary to obtain permits to construct or make
alterations upon mobile home parks and for a license to operate and maintain
such a park according to this Chapter.
   B.   Records Kept: The Chief Building Official shall keep a record of all
mobile home parks, said records to show the names and addresses of the
licensees, number of mobile home lots in each park, source of water supply,
system of sewage and garbage disposal and any other information deemed
essential by the Chief Building Official.
   C.   Requirements for Existing Parks: The following provisions shall be
applicable to all mobile home parks licensed under the provisions of this
Chapter:
      1.   Streets and Driveways: All streets and driveways in every mobile
home park must be maintained in a passable and reasonably dustproof condition
at all times, and all streets and driveways in every mobile home park
established after the effective date hereof shall have the minimum width
required by this Chapter 1 .
      2.   Health and Safety Provisions: The management of every mobile home
park shall assume full responsibility for maintaining in good repair and
condition all sanitary and safety appliances on said park and shall promptly
bring such action as is necessary to prosecute or eject from said park any
person or persons who willfully or maliciously damage such appliances or any
persons who fail to comply with the regulations of this Chapter. (Ord. 93-725,
12-14-93; amd. Ord. 20-1982, 8-25-2020)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection
  8-3-4E of this Chapter.
8-3-9: OFFICE; REGISTRATION:
   A.   Office and Register Required: Each mobile home park shall be provided
with a custodian's office where each mobile home entering such mobile home park
shall be assigned to a lot location, given a copy of the mobile home park rules
and registered according to the prescribed form. Said registration shall
include the name and address of every occupant of said mobile home, the license
number of all units, the state issuing such licenses and a statement indicating
the exact location at which such mobile home was parked, including the state,
city, town or village where such parking occurred. The licensee shall keep a
registry of all children of school age occupying a mobile home in the mobile
home park.
   B.   Signature and Information Required on Register: The abovementioned
register shall be signed by an occupant of the mobile home lot. Any person
furnishing misinformation for purposes of registration shall be deemed guilty
of a Village ordinance violation. The registration records shall be neatly and
securely maintained, and no registration records shall be destroyed until six
(6) years have elapsed following the date of registration. The register shall
be available at all times for inspection by law enforcement officers. (Ord. 93-
725, 12-14-93; amd. Ord. 20-1982, 8-25-2020)
8-3-10: RESERVED:
 
8-3-11: ENFORCEMENT; INSPECTIONS:
   A.   The Chief Building Official shall enforce the provisions of this
Chapter, and the Chief Building Official or his designees shall inspect, at
least once each year, each mobile home park and all the accommodations and
facilities therein.
   B.   The Chief Building Official, or his designees are hereby granted the
power and authority to enter upon the premises of such mobile home parks at any
time for the purposes herein set forth. (Ord. 93-725, 12-14-93; amd. Ord. 20-
1982, 8-25-2020)
8-3-12: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE; REFUSAL OF LICENSE OR PERMIT:
   A.   Revocation of License Generally:
      1.   Each mobile home park shall be inspected during construction and
operation by the Chief Building Official to determine compliance with the
provisions of the construction permit and the annual license. Any violation of
this Chapter shall be an ordinance violation and subject to revocation of
license plus a fine. Revocation of license requires a new construction permit
and inspection to determine compliance with the permit and this Chapter before
the mobile home park may be occupied.
      2.   Any mobile home park must vacate all mobile homes from the park on
revocation of license or permit. No mobile home may be returned to a mobile
home park before a new construction permit is issued by the Chief Building
Official. Applications for this new construction permit will be made on forms
obtained from the Chief Building Official or, if no such form is available, may
be made by letter containing all of the matters required by this Chapter.
   B.   Notice of Revocation or Suspension:
      1.   Any license granted hereunder shall be subject to revocation or
suspension by the Chief Building Official. However, the Chief Building Official
shall first serve or cause to be served upon the licensee a written notice in
which shall be specified the way or ways in which such licensee has failed to
comply with this Chapter.
      2.   Said notice shall require the licensee to remove or abate such
nuisance, unsanitary or objectionable condition specified in such notice within
a reasonable time. If the licensee fails to comply with the terms and
conditions of said notice within a reasonable time, the Chief Building Official
may take such action to cause revocation or suspension of such license.
   C.   Hearing:
      1.   Authority: Any person refused a permit to construct or alter a
mobile home park or a license or whose license may be suspended or revoked
shall have the right to a hearing before the Village Administrator who shall
have full power to conduct such hearing, issue subpoenas, administer oaths and
affirmations and all other powers necessary to such hearings.
      2.   Notice of Hearing: No hearing shall be held before the Village
Administrator until notice of the time and place of the hearing have been
published in a newspaper of general circulation in the County at least fifteen
(15) days prior to the hearing date and to the Applicant by certified mail,
said notice to contain the particular location of the mobile home and a brief
statement as to the reason the hearing is being held.
      3.   Open to the Public: All hearings shall be open to the public.
      4.   Minutes: The Village shall keep minutes of the proceedings showing
its determination and shall also keep records of its other official actions.
      5.   Expenditures: In the performance of its duties under the provisions
of this Chapter, the Village Administrator may incur such expenditures as shall
be authorized by the Village Board of Trustees.
      6.   Rules of Procedure: The Village Administrator shall establish rules
by which to conduct the hearing. (Ord. 93-725, 12-14-93; amd. Ord. 20-1982, 8-
25-2020)
8-3-13: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
Trailers in Campgrounds: This Chapter shall not apply to any mobile home used
as a travel trailer located in an approved overnight campsite, the patrons of
which have other permanent residences.
   A.   State Parks, Forest Preserves, Farm Labor Camps, etc.: Nothing in this
Chapter shall be construed to include the State Parks of Illinois or the forest
preserves of the Forest Preserve District of Will County, and the term "mobile
home park" shall not be construed to include housing maintained by any
individual or company on his own premises and used exclusively to house his own
farm labor, or any real estate owned by the United States or of this State
wherein a mobile home may be located or harbored, or any park on State or
County fairgrounds for a period during, immediately prior to and immediately
subsequent to the holding of the fair, not to exceed a total of two (2) weeks
in all, or the area of premises on any farm upon which are harbored mobile
homes occupied by persons employed upon such farm for not more than one hundred
eighty (180) days in any calendar year in the production, harvesting or
processing of agricultural or horticultural products on such farm. However, any
mobile home park owned or operated by any municipality shall meet sanitary and
safety provisions of this Chapter, shall be inspected as herein provided, shall
pay or cause to be paid to the Chief Building Official the respective
application and license fees provided by this Chapter and keep a register and
make all reports as herein required of a licensee. (Ord. 93-725, 12-14-93; amd.
Ord. 20-1982, 8-25-2020)
8-3-14: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
A violation of any provisions of this Chapter shall, upon conviction, be
subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 93-725, 12-14-93; 1994 Code)
CHAPTER 4
SIGNS
SECTION:
8-4-1: Political Campaign Signs
8-4-2: Garage Sale Signs
8-4-1: POLITICAL CAMPAIGN SIGNS 1 :
   A.   Political signs announcing the candidates seeking public office,
supporting or opposing election ballot questions of public policy and other
dates pertinent thereto are not permitted in any street, road or highway right
of way.
   B.   Except as specifically permitted by this code no signs are permitted on
village property or in the right of way of any street, road or highway.
   C.   Signs which are not specifically permitted in the right of way may be
removed and disposed of by the village. (Ord. 12-1663, 6-26-2012, eff. 4-23-
2013)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  1-8-2 of this code for vehicles with signs.
8-4-2: GARAGE SALE SIGNS:
   A.   Regulations:
      1.   No more than three (3) signs may be erected advertising any such
sale.
      2.   No sign shall be erected more than one-fourth (1/4) mile distance
from the site of the sale.
      3.   No sign shall exceed twenty four inches by thirty six inches (24" x
36") in size.
      4.   No sign shall be erected on private property without the permission
of the property owner.
      5.   No sign shall be erected on any public right of way, nor attached to
any public utility pole.
      6.   No sign shall be allowed to remain for a duration of more than seven
(7) days.
      7.   The person or persons holding such sale shall remove all signs
advertising such sale at the end of the sale.
   B.   Penalty: Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this
section shall, upon conviction, be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 93-725, 12-14-1993; amd. 1994 Code)
CHAPTER 5
PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL SWIMMING POOLS
SECTION:
8-5-1: Definitions
8-5-2: Compliance With And Application Of Provisions
8-5-3: Permit Requirements
8-5-4: Plans And Contracts Required
8-5-5: Fences Required
8-5-6: Reserved
8-5-7: Inspections
8-5-8: Penalty
8-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
   PERSON: Includes any individual, occupant of a residence, lessee or property
owner, as well as any individual, partnership, corporation or business entity
engaged in the business of constructing private residential swimming pools.
   PORTABLE SWIMMING POOL: A temporary receptacle of water or an artificial
pool of water with a maximum diameter of eighteen feet (18') and a maximum
water depth of eighteen inches (18") intended to be used for wading and
requiring no water filtration, pumping or water treatment systems and intended
to be emptied daily or after use.
   PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL SWIMMING POOL: A receptacle of water or an artificial
pool of water, whether aboveground or level with the ground, having a maximum
depth of over eighteen inches (18") and all appurtenant equipment which is used
or intended to be used for swimming by the owner or lessee thereof and family
and guests without payment of any fee for such use.
   TEMPORARY SWIMMING POOL: A temporary receptacle of water or an artificial
pool of water with a maximum depth of over eighteen inches (18") with any
equipment for water filtration, pumping or water treatment, which is used or
intended to be used for swimming by the owner or lessee thereof and family and
guests without payment of any fee for such use, and is not intended to be
emptied daily. (Ord. 14-1749, 10-28-2014)
8-5-2: COMPLIANCE WITH AND APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in or allow the
construction, maintenance, installation or enlargement of any private
residential swimming pool or temporary swimming pool in the Village except in
compliance with all of the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   This chapter shall not apply to portable swimming pools, which are
emptied daily. (Ord. 14-1749, 10-28-2014)
8-5-3: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Construction Permit 1 : It shall be unlawful for any person to commence
or proceed with the construction, installation, enlargement or alteration of
any private residential swimming pool in the Village, until the plans and
contracts for construction and a letter of credit, cash or certified check, as
bond, have first been submitted, filed with and approved by the Building
Division of the Village, and a construction permit has been issued to such
person from the Building Division of the Village. The permit application shall
be signed by the property owner, lessee, if any, and property occupant and
shall specifically allow the Village the remedies provided in this chapter if
the pool and fence are not constructed in accordance with this chapter.
   B.   Final Inspection: It shall be unlawful for any person to use, operate
or maintain any private residential swimming pool in the Village unless a final
inspection has been approved by the Building Division of the Village. No
inspection shall be approved by the Village, until the private residential
swimming pool is filled with water, and the fencing required herein is
constructed pursuant to ordinances 2 . (Ord. 14-1749, 10-28-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  8-1A-9 of this title for fees.
2 2. See section
  10-3-13 of this Code.
8-5-4: PLANS AND CONTRACTS REQUIRED:
Plans and contracts for construction of private residential swimming pools, as
heretofore required to be submitted to the Village prior to the issuance of a
construction permit, shall comply with the following requirements:
   A.   Plans shall be drawn to scale indicating all dimensions, including
length, width and depth. (Ord. 14-1749, 10-28-2014)
   B.   Plans shall indicate the location of the pool and fencing in relation
to all lot and setback lines, with such minimum setbacks from lot lines being:
      1.   Rear yard: Six feet (6').
      2.   Side yard: Six feet (6').
      3.   No pool shall be built or installed within ten feet (10') of a
foundation wall or accessory building.
      4.   No pool shall be built within any easement regardless of the above
minimum setbacks. (Ord. 16-1826, 11-8-2016)
   C.   The following parts of pools shall not be placed under existing service
drop conductors or any other open overhead wiring nor shall such wiring be
installed above the following:
      1.   Pools and the area extending ten feet (10') horizontally from the
inside of the walls of the pool.
      2.   Diving structure.
      3.   Observation stands, towers or platforms.
   D.   Underground wiring shall be in accordance with chapter 1 of this title.
   E.   Plans shall show the grade for the location where the pool is to be
constructed and the actual preconstruction grade for the location. The
postconstruction final grade must be within three inches (3") tolerance of the
grade established in the final subdivision plat for the lot.
   F.   Plans shall indicate kind, number and size of filters and heaters and
the location and size of any electrical or gas service lines.
   G.   All plans shall show all pools are grounded and all electrical devices
protected with ground fault interrupters.
   H.   Copies of the construction contract for the construction of the private
residential swimming pool and fencing shall be submitted which shall indicate
the cost to complete the construction of the private residential swimming pool
and fencing and the date of completion for each.
   I.   All pools shall be constructed in accordance with all village codes,
including chapter 1 of this title. The more restrictive provisions shall
prevail. (Ord. 14-1749, 10-28-2014)
8-5-5: FENCES REQUIRED:
   A.   Temporary Fence During Construction: During the construction of an
inground pool and when no work is being performed, the excavation and
construction site must be completely surrounded by a temporary fence not less
than four feet (4') in height, of sufficient strength to prevent access to the
construction area. This temporary fence shall be removed upon completion of the
permanent enclosure required in subsection B of this section.
   B.   Permanent Fences For Inground And Aboveground Pools:
      1.   Swimming Pools: All outdoor private residential and temporary
swimming pools shall be completely surrounded by a fence of not less than four
feet (4') in height, separated at least six feet (6') from the pool and of
sufficient strength to prevent access to the pool. This fence shall be
constructed so as not to have any openings, holes or gaps larger than four
inches (4") in any dimension except for doors and gates. A dwelling house or
accessory building may be used as part of such fence. All gates or door
openings through the required fence shall be designed to permit locking and
shall be kept locked when the pool is not in actual use or when the pool is
unattended. All such gates or doors shall be designed to be self-closing and
self-latching. The latches shall be placed at least four feet (4') above the
ground elevation or otherwise made inaccessible to small children. An approved
pool cover shall be installed during those periods when use of the pool is
discontinued.
      2.   Aboveground Swimming Pools: Aboveground private residential swimming
pools with self-provided fencing standing at least three feet (3') above the
pool deck will be allowed without separate additional fencing; provided, that
the self-provided fencing is of sufficient strength and required height to
prevent access other than through a gate or door. Aboveground private
residential swimming pools having stationary ladders, stairs or ramps shall be
equipped with locking devices to prevent unauthorized access. All fencing
required herein shall be subject to all other ordinances of the village
relating to the installation and maintenance of fences 1 . (Ord. 14-1749, 10-
28-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  10-3-13 of this code.
8-5-6: RESERVED:
(Ord. 14-1749, 10-28-2014)
8-5-7: INSPECTIONS:
The Chief Building Official of the village shall inspect or cause to be
inspected all private residential swimming pools within the village at such
times as may be deemed necessary for protection of the public health, safety
and welfare and to ensure compliance with the provisions hereof. (Ord. 14-1749,
10-28-2014; amd. Ord. 20-1982, 8-25-2020)
8-5-8: PENALTY:
In addition to all such other remedies as may be available at law, any person
convicted of violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to a fine
of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense. Each day such violation shall continue
shall be deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 14-1749, 10-28-2014)
TITLE 9
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
CHAPTER 1
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND MAP
SECTION:
9-1-1: Adopted
9-1-1: ADOPTED:
The comprehensive plan and map attached as exhibit_A to the ordinance codified
herein and by reference thereto specifically made a part of this code is hereby
declared to be the official comprehensive plan and map of the village of
Shorewood. (Ord. 07-1403, 2-13-2007; amd. Ord. 24-2112, - - )
TITLE 10
ZONING
CHAPTER 1
ZONING TITLE, PURPOSE AND INTERPRETATION
SECTION:
10-1-1: Short Title
10-1-2: Purpose and Intent
10-1-3: Interpretation
10-1-4: Separability
10-1-5: Scope of Regulations
10-1-6: Ordinance 0-122 Saving Clause
10-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This Title shall be known, cited and referred to as the SHOREWOOD CROSSROADS
ZONING ORDINANCE. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-93)
10-1-2: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   Purpose: This Zoning Title is adopted for the purpose of improving and
protecting the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare
of the people. The fulfillment of this purpose is to be accomplished by seeking
the following objectives:
      1.   To lessen congestion on the public streets.
      2.   To avoid undue concentration of population.
      3.   To prevent the overcrowding of land, thereby insuring proper living
and working conditions and preventing the development of blight and slums.
      4.   To establish adequate standards for the provision of light, air and
open spaces.
      5.   To facilitate the provision of adequate public services such as
transportation, water, sewerage, open space and parks.
      6.   To zone all properties with a view to conserving the value of
buildings and encouraging the most appropriate use of land throughout the
Village.
      7.   To protect all areas alike from harmful encroachment by incompatible
uses and to insure that land allocated to a class of uses shall not be usurped
by inappropriate uses within the parameters of the standards and requirements
of this Title.
      8.   To avoid the inappropriate development of lands and provide for
adequate drainage, curbing or erosion, and reduction of flood damage.
      9.   To fix reasonable standards to which buildings and structures shall
conform.
      10.   To prevent such additions to and alterations or remodeling of
existing buildings or structures as would not comply with the restrictions and
limitations imposed herein.
      11.   To foster a more rational pattern of relationship between
residential, business and industrial uses for the mutual benefit of all.
      12.   To isolate or control the location of unavoidable nuisance-
producing uses.
      13.   To define the powers and duties of the administrative and
enforcement officers and bodies.
      14.   To prescribe penalties for any violation of the provisions of this
Title or of any subsequent amendments hereto.
   B.   Intent: The standards and requirements contained in this Title and the
district mapping reflected on the Zoning District Map are intended to implement
all elements of the Comprehensive Plan 1 , including the land use component,
and the planning policies of the Village. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-93)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 9, Chapter 1 of this Code.
10-1-3: INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Minimum Requirements: In their interpretation and application, the
provisions of this Title shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the
promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general
welfare.
   B.   Relationship with Other Laws: Where any contradictory regulations,
restrictions or requirements imposed by any provision of this Title upon the
use of any land, building, structures or improvements are either more
restrictive or less restrictive than restrictions or requirements imposed by
any other provision of this Title or any other law of any governmental body
having jurisdiction over the subject matter thereof, those restrictions or
requirements which are more restrictive shall govern.
   C.   Affect on Existing Agreements: This Title is not intended to abrogate
any easement, covenant or any other private agreement; provided, that where the
regulations of this Title are more restrictive or impose higher standards or
requirements than such easements, covenants or other private agreements, the
requirements of this Title shall govern.
   D.   Interpretation by Zoning Officer: Where there is any ambiguity or
dispute concerning the interpretation of this Title, the decision of the Zoning
Officer shall prevail, subject to appeal as provided in Section
10-12-6 of this Title. The Zoning Officer may allow, as permitted use or
conditional use, those uses which, though not contained by name in a zoning
district list of permitted or conditional uses, he determines to be of the same
general character as the listed permitted or conditional uses, subject to
approval by the Village Board. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-93)
10-1-4: SEPARABILITY:
The several provisions of this Title are separable, as follows:
   A.   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge any provision of
this Title, or any amendment hereto, to be invalid, such judgment shall not
affect any other provisions of this Title not specifically included in said
judgment.
   B.   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge invalid the
application of any provision of this Title, or any amendments hereto, to a
particular building, structure or parcel of land, such judgment shall not
affect the application of said provision to any other building, structure or
parcel of land not specifically included in said judgment. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-
93)
10-1-5: SCOPE OF REGULATIONS:
   A.   All buildings or structures erected hereafter, all uses of buildings,
structures or land established hereafter and all structural alteration or
relation of existing buildings or structures occurring hereafter shall be
subject to all regulations of this Title, or any amendment hereto, which are
applicable to the zoning districts in which such buildings, structures or
parcels of land shall be located.
   B.   However, where a building permit for a building or structure has been
issued in accordance with law prior to the effective date hereof, or any
amendment hereto, and provided that construction was begun before the effective
date hereof, or any amendment hereto, and completion is accomplished within
eighteen (18) months of the adoption of these regulations, or any amendment
hereto, said building or structure may be completed in accordance with the
approved plans on the basis of which the building permit has been issued, and
further, may, upon completion, be occupied for the use for which originally
designated, subject hereafter to the provisions of Section
10-3-19 and Chapter 9 of this Title. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-93)
10-1-6: ORDINANCE 0-122 SAVING CLAUSE:
   A.   The provisions of Ordinance 0-122, as amended, shall be applicable only
to territory which is subject to a valid annexation agreement requiring the
continued application of Ordinance 0-122.
   B.   Upon expiration of an annexation agreement for such territory, it shall
be subject to the regulation and district classification imposed by this Title.
   C.   No additional territory shall be made subject to the provisions of
Ordinance 0-122, and the Village Board shall, without notice or further public
hearing, repeal the provisions of this Section and Ordinance 0-122 at such time
as no territory remains subject to the regulations of Ordinance 0-122. (Ord.
93-695, 6-15-93)
CHAPTER 2
ZONING RULES AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Rules Of Word Construction; Definitions
10-2-1: RULES OF WORD CONSTRUCTION; DEFINITIONS:
In the construction of this title, the definitions contained herein shall be
observed and applied, except when the context clearly indicates otherwise. The
following definitions of word use shall apply:
   A.   Words used in the present tense shall include the future.
   B.   Words used in the singular number shall include the plural number and
the plural the singular.
   C.   The word "shall" is mandatory and not discretionary.
   D.   The word "may" is permissive.
   E.   The word "lot" shall include the words "piece", "parcel" and "plot".
   F.   The phrase "used for" shall include the phrases "maintained for" and
"occupied for".
   G.   The phrase "designed for" shall include the phrases "arranged for" and
"intended for".
   H.   All "measured distances" shall be to the nearest foot. If a fraction is
one-half foot (1/2') or less, the full number next below shall be taken.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING OR STRUCTURE, ATTACHED: An accessory building or
structure which is physically connected to the principal building or structure.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING OR STRUCTURE, DETACHED: A subordinate building, structure
or use which is located on the same zoning lot on which the principal building
or use is situated and which is reasonably necessary and incidental to the
conduct of the primary use of such building or main use, when permitted by
district regulations.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING, STRUCTURE OR USE: A subordinate building, structure or
use which is located on the same zoning lot on which the principal building or
use is situated and which is reasonably necessary and incidental to the conduct
of the primary use of such building or main use, when permitted by district
regulations.
   ACCESSORY USE: A use incidental to the principal building, structure or use
of land.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT: An adult-use cannabis cultivation
center, craft grower, processing organization, infuser organization, dispensing
organization or transporting organization.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER: A facility operated by an organization or
business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
cultivate, dry, cure and package cannabis and perform other necessary
activities to make cannabis available for sale at a dispensing organization or
use at a processing organization, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act,
(P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations
promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER: A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to cultivate, process, transport and perform necessary activities
to provide cannabis and cannabis-infused products to licensed cannabis business
establishments, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it
may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
"Adult-Use Cannabis Cultivation Center" does not include facilities licensed
under the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program (P.A. 98-122: 410
ILCS 130/1 et seq.) that provide only registered medical cannabis dispensing
organizations with usable medical cannabis.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION OR DISPENSARY: A facility
operated by an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois
Department of Financial and Professional Regulation to acquire cannabis from
licensed cannabis business establishments for the purpose of selling or
dispensing cannabis, cannabis-infused products, cannabis seeds, paraphernalia
or related supplies to purchasers or to qualified registered medical cannabis
patients and caregivers, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-
0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated
thereunder. "Adult-Use Cannabis Dispensing Organization" does not include
facilities licensed under the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot
Program (P.A. 98-122; 410 ILCS 130/1 et seq.) that only provide cannabis and
related products to qualified registered medical cannabis patients and
designated caregivers.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS INFUSER ORGANIZATION OR INFUSER: A facility operated by
an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to directly incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis-infused product, per the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-
time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS PROCESSING ORGANIZATION OR PROCESSOR: A facility operated
by an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to either extract constituent chemicals or compounds to produce
cannabis concentrate or incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis product, per the Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and
regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS TRANSPORTING ORGANIZATION OR TRANSPORTER: An organization
or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
transport cannabis on behalf of a cannabis business establishment or a
community college licensed under the Community College Cannabis Vocational
Training Pilot Program, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-
0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated
thereunder.
   AMUSEMENT ESTABLISHMENT: An enterprise which provides one or more forms of
entertainment.
   ANIMAL GROOMING SERVICE: Any building, structure or portion thereof where
animals are bathed, clipped or combed for the purpose of enhancing their
aesthetic value or health and for which a fee is charged.
   ANIMAL HOSPITAL: A building, structure or portion thereof designed or used
for the care, observation or treatment by veterinary professionals of dogs,
cats or other household domestic animals. Use as a kennel shall be limited to
short time boarding and shall be incidental to such hospital use.
   ANTENNA: An arrangement of wires, metal rods or similar materials used for
the transmission and/or reception of microwaves; radio waves, including, but
not limited to, radio waves which carry the signals of television and radio
stations; and other electromagnetic energy signals.
   ANTENNA TOWER: Any structure designed for the purpose of mounting antenna.
   APARTMENT HOTEL: A hotel in which at least ninety percent (90%) of the
accommodations are occupied or intended for occupancy by permanent guests.
   ARBOR: An entranceway or gateway that incorporates trellis walls typically
not wider than a couple of feet. An arbor can be attached to a fence or
freestanding.
   ARCHITECTURAL STRUCTURE: An ornamental or decorative element that
contributes to the aesthetic value of a property, excluding signs. These
structures can be freestanding (e.g. arbor, trellis or pergola), attached to
the principal or accessory structure, or incorporated into a fence, such as
over and adjacent to a gate.
   AREA: The measure of a horizontal plane bounded by the front, side and rear
lot lines of a lot or parcel of land, but not including, any area occupied by
the waters of a duly recorded lake or river.
   ART STUDIO: A workspace for individuals engaged in the application,
teaching, or performance of fine arts, creative arts, or crafts. Not a
residence.
   AUTOMOBILE FUELING STATION: A building, structure or portion thereof used
for dispensing, sale or offering for sale at retail to the public gasoline
stored only in underground tanks, kerosene, lubricating oil, grease, and other
such fuels for the operation of motor vehicles, which may or may not include a
convenience store. Automobile fueling stations do not include truck stops/
travel plazas which are commercial facilities that provide fuel, parking and
other services primarily to semitrucks. A truck stop/travel plaza consists of a
diesel fueling operation with at least five (5) fueling stations with bays wide
enough and tall enough for semitrucks operated in combination with all or some
of the following: convenience stores, semitruck parking, weighing scales, and
restaurants.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR FACILITY: A building, structure or portion thereof
designed or used for the general repair, engine rebuilding, reconditioning,
collision service, painting of motor vehicles and other such motor vehicle
repairs.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION: A building, structure or portion thereof used
for the sale and installation of tires, batteries and other minor accessories
and services to motor vehicles, but not including general motor vehicle
repairs, engine rebuilding, reconditioning, collision service, painting and
other motor vehicle repairs and also not including truck stop/travel plaza. A
truck stop/travel plaza consists of a diesel fueling operation with at least
five (5) fueling stations with bays wide enough and tall enough for semitrucks
operated in combination with all or some of the following: convenience stores,
semitruck parking, weighing scales, and restaurants.
   BASEMENT: That portion of a building or structure having more than one-half
(1/2) of its height below lot grade.
   BERM: A mound of dirt with a parabolic or prismatic shape, having a maximum
four to one (4:1) side slope and which is used as a buffer between: a)
residential zoning districts that are adjacent to commercial or industrial
zoning districts, or b) major highways that are adjacent to residential zones.
   BOARD: As referred to in this title is the planning and zoning commission
(PZC).
   BOARDING HOUSE: A residential building, structure or portion thereof which
contains boarding rooms for rent accommodating persons who are not members of
the owner's family and which is other than an apartment hotel, dormitory, hotel
or motel.
   BOARDING ROOM: A room rented as sleeping and living quarters, but without
cooking facilities and with or without an individual bathroom.
   BUILDING: Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls and
intended for the shelter, housing or enclosure of any individual, animal,
process, equipment, goods or materials of any kind or nature.
   BUILDING, NONCONFORMING: A building which lawfully exists upon the effective
date hereof and which does not comply with the conditions, area requirements,
lot width requirements, yard requirements, height limitations, bulk regulations
or off street parking and loading requirements of the zoning district in which
said building is located by reason of the adoption or amendment of this title.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL: The main building upon a lot or the building which
houses the principal use of the premises.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE: The line perpendicular to the depth of the required
front yard setback and parallel to a front lot line and/or street right of way
line, whichever is greater, at which structures are permitted to be constructed
and where "lot width" is measured.
   BUILDING, TEMPORARY: A building not designed or intended for permanent human
occupancy nor for the permanent protection of animals, chattels or property of
any kind.
   BULK: The term used to describe the size of buildings or structures and
their relationships to each other and to open areas and lot lines and,
therefore, includes:
   A.   The size of a building or structure; and
   B.   The area of the lot upon which a building or structure is located and
the number of dwelling units within such building or structure in relation to
the area of the lot; and
   C.   The shape of a building or structure; and
   D.   The location of exterior walls of a building or structure in relation
to lot lines, to other walls of the same building or structure, to legally
required windows or to other buildings or structures; and
   E.   All open areas relating to a building or structure and their
relationship thereto.
   CAR WASH: A building, structure or portion thereof containing facilities for
washing motor vehicles by mechanical operation or by hand.
   CARGO CONTAINER FACILITIES: Any site in which a principal use is the repair,
maintenance, movement, storage, staging, or redistribution of cargo containers
either on or off of a chassis, but does not include railroad operations that
are subject to jurisdiction of the U.S. department of transportation surface
transportation board.
   CARGO CONTAINERS: An industrial, standardized reusable vessel that was:
   A.   Originally, specifically or formerly designed for or used in packing,
shipping, movement or transportation of freight, articles, goods or
commodities, and/or
   B.   Designed for or capable of being mounted or moved on a railcar, and/or
   C.   Designed for or capable of being mounted on a chassis or bogie for
movement by truck trailer or loaded on a ship.
   CATERING ESTABLISHMENT: A commercial kitchen up to seven thousand five
hundred (7,500) square feet in area that must include retail services at the
subject location such as providing for on-premises sale and/or consumption
(e.g. dining room, banquet/party area) and/or space for instructional uses.
   CELLULAR PHONE TOWER: Any high structure, dish or any related equipment used
for signaling or telecommunications.
   CELLULAR PHONE TOWER: Any high structure, dish or any related equipment used
for signaling or telecommunications.
   CHASSIS: As defined in Title 6, Chapter A-1.
   CLINIC, MEDICAL OR DENTAL: A building, structure or portion thereof in which
patients who are not lodged overnight are admitted for examination and
treatment by one or more medical or dental practitioners.
   CLUB: A nonprofit corporation or association of persons for the promotion of
some common purpose, including, but not limited to, literature, science,
politics and good fellowship.
   COMMERCIAL KITCHEN: Kitchen space where foodservice providers prepare and
store their food for off-premise consumption, including commissary (shared)
kitchens or production bakeries. Commercial kitchens may include accessory
retail services.
   COMMISSION: The planning and zoning commission (PZC).
   COMMUNITY RESIDENCE: A group home or specialized residential care home
serving unrelated persons with disabilities and/or senior citizens in a family
like atmosphere which is licensed, certified or accredited by the appropriate
state, local or federal bodies. "Community residence" does not include a
residence which serves persons as an alternative to incarceration for a
criminal offense or persons whose primary reason for placement is substance
abuse, alcohol abuse or for treatment of a communicable disease.
   CONDITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS: Provisions and limitations which may be imposed
upon a building, structure or parcel of land at the time the village board
grants a variance, amendment or conditional use.
   CONVALESCENT HOME: A building or structure which is used, designed or
intended for the care of the aged or infirm or for those suffering bodily
disorders and which does not contain the facilities nor render the services
normally associated with a hospital.
   DAYCARE CENTER: A facility which exclusively provides supplemental parental
care and supervision and/or educational instruction to children during the
entire or any portion of the day.
   DAYCARE HOMES: Family homes which are properly licensed by the state of
Illinois to receive up to a maximum of eight (8) children for less than twenty
four (24) hours per day. The permitted number of children may be increased by
the operator to twelve (12) at times when the school district in which the
daycare home is located is not in session for the students. The numbers counted
include the family's natural or adopted children and all other persons under
the age of twelve (12).
   DECIBEL: A logarithmic unit of measurement which defines the range of sound
pressure levels (LP) between the minimum audible value at one thousand (1,000)
cps and the maximum audible value of LP at which effects, other than hearing,
begin to appear.
   DISABILITY: A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
(1) or more of a person's major life activities, impairs his ability to live
independently or a record of having such an impairment, but such term does not
include, current use of, or addiction to, alcohol and/or other drugs.
   DISH ANTENNA: Any antenna which is parabolic, spherical or conical in
configuration and design.
   DISTRICT BOUNDARY LINE: A line which marks the separation between two (2)
zoning districts.
   DISTRICT, BUSINESS: Any one (1) of the following zoning districts: B-1, B-2,
B-3, B-4 and OCI.
   DISTRICT, INDUSTRIAL: Any one (1) of the following zoning districts:   ORI,
I-2 and I-3.
   DISTRICT, RESIDENCE: Any one (1) of the following zoning districts: E-2, E-
1, R-1-A, R-1, R-3, R-3-A, R-4, R-5, RMH, TCR-1 and TCR-2.
   DISTRICT, ZONING: A portion of the corporate area of the Village within
which certain regulations and requirements, or various combinations thereof,
apply under the provisions of this title.
   DORMITORY: A building or structure which provides lodging for students
attending a school, college, university, educational facility or boarding
school and which is operated by the school, college, university, educational
facility or boarding school.
   DRINKING ESTABLISHMENT: A building, structure or portion thereof where
liquors are sold to be consumed on the premises, but not including, eating
establishments where the principal use is serving food.
   DRIVE-IN ESTABLISHMENT: A business which is operated for the sale and
purchase at retail of food and other goods, services or entertainment and which
is designed and equipped so as to allow patrons to be served or accommodated
while remaining in their automobiles.
   DRY CLEANING ESTABLISHMENT: A business which handles, on the premises, the
washing, drying, dry cleaning and ironing of clothes, including pick up and
delivery services.
   DUMPSTER: Any container with a capacity greater than two (2) cubic yards and
not more than thirty (30) cubic yards used for holding rubbish, garbage or
other waste. No dumpster shall be greater than seventy two inches (72") in
height, measured from the ground to the top of the tallest portion of the
dumpster.
   DUPLEX: A dwelling joined to one (1) other dwelling by a party wall, fire
wall or vertical cavity wall and aboveground physically unifying horizontal
structure elements.
   DWELLING: A building, structure or portion thereof designed or used
exclusively for residential occupancy, including single- family detached
dwellings.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A detached or semidetached building or structure
containing two (2) dwelling units designed for and occupied by two (2)
families.
   DWELLING UNIT: A room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit with
facilities that are used or intended to be used for living, sleeping, cooking
and/or eating.
   EATING ESTABLISHMENT: A building, structure or portion thereof within which
food is offered for sale and which permits consumption within the building or
structure.
   FAMILY: Excepting domestic servants, any number of persons related by blood
or marriage, or not to exceed six (6) persons not so related, using common
cooking facilities and living and eating together on the premises as a single
housekeeping unit but does not include: community residences, residences which
serve as an alternative to incarceration for criminal offenses, residences
whose primary purpose is to serve as a treatment or rehabilitation center for
alcohol and/or substance abuse or communicable disease.
   FARM ANIMAL: Any domestic animal, including but not limited to cattle,
sheep, swine, goats, llamas, horses, donkeys and poultry, which are normally
and have historically been kept and raised on farms in the U.S. Farm animals
also include bees that produce honey.
   FARM ANIMAL CONFINEMENT: Raising farm animals in restrictive, confined
spaces, including but not limited to gestation crates, veal crates, and battery
cages.
   FARMING: The use of land for agricultural purposes including agriculture,
beekeeping, floriculture, forestry, grazing of dairy animals, greenhouses,
hatcheries, horticulture, nurseries, orchards, paddocks, truck farming,
viticulture and raising of any farm animal, excluding farm animal confinement.
   FENCE: Any structure, partition or enclosure of wood, stone, iron, aluminum,
vinyl, landscaping, or other material, enclosing or dividing a piece of land.
   Chain Link Fence: A fence constructed of chain link fabric (eleven (11)
gauge or heavier) that is finished at all edges, including a top rail.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/83ece28ad5d1d98ab77b4eed90247c0d90d24731/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3662.png]
   Decorative Fence : A fence used mostly for aesthetics which adds to the
visual beauty of the property. Fifty percent (50%) or more of the square
footage of the overall dimensions of the fence shall be open and unobstructed
to vision, light and air when viewed perpendicular to the plane of the fence.
(A woven wire, chain link, or cyclone type fence is not considered a decorative
fence.)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/83ece28ad5d1d98ab77b4eed90247c0d90d24731/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3664.png]
   Solid Fence: A fence in which more than fifty percent (50%) of the overall
dimensions of the fence is solid and does not meet the definition of decorative
fence. A solid fence is conventionally constructed of wood, vinyl, or masonry.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/83ece28ad5d1d98ab77b4eed90247c0d90d24731/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3666.png]
   FLOOR AREA: The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors of a
building or structure measured from the exterior faces of the exterior walls or
from the centerline of walls separating two (2) buildings or structures. The
"floor area" of a building or structure shall include: basement floor area,
elevator shafts, stairwells, floor space used for mechanical equipment (except
equipment open or enclosed located on the roof), penthouses, attic space having
headroom of seven feet (7') or more, interior balconies, mezzanines, enclosed
porches, floor area devoted to accessory uses, accessory storage areas located
within selling or working space such as counters, racks or closets, and space
devoted to retailing activities, to the production or processing of goods or to
business or professional offices.
The term "floor area" shall not include any space devoted to off street parking
or loading.
The "floor area" of structures devoted to bulk storage of materials, including,
but not limited to, grain elevators and petroleum storage tanks, shall be
determined on the basis of height in feet, i.e., ten feet (10') in height shall
equal one foot (1').
   FLOOR AREA RATIO (FAR): The numerical value obtained by dividing the floor
area within a building or structure on a lot by the area of such lot. The floor
area ratio, as specified for each zoning district, when multiplied by the area
of the lot in square feet, shall determine the maximum permissible floor area
for the building or structure on the lot.
   FRATERNITY: A building or structure which is used and occupied by a group of
students attending a college or university and which provides domestic and
social facilities and services thereto.
   FREIGHT TERMINAL: A building, structure, parcel of land or portion thereof
in which: a) freight is shipped by airplane, motor truck or railroad; or b)
freight is received, assembled, sorted and/or rerouted for local, intrastate or
interstate shipment.
   FREQUENCY: Signifies the number of oscillations per second in a sound wave
and is an index of the pitch of the resulting sound.
   FRONTAGE: The line of demarcation between private property and that open to
the general use of the public such as a street, alley, stream or park. When two
(2) or more sides of a parcel of property face or abut upon streets, alleys,
streams or parks, it shall be deemed to have frontage on all sides.
   GARAGE: See PARKING GARAGE, ACCESSORY.
   GARDENING: The practice of growing and cultivating plants, including but not
limited to fruit, vegetables, herbs and flowers, not for commercial sale that
may be located within an accessory greenhouse.
   GATE: A movable frame or solid structure which swings, slides, or rolls
controlling ingress and egress through an opening in a fence, wall, or
vegetation.
   GRADE: The average level of the finished surface of the ground adjacent to
the exterior walls of the building or structure.
   GUEST, PERMANENT: A person who occupies or has the right to occupy an
apartment hotel accommodation as his domicile and place of permanent residence.
   HEALTH AND FITNESS USES: Businesses with equipment and facilities for
exercising and improving physical health. Examples of fitness uses include
health clubs, gyms, yoga and pilates studios, martial arts facilities, dance
and gymnastics studios, athletic and training facilities, swimming pools,
wellness centers, and running tracks.
   HEIGHT, BUILDING OR STRUCTURE: Height of a building or structure is the
vertical distance from the sidewalk level, or its equivalent established grade,
opposite the center of the front of a building or structure to the highest
point of the coping, in the case of a flat roof; to the deck line of a mansard
roof; and to the mean level of the underside of the rafters between the eaves
and the ridge of a gable, hip or gambrel roof. Where no sidewalk level has been
established, the height of a building or structure may be measured from the
mean elevation of the finished lot grade at the front of the building or
structure.
   HOME OCCUPATION: An accessory use of a dwelling unit which is utilized for
gainful employment involving the manufacture, provision or sale of commodities
and/or services by a member of the family who is residing in the dwelling unit
in which the home occupation is being conducted.
   HOSPITAL: An institution which maintains and operates facilities for the
diagnosis, treatment, medical care or surgical care of persons suffering from
illness, disease, injury, deformity or other abnormal condition and which
permits overnight lodging for patients.
   HOTEL: A building, structure or portion thereof which is used as a temporary
abiding place, for remuneration, with or without meals, containing five (5) or
more guestrooms or suites where no provision for cooking is made in any
individual guestroom or suite and which provides maid, butler and linen service
and which maintains a hotel register.
   INSTITUTION: An establishment, society or corporation whether created for
profit or nonprofit.
   INSTITUTION, RELIGIOUS: A building or structure which is occupied by a
religious nonprofit corporation or organization and which is operated for
public or semipublic use, including, but not limited to, churches, synagogues,
rectories and convents.
   INSTRUCTIONAL USES: Businesses that focus on providing tutoring, individual
instruction, or group classes in academics, fine arts, art, language,
nutrition, technology, and life skills.
   JUNKYARD: A parcel of land where waste, scrap, discarded or salvaged
materials are bought, sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packed, disassembled or
handled, including, but not limited to, scrap iron and other metals, vehicles,
and machinery in inoperable condition, paper, rags, rubber tires and bottles.
The term "junkyard" includes automobile graveyards, automobile wrecking yards,
house wrecking yards and storage areas and used lumberyards but does not
include uses established entirely within enclosed buildings and structures.
   KENNEL: A dwelling unit or a nonresidential building, structure, parcel of
land or portion thereof in which four (4) or more dogs, cats or other household
domestic animals are maintained, boarded, trained, cared for or kept for
compensation, or are bred or raised for the purpose of sale, and are housed
without continuous observation by veterinary professionals. A kennel shall
include any facility operated or maintained by a duly incorporated humane
society, animal welfare society or other nonprofit organization whose purpose
is to provide for and promote the welfare, protections, adoption and humane
treatment of animals.
   LABORATORY: A building, structure or portion thereof which is devoted to
experimental study such as testing and analyzing but not including the
manufacturing of products for sale, either directly or indirectly.
   LARGE COMMUNITY RESIDENCE: A community residence serving nine (9) to sixteen
(16) persons with disabilities and/or senior citizens in a family like
atmosphere.
   LODGE: A nonprofit corporation or association of persons for the promotion
of some common purpose, including, but not limited to, literature, science,
politics and good fellowship.
   LODGING HOUSE: A residential building, structure or portion thereof which
contains lodging rooms for rent accommodating persons who are not members of
the owner's family and which is other than an apartment hotel, dormitory, hotel
or motel.
   LOT: A parcel of land indicated as such upon a subdivision or assessment
plat recorded in the office of the county recorder.
   LOT, CORNER: A lot of which at least two (2) adjacent sides abut for their
full lengths upon a street right of way. The point of intersection of the right
of way lines is the "corner".
   LOT, CORNER, REVERSED: A corner lot, the street side of lot of which is
substantially a continuation of the front lot line of the first lot to its
rear.
   LOT DEPTH: The average horizontal distance between the front lot line and
the rear lot line measured along the side lot lines.
   LOT LINE: A property boundary line of any lot, except where any portion of
the lot extends into the abutting street or alley; the lot line shall be deemed
to be the street or the alley line.
   LOT LINE, CORNER SIDE: That boundary of a corner lot which abuts a street
right of way but is not the front line.
   LOT LINE, FRONT: That boundary of a lot which is along a street right of
way. For landlocked or partially landlocked parcels of land, the front lot line
is that lot line that faces the access to the lot.
   LOT LINE, INTERIOR: A lot line which does not abut a street.
   LOT LINE, REAR: That boundary of a lot which is most distant from and is, or
is most nearly, parallel to the front lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE: An interior lot line which is not a front lot line or a rear
lot line. If it is located along a public street, it shall be deemed a corner
side lot line.
   LOT, THROUGH: A lot which fronts on two (2) parallel or approximately
parallel streets and which is not a corner lot.
   LOT WIDTH: The horizontal distance between the side lot lines measured at
the front yard line as established by this title.
   LOT, ZONING: A parcel of land indicated as such upon a subdivision or
assessment plat recorded in the office of the county recorder.
   MASSAGE THERAPY: As defined in Title 3, Chapter 9 of this Code.
   MASSAGE USES: Businesses which provide massage therapy, including but not
limited to acupuncture, reflexology, lymphatic drainage, cupping, and reiki in
accordance with Title 3, Chapter 9 of this Code.
   MINIWAREHOUSE AND SELF-STORAGE FACILITIES: A building or group of buildings
containing one or more individual compartmentalized units rented or leased
individually to tenants for dead storage of goods.
   MOBILE HOME: A detached residential dwelling unit constructed on a temporary
or permanent chassis that is transported after fabrication, arriving at the
site where it is to be occupied as a year-round dwelling complete and ready for
occupancy except for minor and incidental unpacking and assembly operations,
location on permanent foundations, connections to utilities, and the like.
Recreational vehicles and modular homes are not to be considered mobile homes.
   MOBILE HOME LOT: Any portion of a mobile home park designed for use or
occupancy of one mobile home.
   MOBILE HOME PARK: A parcel or tract of land subdivided, either officially
through a Final Plat of Subdivision or unofficially by use, into mobile home
lots and developed with facilities for locating mobile homes.
   MODEL HOME: A building or structure which is used as an example of the type
of dwelling unit which may be purchased or rented.
   MODULAR HOME: A detached residential dwelling unit constructed in a factory
and built according to the International Residential Code (IRC) that is
transported to the site where it is to be occupied as a year-round dwelling and
not intended to be moved once erected or installed. Minimal assembly is
required onsite, including but not limited to placement on a permanent
foundation and connecting the modular sections resulting in a home that is
indistinguishable from site-built homes.
   MOTEL: A series of attached, semiattached or detached guestrooms or suites
for the accommodation primarily of automobile transient guests which does not
include individual cooking or kitchen facilities and which provides the unit
with convenient access to off street parking spaces for the exclusive use of
the guests or occupants of the premises.
   MOTOR VEHICLE: Any self-propelled wheeled conveyance that does not run on
rails and that carries passengers, goods and equipment.
   NURSING HOME: A building or structure which is used, designed or intended
for the care of the aged or infirm or for those suffering bodily disorders and
which does not contain the facilities nor render the services normally
associated with a hospital.
   OCTAVE BAND: A means of dividing the range of sound frequencies into octaves
in order to classify sound according to pitch.
   ODOR THRESHOLD: The minimum concentration of odorous matter in the air that
can be detected as an odor.
   OFF STREET PARKING OR LOADING FACILITY: A building, structure, parcel of
land or portion thereof which provides off street parking spaces or off street
loading berths and including accessways, driveways and aisles and which is
either a principal or accessory use.
   OFF STREET PARKING SPACE OR LOADING BERTH: An open, hard surfaced area of
land, other than a right of way, an access, a driveway or an aisle, and the
principal use of which is for the standing, loading and unloading of motor
vehicles.
   OPACITY: The quality or state of an object that renders it impervious to the
rays of light; the degree of nontransparency.
   OPEN SPACE: That portion of a lot or parcel of land unoccupied by buildings,
structures, rights of way and off street parking or loading facilities.
   PARKING GARAGE, ACCESSORY: An accessory building or structure or an
accessory portion of the principal building or structure which is intended and
used for the storage of private motor vehicles owned by members of the family
or families residing upon the premises or by the owners or patrons of the
business or industrial uses.
   PARKING GARAGE, PRINCIPAL: A principal building or structure which is
intended and used for the storage of motor vehicles pursuant to previous
arrangements or to transients, and where no equipment, parts, fuel, grease or
oil is sold and vehicles are not equipped, serviced, repaired, hired or sold.
   PARKING LOT, ACCESSORY: An open, hard surfaced area, other than a right of
way, which is accessory to the principal use of the lot and which is intended
and used for the storage of private motor vehicles owned by members of the
family or families residing upon the premises or by the owners, employees or
patrons of the business or industrial uses.
   PARKING LOT, PRINCIPAL: An open, hard surfaced area, other than a right of
way, which is the principal use of the parcel of land and which is intended and
used for the storage of motor vehicles pursuant to previous arrangements or to
transients, and where no equipment, parts, fuel, grease or oil is sold and
vehicles are not equipped, serviced, repaired, hired or sold.
   PARKING, RESERVOIR: Off street parking spaces allocated to motor vehicles
awaiting entrance to a drive-in establishment.
   PARTICULATE MATTER: Material which is suspended in or discharged into the
atmosphere in finely divided form as a liquid or solid such as dust.
   PERFORMANCE STANDARDS: Criteria established to control noise, odor, glare,
exterior lighting, vibration, smoke, particulate matter, gases, fire and
explosion hazards and wastes generated by or inherent in uses of buildings,
structures or land.
   PERGOLA: A structure consisting of vertical structural elements that support
an open roof of girders and cross rafters. Pergolas can be attached to the
principal structure or can be freestanding.
   PERSON: Any individual, partnership, joint venture, corporation or other
legal entity.
   PERSONAL CARE USES: Businesses which provide non-medical grooming services
to individuals as a primary use including hair care, nail care, esthetics,
tanning, hair removal, and lashes.
   PET SHOP: A retail shop primarily engaged in the business of selling
domestic animals (such as dogs, cats, fish, birds and reptiles), which are bred
by others, and pet care, training and feeding supplies. A pet shop may include
incidental services of veterinary care, grooming, daycare, boarding and
training where such services do not exceed twenty five percent (25%) of the
gross floor area of the building, structure or premises and outdoor areas are
not present.
   PILOT PLANT: A building or structure used for the testing of commercial or
industrial processes and products and for the manufacturing of products for
testing purposes.
   PLANNED UNIT: A parcel of land which is of sufficient size to create its own
environment and which is under single ownership or unified control and which
may be granted waivers from specific land use regulations and design standards
in order to accomplish the purposes of the planned unit development regulations
as specified in chapter 11 of this title.
   PORTABLE STORAGE CONTAINER: Any structure designed and intended to be moved
from one location to another with or without its own frame and chassis that is
intended for the temporary storage of personal property.
   PREMISES: A parcel of land and all buildings and structures thereon.
   PROPERTY LINES: The lines bounding a lot.
   PUBLIC OR PRIVATE UTILITY FACILITY: A building, structure or use of land
which provides, under public regulations, electricity, gas, steam, telephone,
communications, transportation, sewer or water and which is operated by a
person, firm or corporation authorized to furnish such services.
   RECREATIONAL FIRE PIT: An earthen or masonry pit with sidewalls or a device
designed to contain a fire not exceeding three feet (3') in diameter and two
feet (2') in height.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: As defined in Title 6, Chapter A-1.
   RETAIL, GENERAL: The general sale of commodities in small quantities to the
consumer.
   RIGHT OF WAY: Any existing or dedicated sidewalk, street, alley, highway or
other thoroughfare.
   RINGELMANN CHART: A chart which is described in the U.S. bureau of mines
information circular 8333 and on which are illustrated graduated shades of gray
for use in estimating the light obscuring capacity of smoke and smoke density.
   RINGELMANN NUMBER: The number of the area on the Ringelmann chart that
coincides most nearly with the visual density of emission or the light
obscuring capacity of the smoke.
   ROOMING HOUSE: A residential building, structure or portion thereof which
contains rooms for rent accommodating persons who are not members of the
owner's family and which is other than an apartment hotel, dormitory, hotel or
motel.
   RUBBISH CONTAINER: Any containers used for holding rubbish, garbage or other
waste with a capacity no greater than two (2) cubic yards, except that no
container with a capacity of fifty (50) gallons or less shall be considered a
rubbish container. No rubbish container shall be greater than fifty inches
(50") in height, measured from the ground to the top of the tallest portion of
the rubbish container.
   SANATORIUM: An institution which maintains and operates facilities for the
diagnosis, treatment, medical care or surgical care of persons suffering from
illness, disease, injury, deformity or other abnormal condition and which
permits overnight lodging for patients.
   SCHOOL, COLLEGE OR UNIVERSITY: An institution of higher education accredited
by a regional organization or authorized by the state to issue baccalaureate,
graduate and professional level degrees.
   SCHOOL, K-12: An institution, either public or private, which offers
elementary, junior high or high school level basic, state-mandated education,
including ISBE approved therapeutic day schools and schools serving students
with special needs twenty one (21) years of age or younger.
   SCHOOL, NURSERY OR PRESCHOOL: An educational establishment or learning space
offering early childhood education to children before they begin compulsory
primary school education.
   SCHOOL, TRADE OR VOCATIONAL: A school which offers instruction in skilled
subjects such as typing, shorthand, business machines, carpentry, drafting and
automobile mechanics.
   SENIOR CITIZENS: Persons who are age sixty two (62) or older and spouses of
such persons.
   SERVICES, GENERAL: The business or occupation of doing work for others for a
fee such as shoe repair or clock repair.
   SHED: A small structure, of less than 150 square feet, intended for storage.
   SHOPPING CENTER: An integrated and harmonious design of a building or
structure or buildings or structures in which is located a group of business
enterprises and which has adequate and properly arranged facilities for
internal traffic circulation, collective off street parking and loading
facilities, landscaping and other features and facilities common to shopping
center developments. A shopping center is usually, but not necessarily,
planned, developed, owned or managed as a unit.
   SHORT-TERM RENTAL: A single-family dwelling, or a residential dwelling unit
in a multi-unit structure, condominium, cooperative, timeshare, or similar
joint property ownership arrangement that is rented for a fee for less than 30
consecutive days. Provided, however, that Short-Term Rental does not include a
rental agreement executed pursuant to, or in conjunction with, a contract to
sell where the seller of the dwelling or dwelling unit will remain in
possession of the real estate.
   SMALL COMMUNITY RESIDENCE: A community residence serving eight (8) or fewer
persons with disabilities and/or senior citizens in a family like atmosphere.
   SMOKE: The visible discharge from a chimney, stack, vent, exhaust or
combustion process which consists of particulate matter.
   STORAGE, DEAD: The storage of furniture, files, or other unused or seldom
used items in a warehouse or other location for an indefinite period of time.
   STORY: That part of a building or structure between any floor and the floor
next above and if there be no floor above, then the ceiling above. A basement
is a story if its ceiling is four feet (4') or more above the level from which
the height of the building or structure is measured.
   STORY, HALF: That portion of a building or structure under a gable, hip or
mansard roof, the wall plates of which, on at least two (2) opposite exterior
walls, are not more than four and one-half feet (41/2') above the finished
floor of each story.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION: Any change, other than incidental repairs, which
prolongs the life of the supporting members of a building or structure such as
the addition, removal or modification of bearing walls, columns, beams, girders
or foundations.
   STRUCTURE: An object which is constructed or erected and which requires
permanent location on the land or attachment to an object having permanent
location on the land. The term "structure" is intended to include, but not be
limited to, such objects as buildings, fences, parking lots, concrete or
asphalt slabs, decks and patios.
   STRUCTURE, NONCOMPLYING: A structure which exists upon the effective date
hereof and which does not comply with the conditions, area requirements, lot
width requirements, yard requirements, height limitations, bulk regulations or
off street parking and loading requirements of the zoning district in which
said structure is located by reason of the adoption or amendment of this title.
   STRUCTURE, PRINCIPAL: A building or structure in which a principal use is
conducted.
   STRUCTURE, TEMPORARY: A structure not designed or intended for permanent
human occupancy nor for the permanent protection of animals, chattels or
property of any kind.
   TATTOO, TATTOOED, OR TATTOOING: As defined in Title 3, Chapter 12 of this
Code.
   TATTOO USES: Businesses which offer tattooing in accordance with Title 3,
Chapter 12 of this Code.
   TRELLIS: A frame of latticework without posts or a roof that provides
support for climbing plants.
   USE: The purpose or activity for which the land or building or structure
thereon is designed, arranged or intended, or for which it is occupied or
maintained.
   USE, CONDITIONAL: A use which, because of its unique characteristics, may be
allowed in a specified zoning district permitting it as a conditional use, only
after special consideration of its impact upon neighboring land and of public
need for the use at the particular location.
   USE, NONCONFORMING: The use of any building, structure or parcel of land
which lawfully is occupied and maintained upon the effective date hereof and
which does not conform to the use regulations of the zoning district in which
the use is located by reason of the adoption or amendment of this title.
   USE, PERMITTED: A use which may be lawfully established in a particular
zoning district or districts; provided, it conforms with all requirements,
regulations and standards of such zoning district.
   USE, PRINCIPAL: The primary purpose or function of a building, structure or
parcel of land. A principal use may be either a permitted use or a conditional
use.
   USE, TEMPORARY: A use of a building, structure or parcel of land which is
impermanent and in existence for a limited amount of time.
   VACANT LOT: A lot which is not occupied or put to use.
   VARIANCE: A waiver of the terms of the zoning regulations where, due to
conditions peculiar to the property, a literal enforcement of the regulations
would result in unnecessary and undue hardship.
   VIBRATION: A periodic motion of the particles of an elastic body or medium
in alternately opposite directions from the position of equilibrium when the
equilibrium has been disturbed.
   VIOLATION: The act of disregarding, disobeying, neglecting, omitting or
refusing to comply with the regulations or enforcement of this title.
   VISION TRIANGLE: A triangular area determined by a diagonal line connecting
two (2) points measured along the backs of street curbs, driveways, or property
lines (as described in Section
10-3-14 of this Title) wherein the installation and maintenance of buildings,
fences, other structures and landscaping is restricted so as not to restrict
the vision of drivers or motor vehicles.
   WELLNESS CENTER: A place that provides treatments and/or services that aim
to improve both physical and mental well-being that primarily focus on health
and fitness uses but can also incorporate massage, instructional, personal care
and tattoo uses as accessory uses.
   YARD: An open space required by the provisions of this title which is
located at grade between a building or structure and the adjoining lot lines
and which is unobstructed or unoccupied by any portion of a building or
structure from the ground upward, except as provided in section
10-3-3 of this title.
      Yard, Corner Side: A yard which is bounded by the front yard line, corner
side yard line, rear yard line and corner side lot line.
      Yard, Front: A yard which extends across the lot and which is bounded by
the side lot lines, the front lot line and the front yard line.
      Yard, Interior Side: A yard which is bounded by the front yard line,
interior side yard line, rear yard line and side lot line.
      Yard Line, Corner Side: A line which is parallel to the corner side lot
line and which is not nearer to the corner side lot line at any point than the
required corner side yard depth.
      Yard Line, Front: A line which extends across the lot and is parallel to
the front lot line which is not nearer to the front lot line at any point than
the required front yard depth.
      Yard Line, Interior Side: A line which is parallel to the interior side
lot line and which is not nearer to the interior side lot line at any point
than the required interior side yard depth.
      Yard Line, Rear: A line which extends across the lot and is parallel to
the rear lot line and which is not nearer to the rear lot line at any point
than the required rear yard depth.
      Yard, Rear: A yard which extends across the lot and which is bounded by
the side lot line, and the rear lot line and the rear yard line.
      Yard, Side: A yard which is bounded by the rear yard line, front yard
line, side yard line and side lot line.
      Yard, Transitional: A yard which is provided on a lot in an industrial
district which abuts a lot in a residence district.
   ZONING DISTRICT MAP: The map incorporated herein by reference which
designates zoning districts.
   ZONING OFFICER: The person designated by subsection
10-12-1B of this title as the officer responsible for enforcing and
administering all requirements of this title. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993; amd.
Ord. 95-824, 11-28-1995; Ord. 97-884, 9-9-1997; Ord. 98-916, 11-24-1998, eff.
1-12-1999; Ord. 00-1008, 9-26-2000; Ord. 02-1129, 10-8-2002; Ord. 06-1373, 7-
25-2006; Ord. 08-1473, 4-8-2008; Ord. 12-1666, 7-24-2012; Ord. 12-1667, 7-24-
2012; Ord. 13-1704, 6-11-2013; Ord. 14-1748, 10-28-2014; Ord. 17-1842, 4-11-
2017; Ord. 19-1958, 12-10-2019; Ord. 20-1978, 7-14-2020; Ord. 20-1982, 8-25-
2020; Ord. 20-1988, 9-22-2020; Ord. 22-2031, 1-11-2022; Ord. 23-2082, 11-28-
2023; Ord. 24-2094, - -2024)
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL ZONING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-3-1: Uses
10-3-2: Area And Lot Width
10-3-3: Yard Requirements
10-3-4: Building Height And Bulk
10-3-5: Utility Facility Regulations
10-3-6: Agriculture As A Permitted Use
10-3-7: Boats, Snowmobiles, Personal Watercrafts, All-Terrain Vehicles,
Recreational Vehicles
10-3-8: Parking Of Mobile Homes
10-3-9: Home Occupations
10-3-10: Temporary Model Home Regulations
10-3-11: Accessory Buildings, Structures And Uses Of Land
10-3-12: Temporary Buildings, Structures And Uses Of Land
10-3-13: Fences And Hedges
10-3-14: Visibility On Corner Lots
10-3-15: Major Arterial Setback Requirements
10-3-16: Boarding Rooms In Residential Structures
10-3-17: Swim And/Or Tennis Clubs
10-3-18: Development Of Air Rights
10-3-19: Existing Buildings And Structures
10-3-20: Motor Vehicle Regulations In Residential Districts
10-3-21: Storm Shelters
10-3-22: Radio, Satellite And Television Antenna Towers And Dishes
10-3-22-1: Cellular Phone Towers
10-3-23: Outdoor Sales And Storage
10-3-24: Dumpsters And Rubbish Containers
10-3-25: Landscaping (Rep. by Ord. 17-1864, 11-14-2017)
10-3-26: Splitting Of Lots Or Parcels Of Land
10-3-27: Site Plan For Commercial And Industrial Developments
10-3-28: Zoning Reversions And Revocations
10-3-29: Vacant Lots; Berms
10-3-30: Site Illumination
10-3-31: Miniwarehouse And Self-Storage Facilities
10-3-32: Parking Of Trailers
10-3-33: Cargo Container Facilities
10-3-34: Adult-Use Cannabis
10-3-35: Mechanical Equipment Screening
10-3-36: Short-Term Rentals
10-3-37: Commercial Solar Energy Facilities
10-3-38: Commercial Wind Energy Facilities
10-3-39: Accessory Solar Energy Facilities
10-3-40: Accessory Wind Energy Facilities
10-3-1: USES:
   A.   Permitted: Permitted uses of buildings, structures or parcels of land
shall be allowed in the zoning districts indicated under the conditions
specified. No buildings, structures or parcels of land shall be devoted to any
use other than a use permitted hereinafter in the zoning district in which such
building, structure or parcel of land shall be located, with the exception of
the following:
      1.   Uses lawfully established on the effective date hereof in accordance
with the provisions of chapter 9 of this title.
      2.   Conditional uses allowed in accordance with the provisions of
subsection B of this section and section
10-12-4 of this title.
   B.   Conditional Uses:
      1.   Conditional uses of buildings, structures or parcels of land, as
hereinafter listed, shall be allowed in the zoning districts indicated under
the conditions specified in accordance with the provisions of section 10-12-
4 and chapter 11 of this title.
      2.   Where a use is classified as a conditional use under the provisions
of this title and exists as a permitted use or special use under the provisions
of zoning ordinance 122, it shall be classified as a conditional use in the
zoning district indicated under the conditions specified in accordance with the
provisions of section
10-12-4 and chapter 11 of this title. The authorization of the conditional use
shall be only for the use existing at the effective date hereof and for no
other use. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
10-3-2: AREA AND LOT WIDTH:
   A.   Minimum Area: Every lot created subsequent to the effective date hereof
shall meet the minimum area requirements of the zoning district within which it
is located. In any district, a building, structure or use of land may be
established on a lot which is of record on the effective date hereof regardless
of the area or width of the lot; provided, all other requirements of this title
are complied with.
   B.   Minimum Lot Width: Every lot created subsequent to the effective date
hereof shall meet the minimum lot width requirements of the zoning district
within which it is located. In any district, a building, structure or use of
land may be established on any lot which is of record on the effective date
hereof, regardless of the area or width of the lot; provided all other
requirements of this title are complied with. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
10-3-3: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Location Of Required Yards: Yard requirements shall be as set forth
under each zoning district for all buildings, structures and uses of land. All
required yards shall be located on the same lot as the building, structure or
use of land for which such yard is required. The right-of-way of any public
roadway, public alley or public accessway which exists by dedication, recorded
easement or prescription and which is located on the lot shall not be included
as part of the required yard.
   B.   Required Yards For Existing Buildings: No yards, now or hereafter
provided, for a building, structure or use existing on the effective date
hereof shall subsequently be reduced below, or further reduced if already less
than, the minimum yard requirements of this title for equivalent new
construction.
   C.   Permitted Obstructions In Required Yards: All required yards shall be
unobstructed from the ground level to the sky except the following:
      1.   In all required yards, the ordinary projection of sills, belt
courses, cornices, bay windows, buttresses, chimneys, ornamental features and
eaves may extend three feet (3') into the required yard. Steps or sidewalks
which provide access to a building or structure or access to a lot from a
street or alley may be located in any required yard. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
      2.   Unroofed patios, decks and porches may extend five feet (5') into
the required front yard, corner side yard or interior side yard and fifteen
feet (15') into the required rear yard, provided however that such improvements
are not permitted within an easement or within five feet (5') of a property
line. Patios, decks and porches which do have a permanent roof must comply with
all yard and setback requirements of the zoning district in which located. Air
conditioning equipment or other heating and ventilation equipment may extend
five feet (5') into the required rear or side yards. (Ord. 17-1864, 11-14-2017)
      3.   Accessory buildings, structures or uses of land shall comply with
the provisions of section
10-3-11 of this chapter.
      4.   Fences shall comply with the provisions of section
 10-3-13 of this chapter.
      5.   Off street parking and loading facilities shall comply with the
provisions of chapter 8 of this title. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
   D.   Corner Lot Yard Requirements: On corner lots, the owner of the parcel
of land may determine which street side of the lot shall be considered the
front yard and which street side of the lot shall be considered the corner side
yard. One rear yard and one side yard must be maintained on a corner lot. (Ord.
17-1864, 11-14-2017)
   E.   Encroachment Into Required Yards:
      1.   It shall not be deemed a violation of the yard requirements of this
title if a residential building or structure encroaches upon a required yard
under the following conditions:
         a.   The building or structure does not encroach upon more than one
required yard; and
         b.   The encroachment does not exceed three inches (3").
      2.   The Zoning Officer shall review each case of such encroachment to
determine compliance with this subsection. If the encroachment does not comply
with this subsection, the variance procedure must be followed. (Ord. 93-695, 6-
15-1993)
10-3-4: BUILDING HEIGHT AND BULK:
   A.   Height Limitations:
      1.   Height limitations shall be set forth under each zoning district for
all buildings, structures and uses of land.
      2.   Chimneys, ornamental towers, scenery lofts, monuments, cupolas,
domes, spires, steeples, false mansards, parapet walls and similar structures
and necessary mechanical appurtenances may be erected to their customary
height, regardless of the height limitations of the zoning district in which
they are located.
      3.   Transmitting towers and radio towers may extend to a height of sixty
feet (60') including antenna, measured from the mean elevation of the finished
lot grade at the front of the building or structure, regardless of the height
limitations of the zoning district in which they are located. Said towers shall
meet the yard requirements of the zoning district in which they are located.
   B.   Bulk Regulations:
      1.   Bulk regulations shall be set forth under each zoning district for
all buildings, structures and uses of land.
      2.   The maintenance of yards and other open space and minimum lot area
legally required for a building, structure or use of land shall be a continuing
obligation of the owner of such building, structure or use of land as long as
the building, structure or use of land is in existence. Furthermore, no legally
required yards, other open space or minimum lot area allocated to any building,
structure or use of land shall, by virtue of change of ownership or for any
other reason, be used to satisfy yard, other open space or minimum lot area
requirements for any other building, structure or use of land. (Ord. 93-695, 6-
15-1993)
10-3-5: UTILITY FACILITY REGULATIONS:
All public and private utility facilities shall conform to the performance
standards of chapter 7, article D of this title. They shall be screened with
fences or landscaping of at least seventy five percent (75%) opacity. Lighting
of the facilities shall be directed away from surrounding properties. (Ord. 93-
695, 6-15-1993)
10-3-6: AGRICULTURE AS A PERMITTED USE:
Farming shall be permitted as a principal use where specifically listed as a
permitted use in the zoning district and in any zoning district where the
principal use of the property on September 8, 2020 is farming. Farming is not
permitted on any portion of the property which has been subdivided and/or the
installation of public or private improvements has commenced. Dwelling units
which are accessory to the farming uses shall also be permitted; provided, that
the occupants of the dwelling units are engaged in agricultural activities on
the premises as their principal means of livelihood. Farming shall not be
permitted as an accessory use on any property within the Village, unless
expressly allowed in the zoning district. Gardening is permitted in any zoning
district as an accessory use. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993; amd. Ord. 20-1988, 9-22-
2020)
10-3-7: BOATS, SNOWMOBILES, PERSONAL WATERCRAFTS, ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES,
RECREATIONAL VEHICLES:
   A.   Application Of Provisions: These regulations shall apply to all boats,
boats on trailers, snowmobiles, snowmobiles on trailers, personal watercrafts
and personal watercrafts on trailers, ATVs (all-terrain vehicles) and ATVs on
trailers and recreational vehicles, as defined in the Illinois Motor Vehicle
Code, in any zoning district or similar type vehicles.
   B.   Storage Regulations In Residential Districts: Storage of boats, boats
on trailers, snowmobiles, snowmobiles on trailers, personal watercrafts and
personal watercrafts on trailers, ATVs (all-terrain vehicles) and ATVs on
trailers and recreational vehicles in residential districts shall be regulated
as follows:
      1.   Location: Only one boat, boat on a trailer, snowmobile(s) on a
trailer, personal watercrafts on trailers, ATVs on trailers or recreational
vehicle shall be stored on any lot or parcel of land by the occupant of subject
parcel of land; provided by the occupant of subject parcel of land; provided
they are stored in an interior side yard, rear yard or fully enclosed building
or structure. They shall not be stored in the front yard and corner side yard
setbacks, except as provided in subsection D of this section.
      2.   Distance: Boats, boats on trailers, snowmobiles, snowmobiles on
trailers, personal watercrafts and personal watercrafts on trailers, ATVs (all-
terrain vehicles) and ATVs on trailers and recreational vehicles shall be
located no closer than five feet (5') to any rear or interior side lot line.
      3.   Screening Requirements:
         a.   Boats, boats on trailers, snowmobiles, snowmobiles on trailers
and recreational vehicles shall be screened with fences, walls or nondeciduous
landscaping of at least seventy five percent (75%) opacity, in a manner to
prevent being viewed from the street.
         b.   Boats, boats on trailers, snowmobiles, snowmobiles on trailers
and recreational vehicles stored on an interior side yard shall be screened of
at least seventy five percent (75%) opacity, in a manner to prevent being
viewed from the street.
      4.   Wheels; Affixed To Ground Prohibited: In a residential zoning
district, the wheels or any similar transporting devices of a boat, boat
trailer, snowmobile, snowmobile trailer, personal watercraft trailer or ATV
trailer or recreational vehicle shall not be removed except for repairs, nor
shall a boat, boat trailer, snowmobile, snowmobile trailer, personal
watercrafts and personal watercrafts on trailers, ATVs (all-terrain vehicles)
and ATVs on trailers or recreational vehicle be permanently affixed to the
ground in a manner that would prevent removal of said boat, boat trailer,
snowmobile trailer or recreational vehicle.
   C.   Storage Regulations In Nonresidential Districts: Storage of boats on
trailers, snowmobiles on trailers and recreational vehicles in nonresidential
districts shall be regulated as follows:
      1.   No boats on trailers, snowmobiles on trailers, personal watercrafts
and personal watercrafts on trailers, ATVs (all- terrain vehicles) and ATVs on
trailers or recreational vehicles shall be parked or stored outdoors except
where for sale on a property that is approved for motor vehicle sales regulated
under this section or has an approved conditional use as a recreational vehicle
storage yard in the I-2 district or except where storage is temporary and in
conformance with the regulations of subsection E of this section.
      2.   Any such vehicle parked or stored outdoors shall be parked or stored
on a hard surfaced parking area meeting the minimum setback requirements for
parking lots. (Ord. 04-1224, 6-22-2004)
   D.   Parking Of Recreational Vehicles: Recreational vehicles may be parked
on the driveway within the required front yard or corner side yard setback;
provided:
      1.   The recreational vehicle shall be used daily and shall be its
owner's principal means of transportation.
      2.   The length of the recreational vehicle shall not exceed twenty five
feet (25') of the required front yard or corner side yard setback.
   E.   Temporary Storage And Parking: A boat on a trailer, snowmobile on a
trailer or recreational vehicle may be placed, kept or maintained upon any lot
or parcel of land for a period not to exceed the following:
      1.   Seventy two (72) hours for loading and unloading purposes.
      2.   An aggregate of fourteen (14) days (which may or may not be
consecutive) within a period of thirty (30) days for storage if such boat on a
trailer, snowmobile on a trailer or recreational vehicle is owned by a guest of
the occupants of the residence. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993; amd. Ord. 04-1224, 6-
22-2004)
10-3-8: PARKING OF MOBILE HOMES:
Mobile homes shall not be parked in any district other than the RMH district.
(Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
10-3-9: HOME OCCUPATIONS:
   A.   Purposes: It is the intent of this section to allow as home occupations
only those uses that conform to the standards of this section. Custom and
tradition are intentionally excluded as criteria. In general, a home occupation
is an accessory use so located and conducted that the average neighbor, under
normal circumstances, would not be aware of its existence except for a sign as
provided in chapter 10 of this title. The standards for home occupations are
intended to ensure compatibility with other permitted uses and the residential
character of the neighborhood and to maintain the subordinate and incidental
status of the home occupation.
   B.   Location: A home occupation may be conducted in any dwelling unit or in
any building or structure accessory to the dwelling unit in any zoning district
in which dwelling units are permitted.
   C.   Permitted Uses: Home occupations shall include, but shall not be
limited to, the following uses:
      Babysitting services.
      Beauty shops limited to two (2) operators of which one shall be a
resident of the dwelling unit in which this home occupation is permitted.
      Instruction in music, dance, home crafts and art; provided, that the
total class size does not exceed four (4) students at any time.
      Offices of architects, brokers, engineers, insurance agents, lawyers,
real estate agents and urban planners.
      Offices of ministers, priests and rabbis.
      Offices of salesmen, sales representatives or manufacturer's
representatives; provided, that no retail transactions shall be made on the
premises except through telephone, telegraph or mail communication, and no
wholesale transactions shall include the acceptance or delivery of merchandise
on the premises.
      Repair services, but not including automotive repair or retail sales.
      Studios of artists, authors, composers, photographers and sculptors.
      Workrooms for home crafts such as model making, rug weaving and lapidary
work.
      Workrooms of dressmakers, seamstresses and tailors.
   D.   Prohibited Uses: Permitted home occupation shall not be deemed to
include the following uses:
      Animal hospitals.
      Clinics, medical and dental.
      Eating and drinking establishments.
      General retail.
      Hospitals and sanatoriums.
      Kennels.
      Rental of mobile homes, trailers and camper trailers.
      Stables.
      Tattooing, including as an accessory use.
      Undertaking establishments and funeral parlors.
   E.   Standards: The following standards shall govern the operation of a home
occupation:
      1.   The building or structure in which the home occupation is located
shall be subject to the regulations of the zoning district in which located.
      2.   The home occupation shall be conducted completely within the
dwelling unit or within an accessory building or structure.
      3.   No more than one person other than permanent residents of the
dwelling unit shall be employed in the home occupation.
      4.   The home occupation shall be subordinate and incidental to the
principal use of the building or structure for residential purposes, and not
more than twenty five percent (25%) of the gross floor area of the dwelling
unit and accessory buildings or structures on the premises on which the home is
located shall be devoted to the home occupation.
      5.   The outside display of goods and the outside storage of equipment,
materials or motor vehicles utilized in the home occupation shall be
prohibited.
      6.   Off street parking for the home occupation shall be provided in
accordance with the provisions of chapter 8 of this title.
      7.   The home occupation shall not generate noise, vibration, glare,
fumes, odors or electrical interference beyond that which normally occurs in
the zoning district in which located. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
   F.   Daycare Homes: Daycare homes are not subject to the provisions of the
zoning ordinance with regard to home occupations. (Ord. 00-1008, 9-26-2000;
amd. Ord. 20-1988, 9-22-2020))
10-3-10: TEMPORARY MODEL HOME REGULATIONS:
Temporary model homes shall be used primarily to offer for sale or rental
dwelling units located within the same subdivision or planned unit development
in which the model home is located. The following regulations shall govern the
operation of a model home:
   A.   Upon request by the village, the owners of the property shall provide
information pertaining to the use of the model home, including, but not limited
to, a record of sales or rentals made from the model home.
   B.   Building materials may be stored within the model home but not upon the
lot on which a model home is situated.
   C.   Sales offices, rental offices and construction offices may be contained
in a model home; provided, that the appearance of the model home is not
substantially different from that of the other dwelling units in the
subdivision or planned unit development.
   D.   A temporary off street parking lot is permitted.
   E.   Exterior floodlights may be used to illuminate the model home;
provided, that lights are sufficiently screened so that private dwelling units
and traffic are not adversely affected by the floodlights. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-
1993)
10-3-11: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES OF LAND:
   A.   Location: Accessory buildings, structures or uses (including but not
limited to sheds, gazebos, greenhouses and architectural structures) may be
attached to, established within or detached from the principal building,
structure or use of land. Detached accessory buildings, structures or uses may
be located in the required rear yard of any zoning district; provided that
detached accessory buildings or structures shall not be located within five
feet (5') of any rear or interior side lot line nor nearer than ten feet (10')
of the nearest wall of the principal building or structure. Except that
recreational fire pits shall not exceed three feet (3') in diameter or two feet
(2') in height and must be located a minimum fifteen feet (15') from a
structure and/or combustibles. (Ord. 14-1748, 10-28-2014)
   B.   Yard Requirements: All accessory buildings, structures or uses shall
comply with the front and corner side yard requirements of the zoning district
in which it is located. Accessory buildings, structures or uses attached to or
established within the principal building or structure shall comply with the
rear yard and interior side yard requirements of the zoning district in which
located. Detached accessory buildings, structures or uses may be located in the
required rear yard in accordance with the provisions of subsection A of this
section.
   C.   Height Limitations: All accessory buildings, structures or uses shall
comply with the height limitations of the zoning district in which located;
provided, that the height of the principal buildings or structure to which it
is accessory is not exceeded except as provided in subsection
10-3-4A of this chapter. Except that architectural structures may not exceed
ten feet (10') in height and must maintain a vertical clearance of six and one
half feet (6.5'), where applicable.
   D.   Bulk Regulations: All accessory buildings or structures shall comply
with the bulk regulations of the zoning district in which located. The area of
the accessory building or structure shall be included in the computation of the
floor area ratio.
   E.   Time Of Construction: No accessory building, structure or use shall be
constructed or established prior to the time of construction or establishment
of the principal building, structure or use to which it is accessory. (Ord. 93-
695, 6-15-1993; amd. Ord. 22-2031, 1-11-2022)
10-3-12: TEMPORARY BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES OF LAND:
   A.   General: No temporary building, structure or use as listed herein shall
hereafter be built, established, moved or remodeled, altered or enlarged unless
such temporary building, structure or use is permitted by this title. The
following are permitted in each zoning district (unless specifically restricted
to a particular area in each district), subject to the specific regulations and
time limits which follow, and to the other applicable regulations of the
district in which it is located.
   B.   Portable Storage Containers:
      1.   General Regulations: The following applies to Portable Storage
Containers in all zoning districts.
         a.   Containers shall not be placed in streets, public rights-of-way,
or on unimproved surfaces, unless approved as part of a contract for public
improvement projects. Containers used in conjunction with public improvements
shall be governed by the contract terms or as determined by the Zoning Officer.
         b.   Containers shall not obstruct visibility. They shall not be
located within a triangular area determined by a diagonal line connecting two
(2) points measured along the property lines of the abutting streets thirty
feet (30') equidistant from the intersection of those property lines.
         c.   Containers shall only be used to temporarily store property of a
nontoxic and nonflammable nature. They shall not be utilized for habitation,
conducting business or selling merchandise.
         d.   Containers must be placed on an improved hard, dust-free surface,
generally asphalt, brick pavers, or concrete. Containers are prohibited in any
location that may cause hazardous conditions, constitute a threat to public
safety, or create a condition detrimental to surrounding land uses and
development.
      2.   Residential Property: The following applies to Portable Storage
Containers in Residence Zoning Districts.
         a.   No more than three (3) containers may be placed on any property
at any given time for not longer than fifteen (15) days.
         b.   Containers must be setback at least five feet (5') from all
property lines. Where impractical, the Zoning Officer may approve a location
that minimizes impact to adjacent properties.
         c.   Containers shall not exceed eight feet (8') in height, eight feet
(8') in width and sixteen feet (16') in length.
         d.   Extensions of time may be granted in writing by the Zoning
Officer in instances where the portable storage container is used in connection
with a construction project occurring on a lot but in no event shall the total
elapsed time exceed forty-five (45) days within a calendar year.
      3.   Commercial and Industrial Property: The following applies to
Portable Storage Containers in Business and Industrial Zoning Districts.
         a.   No more than three (3) Portable Storage Containers may be placed
on any property at any given time for not longer than thirty (30) days.
         b.   Containers must comply with all setback requirements that apply
to principal buildings and be separated by at least ten feet (10') from
principal buildings.
         c.   Portable Storage Containers shall not exceed eight and a half
feet (8.5') in height, eight feet (8') in width and forty feet (40') in length.
         d.   Extensions of time may be granted in writing by the Zoning
Officer in instances where the portable storage container is used in connection
with a construction project occurring on a lot but in no event shall the total
elapsed time exceed ninety (90) days within a calendar year.
         e.   Portable Storage Containers shall not be placed in the front or
corner side yard, a required parking space, drive aisle or fire lane. If the
property cannot meet the standards described herein, the Zoning Officer may
approve the placement of a container where practical.
         f.   Vertical stacking of containers and stacking of any other
materials or merchandise on top of any Portable Storage Container is
prohibited.
      4.   Public Property: Due to the unique nature of properties owned and/or
occupied by public entities, the use of portable storage containers shall be
approved by the Zoning Officer on a case by case basis.
   C.   Exceptions: Where compliance is impractical, the Village Board may
authorize the temporary use of a building, structure or parcel of land in any
zoning district for a building, structure or use of land that does not conform
to the regulations prescribed in this title for the zoning district in which it
is located; provided, that such use be of a temporary nature. Such use shall be
granted for a period of time and subject to such conditions as the Village
Board determines to be necessary for the safeguarding of the public health,
safety and general welfare. (Ord. 19-1958, 12-10-2019)
10-3-13: FENCES AND HEDGES:
   A.   Fence Permit Required: No fence shall be erected or substantially
altered in the Village without a building permit issued therefor by the Village
Building Department upon payment of the required permit fee 1 .
   B.   Private Fences On Public Property: No private fences shall be allowed
or constructed on public streets or rights-of-way or other public property.
Fences may, by permit, be placed on public utility easements so long as the
structures do not interfere in any way with existing underground, ground or
aerial utilities and are permitted by the terms of the easement. Further, the
Village or any utility company having authority to use such easements shall not
be liable for repair or replacement of such fences in the event they are moved,
damaged or destroyed by virtue of the lawful use of said easement. Fences in
violation of this section may be summarily removed. It shall be the property
owner's responsibility to repair any damage to the public utilities resulting
from the installation or maintenance of a fence located within a public utility
easement.
   C.   Location Of Fence In All Districts: When any fence is installed in the
front, side, corner side or rear yard, it shall not extend beyond the property
line or encroach upon adjoining property. For lots adjacent to two (2)
intersecting streets when fences are located on the rear and/or side property
lines, the fence shall meet the requirements set forth in Section
10-3-14 of this Title.
   D.   Prohibited Materials Of Construction:
      1.   No barbed wire or barbed wire fences shall be allowed on private
property in Residence or Business Districts or on lots in any District being
used for single- or multiple-family dwelling purposes. No barbed wire or barbed
wire fences shall be allowed on private property in Industrial Districts where
the property lines of such property abut lots or parcels zoned or being used
for single- or multiple-family purposes or on fences in front yards.
      2.   Except where specifically allowed, no fence shall be constructed of
material obviously intended to inflict great bodily harm should a person or
animal attempt to climb or scale it. Such material includes, but is not limited
to, electrically charged wires or other electrical conduit, broken glass, razor
blades and sharp or ragged metal spikes or spears.
   E.   Maintenance And Repair: All fences shall be maintained in good,
structurally sound repair and in a neat, clean, presentable and attractive
condition. If, on inspection by the Zoning Officer or his/her designee, any
fence, in his determination, does not meet the requirements of this section, he
shall order the owner or occupier of the premises, to make the necessary
repairs or improvements as directed or he shall be in violation of this Code.
   F.   Fences In Residential Districts: Fences permitted within Residence
Districts shall comply with the following requirements:
      1.   Fences In Front Yards: No fences are allowed within front yards.
Small decorative fence elements that are installed for landscaping and
aesthetic purposes only, having a height of no greater than three feet (3') and
fifty percent (50%) open are exempted from this provision provided that the
fence element does not enclose any area.
      2.   Fences In Rear Yards: Fences within rear yards shall not exceed six
feet (6') in height above ground level except for fences on corner lots which
must meet the requirements of Section
10-3-13F-3 of this Title.
      3.   Fences On Corner Lots: On corner lots (as illustrated), that part of
a rear yard which lies between the corner side lot line and building setback
line shall not exceed five feet (5') in height above ground level and shall be
decorative. Fences within the rear yard shall not exceed six feet (6') in
height above ground level.
         a.   Exception For Collector And Arterial Street: Fences within that
part of a rear yard which lies between the corner side lot line and building
setback line on corner lots within the side yard adjacent to the rights-of-way
on the following streets shall be permitted to be six feet (6') in height above
ground level and may be of a solid style:
         (1)   Seil Road.
         (2)   River Road.
         (3)   Black Road.
         (4)   Route 52/Jefferson Street.
         (5)   Route 59/Brookforest Avenue and Cottage Street.
         (6)   Mound Road.
         b.   Exception For Rear Yard To Rear Yard: On corner lots where the
rear property line is shared with another corner lot rear property line and
both houses face the front property lines (i.e., the rear of the houses are
facing each other and houses side to the same street side property line), that
part of the rear yard which lies between the corner side lot line and building
setback line shall not exceed six feet (6') in height above ground level and
may be a decorative fence or a solid fence. A chain link fence may also be used
provided that a decorative fence or privacy fence is installed facing the
street.
      4.   Fences In Side Yards: Fences within side yards, including corner
side yards, shall not exceed four feet (4') in height above ground level and
shall be decorative unless one of the following exceptions applies.
         a.   A decorative fence or a privacy fence up to six feet (6') in
height above ground level may be constructed within the interior side yard (but
not the corner side yard) when the fence does not extend past the front
building line of the adjacent property.
         b.   A chain link fence up to six feet (6') in height above ground
level may be installed along the interior side lot line (but not the corner
side lot line) provided that the fence does not extend past the front building
line of the adjacent property and provided that a decorative fence or privacy
fence is installed facing the street.
         c.   A solid fence of up to four feet (4') in height above ground
level may be constructed within the interior side yard provided it complies
with all of the following standards:
            (1)   The fence is for the purpose of screening and enclosing
Village required refuse, recycling and yard waste containers.
            (2)   The fence enclosure is no larger in dimension than four feet
(4') in width and ten feet (10') in length and has no roof.
            (3)   The fence enclosure is set back a minimum of ten feet (10')
from the front line of the dwelling it serves.
      5.   On lot lines abutting the public right-of-way or residential
property, the fence must face outward with support posts on the inside.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/83ece28ad5d1d98ab77b4eed90247c0d90d24731/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3668.png]
   G.   Business And Industrial Districts:
      1.   In business and industrial district, fences may not exceed eight
feet (8') in height above ground level, and the use of barbed wire, razor wire,
or any other fencing wire constructed with sharp edges or points arranged at
intervals along a strand(s) are prohibited; except that one foot (1')
additional of any fence along side or rear lot lines in industrial districts
may be constructed of barbed wire, or similar wire fencing. Barbed wire, or
similar fencing, shall not be used, installed or constructed on fences fronting
on any street.
      2.   In business and industrial districts, a screening fence may be
permitted at a maximum height of up to ten feet (10'), provided it is reviewed
and approved through the formal site plan process.
      3.   In business or industrial districts, no fence or wall shall be
erected, constructed or maintained within the first thirty feet (30') from the
front or corner lot line without the approval of a site plan.
      4.   Fences shall be permitted in the required interior side yard or rear
yard.
      5.   Screening which is required for swim and/or tennis clubs, private
and public, shall not exceed a height of twelve feet (12') and shall comply
with all building code requirements for pool and spa safety.
   H.   Adjoining Districts: Fences installed as a screening between business
and residence districts or between industrial and residence districts shall
comply with the following:
      1.   Shall be of the same design, construction material, height and
color. Shall be constructed of masonry, wood, or vinyl (not including slatted
chain link). Height requirement is eight feet (8') with a solid effect, or up
to ten feet (10') with approved site plan.
      2.   Where no fence exists at time of construction, the first developer
to install a fence between the adjoining districts will establish the type of
fence to be used for other fences along the adjoining district line.
      3.   All fences shall join together to provide continuity along the
common lot line of commercial and residential or industrial and residential
districts where a fence for screening is required.
      4.   All fences other than those intended for decorative or screening
purposes shall be buffered with berming and/or landscaping.
   I.   Hedges: Hedges, plantings, shrubbery, etc., shall in no way obstruct
the view of traffic at any intersection. If it is deemed to create a hazard,
the owner must remove same upon notice from the Zoning Officer or Chief of
Police within seven (7) days of such notification.
   J.   Architectural Structures. Architectural structures (such as arbors,
trellises, and pergolas) may be integrated into fences and gates.
      1.   When integrated into the fence design, the architectural structure
must comply with the fence height and openness standards, unless associated
with a gate or entry.
      2.   The height limitations in Sec.
10-3-11C apply to architectural structures that are associated with a gate or
entry. An architectural element associated with a gate or entry may extend
beyond the width of the gate but shall not exceed eight feet (8') in total
width.
   K.   Nuisance Declared; Abatement: Any fence which shall be erected or
maintained contrary to the provisions of this Code is deemed a nuisance, and it
shall be the duty of the Zoning Officer to abate the same.
   L.   Exemptions: Public utility locations and sites operated by governmental
agencies are exempt from the regulations of Section
10-3-13 of this Title. (Ord. 17-1842, 4-11-2017; amd. Ord. 20-1988, 9-22-2020;
Ord. 22-2031, 1-11-2022)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  8-1A-9  of this Code.
10-3-14: VISIBILITY ON CORNER LOTS:
The location of buildings, structures and landscaping shall be regulated as
follows so as not to obstruct the vision of drivers or motor vehicles. No
buildings or structures shall be erected or maintained, nor any landscaping
planted, grown or maintained between thirty inches (30") and eighty-four inches
(84") above grade within the more restrictive of the following vision triangle
measurements:
   A.   As measured by a diagonal line connecting two (2) points measured along
the back of curb of the abutting streets thirty feet (30') equidistant from the
intersection of those streets. If a street does not have a curb, the
measurements shall be taken from the edge of pavement. If the intersection has
rounded corners, the lines will be extended in a straight direction to a point
of intersection.
   B.   As measured by a diagonal line connecting two (2) points measured along
the property lines ten feet (10') equidistant from the corner of the lot.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/83ece28ad5d1d98ab77b4eed90247c0d90d24731/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3670.png]
(Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993; amd. Ord. 20-1988, 9-22-2020)
10-3-15: MAJOR ARTERIAL SETBACK REQUIREMENTS:
Along all major arterials, as established by the officially adopted
Comprehensive Plan 1 , there shall be a setback of seventy feet (70') from the
center line of the right of way of the major arterial or twenty feet (20') from
the edge of the right of way, whichever is greater. No building, structure,
off-street parking facility or off-street loading facility shall be located in
this setback. Where the condition imposed by this provision is either more
restrictive or less restrictive than the yard requirements of individual zoning
districts, the more restrictive requirement shall govern. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-
93)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 9, Chapter 1 of this Code.
10-3-16: BOARDING ROOMS IN RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES:
The rental of boarding rooms in single-family detached dwellings, two-family
dwellings, duplexes, single-family attached dwellings and multiple-family
dwellings shall not be allowed. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-93)
10-3-17: SWIM AND/OR TENNIS CLUBS:
Swim and/or tennis clubs shall be screened with fences or landscaping of at
least seventy five percent (75%) opacity. Lighting of the facilities and sound
systems shall be directed away from surrounding properties. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-
93)
10-3-18: DEVELOPMENT OF AIR RIGHTS:
The development of air rights above any parcel of land located in any zoning
district and utilized for public or private purposes shall be permitted subject
to all the requirements of the zoning district in which such development is
located. Development of air rights shall be considered as a conditional use and
subject to the provisions of Sections
10-12-4 and
10-12-5 of this Title or, if planned unit development, to the provisions of
 Chapter 11 of this Title. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-93)
10-3-19: EXISTING BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES:
   A.   Continuance of Existing Buildings and Structures: Any building or
structure which lawfully existed at the effective date hereof and which does
not comply with the conditions, area requirements, lot width requirements, yard
requirements, height limitations or bulk regulations of the zoning district in
which said building or structure is located upon the effective date hereof may
be continued during the remainder of the normal life of the building or
structure or until the building or structure has deteriorated to the extent
that it is no longer safe. The continuance of such building or structure shall
be subject to the regulations herein set forth.
   B.   Repairs and Alterations:
      1.   Repairs and alterations which increase the bulk of the building or
structure may be made to a building or structure which:
         a.   Does not comply with the conditions of the zoning district in
which said building or structure is located; provided, said repairs or
alterations comply with all regulations, including conditions, of the zoning
district in which said building or structure is located.
         b.   Does not comply with the area requirements of the zoning district
in which the said building or structure is located; provided, said repairs or
alterations comply with the conditions, yard requirements, height limitations
and bulk regulations of the zoning district in which said building or structure
is located.
         c.   Does not comply with the lot width requirements of the zoning
district in which said building or structure is located; provided said repairs
or alterations comply with the conditions, yard requirements, height
limitations and bulk regulations of the zoning district in which said building
or structure is located.
      2.   Repairs and alterations which increase the bulk of the building or
structure and which increase the lot coverage may be made to a building or
structure which does not comply with the yard requirements of the zoning
district in which said building or structure is located; provided, said repairs
or alterations comply with the conditions, yard requirements, height
limitations and bulk regulations of the zoning district in which said building
or structure is located.
      3.   Repairs and alterations which increase the bulk of the building or
structure and which do not increase the lot coverage may be made to a building
or structure which does not comply with the yard requirements of the zoning
district in which said building or structure is located; provided, said repairs
or alterations comply with the conditions, height limitations and bulk
regulations of the zoning district in which said building or structure is
located.
      4.   If a building or structure exceeds the height limitations of the
zoning district in which said building or structure is located:
         a.   Repairs and alterations which increase the bulk of the building
or structure and which increase the lot coverage may be made; provided, said
repairs or alterations comply with the conditions of the zoning district in
which said building or structure is located.
         b.   Repairs and alterations which increase the bulk of the building
or structure and which do not increase the lot coverage may be made; provided,
1) said repairs or alterations comply with the conditions and bulk regulations
of the zoning district in which said building or structure is located; and 2)
the height limitations are not further exceeded.
      5.   If a building or structure exceeds the bulk regulations of the
zoning district in which said building or structure is located, repairs and
alterations which increase the bulk of the building or structure and/or which
increase the lot coverage may not be made.
      6.   Nothing in this Title shall prevent the reconstruction, repairing or
rebuilding of a building, structure or part thereof which does not comply with
the conditions, area requirements, lot width requirements, yard requirements,
height limitations or bulk regulations of the zoning district in which said
building or structure is located and which exists at the effective date hereof,
rendered necessary by wear and tear or deterioration or which is required by
the provisions of the building regulations of the Village, relative to the
maintenance of said buildings or structures 1 ; provided, the cost of such
work, within a two (2) year time period, shall not exceed fifty percent (50%)
of the replacement cost of such building or structure at the time such work is
done.
   C.   Restoration: If a building or structure which does not comply with the
conditions, area requirements, lot width requirements, yard requirements,
height limitations or bulk regulations of the zoning district in which said
building or structure is located is damaged by fire, collapse, explosion or
other casualty or act of God to the extent that the cost of restoration to the
condition in which it was before the occurrence shall exceed fifty percent
(50%) of the replacement cost of the building or structure at the time of
destruction or damage, then any new construction or reconstruction must comply
with all regulations of the zoning district in which the building or structure
is located.
   D.   Relocation of Buildings or Structures: No building or structure which
does comply with the conditions, area requirements, lot width requirements,
yard requirements, height limitations or bulk regulations of the zoning
district in which said building or structure is located shall be moved, in
whole or in part, to any other location on the same or any other lot, unless
every portion of such building or structure complies with the regulations of
the zoning district in which it is to be located. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-93)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 8 of this Code.
10-3-20: MOTOR VEHICLE REGULATIONS IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:
   A.   Off-street parking facilities accessory to residential uses shall be
used principally for the parking of passenger automobiles and trucks three-
quarter (3/4) ton or less. Construction vehicles and buses may be stored or
parked in a fully enclosed building or structure upon any lot or parcel of land
in a residential district in accordance with the provisions of this Section.
      1.   Storage and overnight parking of trucks over three-quarter (3/4) ton
shall be in a fully enclosed building or structure.
      2.   Storage and overnight parking of buses shall be in a fully enclosed
building or structure. However, school buses may be parked upon school property
not to exceed twenty four (24) hours. They shall be parked only in rear yards.
      3.   No truck or construction vehicle shall be permanently affixed to the
ground.
      4.   No more than two (2) trucks or construction vehicles may be stored
or parked overnight in a fully enclosed building or structure upon any lot or
parcel of land, except as hereinafter provided.
      5.   Only one truck or construction vehicle may be stored or parked
overnight for each unit in a duplex, two-family, multi-family or townhouse
structure; provided, it is in a fully enclosed building or structure.
   B.   During the development of any residential subdivision or any individual
lot, the following equipment and/or construction vehicles may be parked
overnight upon the individual lot or parcel of land under development:
      1.   Trucks used for transporting and placing of forms for the foundation
walls.
      2.   Equipment used for the excavation of basements, backfilling
foundation walls, sewer and water services and the final yard grading.
      3.   All equipment and construction vehicles parked overnight in a
residential zoned district for the construction, repair, remodeling or
alteration of a new or existing home shall be parked only upon the lot or
parcel of land as the principal building.
      4.   Dumpsters and other comparable vehicles used for deposition of
rubbish from any construction site shall be used solely by the owner of the
property or his contractors.
Any unauthorized persons using a dumpster or comparable vehicle to dispose of
his rubbish shall be subject to a fine as allowed by this Title or any other
Village ordinance.
      5.   It shall be unlawful to park any equipment or construction vehicles
on any lot or parcel of land, unless a permit has been issued by the Zoning
Officer. Permits shall be issued by the Zoning Officer under the advisement of
the Village Administrator.
The Zoning Officer shall keep records and report his findings to the Village
Board. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-93)
10-3-21: STORM SHELTERS:
Storm shelters intended to provide protection to human life during periods of
danger from storms, nuclear fallout, air raids or other emergencies may be
constructed, erected and maintained in any district as principal or accessory
uses, subject to all yard and area requirements applicable in the district
where located and to the following:
   A.   Location and Yard Encroachments: Such shelters may be contained in
other structures or may be constructed separately. If entirely underground,
storm shelters may be constructed within any yard, including front yards, which
otherwise are required by this Title to be kept and maintained free from
buildings and structures; provided, that no part of said underground shelter
shall project above the average grade of such yard, including ventilating
devices, and provided, that no entrance or exit shall open into such yard.
   B.   Joint Shelters: The Zoning Board may recommend to the Village Board the
authorizing of joint shelters by one or more property owners, as a conditional
use, in accordance with the provisions of Sections
10-12-4 and 10-12-5 of this Title. In recommending such joint shelters, the
Board may recommend the modification of or waiving of side and rear yard
requirements on the lot or lots directly involved in the construction of the
joint shelter; provided, that all applicable yard requirements shall be met
where the lot or lots involved in the joint shelter abuts property not included
in the project. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
10-3-22: RADIO, SATELLITE AND TELEVISION ANTENNA TOWERS AND DISHES:
   A.   Permit Requirements:
      1.   Permit Required: No person shall construct or install any antenna
tower or dish antenna without obtaining a permit for the construction or
installation of said antenna tower or dish antenna from the Zoning Officer.
      2.   Application For Permit: Applications for such permits shall be
submitted to the Building Department on a form provided by the Department for
such purpose. Said application shall include:
         a.   The name, address and phone number of the person constructing or
installing the antenna tower or dish antenna;
         b.   The name, address and phone number of the owner of record of the
property, if different;
         c.   A description of the type of antenna tower or dish antenna to be
constructed, including its dimensions, and a set of specifications detailing
its construction and method of mounting or anchoring; and
         d.   A site plan of the lot on which the antenna tower or dish antenna
is to be constructed or installed, including the proposed location of the
antenna tower or dish antenna, the location of all other structures or
buildings on the lot on which the antenna tower or dish antenna will be
constructed or installed or within one hundred fifty feet (150') of the antenna
tower or dish antenna and showing all distances between the antenna tower or
dish antenna and the structures or buildings on the site plan and between the
antenna tower or dish antenna and the lot lines of the lot on which the antenna
tower or dish antenna is intended to be built. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
      3.   Fee: All applications shall also be accompanied by a fee of fifty
dollars ($50.00) for a residential structure of four (4) dwelling units or less
and a fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for all other residential or
nonresidential structures. (Ord. 97-884, 9-9-1997)
   B.   General Requirements: The following requirements shall apply to all
antenna towers and dish antennas constructed or installed:
      1.   Number: No more than one antenna tower or dish antenna shall be
constructed on each platted lot whether ground mounted or roof mounted.
      2.   Colors: All antenna towers and dish antennas and the bases on which
they are mounted shall be black, gray, white, silver, tan, beige or other light
brown shades in color or of another color which matches the predominant color
of the roof surface if roof mounted or green in color if ground mounted. All
antenna towers and dish antennas shall be of a single color, and all bases
shall be of a single color.
      3.   Wind Pressure: All antenna towers and dish antennas and any bases on
which they are mounted shall be constructed to withstand a minimum wind
velocity of eighty (80) miles per hour (impact pressure of 32 pounds per square
foot).
      4.   Location:
         a.   No antenna tower or dish antenna shall extend above, across,
under or over any public sidewalks, public streets or other public rights of
way and shall have no wires or metal rods extending therefrom above, across,
under or over any public sidewalks, public streets or other public rights of
way.
         b.   All wires, rods and other connectors between antenna towers or
dish antennas and the structure receiving services from the antenna towers or
dish antennas must be located under ground if ground mounted or securely
attached to or located within the structure receiving service if the antenna
towers or dish antennas are roof mounted.
         c.   No dish antenna or antenna tower shall be located less than
fifteen feet (15') from any yard lot line.
         d.   No dish antenna or antenna tower shall be located less than
thirty five feet (35') from any existing principal structure on a lot other
than the lot on which the dish antenna or antenna tower is to be constructed or
installed.
      5.   Base: All ground-mounted antenna towers and dish antennas must be
installed or mounted in a concrete or cement base.
      6.   Height: No dish antenna may be installed or mounted on an antenna
tower in such a way that the total height, measured from the lowest point of
the finished grade at the bottom of the base of the antenna tower to the top of
the dish antenna if ground mounted, or measured from the bottom of the base of
the antenna tower to the top of the dish antenna if roof mounted, exceeds the
height limitations for dish antennas as specified in this Chapter.
      7.   Compliance With Federal Provisions: All radio and antenna towers
shall comply with all applicable FCA and FAA requirements.
   C.   Dish Antennas: All dish antennas shall be constructed or installed in
accordance with the following requirements:
      1.   Location: All dish antennas shall be constructed or installed in
rear yards or on those portions of roofs of buildings facing the rear yards.
      2.   Ground-Mounted Dish Antennas:
         a.   No ground-mounted dish antenna shall be more than nine feet (9')
in diameter.
         b.   No ground-mounted dish antenna shall be more than twelve feet
(12') in height, to be measured from the lowest point of the finished grade at
the bottom of the base or tower on which it is constructed or installed to the
highest point on the dish antenna.
      3.   Roof-Mounted Dish Antennas:
         a.   No roof-mounted dish antenna shall be more than four feet (4') in
diameter.
         b.   No roof-mounted dish antenna shall be more than six feet (6') in
height, to be measured from the bottom of the base or tower on which it is
constructed to the highest point on the dish antenna.
         c.   No roof-mounted dish antenna shall be mounted or installed less
than five feet (5') from any edge of the roof or roofline.
   D.   Antenna Towers: All antenna towers shall be constructed or installed in
accordance with the following requirements:
      1.   All antenna towers shall be constructed or installed in rear yards
or on those portions of roofs of buildings facing the rear yards.
      2.   The height of the radio and antenna towers should remain limited to
sixty feet (60') for all zoning districts; except, that in nonresidential
districts, towers in excess of sixty feet (60') require approval of a
conditional use. For freestanding towers, the height is the total distance,
measured from the lowest point of the finished grade at the base of the tower
to the highest point of the tower, including the antenna. For roof- mounted
antenna towers, the height is the sum total in height of the building and tower
antenna measured from the lowest point of the finished grade at the front of
the building to the highest point of the tower, including the antenna. (Ord.
93-695, 6-15-1993)
10-3-22-1:   CELLULAR PHONE TOWERS:
   A.   Permit Requirements:
      1.   Permit Required: No person shall construct or install any cellular
phone tower without obtaining a permit for the construction or installation of
said cellular tower from the Zoning Officer.
      2.   Application For Permit: Application for such permit shall be
submitted to the Building Department on a form provided by the Department for
such purpose. Said application shall include:
         a.   The name, address and phone number of the person constructing the
cellular phone tower;
         b.   The name, address and phone number of the owner of record of the
property, if different;
         c.   A description of the type of cellular phone tower to be
constructed including its dimensions, engineering calculations and a set of
specifications detailing its construction and method of mounting or anchoring;
and
         d.   A site plan of the lot on which the cellular phone tower is to be
constructed or installed, including the proposed location of the cellular phone
tower, the location of all other structures or buildings on the lot on which
the cellular phone tower will be constructed or installed or within one hundred
fifty feet (150') of the cellular phone tower and showing all distances between
the cellular phone tower and the structures or building on the site plan and
between the cellular phone tower and the lot lines of the lot on which the
cellular phone tower is intended to be built.
      3.   Fee: All applications shall also be accompanied by a fee based on
the following evaluation:
 
Up to $2,500.00 valuation         $ 50.00
$2,501.00 to $5,000.00 valuation  75.00
$5,001.00 to $7,000.00 valuation  100.00
$7,001.00 to $10,000.00 valuation 200.00
$1.25 per $100.00 over $10,000.00
 
   B.   General Requirements: The following requirements shall apply to all
cellular phone towers constructed or installed:
      1.   Number: No more than one cellular phone tower shall be constructed
on each platted lot.
      2.   Colors: All cellular phone towers and bases on which they are
mounted shall be black, gray, white, silver, tan, beige or other light brown
shades. All cellular phone towers shall be of a single color, and all bases
shall be of a single color.
      3.   Wind Pressure: All cellular phone towers and any bases on which they
are mounted shall be constructed to withstand a minimum wind velocity of eighty
(80) miles per hour (impact pressure of 32 pounds per square foot).
      4.   Location:
         a.   No cellular phone tower is permitted within five hundred feet
(500') of a residential district. No cellular phone tower shall extend above,
across, under or over any public sidewalk, public street or other public rights
of way and shall have no wires or metal rods extending therefrom above, across,
under or over any public sidewalks, public streets or other public rights of
way.
         b.   No cellular tower shall be located less than fifteen feet (15')
from any yard lot line.
         c.   No cellular phone tower shall be located less than thirty five
feet (35') from any existing principal structure on a lot other than the lot on
which the cellular phone tower is to be constructed or installed.
         d.   All cellular phone towers shall be constructed or installed in
rear yards.
      5.   Base: All ground-mounted cellular phone towers must be installed or
mounted in a concrete or cement base.
      6.   Height: The height of a cellular phone tower shall be limited to
sixty feet (60') in height for all zoning districts. A cellular phone tower
exceeding sixty feet (60') in height shall require an approved conditional use
permit.
      7.   Compliance: All cellular phone towers shall comply with all
applicable FCA and FAA requirements. (Ord. 97-884, 9-9-1997)
10-3-23: OUTDOOR SALES AND STORAGE:
The outside sale and service of seasonal merchandise at retail shall be
permitted only under the following terms, conditions, restrictions and
regulations in the B-1, B-2, B-3, B-4 and OCI Business Districts:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following terms shall have
the following meanings:
   PEDESTRIAN WALKWAY: The paved area located solely on private property
adjacent to the building used by patrons to walk to the entrance of the
commercial establishment but shall not include areas within parking lots
designed for vehicular travel or parking.
   SEASONAL MERCHANDISE: Items which are not normally sold throughout the year
and are displayed and sold only during the time of year for which they are
appropriate or for which they are intended to be used.
   B.   Seasonal Merchandise: Outdoor sales and storage items at retail shall
be restricted to sales of seasonal merchandise during the time of year when
such items are normally used and to the sales of salt blocks throughout the
year.
   C.   Storage Or Display On Walkways: When merchandise is stored or displayed
on pedestrian walkways, a minimum width of five feet (5') must be maintained
free and clear of any storage, display or sales.
   D.   Private Property Only: All outdoor sales and storage shall be
restricted to private property, and no sales and storage shall be permitted on
publicly owned property. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
   E.   Area Restriction: Outdoor sales and storage of merchandise except in
parking areas shall not be permitted in the area bounded by the front lot line,
the lines formed by extending the line of the side walls of the structure in
which the business storing and/or selling the merchandise is located to the
front lot line, and the line formed by the front wall of said structure. All
outdoor storage of goods, materials, equipment or other products must be placed
on a paved surface. (Ord. 05-1307, 8-9-2005)
   F.   Sanitary Condition: All merchandise must be kept in a neat, safe,
sanitary and orderly fashion, free from garbage, rubbish and other debris.
   G.   Board Approval For Noncompliance: Outside sales and storage of
merchandise not in compliance with the above regulations must be approved by
the Village Board. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
10-3-24: DUMPSTERS AND RUBBISH CONTAINERS:
   A.   Placement Of Containers: Any combination of rubbish containers with a
capacity in excess of two (2) cubic yards and all dumpsters shall be placed in
the least conspicuous part of the premises, which shall be presumed to be the
rear of the property or business establishment. Also, such combination of
rubbish containers, and all dumpsters shall be enclosed on three (3) sides with
a fence eighteen inches (18") higher than the highest portion thereof.
      1.   No rubbish container shall be used in any residential district
except during the construction, repair or remodeling of a building appropriate
to the zoning provided.
      2.   All rubbish containers shall have covers which shall be closed at
all times.
      3.   No rubbish container shall be filled to a point which would prevent
the complete closure of its covers.
      4.   All business establishments shall be responsible for the security of
his or her rubbish container or dumpsters, to prevent abusive use by any
unauthorized person.
      5.   It is the responsibility of each business establishment to dispose
of all rubbish in a clean, safe and sanitary manner.
   B.   Enforcement: The Village Administrator or his or her designee may
permit an alternate location for a dumpster or rubbish container or require
extra screening based upon, but not limited to, the following factors:
      1.   Proximity to residential districts, schools or public parks.
      2.   Space available on premises for rubbish containers or dumpsters.
      3.   Availability of a less offensive alternative.
      4.   Economic or commercial hardship.
      5.   Nature of waste involved.
      6.   Manner in which rubbish containers or dumpsters are maintained.
      7.   Public health, safety and general welfare.
The Village Administrator or his or her designee shall notify, in writing, any
violator of this section upon the discovery of the violation. After receiving
this written notice, violators shall have forty eight (48) hours (2 business
days) to bring their premises into compliance with this section. No violator
shall be entitled to more than one such written notice in any calendar year.
If, after the above specified time period, the premises is not brought into
compliance, the violator shall be penalized in accordance with section
10-12-8 of this title.
   C.   Appeal: Notwithstanding any provision of this section to the contrary,
alleged violators of this section that disagree with the determination of the
Village Administrator or his or her designee may appeal the determination to
the Village Board, which shall make a final determination as to the alleged
violation. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
10-3-25: LANDSCAPING:
(Rep. by Ord. 17-1864, 11-14-2017)
10-3-26: SPLITTING OF LOTS OR PARCELS OF LAND:
Whenever any lot or parcel of land within the corporate limits of the Village
is to be split or divided, the owner of record thereof shall file with the
Zoning Officer a declaration of such intention, together with a copy of a true
map of such lot or parcel of land. The Zoning Officer shall investigate and
determine if the proposed division of property is in accordance with the
provisions and purposes of this title and in accordance with the official plan
of the Village and the Village's subdivision ordinance 1  and, within a period
of ten (10) days, shall refer such request to the Planning and Zoning
Commission for consideration. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9, chapter 1 and appendix H, respectively, of this Code.
10-3-27: SITE PLAN FOR COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENTS:
   A.   Compliance Required: No lot, plot or parcel of land shall be improved
or developed for commercial or industrial purposes or uses nor shall any
building permit be issued for the construction of any improvements or buildings
for commercial or industrial purposes and uses within the Village until the
provisions of this section have been complied with.
   B.   Site Plan Submission: Any person proposing the improvement or
development of any lot, plot or parcel of land or applying for a building
permit for the construction of improvements or buildings for commercial or
industrial purposes and uses shall, prior to the commencement of such
improvement or development or at the time of the submission of an application
for such permit, submit twelve (12) copies of a site plan, one each to the
Village Clerk, Chief Building Official, Planning and Zoning Commission members
and Village Engineer. Accompanying each site plan herein required shall be
copies of all of the permits from other governmental bodies or agencies
required for the contemplated development, improvement or building.
   C.   Information On Site Plan: The site plan shall designate the following:
      1.   Topography of the site and adjoining lands as the same will exist
upon completion of the contemplated development or improvement at one foot (1')
intervals, including ground cover, slopes, banks, ditches and other like
features.
      2.   Location, arrangement and exterior height dimensions of all
permanent buildings and aboveground structures.
      3.   Location, arrangement and dimensions of vehicle parking spaces,
width of aisles, bays and angle of parking, together with the type of parking
surface.
      4.   Location and dimensions of vehicular entrances, exits and driveways.
      5.   Location and dimensions of pedestrian entrances, exits, walks and
walkways.
      6.   Location and dimensions of the specific storm or surface water
drainage system to serve the site, together with connections to off site
drainage facilities.
      7.   Location, dimensions and capacities of all utilities to serve the
site including natural gas, telephone, electricity, water and sanitary sewer,
together with connections to connecting off site utility lines and mains.
      8.   Location, size, height and orientation of all signs other than signs
flat on building facades. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
      9.   Photometric plan showing the location, size, height and design of
all sources of illumination to be constructed or installed and their supporting
structures (including existing or proposed illumination on adjacent rights-of-
way), orientation and level of illumination in foot-candles (at ground level)
throughout the entire property, and product catalog sheets with manufacturer's
specifications for all illumination fixtures. (Ord. 02-1127, 10-8-2002; amd.
Ord. 20-1982, 8-25-2020)
      10.   Location and dimensions of all stormwater retention ponds and
facilities.
      11.   Location, arrangement and dimensions of vehicle loading and
unloading spaces, areas and docks.
      12.   Location, dimensions and materials of walls and fences.
   D.   Compliance With Zoning And Village Regulations: The site plan or
addendum thereto shall further contain information showing compliance with all
of the requirements of the zoning district regulations of this title and all
other applicable provisions of other Village ordinances.
   E.   Examination Of Site Plan: The Village Engineer shall examine and review
the site plan to determine whether the same complies with this title and all
other Village ordinances, ensures adequate utility service to the development
or building and provides for proper storm or surface water retention and
drainage whether the contemplated development, improvement, building or
facilities will harm or damage surrounding properties or overload public and
utility improvements beyond their capacity and shall submit his written
recommendation of approval, denial or modification to the Trustee in charge of
storm or surface water drainage, Plan Commission, Chief Building Official,
Zoning Officer and Village Administrator for their review and recommendation
for approval or denial.
   F.   Denial Of Site Plan: In the event a site plan does not receive all
required recommendations within sixty (60) days, it shall be deemed denied.
   G.   Village Board, Final Decision: In all cases the Village Board of
Trustees shall make the final decision as to the approval or denial of a site
plan, and shall consider in its decision the recommendation or lack thereof
from the trustee in charge of storm or surface water drainage, Chief Building
Official, Zoning Officer, Plan Commission and Village Administrator. (Ord. 93-
695, 6-15-1993; amd. Ord. 20-1982, 8-25-2020)
10-3-28: ZONING REVERSIONS AND REVOCATIONS:
   A.   Reversion Or Revocation Standards:
      1.   A variance, special use permit or change of zoning shall be reverted
or revoked if the testimony upon which such variance, special use or change of
zoning was granted was falsely given.
      2.   A variance, special use permit or change of zoning may be revoked or
reverted if there is a discontinuance of the variance, special use or the use
permitted by the change of zoning for a period of six (6) consecutive months.
      3.   A variance or special use permit shall be revoked or a change of
zoning may be reverted to the property's prior zoning classification if the
property to which the variance, special use permit or change of zoning has been
applied has not been put to use as allowed within one year of the granting of
the variance, special use permit or zoning change. However, an extension of one
additional year may be granted by the Village Board of Trustees if cause for
such nonuse is deemed reasonable and an application for such an extension is
made to the Zoning Board not less than sixty (60) days prior to the expiration
of the one year period.
   B.   Initiation Of Reversion Or Revocation: A request for a reversion or
revocation may be filed by the Village Board.
   C.   Application For Reversion Or Revocation: A request for a reversion or
revocation shall be filed with the Zoning Officer and shall be in such form,
contain such information and be accompanied by such exhibits as the Zoning
Board may reasonably require. A copy of such request shall be delivered, via
registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, to the record fee title
owners of the subject land at their last ascertainable known address. A copy of
such request so filed for a revocation of a variance, a special use or the
reversion of a change in zoning shall be immediately forwarded by the Zoning
Officer to the Secretary of the Zoning Board.
   D.   Public Hearing: The Zoning Board shall hold a public hearing on the
request for reversion or revocation within ninety (90) days after receiving the
request from the Zoning Officer. Notice of the time and place of such hearing
shall be published at least once, not less than fifteen (15) days before the
hearing, in a newspaper published or of general circulation in the Village,
according to law. Not less than fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing, a copy
of the form of such notice shall be mailed, by registered or certified mail,
return receipt requested, to the then record fee title owners addressed to
their last ascertainable known address. The public hearing on any such request
shall be held in the Village Hall and may be adjourned from time to time.
   E.   Recommendation Of Zoning Board: The Zoning Board within sixty (60) days
after the conclusion of the hearing on any such request, shall transmit a
written report to the Village Board stating its findings and recommendations
with regard to such request.
   F.   Action By Village Board Of Trustees: Within thirty (30) days after the
receipt of the findings and recommendation of the Zoning Board, the Village
Board of Trustees shall grant or deny the requested revocation or reversion or
refer the request back to the Zoning Board for further consideration.
   G.   Effect Of Denial Of Request: In the event the Village Board of Trustees
shall deny a request, no such similar request may be filed until the expiration
of one year from the date of such denial. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
10-3-29: VACANT LOTS; BERMS:
   A.   Vacant Lots: All vacant lots within the corporate limits of the Village
shall be maintained free of all rubbish, mounds of dirt, gravel, sand and/or
concrete and shall be maintained in a neat, clean, presentable and attractive
condition. There shall be no open storage on a vacant lot of construction items
such as equipment, materials, and vehicles. There shall be no open storage on a
vacant lot of privately owned vehicles such as cars, trucks, vans, motorcycles
and buses. (Ord. 95-824, 11-28-1995)
   B.   Berms: All berms located along commercial, industrial and residential
boundary lines and along major highways shall be maintained free of all rubbish
and weeds exceeding the height established in section
10-12-8 of this Code and shall be maintained in a neat, clean, presentable and
attractive condition. (Ord. 14-1748, 10-28-2014)
   C.   Duty To Maintain; Notice; Abatement By Village; Lien: If, upon
inspection by the Zoning Officer, any vacant lot or berm, in his determination
does not meet the requirements of this section, he shall notify the owner of
the premises by certified mail to make the necessary improvements. If the
improvements are not made within five (5) days of notification, the Village may
make the necessary improvements or, if deemed necessary, the Village shall hire
an outside contractor with the proper equipment to do the job for them.
The owner of the premises shall be billed for and liable for all expenses
involved. If the bill is not paid within thirty (30) days of the date of the
bill, the Village shall file a lien on the property with the Recorder of Deeds
of Will County. (Ord. 95-824, 11-28-1995)
10-3-30: SITE ILLUMINATION:
   A.   Purposes: It is the intent of this section to require illumination of
multiple-family residential and nonresidential properties to a minimum level of
illumination, and to not exceed a maximum level of illumination, needed to
provide adequate security, safety, and productivity, while minimizing the
projection of the light and glare onto adjacent properties.
   B.   Compliance Required: No lot, plot, or parcel of land shall be improved
or developed for multiple-family residential or nonresidential purposes or uses
nor shall any building permit be issued for the construction of any
improvements or buildings for multiple-family residential or nonresidential
purposes and uses within the Village until the provisions of this section have
been complied with.
   C.   Permit Required: No person shall construct or install any freestanding
or building wall mounted site illumination device or fixture on any multiple-
family residential, commercial, industrial or institutional property without
first obtaining a permit therefor.
      1.   Application For Permit: Applications for such permits shall be
submitted to the Building Department on a form provided for such purpose. Said
application shall include:
         a.   The name, address and phone number of the person constructing or
installing such fixture or device;
         b.   The name, address and phone number of the owner of record of the
property, if different;
         c.   A description of the type of device or fixture to be constructed,
including its dimensions and a set of specifications detailing its construction
and method of mounting or anchoring; and
         d.   A site photometric plan showing the location, size, height and
design of all sources of illumination to be installed or constructed and their
supporting structures (including existing or proposed illumination on adjacent
rights-of-way), orientation and level of illumination in foot-candles (at
ground level) throughout the entire property, and product catalog sheets with
manufacturer's specifications for all illumination fixtures.
      2.   Fee: All applications shall be accompanied by a fee as established
in section
8-1A-9 of this Code.
   D.   General Requirements: The following requirements shall apply to all
site illumination constructed or installed:
      1.   Location:
         a.   Building mounted site illumination shall be limited to areas
immediately adjacent to building entrances.
         b.   Freestanding site illumination fixtures shall be installed no
closer than five feet (5') from any property line, and shall be installed
within five feet (5') of the area the fixture is intended to illuminate.
      2.   Height: Freestanding site illumination fixtures and supporting
structures shall be no more than twenty five feet (25') in height, to be
measured from grade level to the highest point of the structure.
      3.   Control Of Glare: All illumination fixtures shall be designed to
conceal the source of illumination when viewed from all points other than
directly beneath the source of illumination, and to ensure that no light is
emitted above the horizontal plane of the bottom of the light fixture. This
regulation shall not apply to freestanding illumination fixtures added to the
site to increase light levels above the minimum amount of illumination as
required in subsection D4 of this section that are intended to accentuate
landscape features or pedestrian only areas.
      4.   Amount Of Illumination: Required amounts of illumination in areas
designed to accommodate vehicles or pedestrians are based on recommendations of
the Illuminating Engineering Society of North America (IESNA) 1993 edition of
"IESNA Illumination Handbook". The following schedule establishes the minimum
and average amounts of illumination required, and the uniformity ratio. All
nonresidential illumination shall be reduced to the minimum amount of
illumination as listed in the schedule below no later than sixty (60) minutes
after the close of business:
Use Category Foot-Candles Uniformity Ratio
             Average      Minimum Average/Minimum
Use Category                               Foot-Candles Uniformity Ratio
                                           Average      Minimum Average/Minimum
Regional shopping center                   3.6          0.9     4:1
Fast food/convenience retailer             3.6          0.9     4:1
Community shopping center                  2.4          0.6     4:1
Office parking                             2.4          0.6     4:1
Neighborhood shopping sites                2.4          0.6     4:1
Industrial employee parking                2.4          0.6     4:1
Church parking lots                        2.4          0.6     4:1
Building entrances                         -            5.0     -
Multiple-family                            1.6          0.4     4:1
Merchandise display                        7.0          0.9     4:1
Under canopies (fuel sales, ATM, drive-in) 20.0         -       -
 
      5.   Light Trespass: The amount of illumination at any property line
shall not exceed 0.5 foot-candle except where required for public safety at
points of ingress/egress. Additionally, interior lot lines of adjoining
commercial parcels which are part of a planned commercial center (i.e.,
outlots) shall not be subject to this requirement.
      6.   Illumination Structure Design: Where properties are developed
separately from, but function essentially as an outlot to an adjacent
development, freestanding structures used for the primary illumination of
vehicle use areas shall be architecturally compatible with such structures used
on the adjacent development. (Ord. 02-1127, 10-8-2002)
10-3-31: MINIWAREHOUSE AND SELF-STORAGE FACILITIES:
   A.   Use Restrictions:
      1.   Miniwarehouses and self-storage facilities shall be limited to dead
storage use only.
      2.   No activities other than the rental of storage units, or pick up and
deposit of dead storage goods from rental units shall be permitted. Prohibited
activities include, but are not limited to, miscellaneous or garage sales,
transfer/storage businesses that utilize vehicles as part of said business, and
servicing of motor vehicles, boats, trailers, lawn mowers, tractors, snow
removal equipment, or any similar equipment.
      3.   The following are prohibited in ministorage facilities and all
miniwarehouse and self-storage facility rental contracts shall include clauses
prohibiting:
         a.   The storage of flammable liquids, highly combustible or explosive
materials, or hazardous chemicals.
         b.   The use of the property for all activities other than use for
dead storage.
   B.   Site And Structure Requirements:
      1.   All storage on the property shall be kept within individual storage
units within an enclosed building.
      2.   No individual storage unit shall contain plumbing or more than one
electrical outlet.
      3.   All properties containing miniwarehouses and self-storage facilities
shall be completely surrounded by a fence a minimum of six feet (6') in height
such that access can be restricted. The fence shall be constructed of opaque
materials such as brick, stone, masonry units, wood, or similar materials, that
will prevent the passage of light and debris, but expressly prohibiting woven
wire as a fence material.
      4.   Buildings designed as a single-story building shall not exceed
twelve feet (12') in height. Multiple-story buildings must provide access to
second floor and above individual storage units from within the enclosed
building, and shall have a first floor ceiling height not to exceed twelve feet
(12').
      5.   No individual storage unit shall exceed six hundred (600) square
feet in floor area.
      6.   No door openings for individual storage units shall face any street
right of way or residentially zoned property.
      7.   Driving lanes adjacent to buildings shall be at least twenty six
feet (26') wide when individual storage unit doors open onto only one side of
the driving lane. Driving lanes adjacent to buildings shall be at least thirty
feet (30') wide when individual storage unit doors open onto both sides of the
driving lane. (Ord. 02-1129, 10-8-2002)
10-3-32: PARKING OF TRAILERS:
   A.   Definition: For the purposes of this section, a "trailer" shall be
defined as any vehicle without motive power in operation designed for carrying
persons or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle, regardless of
whether some part of its weight or load rests upon or is carried by another
vehicle. This definition shall not apply to mobile homes as defined in section
10-2-1 of this title.
   B.   Overnight Parking: No person shall park any trailer, and no landowner
shall permit any trailer to park, at any time between the hours of ten o'clock
(10:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. at any place within the village. This
prohibition shall not apply to:
      1.   Trailers parked wholly within enclosed structures.
      2.   Realty which the driver owns, leases or rents.
      3.   Commercial establishments which the driver is patronizing, for the
duration of the patronage.
      4.   Establishments at which the driver is making or picking up a
delivery, for the duration of the delivery.
      5.   Cartage facilities or freight terminals.
      6.   Trailer sales or rentals.
      7.   Approved outdoor storage areas with proper screening.
      8.   Motor vehicle repair shops at which the trailer or its motor vehicle
is being repaired.
      9.   Approved commercial or industrial loading berths or facilities.
      10.   Construction sites at which the trailer functions as a sales office
or at which equipment, materials or tools within the trailer are utilized.
   C.   Uncoupled: No person shall park, and no landowner shall permit to be
parked, any trailer uncoupled or unattached from a motor vehicle at any time or
place within the village. This prohibition shall not apply to:
      1.   Trailers parked wholly within enclosed structures.
      2.   Establishments at which the driver is making or picking up a
delivery, for the duration of the delivery.
      3.   Cartage facilities or freight terminals.
      4.   Trailer sales or rentals.
      5.   Approved outdoor storage areas with proper screening.
      6.   Motor vehicle repair shops at which the trailer or its motor vehicle
is being repaired.
      7.   Approved commercial or industrial loading berths or facilities.
      8.   Construction sites at which the trailer functions as a sales office
or at which equipment, materials or tools within the trailer are utilized.
      9.   Trailers parked in accordance with section
10-3-7 of this chapter. (Ord. 06-1373, 7-25-2006)
10-3-33: CARGO CONTAINER FACILITIES:
Cargo container facilities are prohibited in all zoning districts. (Ord. 08-
1473, 4-8-2008)
10-3-34: ADULT-USE CANNABIS:
   A.   Purpose and Applicability: It is the intent and purpose of this Section
to provide regulations regarding the cultivation, processing and dispensing of
adult-use cannabis occurring within the corporate limits of the Village of
Shorewood. Such facilities shall comply with all regulations provided in the
Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (P.A. 101-0027) (Act), as it may be amended
from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder, and the regulations
provided below. In the event that the Act is amended, the more restrictive of
the state or local regulations shall apply, as permissible under state law.
   B.   General: The following regulations apply to all Adult-Use Cannabis
Business Establishments.
      1.   Establishments shall not be located within a dwelling unit.
      2.   Establishments may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis
other than as authorized by the Act.
      3.   No Dispensing Organization shall:
         a.   Be located within five hundred (500) feet of a pre-existing
public or private nursery school, preschool, primary or secondary school,
daycare center, daycare home, place of worship or park as measured from
property line to property line for properties where there is only one business
on the lot and as measured to the nearest portion of the building to be used
for a Dispensing Organization when the use is located within a multi-tenant
building or on a multi-use lot;
         b.   Be located within two hundred fifty (250) feet of a property
zoned for residential use as measured from property line to property line for
properties where there is only one business on the lot and as measured to the
nearest portion of the building to be used for a Dispensing Organization when
the use is located within a multi-tenant building or on a multi-use lot; and
         c.   Sell food for consumption on the premises.
      4.   With the exception of Transporters, at least 75% of the floor area
of any tenant space occupied by a cannabis business establishment shall be
devoted to the activities of that specific cannabis business establishment as
authorized by the Act. The transporting organization shall be the sole use of
the tenant space in which it is located.
      5.   The Village may approve the co-location of an Adult-Use Cannabis
Dispensing Organization with an Adult-Use Cannabis Craft Grower Center or an
Adult-Use Cannabis Infuser Organization, or both, subject to the provisions of
the Act and the Conditional Use criteria. In a co-location, the floor space
requirements of Section B.4 shall not apply, but the co-located establishments
shall be the sole use of the tenant space.
      6.   Petitioner shall install building enhancements, such as security
cameras, lighting or other improvements, as set forth in the Act and
Conditional Use approval, to ensure the safety of employees and customers of
the Adult-Use Cannabis Business Establishments, as well as its environs. Said
improvements shall be determined based on the specific characteristics of the
floor plan for an Adult-Use Cannabis Business Establishment and the site on
which it is located, consistent with the requirements of the Act.
      7.   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the Village affirming
compliance with this Section and all other requirements of the Act.
      8.   Establishments shall register the business annually pursuant to
Title 3,
Chapter 1 of this Code.
   C.   Parking:
      1.   For purposes of determining required parking, the business
establishments shall be classified as follows in accordance with Section
10-8-4, Schedule of Parking Requirements:
         a.   Adult-Use Cannabis Craft Growers, Cultivation Centers, Infusers
and Processors shall be classified as "Food Manufacture, Packaging and
Processing."
         b.   Adult-Use Cannabis Dispensing Organizations shall be classified
as "Retail, General."
         c.   Adult-Use Cannabis Transporters shall be classified as "Cartage
and Express Facilities."
      2.   The Village may require that additional parking be provided as a
result of the analysis completed through Section
10-3-34.D, Adult-Use Cannabis Business Establishment Components, herein.
   D.   Adult-Use Cannabis Business Establishment Components: In determining
compliance with Section
10-12-4, Conditional Uses, of this Title, the following components of the
Adult-Use Cannabis Business Establishment shall be evaluated based on the
entirety of the circumstances affecting the subject property in the context of
the existing and intended future use of the properties:
      1.   Impact of the proposed facility on existing or planned uses located
within the vicinity of the subject property.
      2.   Proposed structure in which the facility will be located, including
co-tenancy (if in a multi-tenant building), total square footage, security
installations/security plan and building code compliance.
      3.   Hours of operation and anticipated number of employees and
customers.
      4.   Anticipated parking demand based on Section
10-8-4, Schedule of Parking Requirements, and available private parking supply.
      5.   Anticipated traffic generation in the context of adjacent roadway
capacity and access to such roadways.
      6.   Site design, including access points and internal site circulation.
      7.   Proposed signage plan and conformance with
Chapter 10, Sign Regulations, of this Title.
      8.   Compliance with all requirements provided in Section
10-3-34B, Adult-Use Cannabis, as applicable.
      9.   Other criteria determined to be necessary to assess compliance with
Section
10-12-4, Conditional Uses, of this Title. (Ord. 20-1978, 7-14-2020)
10-3-35: MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT SCREENING:
Mechanical Equipment Screening: Mechanical equipment including but not limited
to heating, air conditioning, ventilation, and other similar equipment shall be
screened as follows.
   A.   For new construction, rooftop equipment must be screened as follows:
      1.   The parapet wall, false roof, or other building element shall
provide one hundred percent (100%) screening of mechanical equipment from the
adjacent roadways, adjacent properties, adjacent waterways, and the site
itself.
      2.   The parapet wall, false roof, or building element shall be
constructed of the same materials used in the construction of the principal
building or structure and shall be designed to be architecturally integrated
with the building's overall design.
      3.   If, due to exceptional circumstances, one of these options cannot
effectively screen the mechanical equipment, the use of a rooftop screen may be
considered at the discretion of the Zoning Officer.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/83ece28ad5d1d98ab77b4eed90247c0d90d24731/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3674.png]
   B.   For building additions and for new mechanical equipment installed on
existing buildings, a parapet wall or false roof which meets the requirements
of Section
10-3-35A shall be used to screen rooftop mechanical equipment whenever
practical. When these options are not practical due to the architecture of the
existing building, a rooftop screen may be used as follows:
      1.   The rooftop screen shall be permanently attached to the building.
      2.   The rooftop screen shall be located so as not to interfere with
access to or operation of the equipment.
      3.   The rooftop screen shall be as tall as the equipment which it is
screening.
      4.   The rooftop screen shall provide at least eighty-five percent (85%)
screening of mechanical equipment from the adjacent roadways, adjacent
properties, adjacent waterways, and the site itself.
      5.   The rooftop screen shall be designed to be architecturally
integrated with the building's overall design in terms of materials, color,
scale, and architectural details.
      6.   Louvered, slatted, and perforated screening systems may be used.
Multiple offset sheets or walls may be needed in order to maintain airflow but
to achieve the required screening.
      7.   In certain circumstances, such as when the adjacent roadway is
raised, a fully-enclosed screening system with a roof may need to be used.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/83ece28ad5d1d98ab77b4eed90247c0d90d24731/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3676.png]
   C.   All ground-mounted mechanical equipment over thirty inches (30") in
height must be screened from view by a fence, wall, dense hedge, or combination
of such features providing at least eighty five percent (85%) direct view
blocking. The hedge, fence or wall must be at least as tall as the tallest part
of the equipment. The hedge, if used, must be this tall at the time of
planting.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/83ece28ad5d1d98ab77b4eed90247c0d90d24731/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3678.png]
   D.   The following are exempt from the requirements of this section:
      1.   Solar panels, wind energy or similar renewable energy devices.
      2.   Rooftop mechanical equipment less than one-foot (1') in height.
      3.   Taller equipment, such as chimneys, that cannot be practically
screened with parapet walls, false roofs, other building elements, or rooftop
screens when they are framed out in like-kind building materials or otherwise
integrated into the architectural design of the building at the discretion of
the Zoning Officer.
      4.   Mechanical equipment incidental to single family detached and single
family attached residential structures.
      5.   Communication devices in accordance with all applicable state or
federal law and FCC regulations. (Ord. 20-1988, 9- 22-2020)
10-3-36: SHORT-TERM RENTALS:
Short-term rentals are prohibited in all residential zoning districts. (Ord.
23-2082, 11-28-2023)
10-3-37: COMMERCIAL SOLAR ENERGY FACILITIES:
Commercial Solar Energy Facilities shall be subject to the following
requirements:
   A.   Height: Not to exceed 20 ft
   B.   Setbacks: In addition to the setback requirements listed in the zoning
district, solar energy facilities must be setback as follows.
      1.   At least 100 feet from the nearest edge of public right-of-way
unless waived by written consent by each affected non-participating property
owner.
      2.   At least 100 feet from adjacent properties not included in the
subject property as depicted in the site plan unless waived by written consent
by each affected non-participating property owner.
      3.   At least 150 feet from the nearest point of the outside wall of a
dwelling unit or occupied community building on any property not part of the
subject property unless waived by written consent by each affected property
owner.
      4.   Zero feet for side and rear yards on all properties that are
adjacent and within the subject property.
   C.   Glare: Solar energy systems must be designed, constructed, and sited to
minimize glare or reflections on adjacent properties and roadways and to not
interfere with traffic, including air traffic, or otherwise create a safety
hazard.
   D.   Landscaping: Solar energy systems must be landscaped in accordance with
Chapter 14 of this Title. As part of the landscaping requirements listed, the
facility shall provide 100 plant units per 100 linear feet and 80% of plant
units shall be a combination of overstory and evergreen trees.
   E.   Soil and ground cover.
      1.   Topsoils shall not be removed from the site during development
unless the removal is expressly approved as part of the special use permit.
      2.   Perennial vegetative ground cover must be maintained or established
in all areas of the solar energy systems.
      3.   Perennial vegetative ground cover must be maintained or established
in all areas of the solar energy systems.
   F.   Security barrier: Solar energy systems that are part of a commercial
solar energy facility must be enclosed by perimeter security fencing or other
village-approved barriers with a minimum height of at least six feet that meets
the standards listed for fences in Section
10-3-13 of this Title.
   G.   Lighting: Solar energy systems may not be permanently illuminated
except for:
      1.   Minimal lighting required by the FAA or other applicable authority;
and
      2.   security, emergency, or mechanical equipment lighting approved by
the Village Board as part of the site plan review process.
   H.   On-site utilities: On-site power lines and utility connections must be
placed underground.
   I.   Monitoring and maintenance: The owner/operator of the commercial solar
energy facility is responsible for keeping the facility in safe, sound, and
well-maintained condition, including painting, groundskeeping, structural
repairs, internal access drives, and the integrity of security measures.
      1.   The owner/operator shall maintain the areas located within the lease
area, including the areas located outside the perimeter fence lines on the
property and not excluded in the lease agreement.
   J.   Maintenance of grounds shall include mowing, reseeding, and weed
management practices in accordance with Title 8 "Building Regulations" Section
8-1B-8: INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE (IPMC) Section 302.4 "Weeds"
unless otherwise approved as part of the conditional use.
   K.   Submittal requirements: In addition to the other requirements of
Section
10-12-4 of this Title, all applications for conditional use permit approval
must include the following information.
      1.   Customary submittal requirements:
         a.   Completed Development Application.
         b.   Copy of recorded deed(s).
         c.   Electronic copy of legal description that is editable.
         d.   Plat of Survey (to scale) from a professional land surveyor.
Survey must include a scale, north arrow, and dimensions of the subject parcel.
         e.   Affidavit of Owner's Consent (if applicable).
         f.   Disclosure of Beneficiaries (if applicable).
         g.   Application fee.
      2.   Preliminary Site Plan identifying the following:
         a.   Subject property including the property lines, setback lines, and
right-of-way lines.
         b.   Physical features including but not limited to roads, floodplain
(s) (if applicable), wetland(s) (if applicable), existing and proposed building
(s), solar panels and equipment (number, location, and spacing of solar panels/
arrays), proposed locations of underground or overhead electric lines and
utility poles, landscaping, and fencing.
         c.   Identification of proposed construction and ongoing maintenance
routes from the nearest arterial road as detailed on a map.
         d.   Proposed product cut-sheets.
         e.   Glare study report, if required.
         f.   Visual screening report that includes the following:
         (1)   A map of homes within 300 feet of the facility;
         (2)   Locations and type of existing vegetation that provides
screening of views of the facility;
         (3)   Locations of homes within the subject property and residential
properties that have waived visual screening; and
         (4)   Topographic features that provide screening of the facility.
         g.   Interconnection Service Agreement or evidence of filing required
interconnection service applications with the electric utility.
         h.   Preliminary operation and maintenance plan of the commercial
solar energy facility, including measures for maintaining safe access to the
installation, stormwater controls, landscaping maintenance, as well as general
procedures for operation and maintenance of the installation.
         i.   Proof of liability insurance.
         j.   Preliminary emergency services plan, including but not limited to
the project summary, electrical schematic, and means of shutting down energy
systems throughout the life of the installation.
         k.   Redacted copies of all leases for the subject property.
   L.   Prohibited systems. Concentrated solar power systems are prohibited.
(Ord. 23-2083, 11-28-2023)
10-3-38: COMMERCIAL WIND ENERGY FACILITIES:
Commercial Wind Energy Facilities shall be subject to the following
requirements.
   A.   Minimum lot area. The minimum lot area requirement for a commercial
wind energy facility is 1,000 acres, which may include rented, owned, or leased
property.
   B.   Maximum height. Electric-generating wind devices may not exceed 500
feet in height, measured to the blade tip of the rotor at its highest point.
   C.   Minimum setbacks. Unless waived by the written consent of each affected
non-participating property owner, the following minimum setbacks shall apply to
electric-generating wind devices:
      1.   Minimum setback of 1.1 feet multiplied by the device height from any
property line.
      2.   Minimum setback of 2.1 feet multiplied by the device height from the
property line of any United States Fish and Wildlife area.
      3.   Minimum setback of 2.1 feet multiplied by the device height from the
property line of any Illinois Nature Preserve Commission land.
      4.   Minimum setback of 2.1 feet multiplied by the device height of any
off-site residential dwelling unit or occupied community building in existence
at the time of the conditional use permit application for the commercial wind
energy facility.
      5.   Minimum setback of 1.1 feet multiplied by the device height of any
on-site residential dwelling for the commercial wind energy facility.
      6.   Minimum setback of 1.1 feet multiplied by the device height of any
above-ground public electric power lines, telephone lines, and cable television
lines.
      7.   Minimum setback of 1.1 feet multiplied by the device height of any
public road rights-of-way.
   D.   Ground clearance. The blade tip of any rotor must, at its lowest point,
have ground clearance of at least 75 feet.
   E.   General regulations.
      1.   All climbing apparatus must be located at least 15 (fifteen) feet
above the ground, and the tower must be designed to prevent climbing within the
first 15 (fifteen) feet above the ground or base.
      2.   Electric-generating wind device rotors, towers, and turbines must be
painted a non-reflective, non-obtrusive color.
      3.   The design of all buildings and related structures must, to the
extent reasonably possible, use materials, colors, textures, screening, and
landscaping that reflect the natural setting and the existing environment. The
use of earthen berms may be used by the applicant but are explicitly not
required by the Village as a condition of any Conditional Use Permit.
      4.   Commercial wind energy facilities may not be artificially
illuminated, except to the minimum extent required by the FAA or other
applicable authority.
      5.   Wind turbines may not be used for displaying and advertising except
for reasonable identification of the manufacturer or operator of the commercial
wind energy facility.
      6.   Electrical controls and control wiring and power lines must be
wireless or not above-ground except where commercial wind energy facility
wiring is brought together for connection to the transmission or distribution
network, adjacent to that network.
      7.   All-access doors and gates to wind turbine towers and electrical
equipment must be lockable.
      8.   Each electric-generating wind device tower must be marked with a
visible identification number to assist with the provision of emergency
services, and the owner must file with the appropriate local fire protection
district and sheriff's police, a commercial wind energy facility map
identifying wind turbine locations and numbers.
      9.   Warning signs concerning voltage must be posted on the base of each
tower, electrical equipment, and at the entrance to any commercial wind energy
facility site.
      10.   If a facility owner enters into a road use agreement with the
Illinois Department of Transportation, a road district, or other unit of local
government relating to a commercial wind energy facility, the road use
agreement shall require the facility owner to be responsible for:
         a.   the reasonable cost of improving roads used by the facility owner
to construct the commercial wind energy facility; and
         b.   the reasonable cost of repairing roads used by the facility owner
during construction of the commercial wind energy facility so that those roads
are in a condition that is safe for the driving public after the completion of
the facility's construction.
   F.   Submittal requirements: In addition to the other requirements of
Section
10-12-4 of this Title, all applications for conditional use permit approval
must include the following information. Customary submittal requirements:
      1.   Site plan showing the following:
         a.   Survey of property or properties included in the proposal;
         b.   Distance to the nearest residential dwelling;
         c.   Setback regulations of the zoning district;
         d.   Setback regulations for each electric-generating wind device
tower;
         e.   Any floodplain or wetland on the property;
         f.   Any existing or proposed roads;
         g.   Location, height, and dimensions of all existing and proposed
structures and fencing;
         h.   Any easements or above-ground utilities on the property;
         i.   Surrounding zoning and uses within 1,320 feet of the property;
      2.   A project proposal that includes the following:
         a.   Name, company, address, and phone of the owner, developer, or any
other interested party.
         b.   Project summary including the nameplate generating capacity;
equipment manufacturer; type of electric-generating wind device and number of
electric-generating wind device; the nameplate generation for each electric-
generating wind device.
         c.   Maximum height and ground clearance for each electric-generating
wind device.
      3.   Certification, affidavit by an Illinois licensed professional
engineer, or other evidence of industry-standard computer modeling that
indicates any occupied community building or off-site residence will not
experience more than 30 hours per year of shadow flicker under planned
operating conditions unless waived by written consent by each affected non-
participating property owner.
      4.   Evidence of consultation with the Illinois State Historic
Preservation Office to assess potential impacts if any state-registered
historic sites under the Illinois State Agency Historic Resources Preservation
Act are present on-site or in the vicinity.
   G.   Signal interference. The permittee must minimize or mitigate any
interference with electromagnetic communications, such as radio, telephone, or
television signals caused by any commercial wind energy facility. (Ord. 23-
2083, 11-28-2023)
10-3-39: ACCESSORY SOLAR ENERGY FACILITIES:
Accessory solar energy facilities shall be allowed in all zoning districts, and
shall be subject to the following requirements:
   A.   Location:
      1.   All solar panels shall be installed on the roof of the property's
principal structure(s) or detached garage(s). Ground-mounted solar panels,
pole-mounted solar panels, and solar panels on carports and other accessory
structures other than detached garages are prohibited.
      2.   The entirety of each solar panel shall be placed within the roof's
area.
      3.   No part of any solar panel shall be located within one (1) foot from
the edge of the roof.
      4.   Solar panels shall not be installed within one (1) foot of the
roof's peak, except for buildings with flat or mansard roofs.
      5.   Building-integrated photovoltaics (BIPVs) designed to reduce visual
impact shall be allowed on principal structures and detached garages. They
shall be designed and configured to blend into the architecture of the building
and neighborhood. The one (1) foot setbacks of 10-3-39(A)(2) and 10-3-39(A)(3)
shall not apply to BIPVs.
      6.   No inverters, electrical boxes, battery storage, meters, conduit, or
other incidental equipment may be mounted to the front of the building.
      7.   No new overhead electrical lines may be installed to accommodate the
solar energy system.
   B.   Conditions:
      1.   The maximum height above the roof's surface shall be one (1) foot.
Solar panels must be installed parallel to the roof pitch.
      2.   All solar panels must be stationary. Tracking solar panels are not
permitted.
      3.   All components of the solar energy facility other than the panels
shall be similar to the roof's color.
      4.   Protective netting shall be placed around roof-mounted solar panels
at the time of installation to prevent birds, rodents, and debris from
impacting the roof.
      5.   Maintenance shall be regularly performed on the solar energy
facility.
   C.   Glare: Solar energy facilities must be designed, constructed, and sited
to minimize glare or reflections on adjacent properties and roadways and to not
interfere with traffic, including air traffic, or otherwise create a safety
hazard.
   D.   Usage: Energy produced via the solar energy facility shall be used
within the property. If more energy is produced than the property needs, energy
shall be delivered to the power grid.
   E.   Removal: If maintenance is not regularly performed on the solar energy
facility or if the facility is inoperative for nine (9) months, the solar
energy facility shall be completely removed and the roof shall be restored to
its original condition within ninety (90) days. (Ord. 25-2149, 7-8-2025)
10-3-40: ACCESSORY WIND ENERGY FACILITIES:
Accessory wind energy facilities are prohibited in all residential and business
zoning districts. Accessory wind energy facilities are allowed in industrial
zoning districts as conditional uses subject to the following requirements:
   A.   Location:
      1.   No more than one (1) freestanding wind turbine may be permitted on a
site and must be associated with a principal structure. The principal structure
must be constructed before a wind energy facility is installed.
      2.   The following minimum setback shall apply to freestanding accessory
wind energy devices:
         a.   Minimum setback of 1.1 feet multiplied by the device height of
any on-site structure.
         b.   Minimum setback of 1.1 feet multiplied by the device height from
any property line.
         c.   Minimum setback of 2.1 feet multiplied by the device height from
the property line of any United States Fish and Wildlife area.
         d.   Minimum setback of 2.1 feet multiplied by the device height from
the property line of any Illinois Nature Preserve Commission land.
         e.   Minimum setback of 2.1 feet multiplied by the device height from
any off-site residential dwelling unit or occupied community building in
existence at the time of the conditional use permit application for the
accessory wind energy facility.
         f.   Minimum setback of 1.1 feet multiplied by the device height from
any above-ground public electric power lines, telephone lines, and cable
television lines.
         g.   Minimum setback of 1.1 feet multiplied by the device height from
any public road rights-of-way.
      3.   No part of a roof-mounted wind energy facility shall be within five
feet (5') from the edges or eaves of a roof.
      4.   No part of a wind energy facility shall be located in or over any
access road, access easement, or public utility easement.
   B.   Maximum Height: The height of any freestanding or roof-mounted wind
energy facility shall not exceed fifteen feet (15') taller than the highest
point of the principal structure(s), measured to the blade tip of the rotor at
its highest point.
   C.   Clearance: The blade tip of any rotor shall, at its lowest point, have
ground clearance of at least fifteen feet (15'). For roof-mounted wind energy
facilities, this standard shall be at least five feet (5') from any part of the
principal structure(s). Motionless wind energy systems shall be mounted
directly to the roof.
   D.   Conditions:
      1.   The maximum blade size for accessory wind energy facilities shall be
ten (15) feet in total rotor diameter.
      2.   All climbing apparatus shall be located at least fifteen feet (15')
above the ground. Towers of freestanding devices must be designed to prevent
climbing within the first fifteen feet (15') above the ground or base.
      3.   Freestanding wind energy facilities shall be designed without the
use of guy wires.
      4.   Electric-generating wind device rotors, towers, and turbines must be
painted a non-obtrusive color (such as white, sky blue, or silver) with a non-
reflective finish.
      5.   Electrical controls, control wiring, and power lines shall be
wireless, underground, or otherwise obstructed from view.
      6.   Wind energy facilities shall not be artificially illuminated, except
to the minimum extent required by the FAA or other applicable authority.
      7.   Wind turbines shall not be used for displaying and advertising
except for reasonable identification of the manufacturer or operator of the
wind energy facility, or to display public safety information.
      8.   No new overhead electrical lines may be installed to accommodate the
wind energy system.
   E.   Quality Control:
      1.   Applicants shall provide evidence that wind energy structures and
parts comply with industry standards. It is recommended that a wind energy
facility be certified under an industry standard such as the American Wind
Energy Association's Small Wind Turbine Performance and Safety Standard.
      2.   Applicants shall provide evidence that liability insurance is
provided for the wind energy facility before building permits are released.
      3.   Maintenance shall be regularly performed on the wind energy
facility.
   F.   Noise Control: Accessory wind energy facilities shall not emanate noise
louder than thirty (30) decibels as measured from the property lines.
   G.   Removal: If maintenance is not regularly performed on the wind energy
facility or if the facility is inoperative for nine (9) months, the wind energy
facility shall be completely removed and the site shall be restored to its
original condition within ninety (90) days. (Ord. 25-2149, 7-8-2025)
CHAPTER 4
ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
SECTION:
10-4-1: District Classifications
10-4-2: Zoning District Map
10-4-3: Boundaries Of Districts
10-4-4: Zoning Of Annexed Land
10-4-1: DISTRICT CLASSIFICATIONS:
For the purposes of this title, the village is hereby divided and classified
into the following zoning districts:
 District Classification Article In This Zoning Title
      District Classification                      Article In This Zoning Title
E-2   Medium density estate district               5A
E-1   Estate transition district                   5B
R-1-A Low density single-family residence district 5C
R-1   Medium density single-family residence       5D
      district
R-3   Medium density single-family and two-family  5E
      residence district
R-3-A Medium density multiple-family residence     5F
      district
R-4   Multiple-family residence district           5G
R-5   Multiple-family residence district           5H
RMH   Mobile home park district                    5I
AG    Agricultural district                        5J
TCR-1 Town center residence district               5K
TCR-2 Town center residence district               5L
B-1   Neighborhood convenience shopping center     6A
      district
B-2   Community shopping center district           6B
B-3   General commercial district                  6C
B-4   Automotive service district                  6D
OCI   Office, commercial and institutional         6E
      district
ORI   Office, research and light industrial        7A
      district
I-2   General industrial district                  7B
I-3   Planned industrial district                  7C
 
(Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993; amd. Ord. 04-1216, 5-11-2004)
10-4-2: ZONING DISTRICT MAP:
Such land and the zoning district classification thereof shall be as shown on
the map designated as the Shorewood crossroads zoning district map, dated and
signed by the village clerk upon adoption. This zoning map and all notations,
dimensions, references and symbols shown thereon pertaining to such districts
shall be as much a part of this title as if fully described herein and shall be
filed as part of this title by the village clerk. Said map shall be available
for public inspection in the office of the village clerk and any later
alterations of this map adopted by amendment as provided in chapter 12 of this
title shall be similarly dated, filed and made available for public reference.
(Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
10-4-3: BOUNDARIES OF DISTRICTS:
The following rules shall apply with respect to the boundaries of various
zoning districts as shown on the zoning district map:
   A.   District boundary lines are the centerlines of highways, streets,
alleys, easements, railroad rights of way, toll roads, expressways, rivers and
other bodies of waters or section, division of section, tract and lot lines or
such lines extended, unless otherwise indicated.
   B.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines of
highways, streets, alleys, easements, toll roads or expressways shall be
construed to follow such centerlines.
   C.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines shall
be construed as following such lot lines.
   D.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following village limits shall be
construed as following village limits.
   E.   Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall be construed to
be the established centerline of the right of way, or if no centerline is
established, the boundary shall be interpreted to be midway between the right
of way lines.
   F.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines of
rivers or other bodies of water shall be construed to follow such centerlines
and, in the event of change in the centerline, shall be construed as moving
with the centerline; the centerline shall be interpreted as being midway
between the shorelines.
   G.   Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of features indicated
in subsections A through F of this section shall be construed as such.
   H.   Whenever any street, alley or other public right of way is vacated by
official action of the village board, or whenever such area is franchised for
building purposes, the zoning district line adjoining each side of such street,
alley or other public right of way shall be automatically extended to the
centerline of such vacated street, alley or public right of way, and all areas
so involved shall then and henceforth be subject to all regulations of the
extended districts.
   I.   Boundaries indicated as dividing a lot or tract shall be construed as
being located as shown on the zoning district map.
   J.   Distances not specifically indicated on the zoning district map shall
be determined by the scale of the map. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
10-4-4: ZONING OF ANNEXED LAND:
Whenever any territory shall hereafter be annexed to the village, the territory
shall immediately be zoned as R-1 (single-family residential). No building
permit shall be issued for the erection or alteration of buildings within such
annexed territory except in conformance with the provisions of this title
prescribed for the R-1 district until such territory has been reclassified by
amendment hereto. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
CHAPTER 5
RESIDENCE DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. E-2 MEDIUM DENSITY ESTATE DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5A-1: Intent
10-5A-2: Permitted Uses
10-5A-3: Conditional Uses
10-5A-4: Required Conditions
10-5A-5: Site And Structure Requirements
10-5A-6: Additional District Regulations
10-5A-1: INTENT:
The E-2 Estate District is intended to provide an environment suitable for
single-family residence and compatible uses at a low rate of urban population
density. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
10-5A-2: PERMITTED USES:
No building, structure or parcel of land shall be used and no building or
structure shall be erected, altered or enlarged which is arranged, intended or
designed for other than one of the following uses:
Any use permitted in the R-1-A District. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
10-5A-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following conditional uses may be permitted in specific situations in
accordance with the procedures outlined in section
10-12-4 and chapter 11 of this title, as appropriate:
Any conditional use in the R-1-A District. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
10-5A-4: REQUIRED CONDITIONS:
There are no conditions required in the E-2 District. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
10-5A-5: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Area: The minimum area in the E-2 District shall be as follows:
      1.   Single-family detached dwellings; nursery schools, preschools and
daycare centers - 40,000 square feet.
      2.   Elementary schools, junior high schools, senior high schools - 7
acres.
      3.   Cemeteries; religious institutions; civic buildings; convalescent
and nursing homes - 2 acres.
      4.   Golf courses; parks, playgrounds and forest preserves; public and
private utility facilities - none.
      5.   Airports; hospitals and sanitariums; swim and/or tennis clubs;
planned unit developments - 5 acres.
   B.   Lot Width: The minimum lot width, at the front yard line, in the E-
2 District shall be as follows:
      1.   Single-family detached dwellings; nursery schools, preschools, and
daycare centers - 125 feet.
      2.   All other permitted and conditional uses - none.
   C.   Yards: The minimum yards required in the E-2 District shall be as
follows:
      1.   Single-family detached dwellings:
         Front yard - 35 feet.
         Interior side yard - 20 feet.
         Corner side yard - 35 feet.
         Rear yard - 50 feet.
      2.   All other permitted and conditional uses:
         Front yard - 35 feet.
         Interior side yard - 20 feet, plus 1 foot for each 2 feet by which the
building or structure height exceeds 28 feet.
         Corner side yard - 35 feet, plus 1 foot for each 2 feet by which the
building or structure height exceeds 28 feet.
         Rear yard - 50 feet.
   D.   Height Limitations; Bulk Regulations: No principal structure shall
exceed 21/2 stories or 35 feet. No accessory structure shall exceed 1 story or
15 feet.
   E.   Dwelling Standards: Each single-family detached dwelling and any other
structure occupied in whole or in part for residential purposes shall contain a
minimum of 1,800 square feet of livable floor area, exclusive of basement or
garage space.
   F.   Lot Coverage: Not more than 50 percent of the lot area may be occupied
by principal and accessory buildings and impermeable surfaces combined. Lot
coverage may be increased to a maximum of 55 percent in cases where a permitted
accessory structure or use is constructed with a permeable material to permit
water percolation and adequate drainage. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
10-5A-6: ADDITIONAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS:
   A.   Water discharge: Title 12 of this Code.
   B.   Signs: In accordance with
chapter 10 of this title.
   C.   Landscaping:
Chapter 14 of this title.
   D.   Home occupations: Section
10-3-9 of this title.
   E.   Off street parking and loading: In accordance with chapter 8 of this
title. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
ARTICLE B. E-1 ESTATE TRANSITION DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5B-1: Intent
10-5B-2: Permitted Uses
10-5B-3: Conditional Uses
10-5B-4: Site And Structure Requirements
10-5B-5: Additional District Regulations
10-5B-1: INTENT:
The E-1 District is intended to provide an environment suitable for single-
family residence and compatible uses at a low transition rate of urban
population density. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
10-5B-2: PERMITTED USES:
No building, structure or parcel of land shall be used and no building or
structure shall be erected, altered or enlarged which is arranged, intended or
designed for other than one of the following uses:
Any uses permitted in the R-1-A District. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
10-5B-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following conditional uses may be permitted in specific situations in
accordance with the procedures outlined in section
10-12-4 and chapter 11 of this title, as appropriate:
Any conditional use of the R-1-A District. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
10-5B-4: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Area: The minimum area in the E-1 District shall be as follows:
      1.   Single-family detached dwellings; nursery schools, preschools and
daycare centers - 20,000 square feet.
      2.   Elementary schools, junior high schools, senior high schools - 7
acres.
      3.   Cemeteries; religious institutions; civic buildings; convalescent
and nursing homes - 2 acres.
      4.   Golf courses; parks, playgrounds and forest preserves; public and
private utility facilities - none.
      5.   Airports; hospitals and sanitariums; swim and/or tennis clubs;
planned unit developments - 5 acres.
   B.   Lot Width: The minimum lot width at the front yard line in the E-
1 District shall be as follows:
      1.   Single-family detached dwellings; nursery schools, preschools, and
daycare centers - 100 feet.
      2.   All other permitted and conditional uses - none.
   C.   Yards: The minimum yards required in the E-1 District shall be as
follows:
      1.   Single-family detached dwellings:
         Front yard - 35 feet.
         Interior side yard - 15 feet.
         Corner side yard - 35 feet.
         Rear yard - 50 feet.
      2.   All other permitted and conditional uses:
         Front yard - 35 feet.
         Interior side yard - 15 feet, plus 1 foot for each 2 feet by which the
building or structure height exceeds 28 feet.
         Corner side yard - 35 feet, plus 1 foot for each 2 feet by which the
building or structure height exceeds 28 feet.
         Rear yard - 50 feet.
   D.   Height Limitations; Bulk Regulations: No principal structure shall
exceed 21/2 stories or 35 feet. No accessory structure shall exceed 1 story or
15 feet.
   E.   Dwelling Standards: Each single-family detached dwelling and any other
structure occupied, in whole or in part, for residential purposes shall contain
a minimum of 1,500 square feet of livable floor area, exclusive of basement or
garage space.
   F.   Lot Coverage: Not more than 50 percent of the lot area may be occupied
by principal and accessory buildings and impermeable surfaces combined. Lot
coverage may be increased to a maximum of 55 percent in cases where a permitted
accessory structure or use is constructed with a permeable material to permit
water percolation and adequate drainage. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
10-5B-5: ADDITIONAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS:
   A.   Water discharge: Title 12 of this Code.
   B.   Signs: In accordance with
chapter 10 of this title.
   C.   Landscaping:
Chapter 14 of this title.
   D.   Home occupations: Section
10-3-9 of this title.
   E.   Off street parking and loading: In accordance with
chapter 8 of this title. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
ARTICLE C. R-1-A LOW DENSITY SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5C-1: Intent
10-5C-2: Permitted Uses
10-5C-3: Conditional Uses
10-5C-4: Required Conditions
10-5C-5: Site And Structure Requirements
10-5C-6: Additional District Regulations
10-5C-1: INTENT:
The R-1-A district is intended to provide single-family areas of low density
character with lots containing a minimum of 13,500 square feet. (Ord. 93-695,
6-15-1993)
10-5C-2: PERMITTED USES:
No building, structure or parcel of land shall be used and no building or
structure shall be erected, altered or enlarged which is arranged, intended or
designed for other than one of the following uses:
   Elementary schools, junior high schools and senior high schools that do not
have boarding facilities.
   Golf courses.
   Parks, playgrounds and forest preserves.
   Single-family detached dwellings.
Small community residence; provided, that the residence's sponsoring agency
and/or owner must first obtain an administrative occupancy permit prior to
establishing a small community residence. No dwelling unit shall be occupied
until an occupancy permit has been issued by the village administrator. No
certificate of occupancy shall be issued for a small community residence
unless:
   A.   The small community residence is located at least 1,320 feet from any
other community residence, as measured from lot line to lot line; and
   B.   The applicant demonstrates that it has either obtained or is eligible
for state or local licensing or certification to operate the proposed small
community residence.
The village administrator may revoke a certificate of occupancy for a small
community residence if its license or certification or the operator/owner's
license or certification to operate community residence is revoked or not
issued within a reasonable period of time.
An administrative certificate of occupancy is not transferable to another
operator/owner or to another location. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
10-5C-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following conditional uses may be permitted in specific situations in
accordance with the procedures outlined in section
10-12-4 and
chapter 11 of this title, as appropriate:
   Civic buildings.
   Daycare homes.
   Large community residences.
   Nursery schools, preschools and daycare centers.
   Planned unit developments.
   Public and private utility facilities.
   Religious institutions.
   Small community residences located within 1,320 feet of another community
residence, as measured from lot line to lot line.
   Swim and/or tennis clubs not for profit. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993; amd. Ord.
00-1008, 9-26-2000)
10-5C-4: REQUIRED CONDITIONS:
There are no conditions required in the R-1-A district. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-
1993)
10-5C-5: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Area: The minimum area in the R-1-A district shall be as follows:
      1.   Single-family detached dwellings; nursery schools, preschools and
daycare centers - 13,500 square feet per lot.
      2.   Elementary schools, junior high schools and senior high schools - 7
acres.
      3.   Golf courses; parks, playgrounds and forest preserves; public and
private utility facilities - none.
      4.   Religious institutions; civic buildings; swim and/or tennis clubs -
2 acres.
      5.   Planned unit developments - 10 acres.
   B.   Lot Width: The minimum lot width, at the front yard line, in the R-1-
A district shall be as follows:
      1.   Single-family detached dwellings; nursery schools, preschools and
daycare centers - 85 feet per lot.
      2.   All other permitted and conditional uses - none.
   C.   Yards: The minimum yard requirements in the R-1-A district shall be as
follows:
      1.   Single-Family Detached Dwellings:
         Front yard - 30 feet.
         Interior side yard - 10 feet. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
         Corner side yard - 25 feet. (Ord. 06-1373, 7-25-2006)
         Rear yard - 25 percent of the lot depth which need not exceed 30 feet.
      2.   All Other Permitted And Conditional Uses:
         Front yard - 30 feet.
         Interior side yard - 20 feet, plus 1 foot for each 2 feet by which the
building or structure height exceeds 28 feet. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
         Corner side yard - 25 feet, plus 1 foot for each 2 feet by which the
building or structure height exceeds 28 feet. (Ord. 06-1373, 7-25-2006)
         Rear yard - 35 feet.
   D.   Height Limitations; Bulk Regulations:
      1.   No principal structure shall exceed 21/2 stories or 35 feet. No
accessory structure shall exceed 1 story or 15 feet.
      2.   Floor area ratio - not to exceed 0.5.
   E.   Dwelling Standards: Each single-family detached dwelling and any other
structure occupied, in whole or in part, for residential purposes shall contain
a minimum of 1,500 square feet of livable floor area, exclusive of basement or
garage space.
   F.   Lot Coverage: Not more than 50 percent of the lot area may be occupied
by principal and accessory buildings and impermeable surfaces combined. Lot
coverage may be increased to a maximum of 55 percent in cases where a permitted
accessory structure or use is constructed with a permeable material to permit
water percolation and adequate drainage. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
10-5C-6: ADDITIONAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS:
   A.   Water discharge: Title 12 of this Code.
   B.   Signs: In accordance with
chapter 10 of this title.
   C.   Landscaping:
Chapter 14 of this title.
   D.   Home occupations: Section
10-3-9 of this title.
   E.   Off street parking and loading: In accordance with
chapter 8 of this title. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
ARTICLE D. R-1 MEDIUM DENSITY SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5D-1: Intent
10-5D-2: Permitted Uses
10-5D-3: Conditional Uses
10-5D-4: Required Conditions
10-5D-5: Site And Structure Requirements
10-5D-6: Additional District Regulations
10-5D-1: INTENT:
The R-1 District is intended to provide single-family areas of a medium density
character with lots containing a minimum of 12,000 square feet. (Ord. 93-695,
6-15-1993)
10-5D-2: PERMITTED USES:
No building, structure or parcel of land shall be used and no building or
structure shall be erected, altered or enlarged which is arranged, intended or
designed for other than one of the following uses:
Any use permitted in the R-1-A District. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
10-5D-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following conditional uses may be permitted in specific situations in
accordance with the procedures outlined in section
10-12-4 and
chapter 11 of this title, as appropriate:
Any use permitted in the R-1-A District. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
10-5D-4: REQUIRED CONDITIONS:
There are no conditions required in the R-1 District. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
10-5D-5: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Area: The minimum area in the R-1 District shall be as follows:
      1.   Single-family detached dwellings; nursery schools, preschools and
daycare centers - 12,000 square feet per lot.
      2.   Elementary schools, junior high schools and senior high schools - 7
acres.
      3.   Golf courses; parks, playgrounds and forest preserves; public and
private utility facilities - none.
      4.   Religious institutions; civic buildings; swim and/or tennis clubs -
2 acres.
      5.   Planned unit developments - 12 acres.
   B.   Lot Width: The minimum lot width, at the front yard line in the R-
1 District shall be as follows:
      1.   Single-family detached dwellings; nursery schools, preschools and
daycare centers - 80 feet per lot.
      2.   All other permitted and conditional uses - none.
   C.   Yards: The minimum yards required in the R-1 District shall be as
follows:
      1.   Single-family detached dwellings:
         Front yard - 30 feet.
         Interior side yard - 10 feet. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
         Corner side yard - 25 feet. (Ord. 06-1373, 7-25-2006)
         Rear yard - 25 percent of the lot depth which need not exceed 35 feet.
      2.   All other permitted and conditional uses:
         Front yard - 30 feet.
         Interior side yard - 15 feet, plus 1 foot for each 2 feet by which the
building or structure height exceeds 28 feet. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
         Corner side yard - 25 feet, plus 1 foot for each 2 feet by which the
building or structure height exceeds 28 feet. (Ord. 06-1373, 7-25-2006)
         Rear yard - 30 feet.
   D.   Height Limitations; Bulk Regulations:
      1.   No principal structure shall exceed 21/2 stories or 35 feet. No
accessory structure shall exceed 1 story or 15 feet.
      2.   Floor area ratio - not to exceed 0.5.
   E.   Dwelling Standards: Each single-family detached dwelling and any other
structure occupied, in whole or in part, for residential purposes shall contain
a minimum of 1,500 square feet of livable floor area, exclusive of basement or
garage space.
   F.   Lot Coverage: Not more than 50 percent of the lot area may be occupied
by principal and accessory buildings and impermeable surfaces combined. Lot
coverage may be increased to a maximum of 55 percent in cases where a permitted
accessory structure or use is constructed with a permeable material to permit
water percolation and adequate drainage. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
10-5D-6: ADDITIONAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS:
   A.   Water discharge: Title 12 of this Code.
   B.   Signs: In accordance with chapter 10 of this title.
   C.   Landscaping: Chapter 14 of this title.
   D.   Home occupations: Section
10-3-9 of this title.
   E.   Off street parking and loading: In accordance with chapter 8 of this
title. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
ARTICLE E. R-3 MEDIUM DENSITY SINGLE-FAMILY AND TWO-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5E-1: Intent
10-5E-2: Permitted Uses
10-5E-3: Conditional Uses
10-5E-4: Required Conditions
10-5E-5: Site and Structure Requirements
10-5E-6: Additional District Regulations
10-5E-1: INTENT:
The R-3 District is intended to provide for an environment of medium density
dwellings plus certain additional uses such as schools, parks, churches and
certain public facilities which serve the residents living in the District. In
addition to large areas allocated for the District, it has useful application
as a buffer or transition zone along highways, major streets and bordering
shopping centers. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-93)
10-5E-2: PERMITTED USES:
No building, structure or parcel of land shall be used and no building or
structure shall be erected, altered or enlarged which is arranged, intended or
designed for other than one of the following uses:
   - Any permitted use in the R-1-A District.
   - Swim and/or tennis clubs.
   - Two-family duplex dwellings. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-93)
10-5E-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following conditional uses may be permitted in specific situations in
accordance with the procedures outlined in Section
10-12-4 and
Chapter 11 of this Title, as appropriate:
   - Any conditional use in the R-1-A District except that are now permitted
uses in the R-3 District.
   - Clinics - medical and dental.
   - Convalescent and nursing homes.
   - Swimming pools and recreational buildings. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-93)
10-5E-4: REQUIRED CONDITIONS:
There are no conditions required in the R-3 District. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-93)
10-5E-5: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Area: The minimum area in the R-3 District shall be as follows:
      1.   Single-family detached dwellings - 12,000 square feet per lot.
      2.   Two-family duplex dwellings - 5,500 square feet per dwelling unit.
      3.   Clinics; nursery schools, preschools and day care centers - 12,000
square feet per lot.
      4.   Elementary schools, junior high schools and senior high schools - 7
acres.
      5.   Golf courses; parks, playgrounds and forest preserves: public and
private utility facilities - none.
      6.   Religious institutions; civic buildings; swim and/or tennis clubs;
convalescent and nursing homes; planned unit developments - 2 acres.
   B.   Lot Width: The minimum lot width, at the front yard line, in the R-
3 District shall be as follows:
      1.   Single-family detached dwellings; two-family dwellings and duplexes;
nursery schools, preschools and day care centers; clinics - 80 feet.
      2.   All other permitted and conditional uses - none.
   C.   Yards: The minimum yards required in the R-3 District shall be as
follows:
      1.   All Residential Uses:
         Front yard - 30 feet.
         Interior side yard - 10 feet.
         Corner side yard - 25 feet.
         Rear yard - 30 feet.
      2.   All Other Permitted and Conditional Uses:
         Front yard - 25 feet, plus 1 foot for each 2 feet by which the
building or structure height exceeds 28 feet.
         Interior side yard - 15 feet, plus 1 foot for each 2 feet by which the
building or structure height exceeds 28 feet.
         Corner side yard - 25 feet, plus 1 foot for each 2 feet by which the
building or structure height exceeds 28 feet.
         Rear yard - 25 feet, plus 1 foot for each 2 feet by which the building
or structure exceeds 28 feet in height.
   D.   Height Limitations; Bulk Regulations:
      1.   No principal structure shall exceed 21/2 stories or 35 feet. No
accessory structure shall exceed one story or 15 feet.
      2.   Floor area ratio - not to exceed 0.5.
   E.   Dwelling Standards:
      1.   Each single-family detached dwelling and any other structure
occupied in whole or in part for residential purposes shall contain a minimum
of 1,500 square feet of livable floor area, exclusive of basement or garage
space.
      2.   Each two-family duplex shall contain at least 1,000 square feet of
livable floor area for each dwelling unit.
   F.   Lot Coverage: Not more than 50 percent of the lot area may be occupied
by principal and accessory buildings and impermeable surfaces combined. Lot
coverage may be increased to a maximum of 55 percent in cases where a permitted
accessory structure or use is constructed with a permeable material to permit
water percolation and adequate drainage. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
10-5E-6: ADDITIONAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS:
   A.   Water discharge: Title 12 of this Code.
   B.   Signs: In accordance with
chapter 10 of this title.
   C.   Landscaping:
Chapter 14 of this title.
   D.   Home occupations: Section
10-3-9 of this title.
   E.   Off street parking and loading: In accordance with chapter 8 of this
title. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
ARTICLE F. R-3-A MEDIUM DENSITY MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5F-1: Intent
10-5F-2: Permitted Uses
10-5F-3: Conditional Uses
10-5F-4: Required Conditions
10-5F-5: Site and Structure Requirements
10-5F-6: Additional District Regulations
10-5F-1: INTENT:
The R-3-A District is intended to provide multiple-family areas of a medium
density character accommodating a variety of housing types and compatible uses.
(Ord. 93-695, 6-15-93)
10-5F-2: PERMITTED USES:
No building, structure or parcel of land shall be used and no building or
structure shall be erected, altered or enlarged which is arranged intended or
designed for other than one of the following uses:
   - Any use permitted in the R-1-A District.
   - Large community residences; provided, that the residence's sponsoring
agency and/or owner must first obtain an administrative occupancy permit prior
to establishing a large community residence. No dwelling unit shall be occupied
by a large community residence until a certificate of occupancy has been issued
by the Village Administrator. No certificate of occupancy shall be issued for a
large community residence unless:
      A.   The large community residence is located at least 1,320 feet from
any other community residence, as measured from lot line to lot line; and
      B.   The applicant demonstrates that it has either obtained or is
eligible for State or local licensing or certification to operate the proposed
large community residence.
The Village Administrator may revoke a certificate of occupancy for a large
community residence if its license or certification or the operator/owner's
license or certification to operate community residence is revoked or not
issued within a reasonable period of time.
The Village Administrative certificate of occupancy is not transferable to
another operator/owner or to another location.
   - Multiple-family dwellings.
   - Single-family attached dwellings.
   - Swim and/or tennis clubs.
   - Two-family dwellings and duplexes. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-93)
10-5F-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following conditional uses may be permitted in specific situations in
accordance with the procedures outlined in Section
10-12-4 and
Chapter 11 of this Title, as appropriate:
   - Any conditional use in the R-1-A District except those that are now
permitted uses in the R-3-A District.
   - Clinics - medical and dental.
   - Convalescent and nursing homes.
   - Large community residences located within 1,320 feet of another community
residence. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-93)
10-5F-4: REQUIRED CONDITIONS:
There are no conditions required in the R-3-A District. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-93)
10-5F-5: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Area:
      1.   Single-family detached dwellings - 12,000 square feet.
      2.   Two-family dwellings and duplexes - 5,500 square feet per dwelling
unit.
      3.   Single-family attached dwellings - 5,000 square feet per dwelling
unit.
      4.   Multi-family dwellings - 4,500 square feet per dwelling unit.
      5.   Nursery schools, preschools and day care centers; clinics - 8,000
square feet per lot.
      6.   Elementary schools, junior high schools and senior high schools - 7
acres.
      7.   Golf courses; parks, playgrounds and forest preserves; public and
private utility facilities - none.
      8.   Religious institutions, civic buildings; swim and/or tennis clubs;
convalescent and nursing homes; planned unit developments - 2 acres.
   B.   Lot Width: The minimum lot width, at the front yard line, in the R-3-
A District shall be as follows:
      1.   Two-family dwellings and duplexes; multiple-family dwellings;
nursery schools, preschools and day care centers; clinics - 80 feet.
      2.   All other permitted and conditional uses - 80 feet.
   C.   Yards: The minimum yards required in the R-3-A District shall be as
follows:
      1.   All Residential Uses, Except Multiple Family Dwellings:
         Front yard - 30 feet.
         Interior side yard - 10 feet.
         Corner side yard - 25 feet.
         Rear yard - 30 feet.
      2.   All Other Permitted and Conditional Uses:
         Front yard - 30 feet, plus 1 foot for each 2 feet by which the
building or structure exceeds 28 feet in height.
         Interior side yard - 20 feet, plus 1 foot for each 2 feet by which the
building or structure height exceeds 28 feet.
         Corner side yard - 25 feet, plus 1 foot for each 2 feet by which the
building or structure height exceeds 28 feet.
         Rear yard - 30 feet, plus 1 foot for each 2 feet by which the building
or structure exceeds 28 feet in height.
   D.   Height Limitations; Bulk Regulations:
      1.   The maximum height for all buildings and structures in the R-3-
A District shall be 21/2 stories not to exceed 35 feet.
      2.   Maximum of 6 dwelling units per structure.
      3.   For nonresidential uses, principal and accessory buildings shall
cover not more than 35 percent of the gross lot area.
   E.   Dwelling Standards: Each single-family detached dwelling shall contain
at least 1,500 square feet of livable floor area, each two-family dwelling
shall contain at least 1,000 square feet of livable floor area for each
dwelling unit, and each multi-family dwelling shall contain at least 800 square
feet of livable floor area for each dwelling unit.
   F.   Lot Coverage: Not more than 50 percent of the lot area may be occupied
by principal and accessory buildings impermeable surfaces combined. Lot
coverage may be increased to a maximum of 55 percent in cases where a permitted
accessory structure or use is constructed with a permeable material to permit
water percolation and adequate drainage. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
10-5F-6: ADDITIONAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS:
   A.   Water discharge: Title 12 of this Code.
   B.   Signs: In accordance with
chapter 10 of this title.
   C.   Landscaping:
Chapter 14 of this title.
   D.   Home occupations: Section
10-3-9 of this title.
   E.   Off street parking and loading: In accordance with
chapter 8 of this title. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
ARTICLE G. R-4 MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5G-1: Intent
10-5G-2: Permitted Uses
10-5G-3: Permitted Accessory Uses
10-5G-4: Conditional Uses
10-5G-5: Required Conditions
10-5G-6: Site and Structure Requirements
10-5G-7: Additional District Regulations
10-5G-1: INTENT:
This District is composed of multiple-family units constructed as a rowhouse,
townhome and/or condominium. It is the intent of this District to provide for
an environment of medium-density dwellings plus certain additional uses as
parks and certain public recreational facilities which serve the residents
living in the District. In addition to large areas allocated for this District,
it has useful application as a buffer or transition zone along highways, major
streets and bordering shopping centers. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-93)
10-5G-2: PERMITTED USES:
No building, structure or parcel of land shall be used and no building or
structure shall be erected, altered or enlarged which is arranged, intended or
designed for other than one of the following uses:
   - Large community residences; provided, that the residence's sponsoring
agency and/or owner must first obtain an administrative occupancy permit prior
to establishing a large community residence. No dwelling unit shall be occupied
by a large community residence until a certificate of occupancy has been issued
by the Village Administrator. No certificate of occupancy shall be issued for a
large community residence unless:
      A.   The large community residence is located at least 1,320 feet from
any other community residence, as measured from lot line to lot line; and
      B.   The applicant demonstrates that it has either obtained or is
eligible for State or local licensing or certification to operate the proposed
large community residence.
The Village Administrator may revoke a certificate of occupancy for a large
community residence if its license or certification or the operator/owner's
license or certification to operate community residence is revoked or not
issued within a reasonable period of time.
The Village administrative certificate of occupancy is not transferable to
another operator/owner or to another location.
   - Multiple-family dwelling units constructed as:
      Condominiums.
      Rowhouses.
      Townhomes.
      Two-family duplexes.
   - Small community residence; provided, that the residence's sponsoring
agency and/or owner must first obtain an administrative occupancy permit prior
to establishing a small community residence. No dwelling unit shall be occupied
until an occupancy permit has been issued by the Village Administrator. No
certificate of occupancy shall be issued for a small community residence
unless:
      A.   The small community residence is located at least 1,320 feet from
any other community residence, as measured from lot line to lot line; and
      B.   The applicant demonstrates that it has either obtained or is
eligible for State or local licensing or certification to operate the proposed
small community residence.
The Village Administrator may revoke a certificate of occupancy for a small
community residence if its license or certification or the operator/owner's
license or certification to operate community residence is revoked or not
issued within a reasonable period of time.
An administrative certificate of occupancy is not transferable to another
operator/owner or to another location. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-93)
10-5G-3: PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES:
   - Uses clearly incidental, but necessary, to the permitted principle use.
   - Private recreational and hobby uses such as swimming pools, tennis courts,
gardens and greenhouses, shuffle board, horseshoe pit, volleyball area, putting
green. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-93)
10-5G-4: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following conditional uses may be permitted in specified situations in
accordance with the procedures outlined in Section
10-12-4 and
Chapter 11 of this Title, as appropriate:
   - Large community residences located within 1,320 feet of another community
residence.
   - Noncommercial recreational building.
   - Planned unit development (PUD).
   - Schools, K-12.
   - Schools, nursery or preschool.
   - Small community residences located within 1,320 feet of another community
residence, as measured from lot line to lot line. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-93; amd.
Ord. 20-1988, 9-22-2020)
10-5G-5: REQUIRED CONDITIONS:
The following conditions shall be required:
   A.   Each dwelling unit shall provide separate front and rear entrance/exit
to the outdoors.
   B.   Each residential structure and/or building shall contain no more than 4
units.
   C.   Maximum density is 6 units per acre.
   D.   Maximum density for duplex dwellings shall be buildings per acre, 2
dwelling units per building.
   E.   No required living space can be provided below grade level.
   F.   Each dwelling unit requires a basement equal to 80 percent of the
ground floor area of the first story.
   G.   Accessory vehicles defined as boats, trailers, motor homes,
snowmobiles, motorcycles, golf carts and ATVs shall be parked or stored within
an enclosed garage or structure.
   H.   Flat roofs shall not be permitted. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
10-5G-6: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Area: The minimum area in the R-4 District shall be as follows:
      1.   All projects of more than 2 acres shall be developed as a planned
unit development and follow the PUD guidelines and requirements.
      2.   All projects of 2 acres or less shall have a minimum lot area of
28,500 square feet.
      3.   A separate ground area of not less than 5,000 square feet shall be
designated, provided and continuously maintained for each multi-family dwelling
unit as landscaped open space.
      4.   Each two-family duplex dwelling shall have a minimum lot area of
13,500 square feet.
   B.   Lot Width:
      1.   Multiple-family dwellings - 120 feet.
      2.   Duplex dwellings - 90 feet.
   C.   Yards: The minimum yards required in the R-4 District shall be as
follows:
      1.   Multiple-family dwellings:
         Front yard - 40 feet.
         Rear yard - 40 feet.
         Side yard - 10 and 15 feet.
         Side, corner lot - 40 feet.
      2.   Two-family duplex dwellings:
         Front yard - 40 feet.
         Rear yard - 40 feet.
         Side yard - 15 feet.
         Side, corner lot - 30 feet.
   D.   Height Limitations; Bulk Regulations:
      1.   No principal structure shall exceed 21/2 stories or 35 feet. No
accessory structure shall exceed 1 story or 15 feet.
      2.   Notwithstanding anything contained in the foregoing provisions to
the contrary, no more than 12 dwelling units or rowhouse units shall be
erected, enlarged, relocated, reconstructed or structurally altered within the
corporate limits of the Village.
   E.   Dwelling Standards:
      1.   Minimum dwelling unit floor area for multiple family dwellings:
 
Number Of Bedrooms           Minimum Living Area
Efficiency, 1 and 2 bedrooms 1,200 square feet
3 bedrooms                   1,600 square feet
Each additional bedroom      Add 400 square feet
 
      2.   Minimum dwelling unit floor area for duplex dwellings: Each two-
family duplex shall have a minimum of 1,000 square feet per dwelling unit.
(Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
10-5G-7: ADDITIONAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS:
   A.   Water discharge: Title 12 of this Code.
   B.   Signs: In accordance with
chapter 10 of this title.
   C.   Landscaping:
Chapter 14 of this title.
   D.   Home occupations: Section
10-3-9 of this title.
   E.   Off street parking and loading: In accordance with
chapter 8 of this title. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
ARTICLE H. R-5 MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5H-1: Intent
10-5H-2: Permitted Uses
10-5H-3: Permitted Accessory Uses
10-5H-4: Conditional Uses
10-5H-5: Site and Structure Requirements
10-5H-6: Additional District Regulations
10-5H-1: INTENT:
This District is composed of multiple-family units constructed in single
buildings of 2 to 6 dwelling units each, with recreational facilities and large
landscaped open areas. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-93)
10-5H-2: PERMITTED USES:
No building, structure or parcel of land shall be used and no building or
structure shall be erected, altered or enlarged which is arranged, intended or
designed for other than one of the following uses:
   - A single building containing 3 or more but no more than 6 individual
dwelling units.
   - Large community residences; provided, that the residence's sponsoring
agency and/or owner must first obtain an administrative occupancy permit prior
to establishing a large community residence. No dwelling unit shall be occupied
by a large community residence until a certificate of occupancy has been issued
by the Village Administrator. No certificate of occupancy shall be issued for a
large community residence unless:
      A.   The large community residence is located at least 1,320 feet from
any other community residence, as measured from lot line to lot line; and
      B.   The applicant demonstrates that it has either obtained or is
eligible for State or local licensing or certification to operate the proposed
large community residence.
The Village Administrator may revoke a certificate of occupancy for a large
community residence if its license or certification or the operator/owner's
license or certification to operate community residence is revoked or not
issued within a reasonable period of time.
The Village Administrative certificate of occupancy is not transferable to
another operator/owner or to another location.
   - No more than one principal structure shall be permitted per zoning lot.
   - Small community residence; provided, that the residence's sponsoring
agency and/or owner must first obtain an administrative occupancy permit prior
to establishing a small community residence. No dwelling unit shall be occupied
until an occupancy permit has been issued by the Village Administrator. No
certificate of occupancy shall be issued for a small community residence
unless:
      A.   The small community residence is located at least 1,320 feet from
any other community residence, as measured from lot line to lot line; and
      B.   The applicant demonstrates that it has either obtained or is
eligible for State or local licensing or certification to operate the proposed
small community residence.
The Village Administrator may revoke a certificate of occupancy for a small
community residence if its license or certification or the operator/owner's
license or certification to operate community residence is revoked or not
issued within a reasonable period of time.
An administrative certificate of occupancy is not transferable to another
operator/owner or to another location. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-93)
10-5H-3: PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES:
   - Uses clearly incidental but necessary to the permitted principal use.
   - Private recreational and hobby uses such as swimming pools, tennis courts,
gardens, shuffleboard courts, putting greens. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-93)
10-5H-4: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following conditional uses may be permitted in specific situations in
accordance with the procedures outlined in Section
10-12-4 and
Chapter 11 of this Title, as appropriate:
   - Large community residences located within 1,320 feet of another community
residence.
   - Noncommercial recreational building.
   - PUDs of a multi-family residence nature containing more than 2 acres.
   - Schools, K-12.
   - Schools, nursery or preschool.
   - Small community residences located within 1,320 feet of another community
residence, as measured from lot line to lot line. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-93; amd.
Ord. 20-1988, 9-22-2020)
10-5H-5: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Area: The minimum area in the R-5 District shall be as follows:
      1.   All projects of more than 2 acres shall be developed as PUDs and
shall follow the guidelines for same established elsewhere in this Title.
      2.   All projects of less than 2 acres shall have a minimum lot area of
32,670 square feet.
      3.   A separate ground area of not less than 5,445 square feet shall be
designated, provided and continuously maintained on each zoning lot as
landscaped open space.
   B.   Minimum Lot Width - 125 feet.
   C.   Minimum Yard Requirements:
      Front yard - 40 feet.
      Side yard - 20 feet.
      Rear yard - 50 feet.
   D.   Density Regulations:
      1.   Floor area ratio (FAR) shall not exceed 0.30.
      2.   Maximum lot density shall not exceed 6 dwelling units per acre.
   E.   Minimum Dwelling Unit Floor Area:
 
Number                  Minimum
Of Bedrooms             Living Area
1 bedroom               800 square feet
2 bedrooms              1,000 square feet
Each additional bedroom Add 300 square feet
 
   F.   Parking Requirements:
      1.   The general regulations for off street parking as with
chapter 8 of this title.
      2.   A driveway shall not constitute a required parking space.
   G.   Special Requirements:
      1.   No structure shall exceed 21/2 stories or 35 feet in height,
whichever is less.
      2.   A minimum of 2 separate and controlled interior means of ingress/
egress shall be provided per principal residential structure.
      3.   All dwelling units and common areas shall require sprinkler systems.
      4.   No individual residential dwelling unit, nor part thereof, shall be
constructed and maintained below grade.
      5.   A basement with a floor area equal to that of the ground or first
floor and a minimum height of 8 feet shall be provided for every principal
residential structure.
      6.   No principal residential structure shall contain more than 70
percent of 1 type of dwelling unit per bedroom number. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
10-5H-6: ADDITIONAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS:
   A.   Water discharge: Title 12 of this Code.
   B.   Signs: In accordance with
chapter 10 of this title.
   C.   Landscaping:
Chapter 14 of this title.
   D.   Home occupations: Section
10-3-9 of this title. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
ARTICLE I. RMH MOBILE HOME PARK DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5I-1: Intent
10-5I-2: Permitted Uses
10-5I-3: Conditional Uses
10-5I-4: Required Conditions
10-5I-5: Site and Structure Requirements
10-5I-1: INTENT:
The RMH Mobile Home Park District is intended to regulate low density
residential development composed entirely of mobile homes with regard to
providing adequate standards to protect the public health, safety, and welfare.
(Ord. 93-695, 6-15-93; amd. Ord. 20-1982, 8-25-2020)
10-5I-2: PERMITTED USES:
No building, structure or parcel of land shall be used and no building or
structure shall be erected, altered or enlarged which is arranged, intended or
designed for other than one of the following uses:
- Elementary schools, junior high schools, and senior high schools that do not
have boarding facilities.
- Golf courses.
- Parks, playgrounds and forest preserves.
- Single-family mobile homes.
- Small community residence; provided, that the residence's sponsoring agency
and/or owner must first obtain a certificate of occupancy prior to establishing
a small community residence. No dwelling unit shall be occupied until
certificate of occupancy has been issued by the Chief Building Official. No
certificate of occupancy shall be issued for a small community residence
unless:
   A.   The small community residence is located at least 1,320 feet from any
other community residence, as measured from lot line to lot line; and
   B.   The applicant demonstrates that it has either obtained or is eligible
for State or local licensing or certification to operate the proposed small
community residence.
The Chief Building Official may revoke a certificate of occupancy for a small
community residence if its license or certification or the operator/owner's
license or certification to operate community residence is revoked or not
issued within a reasonable period of time.
A certificate of occupancy is not transferable to another operator/owner or to
another location. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-93; amd. Ord. 20-1982, 8-25-2020)
10-5I-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following conditional uses may be permitted in specified situations in
accordance with the procedures outlined in Section
10-12-4 and
Chapter 11 of this Title, as appropriate:
- Civic buildings.
- Large community residences.
- Nursery schools, preschools, and day care centers.
- Planned unit developments.
- Public and private utility facilities.
- Religious institutions.
- Small community residence located within 1,320 feet of another community
residence, as measured from lot line to lot line.
- Swim and/or tennis clubs. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-93)
10-5I-4: REQUIRED CONDITIONS:
The following conditions shall be required:
   A.   Landscape screening by trees or compact hedge of at least 75 percent
opacity shall be provided along all property lines of the mobile home park.
   B.   A map, directory or sign shall be erected at each entrance to the
mobile home park, which identifies the exact location of each mobile home and
mobile home lot.
   C.   Accessory buildings, structures and uses, such as laundry facilities
and storage areas, shall be for the sole use of the residents of the mobile
home park. Offices shall be used only in the management and operation of the
mobile home park. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-93; amd. Ord. 20-1982, 8-25-2020)
10-5I-5: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Area: The minimum area in the RMH District shall be as follows:
      1.   Mobile home park - 8 acres.
      2.   Mobile home lots - 4,000 square feet per lot.
      3.   Nursery schools, preschools and day care centers - 3,000 square feet
per lot.
      4.   Elementary schools, junior high schools and senior high schools - 7
acres.
      5.   Golf courses; parks, playgrounds and forest preserves; public and
private utility facilities - none.
      6.   Religious institutions; civic buildings; swim and/or tennis clubs -
2 acres.
      7.   Planned unit developments - 4 acres.
   B.   Lot Width: The minimum lot width, at the front yard line, in the RMH
District shall be as follows:
      1.   Mobile home park; nursery schools, preschools and day care centers -
80 feet.
      2.   Mobile home lot - 50 feet; except, that for any mobile home unit
greater than 12 feet in width, the minimum lot width shall be 60 feet.
      3.   All other permitted and conditional uses - none.
   C.   Density: The total density of any mobile home park shall not exceed 7
units per gross acre, and the net density on any particular acre within such
parks shall not exceed 10 units per net acre. Not more than one mobile home is
permitted on a mobile home lot.
   D.   Minimum Distance Between Mobile Homes: No mobile home shall be placed
within 30 feet of another.
   E.   Yards: The minimum yards required in the RMH District shall be as
follows:
      1.   Mobile Home Parks: All buildings and structures shall be set back
not less than 15 feet from all mobile home park boundary lines and not less
than 30 feet from the mobile home park boundary adjacent to a public street.
      2.   Mobile Home Lot:
      Front yard - 15 feet.
      Interior side yard - 15 feet.
      Corner side yard - 15 feet.
      Rear yard - 15 feet.
      Yards Abutting Common Areas - The distance from the line or corner of the
mobile home to a private street, a common driveway, a common parking area, a
common walk or other common area shall be fifteen feet (15') minimum. Patios,
mobile home appurtenances, carports and individual storage facilities shall not
be included in the determination of yard width.
      3.   All Other Permitted and Conditional Uses:
      Front yard - 30 feet.
      Interior side yard - 15 feet plus 1 foot for each 2 feet by which the
building or structure height exceeds 28 feet.
      Corner side yard - 30 feet plus 1 foot for each 2 feet by which the
building or structure height exceeds 28 feet.
      Rear yard - 30 feet.
   F.   Height Limitations:
      1.   The maximum height for all buildings and structures in the RMH
District shall be 21/2 stories not to exceed 35 feet.
      2.   Accessory buildings shall not exceed 15 feet in height from ground
elevation.
   G.   Lot Coverage: The lot coverage of a mobile home, together with any
expansion or accessory structure permitted thereto by this chapter shall not
exceed forty percent (40%) of the total mobile home lot area.
   H.   Permitted Obstructions: For the purposes of this chapter, the following
shall not be considered as obstructions when located on mobile home lots
indicated:
      1.   On any lot, chimneys, overhanging roof eaves, open terraces and
awnings adjoining the mobile home if they do not exceed ten percent (10%) of
the depth of the mobile home lot and ornamental light standards and flagpoles,
fences, trees and shrubs; except, that on corner mobile home lots, fences,
trees and shrubs shall not be higher than thirty inches (30") above the center
line grade of the intersecting street if located in that portion of a required
front or side yard situated within thirty feet (30') of the lot corner formed
by the intersection of any two (2) street lines.
      2.   In front yards, no other construction shall be permitted.
   I.   Screening: Planting shall be appropriate for use and location and
planned so as to thrive with normal maintenance. There shall be provided
plantings adequate to screen views effectively. Views to be screened shall
include laundry drying yards and nonresidential uses. Garbage and trash
collection stations shall be screened with permanent chain link fence with
slats.
   J.   Lot Specifications: Each mobile home lot shall have provided thereon a
patio and adequate storage conforming to the following specifications:
      1.   Patio: Each mobile home lot shall meet the following requirements:
         a.   Size: The minimum size of each mobile home patio shall be one
hundred eighty (180) square feet.
         b.   Location: Every patio location shall be convenient to the
entrance of the mobile home, appropriately related to open areas of the site
and other facilities, fitted to terrain and natural features and related to
anticipated mobile home models.
         c.   Elevation: Where practical, the patio shall be at an elevation at
least as high as the elevation of its mobile home stand. Where topographical
conditions permit, the patio and adjoining yard area on the entry side of the
mobile home may be as much as two feet (2') higher than the mobile home stand
in order that the level of the patio and outdoor living area will be close to
the floor level of an in-place mobile home. The grade difference between the
patio and the stand may be taken up by a retaining wall or cribbing or by an
earth slope. Where the patio is higher than the mobile home stand, adequate
surface drainage of the mobile home stand shall be provided across the other
side or ends of the stand.
         d.   Construction: Any subgrading shall be well drained, uniformly
graded and compacted. Construction shall provide a useful outdoor surface
constructed or formed either monolithically or in movable units with weather-
resistant materials placed sufficiently close together to create a paved area.
      2.   Tenant Storage: Storage facilities shall be provided on or
conveniently near each mobile home lot for the active storage of outdoor
equipment, furniture or tools and for the inactive storage of such other
materials as are used only seasonally or infrequently by the typical tenant and
which cannot be conveniently stored in a typical mobile home. There shall be a
minimum of ninety (90) cubic feet provided for general storage for each mobile
home lot. Storage facilities shall be provided on the mobile home lot or in
compounds located within a reasonable distance, but not more than five hundred
feet (500') from any mobile home serviced, and located not closer to private or
public streets than the mobile home itself. Storage facilities shall be
designed in a manner that will enhance the appearance of the park and shall be
constructed of suitable weather-resistant materials appropriate for the use and
maintenance contemplated. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-93; amd. Ord. 20-1982, 8-25-2020)
ARTICLE J. AG AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5J-1: Intent
10-5J-2: Permitted Uses
10-5J-3: Conditional Uses
10-5J-4: Required Conditions
10-5J-5: Site and Structure Requirements
10-5J-1: INTENT:
The AG Agricultural District is intended to provide an environment suitable for
and limited to those uses, activities and structures related to agriculture.
(Ord. 93-695, 6-15-93)
10-5J-2: PERMITTED USES:
No building, structure or parcel of land shall be used and no building or
structure shall be erected altered or enlarged which is arranged, intended or
designed for other than one of the following uses:
- Farm stands for the sale only of produce grown on the lot or parcel on which
the farm stand is located.
- Farming
- Golf course.
- Parks, playgrounds and forest preserves.
- Single-family detached dwellings.
- Small community residence; provided, that the residence's sponsoring agency
and/or owner must first obtain an administrative occupancy permit prior to
establishing a small community residence. No dwelling unit shall be occupied
until an occupancy permit has been issued by the Village Administrator. No
certificate of occupancy shall be issued for a small community residence
unless:
   A.   The small community residence is located at least 1,320 feet from any
other community residence, as measured from lot line to lot line; and
   B.   The applicant demonstrates that it has either obtained or is eligible
for State or local licensing or certification to operate the proposed small
community residence.
The Village Administrator may revoke a certificate of occupancy for a small
community residence if its license or certification or the operator/owner's
license or certification to operate community residence is revoked or not
issued within a reasonable period of time.
An administrative certificate of occupancy is not transferable to another
operator/owner or to another location. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-93; amd. Ord. 20-
1988, 9-22-2020)
10-5J-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following conditional uses may be permitted in specific situations, in
accordance with the procedures outlined in Section
10-12-4 and
Chapter 11 of this Title, as appropriate:
- Animal hospitals.
- Dairies.
- Large community residences.
- Small community residence located within 1,320 feet of another community
residence, as measured from lot line to lot line.
- Swim and/or tennis clubs, not for profit. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-93)
10-5J-4: REQUIRED CONDITIONS:
The following conditions shall be required:
   A.   All buildings and structures utilized for the conduct of an animal
hospital shall be located not less than 200 feet from any property line.
   B.   Animals and fowl shall be stabled not less than 200 feet from any
property line.
   C.   Minimum floor area of 1,600 square feet, excluding garage and basement.
(Ord. 93-695, 6-15-93)
10-5J-5: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Area: The minimum area in the AG District shall be 5 acres.
   B.   Lot Width: The minimum lot width, at the front yard line, in the AG
District shall be 250 feet.
   C.   Yards: The minimum yards required in the AG District shall be as
follows:
         Front yard - 35 feet.
         Interior side yard - 25 feet.
         Corner side yard - 35 feet.
         Rear yard - 35 feet.
   D.   Height Limitations: The maximum height for all buildings and structures
in the AG District shall be 21/2 stories not to exceed 35 feet except for barns
and silos which may have a maximum height of 50 feet.
   E.   Signs: In accordance with Chapter 10 of this Title.
   F.   Off-Street Parking and Loading: In accordance with Chapter 8 of this
Title. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-93)
ARTICLE K. TCR-1 TOWN CENTER RESIDENCE DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5K-1: Intent
10-5K-2: Permitted Uses
10-5K-3: Conditional Uses
10-5K-4: Required Conditions
10-5K-5: Site And Structure Requirements
10-5K-6: Additional District Regulations
10-5K-1: INTENT:
The TCR-1 district is intended to provide traditional rear loaded single-family
unit areas of a town center character with lots containing a minimum of 6,000
square feet. All subdivisions within the TCR-1 zoning district must be planned
unit developments. (Ord. 04-1216, 5-11-2004)
10-5K-2: PERMITTED USES:
No building, structure or parcel of land shall be used and no building or
structure shall be erected, altered or enlarged which is arranged, intended or
designed for other than 1 of the following uses:
Any use permitted in the R-1-A district. (Ord. 04-1216, 5-11-2004)
10-5K-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
No building, structure or parcel of land shall be used and no building or
structure shall be erected, altered or enlarged which is arranged, intended or
designed for other than 1 of the following uses:
Any use permitted in the R-1-A district. (Ord. 04-1216, 5-11-2004)
10-5K-4: REQUIRED CONDITIONS:
   A.   Must be submitted as part of a PUD. (Ord. 04-1216, 5-11-2004)
10-5K-5: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Area: The minimum area in the TCR-1 district shall be as follows:
      1.   Single-family detached dwellings - 6,000 square feet per lot.
      2.   Clinics; nursery schools, preschools and daycare centers - 12,000
square feet per lot.
      3.   Elementary schools, junior high schools and senior high schools - 7
acres.
      4.   Golf courses; parks, playgrounds and forest preserves; public and
private utility facilities - none.
      5.   Religious institutions; civic buildings; swim and/or tennis clubs -
2 acres.
   B.   Lot Width: The minimum lot width at the front yard line, in the TCR-
1 district shall be as follows:
      1.   Single-family detached dwellings - 50 feet per lot.
      2.   Nursery schools, preschools and daycare centers - 85 feet per lot.
      3.   All other permitted and conditional uses - none.
   C.   Yards: The minimum yard requirements in the TCR-1 district shall be as
follows:
      1.   Single-family detached dwellings:
         Front yards - 15 feet.
         Garage/parking - 20 feet from alley.
         Interior side yards - 5 feet.
         Corner side yard - 10 feet.
         Rear yard - 20 feet.
      2.   All other permitted and conditional uses:
         Front yards - 20 feet.
         Interior side yards - 10 feet.
         Corner side yard - 20 feet.
         Rear yard - 25 feet.
   D.   Height Limitations: No principal structure shall exceed 21/2 stories or
35 feet. No accessory structure shall exceed 1 story or 15 feet.
   E.   Dwelling Standards: Each single-family detached dwelling and any other
structure occupied in whole or in part for residential purposes shall contain a
minimum of 1,200 square feet of livable floor area, exclusive of basement or
garage space. Garages will be located in the rear of the residence and be
loaded off of a rear yard alley.
   F.   Lot Coverage: Not less than 1,000 square feet of open space is required
per lot. Minimum open space shall not include required front and side yard
setbacks. (Ord. 04-1216, 5-11-2004)
10-5K-6: ADDITIONAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS:
   A.   The district shall maintain a town center appeal using the following:
      1.   Garage spaces shall face a rear yard alley and have a minimal visual
impact from the public right of way except that on a corner lot a garage may
load to the side street provided that a 20 foot setback is maintained.
      2.   Single-family units shall be placed with street orientation by being
placed close to the building setback line to promote interaction with the
street, neighborhood and residents.
      3.   A front porch, balcony or covered stoop shall be included in a
minimum of 70 percent of homes. This area should be a minimum of 5 feet deep
and provide for a usable outdoor area. This area may extend into the setback
but by no more than 5 feet.
      4.   A walk should extend from the public sidewalk to the front door or
patio.
      5.   Architectural theme and individual elevations shall be set as part
of the PUD.
      6.   All sides of units that face a public space should be treated with
an increased level of architectural detail and shall be set as part of the PUD.
      7.   A landscaped area should be placed along the front foundation and
side of corner lots. The planting bed shall be no less than 5 feet deep and
contain 10 plant units per 50 linear feet. Refer plant unit count to the
Landscape Ordinance.
      8.   Aboveground pools are prohibited within the TCR-1 District.
      9.   A uniform fence design shall be established as part of the planned
unit development and applied to all lots within the development.
      10.   Detached accessory structures are prohibited except for alley
loaded garages.
   B.   Water discharge: Title 12 of this Code.
   C.   Signs: Section
10-10-5 of this title.
   D.   Landscaping:
Chapter 14 of this title.
   E.   Home occupations: Section
10-3-9 of this title.
   F.   Off street parking and loading: In accordance with
chapter 8 of this title. (Ord. 04-1216, 5-11-2004)
ARTICLE L. TCR-2 TOWN CENTER RESIDENCE DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5L-1: Intent
10-5L-2: Permitted Uses
10-5L-3: Conditional Uses
10-5L-4: Required Conditions
10-5L-5: Site And Structure Requirements
10-5L-6: Additional District Regulations
10-5L-1: INTENT:
The TCR-2 district is intended to provide traditional single- family unit areas
of a town center character with lots containing a minimum of 8,750 square feet.
All subdivisions within the TCR-2 zoning district must be planned unit
developments. (Ord. 04-1216, 5-11-2004)
10-5L-2: PERMITTED USES:
No building, structure or parcel of land shall be used and no building or
structure shall be erected, altered or enlarged which is arranged, intended or
designed for other than 1 of the following uses:
Any use permitted in the R-1-A district. (Ord. 04-1216, 5-11-2004)
10-5L-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
No building, structure or parcel of land shall be used and no building or
structure shall be erected, altered or enlarged which is arranged, intended or
designed for other than 1 of the following uses:
Any use permitted in the R-1-A district. (Ord. 04-1216, 5-11-2004)
10-5L-4: REQUIRED CONDITIONS:
   A.   Must be submitted as part of a PUD. (Ord. 04-1216, 5-11-2004)
10-5L-5: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Area: The minimum area in the TCR-2 district shall be as follows:
      1.   Single-family detached dwellings - 8,750 square feet per lot.
      2.   Clinics; nursery schools, preschools and daycare centers - 12,000
square feet per lot.
      3.   Elementary schools, junior high schools and senior high schools - 7
acres.
      4.   Golf courses; parks, playgrounds and forest preserves; public and
private utility facilities - none.
      5.   Religious institutions; civic buildings; swim and/or tennis clubs -
2 acres.
   B.   Lot Width: The minimum lot width at the front yard line, in the TCR-
2 district shall be as follows:
      1.   Single-family detached dwellings - 70 feet per lot.
      2.   Nursery schools, preschools and daycare centers - 85 feet per lot.
      3.   All other permitted and conditional uses - none.
   C.   Yards: The minimum yard requirements in the TCR-2 district shall be as
follows:
      1.   Single-family detached dwellings:
         Front yards - 25 feet.
         Interior side yards - 7 feet.
         Corner side yard - 20 feet.
         Rear yard - 25 percent of the lot depth which need not exceed 30 feet.
      2.   All other permitted and conditional uses:
         Front yards - 30 feet.
         Interior side yards - 20 feet, plus 1 foot for each 2 feet by which
the building or structure height exceeds 28 feet.
         Corner side yard - 30 feet, plus 1 foot for each 2 feet by which the
building or structure height exceeds 28 feet.
         Rear yard - 35 feet.
   D.   Height Limitations: No principal structure shall exceed 21/2 stories or
35 feet. No accessory structure shall exceed 1 story or 15 feet.
   E.   Dwelling Standards: Each single-family detached dwelling and any other
structure occupied in whole or in part for residential purposes shall contain a
minimum of 1,500 square feet of livable floor area, exclusive of basement or
garage space.
   F.   Lot Coverage: Not more than 75 percent of the lot area may be occupied
by principal and accessory buildings and impermeable surfaces combined. Lot
coverage may be increased to maximum of 5 percent in cases where a permitted
accessory structure or use is constructed with a permeable material to permit
water percolation and adequate drainage. (Ord. 04-1216, 5-11-2004)
10-5L-6: ADDITIONAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS:
   A.   The district shall maintain a town center appeal using the following:
      1.   80 percent of all garages shall not project beyond the main
structure by more than 5 feet except when garages are side loaded. A minimum of
10 percent of all garages shall be set back a minimum of 5 feet from the
primary (front) elevation of the home.
      2.   The use of rear yard alleys to move garage spaces away from public
view is allowed. An alley loaded garage may be set back from the rear lot line
a minimum of 20 feet.
      3.   Single-family units shall be placed with street orientation by being
placed close to the building setback line to promote interaction with the
street, neighborhood and residents. (Ord. 04-1216, 5-11-2004)
      4.   A front porch, balcony or covered stoop shall be included in a
minimum of 25 percent of homes. This area should be a minimum of 6 feet deep
and provide for a usable outdoor area. This area may extend into the setback
but by no more than 5 feet. (Ord. 13-1695, 5-14-2013)
      5.   Detached accessory structures are prohibited except for alley loaded
garages and pool houses when connected with an inground pool.
      6.   Architectural theme and individual elevations shall be set as part
of the PUD.
      7.   All sides of units that face a public space should be treated with
an increased level of architectural detail and shall be set as part of the PUD.
      8.   A landscaped area should be placed along the front foundation and
side of corner lots. The planting bed shall be no less than 5 feet deep and
contain 10 plant units per 50 linear feet. Refer plant unit count to the
landscape ordinance.
      9.   Aboveground pools are prohibited within the TCR-2 District.
      10.   A uniform fence design shall be established as part of the planned
unit development and applied to all lots within the development.
   B.   Water discharge: Title 12 of this Code.
   C.   Signs: Section
10-10-5 of this title.
   D.   Landscaping:
Chapter 14 of this title.
   E.   Home occupations: Section
10-3-9 of this title.
   F.   Off street parking and loading: In accordance with
chapter 8 of this title. (Ord. 04-1216, 5-11-2004)
CHAPTER 6
BUSINESS DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. B-1 NEIGHBORHOOD CONVENIENCE SHOPPING CENTER DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-6A-1: Intent
10-6A-2: Permitted Uses
10-6A-3: Conditional Uses
10-6A-4: Required Conditions
10-6A-5: Site And Structure Requirements
10-6A-1: INTENT:
The neighborhood convenience shopping center district is intended to provide
convenience shopping for persons in close proximity to residential areas.
Permitted uses shall be those which are necessary to satisfy basic shopping
needs which occur daily or frequently and so require facilities in relative
proximity to places of residence. These facilities shall be in the form of a
shopping center. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
10-6A-2: PERMITTED USES:
No building, structure or parcel of land shall be used and no building or
structure shall be erected, altered or enlarged which is arranged, intended or
designed for other than a shopping center which includes any of the following
uses:
   Bakeries.
   Banks and financial institutions.
   Candy and ice cream stores.
   Civic buildings.
   Drugstores.
   Dry cleaning establishments and laundries employing not more than 10
persons.
   Eating establishments, including outdoor cafes.
   Food stores, grocery stores and meat markets.
   Gift shops.
   Hardware stores.
   Health and fitness uses, maximum floor area of 7,500 SF.
   Instructional uses, maximum floor area of 7,500 SF.
   Massage uses, when accessory to personal care uses and health and fitness
uses.
   Offices - business or professional; medical or dental.
   Package liquor stores.
   Personal care uses.
   Shoe and clothing repair stores.
   Tattoo uses, when accessory to personal care uses.
   Variety stores.
   Wearing apparel shops.
   Other uses which are of the same general character as the above permitted
uses as determined by the zoning officer, but specifically prohibiting those
uses which are first permitted in the B-2 or B-3 district. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-
1993; amd. Ord. 20-1988, 9-22-2020)
10-6A-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following conditional uses may be permitted in specific situations in
accordance with the procedures outlined in section
10-12-4 and
chapter 11 of this title, as appropriate:
   Art studio.
   Daycare centers and nursery schools.
   Drinking establishments.
   Drive-in banking facility.
   Drive-through pharmacy.
   Planned unit developments.
   Public and private utility facilities.
   School, nursery or preschool. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993; amd. Ord. 94-740, 4-
12-1994; Ord. 04-1249, 10-12-2004; Ord. 06-1373, 7-25-2006; Ord. 20-1988, 9-22-
2020; Ord. 24-2094, - -2024)
10-6A-4: REQUIRED CONDITIONS:
The following conditions shall be required:
   A.   Shopping Centers: Each B-1 district shall be developed as a shopping
center containing more than 1 business establishment.
   B.   Entertainment And Dancing: Eating and drinking establishments shall not
include entertainment and dancing.
   C.   Maximum Floor Area: Each store in the shopping center shall be
restricted to a maximum gross floor area of 30,000 square feet, exclusive of
any floor area devoted to off street parking or loading facilities.
   D.   Site Plan Review: The site plan for the shopping center shall be
reviewed by the plan commission which shall report its findings to the village
board.
   E.   Consumer Businesses: All business establishments shall be retail or
service establishments dealing directly with consumers. All goods produced on
the premises shall be sold at retail on the premises where produced.
   F.   Conducting Of Business: All business, servicing or processing, except
for off street parking or loading, shall be conducted within completely
enclosed buildings. The normal service and sales offered at eating and drinking
establishments are excluded from this provision. The village board may waive
this provision by designating certain days on which business establishments may
conduct their businesses outside the building or structure.
   G.   Outside Storage: All outside storage areas of goods, materials and
products are prohibited. Dumpster and rubbish containers shall be screened in
accordance with section
10-3-24 of this title. Lighting of the facility shall be directed away from
surrounding properties.
   H.   Compliance: Processes and equipment employed within the B-1 district
shall comply with the provisions of chapter 7, article D of this title.
   I.   Screening: Screening by fences or landscaping of at least 75 percent
opacity shall be provided within all side and rear yards that abut a
residential district. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
10-6A-5: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Area: Minimum area for each B-1 district shall be 20,000 square
feet and the maximum area shall be 10 acres.
   B.   Lot Width: There are no lot width requirements in the B-1 district.
   C.   Yards: The minimum yards required in the B-1 district shall be as
follows:
      1.   Front Yard:
         a.   Generally: A required front yard of not less than 30 feet.
         b.   Through lots: In cases where the required front yard is greater
than the required rear yard, the required front yard setback shall apply.
      2.   Side Yards: On each zoning lot upon which a structure is built,
there shall be a required side yard on each side of the main structure of the
following:
         a.   Abutting residential districts: An interior side yard of not less
than 10 feet and a corner side yard of not less than 30 feet.
         b.   Abutting nonresidential districts: An interior side yard of not
less than 10 feet. An interior side yard may be reduced to 0 feet between 2
uses that are connected. A corner side yard of not less than 30 feet.
      3.   Rear Yard: On each zoning lot upon which a structure is built, there
shall be a required rear yard for each main structure of the following:
         a.   Abutting residential districts: A required rear yard of not less
than the established rear yard requirements for the adjoining residential
district.
         b.   Abutting nonresidential districts: A required yard of not less
than 20 feet.
   D.   Height Limitations; Bulk Regulations: The maximum floor area ratio for
all buildings and structures in the B-1 district shall be 0.5, and the maximum
height shall be 3 stories not to exceed 40 feet.
   E.   Lot Coverage: Not more than 85 percent of the lot area may be occupied
by principal and accessory buildings and impermeable surfaces combined. At
least 15 percent of the remaining lot area shall be open, landscaped area, in
which, at minimum, 7 percent of this open, landscaped area shall be provided in
the required front yard.
   F.   Signs: In accordance with
 chapter 10 of this title.
   G.   Off Street Parking And Loading: In accordance with
chapter 8 of this title. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
ARTICLE B. B-2 COMMUNITY SHOPPING CENTER DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-6B-1: Intent
10-6B-2: Permitted Uses
10-6B-3: Conditional Uses
10-6B-4: Required Conditions
10-6B-5: Site And Structure Requirements
10-6B-1: INTENT:
The B-2 community shopping center district is intended to accommodate the needs
of a much larger consumer population than is served by the neighborhood
convenience shopping center district. A wider range of uses and structure sizes
is permitted for both daily and occasional shopping. These facilities shall be
in the form of a shopping center. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
10-6B-2: PERMITTED USES:
No building, structure or parcel of land shall be used and no building or
structure shall be erected, altered or enlarged which is arranged, intended or
designed for other than a shopping center which includes any of the following
uses:
   Any permitted use in the B-1 district, except dwelling units.
   Animal grooming service.
   Animal hospitals.
   Antique shops.
   Art shops or galleries, but not including auction rooms.
   Bicycle sales, rental and repair stores.
   Blueprinting and photostating establishments.
   Book and stationery stores.
   Business machine stores, sales and service.
   Camera and photographic supply stores.
   Carpet and rug stores, retail sales only.
   Catering establishments.
   China and glassware stores.
   Clinics - medical and dental.
   Clothing and costume rental stores.
   Coin and philatelic stores.
   Commercial kitchen, as accessory to bakery or eating establishment only,
operating no earlier than 7:00am or later than midnight.
   Custom dressmaking establishments.
   Dairy product establishments, but not including processing or bottling.
   Department stores and discount stores.
   Drinking establishments.
   Dry goods stores.
   Electrical appliance stores including radio and television sales and repair.
   Employment agencies.
   Frozen food stores, including locker rental in conjunction therewith.
   Furniture stores, including upholstering when conducted as part of the
retail operations and secondary to the principal use.
   Furrier shops, including the incidental storage and conditioning of furs.
   Garden supply, tool and seed stores.
   General retail.
   Hearing aid stores.
   Hobby shops, for retail of items to be assembled or used away from the
premises.
   Household appliance stores.
   Interior decorating shops, including upholstering and making of draperies,
slipcovers and other similar articles, when conducted as a part of the retail
operations and secondary to the principal use.
   Jewelry stores, including watch repair.
   Leather goods and luggage stores.
   Locksmith shops.
   Mail order, catalog stores.
   Millinery shops.
   Musical instrument sales and repair.
   Office machine sales and servicing and supply stores.
   Optician - sales, retail.
   Orthopedic and medical appliance stores.
   Paint, glass and wallpaper stores.
   Pet shops.
   Phonographic record and sheet music stores.
   Photography studios, including the developing of film and pictures when
conducted as part of the retail business on the premises.
   Picture framing, when conducted for retail trade on the premises only.
   Repair, rental, servicing of any article the sale of which is a permitted
use in the district.
   Secondhand stores and rummage shops.
   Sewing machines sales and service.
   Shoe stores.
   Sporting goods stores.
   Tailor shops.
   Theaters, indoor.
   Ticket agencies.
   Tobacco shops.
   Toy shops.
   Travel bureaus and transportation ticket offices.
   Undertaking establishments and funeral parlors.
Other uses which are of the same general character as the above permitted uses,
as determined by the zoning officer, but specifically prohibiting those uses
which are first permitted in the B-3 district. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993; amd.
Ord. 13-1704, 6-11-2013; Ord. 20-1988, 9-22-2020; Ord. 23-2079, 11-14-2023)
10-6B-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following conditional uses may be permitted in specific situations in
accordance with the procedures outlined in section
10-12-4 and
chapter 11 of this title, as appropriate:
   Amusement establishments, including, but not limited to, bowling alleys,
pool halls, dance halls, skating rinks.
   Daycare centers and nursery schools.
   Drive-through banking facility.
   Drive-through pharmacy.
   Massage uses.
   Physical culture and services.
   Planned unit developments.
   Public and private utility facilities.
   Radio and television stations and studios. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993; amd.
Ord. 01-1074, 11-13-2001; Ord. 04-1249, 10-12-2004; Ord. 06-1373, 7-25-2006;
Ord. 20-1988, 9-22-2020; Ord. 24-2094, - -2024)
10-6B-4: REQUIRED CONDITIONS:
The following conditions shall be required:
   A.   Shopping Centers: Each B-2 district shall be developed as a shopping
center containing more than 1 business establishment.
   B.   Consumer Businesses: All business establishments shall be retail or
service establishments dealing directly with consumers. All goods produced on
the premises shall be sold at retail on the premises where produced.
   C.   Conducting Of Business: All business, servicing or processing, except
for off street parking or loading, shall be conducted within completely
enclosed buildings. The normal services and sales offered at automobile service
stations and eating and drinking establishments and the retail sales of motor
vehicles are excluded from this provision. The village board may waive this
provision by designating certain days on which business establishments may
conduct their businesses outside the building or structure; provided, however,
that the sale and storage of seasonal merchandise at retail shall be permitted
in accordance with the provisions of section
10-3-23 of this title.
   D.   Outside Storage: All outside storage areas of goods, materials and
products are prohibited. Dumpsters and rubbish containers shall be screened in
accordance with section
10-3-24 of this title. Lighting of the facilities shall be directed away from
the surrounding properties; provided, however, that the sale and storage of
seasonal merchandise at retail shall be permitted in accordance with the
provisions of section
10-3-23 of this title.
   E.   Compliance: Processes and equipment employed within the B-2 district
shall comply with the applicable provisions of chapter 7, article D of this
title.
   F.   Screening: Screening by fences or landscaping of at least 75 percent
opacity shall be provided within all side and rear yards abutting a residential
district. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
10-6B-5: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Area: The minimum area for each B-2 district shall be 10 acres.
   B.   Lot Width: There are no lot width requirements in the B-2 district.
   C.   Yards: The minimum yards required in the B-2 district shall be as
follows:
      1.   Front Yard:
         a.   Generally: A required front yard of not less than 30 feet.
         b.   Through lots: In cases where the required front yard is greater
than the required rear yard, the required front yard setback shall apply.
      2.   Side Yards: On each zoning lot upon which a structure is built,
there shall be a required side yard on each side of the main structure of the
following:
         a.   Abutting residential districts: An interior side yard of not less
than 10 feet and a corner side yard of not less than 30 feet.
         b.   Abutting nonresidential districts: An interior side yard of not
less than 10 feet. An interior side yard may be reduced to 0 feet between 2
uses that are connected. A corner side yard of not less than 30 feet.
      3.   Rear Yard: On each zoning lot upon which a structure is built, there
shall be a required rear yard for each main structure of the following:
         a.   Abutting residential districts: A required rear yard of not less
than the established rear yard requirements for the adjoining residential
district.
         b.   Abutting nonresidential districts: A required rear yard of not
less than 20 feet.
   D.   Bulk Regulations: The maximum floor area ratio for all buildings and
structures in the B-2 district shall be 0.5.
   E.   Lot Coverage: No more than 85 percent of the lot area may be occupied
by principal and accessory buildings and impermeable surfaces combined. At
least 15 percent of the remaining lot area shall be open, landscaped area, in
which, at minimum, 7 percent of this open, landscaped area shall be provided in
the required front yard.
   F.   Signs: In accordance with
chapter 10 of this title.
   G.   Off Street Parking And Loading: In accordance with
 chapter 8 of this title. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
ARTICLE C. B-3 GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-6C-1: Intent
10-6C-2: Permitted Uses
10-6C-3: Conditional Uses
10-6C-4: Required Conditions
10-6C-5: Site And Structure Requirements
10-6C-1: INTENT:
The B-3 general commercial district is intended to accommodate those retail and
wholesale commercial activities which are considered roadside commercial uses
and which may be incompatible with the predominantly retail uses permitted in
other business districts and whose service area is not confined to any 1
neighborhood. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
10-6C-2: PERMITTED USES:
No building, structure or parcel of land shall be used and no building or
structure shall be erected, altered or enlarged which is arranged, intended or
designed for other than 1 of the following uses:
   Any permitted use in the B-1 and B-2 districts except dwelling units.
   Auction rooms.
   Building and related trades, including, but not limited to, carpenter shops,
air conditioning, plumbing and heating shops, wallpaper and paper hanging
shops, furniture upholstering and paint shops.
   Clubs, lodges and meeting places for other organizations.
   Electrical showrooms and shops.
   Exterminating shops.
   Greenhouses and nurseries.
   Pawnshops.
   Plumbing showrooms and shops.
   Recording or sound studios.
   Repair, rental or servicing of any article, the sale of which is a permitted
use in the district.
   Schools, trade or vocational.
   Taxidermists.
   Tattoo uses.
   Warehouses and storage facilities, but excluding motor freight terminals and
miniwarehouses and self-storage facilities.
   Other uses which are of the same general character as the above permitted
uses, as determined by the zoning officer. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993; amd. Ord.
02-1129, 10-8-2002; Ord. 06-1373, 7-25-2006; Ord. 20-1988, 9-22-2020)
10-6C-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following conditional uses may be permitted in specific situations in
accordance with the procedures outlined in section
10-12-4,
10-3-34, and chapter 11 of this title, as appropriate:
   Adult-Use Cannabis Dispensing Organization.
   Any conditional use in the B-1 and B-2 districts, except those that are now
permitted uses in the B-3 district.
   Amusement establishments, including, but not limited to, bowling alleys,
pool halls, dance halls, electronic game rooms, mechanical amusement arcades
and skating rinks.
   Amusement parks, including, but not limited to, permanent carnivals, kiddie
parks and other similar outdoor amusements.
   Art studio.
   Automobile fueling stations.
   Building material and products, sales, storage and accessory manufacturing
of building components, subject to the following:
      The provisions of this title relating to use, height, bulk, parking,
fencing, screening and lighting shall be applicable except as provided for in
this section, as follows:
      A. Height of any building or structure shall not exceed 40 feet.
      B. 2 off street parking spaces for each 1,000 square feet net of enclosed
sales area shall be provided.
      C. Maximum floor area ratio for all buildings and structures shall be
2.0.
      D. Lighting of the facility shall be directed away from surrounding
properties.
      E. Such other conditions as the village board shall find to be necessary
to protect the public health, welfare and safety.
   Bus stations.
   Car washes.
   Contractor or construction offices, shops and yards.
   Drive-through facilities including, but not limited to, banks, restaurants,
cleaners and drugstores.
   Health and fitness uses, floor area greater than 7,500 SF.
   Instructional uses, floor area greater than 7,500 SF.
   Machinery sales.
   Mobile home sales and rental.
   Model homes and garage displays.
   Physical culture services.
   Printing and publishing establishments.
   Railroad stations.
   Stadiums and arenas. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993; amd. Ord. 01-1074, 11-13-2001;
Ord. 06-1373, 7-25-2006; Ord. 13-1704, 6-11-2013; Ord. 20-1978, 7-14-2020; Ord.
20-1988, 9-22-2020; Ord. 24-2094, - -2024)
10-6C-4: REQUIRED CONDITIONS:
The following conditions shall be required:
   A.   Dwelling Units Not Permitted: Dwelling units, other than those located
in a hotel or motel or watchmen's quarters located on the premises where
employed, shall not be permitted.
   B.   Conducting Of Business: All business, servicing or processing, except
for off street parking or loading, shall be conducted within completely
enclosed buildings. The normal services and sales offered at automobile service
stations and eating and drinking establishments and retail sales of boats,
motor vehicles, trailers, campers, mobile homes, model homes and garages are
excluded from this provision. The village board may waive this provision by
designating certain days on which business establishments may conduct their
businesses outside the building or structure; provided, however, that the sale
and storage of seasonal merchandise at retail shall be permitted in accordance
with the provisions of section
10-3-23 of this title. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
   C.   Outside Storage: All outside storage areas of goods, materials,
equipment, and other products and trash containers shall be enclosed with
fences or landscaping of at least 75 percent opacity and have a paved surface.
Dumpsters and rubbish containers shall be screened in accordance with section
10-3-24 of this title. Lighting of the facility shall be directed away from
surrounding properties; provided, however, that the sale and storage of
seasonal merchandise at retail shall be permitted in accordance with the
provisions of section
10-3-23 of this title. (Ord. 05-1307, 8-9-2005)
   D.   Compliance: Processes and equipment employed within the B-3 district
shall comply with the applicable provisions of chapter 7, article D of this
title.
   E.   Screening: Screening by fences or landscaping of at least 75 percent
opacity shall be provided within all side and rear yards abutting residential
districts. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
10-6C-5: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Area: There are no requirements in the B-3 district.
   B.   Lot Width: There are no lot width requirements in the B-3 district.
   C.   Yards: The minimum yards required in the B-3 district shall be as
follows:
      1.   Front Yard:
         a.   Generally: A required front yard of not less than 30 feet.
         b.   Through Lots: In cases where the required front yard is greater
than the required rear yard, the required front yard setback shall apply.
      2.   Side Yards: On each zoning lot upon which a structure is built,
there shall be a required side yard on each side of the main structure of the
following:
         a.   Abutting residential uses: An interior side yard of not less than
10 feet and a corner side yard of not less than 30 feet.
         b.   Abutting nonresidential uses: An interior side yard of not less
than 10 feet. A side yard may be reduced to 0 feet between 2 uses that are
connected. A corner side yard of not less than 30 feet.
      3.   Rear Yard: On each zoning lot upon which a structure is built, there
shall be a required rear yard for each main structure of the following:
         a.   Abutting residential uses: A required rear yard of not less than
the established rear yard requirements for the adjoining residential district.
         b.   Abutting nonresidential uses: A required rear yard of not less
than 20 feet.
   D.   Bulk Regulations: The maximum floor area ratio for all buildings and
structures in the B-3 district shall be 2.0.
   E.   Lot Coverage: Not more than 85 percent of the lot area may be occupied
by principal and accessory buildings and impermeable surfaces combined. At
least 15 percent of the remaining lot area shall be open, landscaped area, in
which, at minimum, 7 percent of this open, landscaped area shall be provided in
the required front yard.
   F.   Signs: In accordance with
chapter 10 of this title.
   G.   Off Street Parking And Loading: In accordance with
chapter 8 of this title. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
ARTICLE D. B-4 AUTOMOTIVE SERVICE DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-6D-1: Intent
10-6D-2: Permitted Uses
10-6D-3: Conditional Uses
10-6D-4: Required Conditions
10-6D-5: Site And Structure Requirements
10-6D-1: INTENT:
The B-4 automotive service district is intended to provide certain land and
structures for automotive service type use and automobile associated uses such
as drive-ins. The district is intended to be located only along major
thoroughfares where adequately sized and properly located parcels of land will
allow for adequate setbacks, clear vision and safe ingress and egress. Frontage
roads should be provided where possible. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
10-6D-2: PERMITTED USES:
The building, structure or parcel of land shall be used and no building or
structure shall be erected, altered or enlarged which is arranged, intended or
designed for other than one of the following uses:
   A.   Generally:
      Automobile accessories stores.
      Automobile fueling stations.
      Automobile repair facility.
      Boat dealers.
      Camper sales.
      Drive-in restaurants.
      Mobile home dealers.
      Motor vehicle dealers.
      Motorcycle sales.
      Tire, battery and accessory dealers.
      Used car lots.
   B.   Personal service establishments, which perform services on the
premises, such as:
      Drive-in cleaners.
      General repair shops.
      Undertaking establishments and funeral parlors.
   C.   Business service establishments, which perform services on the
premises, such as:
      Automobile diagnostic centers or clinics.
      Automobile driving instruction.
      Automobile rentals.
      Automobile repair shops.
      Automobile undercoating services.
      Equipment rental and leasing services.
      Motorcycle service and repair.
      Repair services.
      Taxicab stands.
      Tire retreading and repair shops.
      Towing services.
   D.   Public, quasi-public and governmental buildings and facilities, as
follows:
      Ambulance service.
      Bus passenger stations.
      Public service or municipal garages.
   E.   Residential uses, such as:
      Hotels and/or motels, but not including mobile home parks. (Ord. 93-695,
6-15-1993; amd. Ord. 06-1373, 7-25-2006)
10-6D-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following conditional uses may be permitted in specific situations in
accordance with the procedures outlined in section
10-12-4,
10-3-34, and
chapter 11 of this title, as appropriate:
   Adult-use cannabis craft grower organization (co-location with adult-use
cannabis dispensing organization only).
   Adult-use cannabis dispensing organization.
   Adult-use infuser organization (co-location with adult-use cannabis
dispensing organization only).
   Art studio.
   Automobile laundries or car washes.
   Drive-in banking facilities.
   Planned unit developments.
   Residence of the proprietor of a commercial use.
   Schools, trade or vocational.
   Similar and compatible uses to those allowed as permitted uses in this
district. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993; amd. Ord. 20-1978, 7-14-2020; Ord. 20-1988,
9-22-2020; Ord. 24-2094, - -2024)
10-6D-4: REQUIRED CONDITIONS:
The following conditions shall be required:
   A.   Performance Standards: All activities shall conform with the
performance standards established in
chapter 7, article D of this title.
   B.   Outdoor Sales: All outdoor sales space shall be provided with a
permanent, durable and dustless surface and shall be graded and drained as to
dispose of all surface water. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
   C.   Outdoor Storage: All outdoor storage facilities for fuel, raw materials
and products shall be enclosed by a fence, wall or plant materials adequate to
conceal such facilities from adjacent properties and the public right of way.
All outdoor storage shall be placed on a paved surface. (Ord. 05-1307, 8-9-
2005)
   D.   Waste Materials: No materials or wastes shall be deposited upon a lot
in such a form that they may be transferred off the property by natural causes
or forces.
   E.   Lighting: All exposed sources of light shall be shielded wherever
necessary to avoid casting direct light that will create a nuisance in a
residential district.
   F.   Screening: Where a commercial use abuts or is across the street from a
residential district, adequate screening shall be provided. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-
1993)
10-6D-5: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Area: A minimum lot area of 20,000 square feet.
   B.   Lot Width: A minimum lot width of 100 feet shall be provided for each
lot used for a permitted or special use.
   C.   Yards: The minimum yards required in the B-4 district shall be as
follows:
      1.   Front Yard:
         a.   Generally: A required front yard of not less than 30 feet.
         b.   Through Lots: In cases where the required front yard is greater
than the required rear yard, the required front yard setback shall apply.
      2.   Side Yards: On each zoning lot upon which a structure is built,
there shall be a required side yard on each side of the main structure of the
following:
         a.   Abutting residential districts: An interior side yard of not less
than 10 feet and a corner side yard of not less than 30 feet.
         b.   Abutting nonresidential districts: An interior side yard of not
less than 10 feet. An interior side yard may be reduced to 0 feet between 2
uses that are connected. A corner side yard of not less than 30 feet.
      3.   Rear Yard: On each zoning lot upon which a structure is built, there
shall be a required rear yard for each main structure of the following:
         a.   Abutting residential districts: A required rear yard of not less
than the established rear yard requirements for the adjoining residential
district.
         b.   Abutting nonresidential districts: A required rear yard of not
less than 20 feet.
   D.   Bulk Regulations: The maximum floor area ratio for all building and
structures in the B-4 district shall be 1.0.
   E.   Lot Coverage: No more than 85 percent of the lot area may be occupied
by principal and accessory buildings and impermeable surfaces combined. At
least 15 percent of the remaining lot area shall be open, landscaped area, in
which, at minimum, 7 percent of this open, landscaped area shall be provided in
the required front yard.
   F.   Signs: In accordance with
chapter 10 of this title.
   G.   Off Street Parking And Loading: In accordance with
chapter 8 of this title. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
ARTICLE E. OCI OFFICE, COMMERCIAL AND INSTITUTIONAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-6E-1: Intent
10-6E-2: Permitted Uses
10-6E-3: Conditional Uses
10-6E-4: Required Conditions
10-6E-5: Site And Structure Requirements
10-6E-1: INTENT:
It is the intent of this district to act as a transitional zone between
intensive business areas and residential neighborhoods. This district should
contain office, residential, institutional and support commercial facilities.
(Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
10-6E-2: PERMITTED USES:
No building, structure or parcel of land shall be used and no building or
structure shall be erected, altered or enlarged which is arranged, intended or
designed for other than 1 of the following uses:
   Animal hospital.
   Banks and financial institutions.
   Civic buildings.
   Cultural institutions.
   Hospitals and sanatoriums.
   Massage uses, when accessory to personal care or heath and fitness uses.
   Nursery schools, preschools and daycare centers.
   Offices - business or professional; medical or dental.
   Parks, playgrounds and forest preserves.
   Religious institutions.
   Schools, K-12.
   Tattoo uses, when accessory to personal care uses. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993;
amd. Ord. 13-1704, 6-11-2013; Ord. 20-1988, 9-22-2020)
10-6E-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following conditional uses may be permitted in specific situations in
accordance with the procedures outlined in section
10-12-4 and
chapter 11 of this title, as appropriate:
   Convalescent and nursing homes.
   Dwelling units.
   General retail.
   Health and fitness uses.
   Instructional uses.
   Planned unit developments.
   Public and private utility facilities.
   Schools, college or university.
   Schools, trade or vocational.
   Services, including, but not limited to, personal care, laundries, clothes
cleaning and laundry pick up stations, shoe repair, tailor shops, appliance
repair shops, electricians' shops and similar stores or shops for the conduct
of business. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993; amd. Ord. 06-1373, 7-25-2006; Ord. 20-
1988, 9-22-2020)
10-6E-4: REQUIRED CONDITIONS:
The following conditions shall be required:
   A.   Business, Servicing Or Processing: All business, servicing or
processing, except off street parking or loading, shall be conducted within
completely enclosed buildings. The village board may waive this provision by
designating certain days on which business establishments may conduct their
businesses outside the building or structure; provided, however, that the sale
and storage of seasonal merchandise at retail shall be permitted in accordance
with the provisions of section
10-3-23 of this title. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
   B.   Outside Storage Areas: All outside storage areas of goods, materials,
equipment, and other products shall be enclosed with fences or landscaping of
at least 75 percent opacity and have a paved surface. Lighting of the facility
shall be directed away from surrounding properties; provided, however, that the
sale and storage of seasonal merchandise at retail shall be permitted in
accordance with the provisions of section
10-3-23 of this title. (Ord. 05-1307, 8-9-2005)
   C.   Processes And Equipment: Processes and equipment employed within the
OCI district shall comply with the applicable provisions of chapter 7, article
D of this title.
   D.   Screening: Screening by fences or landscaping of at least 75 percent
opacity shall be provided within all side and rear yards abutting residential
districts. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
10-6E-5: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Area: There are no area requirements in the OCI district.
   B.   Lot Width: There are no lot width requirements in the OCI district.
   C.   Yards: The minimum yards required in the OCI district shall be as
follows:
      1.   Front Yard:
         a.   Generally: A required front yard of not less than 30 feet.
         b.   Through Lots: In cases where the required front yard is greater
than the required rear yard, the required front yard setback shall apply.
      2.   Side Yards: On each zoning lot upon which a structure is built,
there shall be a required side yard on each side of the main structure of the
following:
         a.   Abutting residential uses: An interior side yard of not less than
10 feet and a corner side yard of not less than 30 feet.
         b.   Abutting nonresidential uses: An interior side yard of not less
than 10 feet. A side yard may be reduced to 0 feet between 2 uses that are
connected. A corner side yard of not less than 30 feet.
      3.   Rear Yard: On each zoning lot upon which a structure is built, there
shall be a required rear yard for each main structure of the following:
         a.   Abutting residential uses: A required rear yard of not less than
the established rear yard requirements for the adjoining residential district.
         b.   Abutting nonresidential uses: A required rear yard of not less
than 20 feet.
   D.   Bulk Regulations: The maximum floor area ratio for all buildings and
structures in the OCI district shall be 2.0.
   E.   Lot Coverage: Not more than 85 percent of the lot area may be occupied
by principal and accessory buildings and impermeable surfaces combined. At
least 15 percent of the remaining lot area shall be open, landscaped area, in
which, at minimum, 7 percent of this open, landscaped area shall be provided in
the required front yard.
   F.   Signs: In accordance with
chapter 10 of this title.
   G.   Off Street Parking And Loading: In accordance with
chapter 8 of this title. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
CHAPTER 7
INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. ORI OFFICE, RESEARCH AND LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-7A-1: Intent
10-7A-2: Permitted Uses
10-7A-3: Conditional Uses
10-7A-4: Required Conditions
10-7A-5: Site And Structure Requirements
10-7A-1: INTENT:
The ORI office, research and light industrial district is intended to provide
an environment suitable for and limited to research and development activities,
engineering and testing activities, office uses, warehousing and limited
manufacturing that will not have an adverse effect upon the environmental
quality of the community. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
10-7A-2: PERMITTED USES:
No building, structure or parcel of land shall be used and no building or
structure shall be erected, altered or enlarged which is arranged, intended or
designed for other than one of the following uses:
   Banks and financial institutions.
   Civic buildings.
   Clinics – medical and dental.
   Commercial kitchens.
   Engineering and testing laboratories and offices.
   Laboratories, offices and other facilities for research and development,
including basic, applied, development and technical services conducted by or
for any individual, organization or concern, whether public or private.
   Low nuisance industrial activities, including, but not limited to,
electronic and scientific precision instruments manufacture, cloth products
manufacture, light machinery production and assembly, printing and publishing.
   Massage uses, when accessory to personal care or heath and fitness uses.
   Pilot plants in which processes planned for use in production elsewhere can
be tested to the extent reasonably necessary for full investigation of the
merits of a product or process, including commercial viability.
   Production of prototype products when limited to the scale reasonably
necessary for full investigation of the merits of a product, including
commercial viability.
   Tattoo uses, when accessory to personal care uses.
   Warehouses and storage facilities, but excluding motor freight terminals and
miniwarehouses and self-storage facilities. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993; amd. Ord.
02-1129, 10-8-2002; Ord. 20-1988, 9-22-2020)
10-7A-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following conditional uses may be permitted in specific situations in
accordance with the procedures outlined in section
10-12-4,
10-3-34, and
chapter 11 of this title, as appropriate:
   Accessory Wind Energy Facility.
   Adult-Use Cannabis Craft Grower Organization.
   Adult-Use Cannabis Cultivation Organization.
   Adult-Use Cannabis Infuser Organization.
   Adult-Use Cannabis Processing Organization.
   Adult-Use Cannabis Transporting Organization.
   Airports and heliports.
   Cartage and freight facilities.
   Floor area ratio premiums as specified in subsection
10-7A-5D2 of this article.
   Food manufacture, packaging and processing.
   General retail and services located within one of the permitted uses,
including, but not limited to, drugstores, personal care, dry cleaning
establishments, laundries, shoe repair and tailor shops.
   Health and fitness uses.
   Height limit increase as specified in subsection
10-7A-5D1 of this article.
   Instructional uses.
   Planned unit development. The primary use within a planned unit development
shall be one or more of the principal permitted uses and may include any of the
following uses:
      A.   Cultural and recreational facilities, churches, auditoriums and
public gathering places.
      B.   Eating and drinking establishments.
      C.   Schools, college or university or trade or vocational.
   Public and private utility facilities.
   Sales and storage of building materials and products.
   Warehousing, receiving and moving van distribution centers. (Ord. 93-695, 6-
15-1993; amd. Ord. 95-787, 5-23-1995; Ord. 20-1978, 7-14-2020; Ord. 20-1988, 9-
22-2020; Ord. 25-2149, 7-8-2025)
10-7A-4: REQUIRED CONDITIONS:
The following conditions shall be required:
   A.   Warehouse and storage facility functions shall be conducted within
enclosed buildings and structures.
   B.   All business, servicing or processing, except for off street parking
and off street loading shall be conducted within completely enclosed buildings.
(Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
   C.   All outside storage areas of goods, materials, and other products shall
be enclosed with fences or landscaping of at least 75 percent opacity and have
a paved surface. Lighting of the facility shall be directed away from
surrounding properties. (Ord. 05-1307, 8-9-2005)
   D.   Parking and loading requirements shall be set forth in chapter 8 of
this title. All parking and loading areas shall be landscaped and maintained.
   E.   Processes and equipment employed in the ORI district shall comply with
the provisions of article D of this chapter.
   F.   The business uses in the ORI district shall be located within a
building or structure containing a permitted use and shall not contain
advertising visible from the outside of the building or structure. Such
business uses shall be primarily for the service and convenience of the tenants
and employees of the ORI district in which located. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
10-7A-5: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Area: The minimum area in the ORI district shall be 2 acres, except
for planned unit developments which shall have no minimum area required.
   B.   Lot Width: The minimum lot width, at the front yard line in the ORI
district shall be 100 feet.
   C.   Yards: The minimum yards required in the ORI district shall be as
follows:
      1.   Yards Facing Existing Or Proposed Roadways (Not Including Interior
Circulation Roads Or Drives Within An Individual Tract): There shall be a
required yard adjacent to each existing or proposed roadway which bounds an
individual tract. Such required yard shall not be less than 30 feet in depth;
provided, however, that such yard shall be increased in depth by 1 foot for
each 3 feet in height by which any building or structure on the lot exceeds the
height of 30 feet and also provided, however, that such a yard located across a
street from a residence district shall equal 1 foot in depth for each foot of
building height but in no event shall the yard be less than 100 feet in depth.
      2.   Front Yard: There shall be a required front yard not less than 50
feet.
      3.   Yards Adjacent To Interior Or Rear Property Lines: There shall be a
required yard adjacent to each interior side lot line or rear lot line of not
less than 20 feet in depth; except, that such side yard or rear yard shall be
increased by 1 foot for each 3 feet in height that any building or structure on
the lot exceeds a height of 30 feet, and except, that requirements for side
yards or rear yards adjacent to interior side or rear property lines shall not
be applicable to buildings or structures erected adjacent to a railroad or
railroad siding. Where any interior side or rear property line abuts upon a
residence district, there shall be provided a required yard 1 foot in depth for
each foot of building height but in no event shall this yard be less than 50
feet in depth.
      4.   Landscaping: All required setback areas shall be landscaped and
maintained.
   D.   Height Limitations; Bulk Regulations: The maximum height and floor area
ratio for all buildings and structures in the ORI district shall be as follows:
      1.   The maximum height for all buildings and structures in the ORI
district shall be 50 feet; however, this limit may be increased to 100 feet by
a conditional use issued by the village board, and after public hearing before
the zoning board in accordance with the provisions of section
10-12-4 of this title. Any such increased height shall be reasonably required
for the particular research or development use to which the property in
question is to be put.
      2.   The basic floor area ratio in the ORI district shall be 0.70.
However, for those buildings and structures that provide special design
improvements, a floor area ratio premium may be granted as a conditional use by
the village board and after public hearing before the zoning board in
accordance with the provisions of chapter 11 of this title. This premium may be
added to the basic floor area ratio in accordance with the following:
         a.   If 75 percent or more of the required parking is provided
underground or within the building, then a floor area ratio premium of 0.20
shall be allowed.
         b.   As the lot size increases, a floor area ratio premium of 0.02
will be granted for each additional acre in lot size above 2 acres to a maximum
of 10 acres.
   E.   Signs: In accordance with
 chapter 10 of this title.
   F.   Off Street Parking And Loading: In accordance with
chapter 8 of this title. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
ARTICLE B. I-2 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-7B-1: Intent
10-7B-2: Permitted Uses
10-7B-3: Conditional Uses
10-7B-4: Required Conditions
10-7B-5: Site And Structure Requirements
10-7B-1: INTENT:
The I-2 industrial district is intended to accommodate industrial activities
which are more intensive than light industrial uses. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
10-7B-2: PERMITTED USES:
No building, structure or parcel of land shall be used and no building or
structure shall be erected, altered or enlarged which is arranged, intended or
designed for other than 1 of the following uses:
   Abrasive manufacture.
   Adult oriented businesses, subject to the restrictions set forth in title 3,
chapter 17 of this code.
   Banks and financial institutions.
   Boot and shoe manufacture.
   Bottling companies.
   Building materials and products sales and storage.
   Business, professional, medical and dental offices.
   Cartage and express facilities.
   Civic buildings.
   Commercial kitchens.
   Contractor and construction offices, shops and yards.
   Dairy products processing.
   Dry cleaning establishments and laundries employing more than 10 persons.
   Electronic and scientific precision instruments manufacture.
   Electroplating.
   Food manufacture, packaging and processing.
   Furniture, bedding and carpet manufacture.
   General manufacturing.
   Glass products production and sales.
   Health and fitness uses, maximum floor area of 7,500 SF.
   Instructional uses, maximum floor area of 7,500 SF.
   Light machinery production.
   Lithographing.
   Machine shops.
   Massage uses, when accessory to personal care or heath and fitness uses.
   Paper products manufacture.
   Personal Care Uses, when accessory to health and fitness uses.
   Plastics processing.
   Pottery and ceramics manufacture.
   Printing and publishing establishments.
   Radio and television stations and studios.
   Schools, trade or vocational.
   Tattoo uses, when accessory to personal care uses.
   Warehouses, storage and distribution facilities, but excluding
miniwarehouses and self-storage facilities.
   Wearing apparel manufacture.
   Woodworking.
   Other uses which are of the same general character as the other permitted
uses as determined by the zoning officer. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993; amd. Ord.
02-1129, 10-8-2002; Ord. 06-1373, 7-25-2006; Ord. 09-1549, 9-22-2009; Ord. 20-
1988, 9-22-2020; Ord. 24-2121, 11-26-2024)
10-7B-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following conditional uses may be permitted in specific situations in
accordance with the procedures outlined in section
10-12-4,
10-3-34, and
chapter 11 of this title, as appropriate:
   Accessory Wind Energy Facility.
   Adult-Use Cannabis Craft Grower Organization.
   Adult-Use Cannabis Cultivation Organization.
   Adult-Use Cannabis Infuser Organization.
   Adult-Use Cannabis Processing Organization.
   Adult-Use Cannabis Transporting Organization.
   Air, motor and railroad freight terminals.
   Airports and heliports.
   Animal grooming service.
   Asphalt products manufacture.
   Automobile service stations, repair facilities and car washes used in
conjunction with an automobile service station.
   Boiler and tank manufacturing.
   Brick and structural clay products manufacture.
   Bulk storage of petroleum products.
   Car washes.
   Chemical and processing manufacture.
   Commercial solar energy facilities.
   Commercial wind energy facilities.
   Concrete mixing plants.
   Eating and drinking establishments.
   Feed mills.
   Foundries and forge plants.
   Fuel and ice sales.
   Garages for storage, repair and servicing of motor vehicles, including body
repair, painting and engine rebuilding.
   Grain storage and processing.
   Health and fitness uses, floor area greater than 7,500 SF.
   Heavy machinery production.
   Instructional uses, floor area greater than 7,500 SF.
   Kennel.
   Leather tanning and processing.
   Meatpacking.
   Metal reduction and refinement.
   Metal stamping.
   Mining operations.
   Miniwarehouses and self-storage facilities.
   Petroleum products processing and storage.
   Petroleum refining.
   Planned unit developments.
   Public and private utility facilities.
   Recreation and social facilities.
   Recreational vehicle storage yard.
   Retail sale of trucks, truck trailers and associated parts.
   Rubber processing and manufacture.
   Stadiums.
   Steel manufacture.
   Stone products manufacture.
   Towing services. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993; amd. Ord. 02-1088, 3-12-2002; Ord.
02-1129, 10-8-2002; Ord. 04-1224, 6-22-2004; Ord. 13-1704, 6-11-2013; Ord. 20-
1978, 7-14-2020; Ord. 20-1988, 9-22-2020; Ord. 23-2083, 11-28-2023; Ord. 24-
2113, - - ; Ord. 25-2149, 7-8-2025)
10-7B-4: REQUIRED CONDITIONS:
The following conditions shall be required:
   A.   All outside storage areas of goods, materials, and other products shall
be enclosed with fences or landscaping of at least 75 percent opacity and have
a paved surface. Lighting of the facility shall be directed away from
surrounding properties. (Ord. 05-1307, 8-9-2005)
   B.   Where the I-2 district abuts or is across an existing or proposed right
of way from property located in a residence district, screening by fences or
landscaping of at least 75 percent opacity shall be provided. (Ord. 93-695, 6-
15-1993)
10-7B-5: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Area: The minimum area in the I-2 district shall be 1 acre.
   B.   Lot Width: The minimum lot width, at the front yard line in the I-
2 district shall be 100 feet.
   C.   Yards: The minimum yards required in the I-2 district shall be as
follows:
      1.   Yards Facing Existing Or Proposed Roadways (Not Including Interior
Circulation Roads Or Drive Within An Individual Tract): There shall be a
required yard adjacent to each existing or proposed roadway which bounds an
individual tract. Such required yard shall not be less than 20 feet in depth;
provided, however, that such a yard located across a street from a residence
district shall equal 1 foot in depth for each foot of building height but in no
event shall the yard be less than 100 feet in depth.
      2.   Front Yard: There shall be a required front yard of 50 feet.
      3.   Yards Adjacent To Interior And Rear Property Lines: There shall be a
required yard adjacent to each interior side lot line and rear lot line of not
less than 20 feet in depth, and except, that requirements for side yards and
rear yards adjacent to interior side property lines and rear property lines
shall not be applicable to buildings or structures erected adjacent to a
railroad or railroad siding. Where any interior side property line or rear
property line abuts upon a residence district, there shall be provided a
required yard 1 foot in depth for each foot of building height but in no event
shall this yard be less than 50 feet in depth.
      4.   Landscaping: All required setback areas shall be landscaped and
maintained.
   D.   Bulk Regulations: The maximum floor area ratio for all buildings and
structures in the district shall be 0.70.
   E.   Signs: In accordance with
 chapter 10 of this title.
   F.   Off Street Parking And Loading: In accordance with
chapter 8 of this title. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
ARTICLE C. I-3 PLANNED INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-7C-1: Intent
10-7C-2: Permitted Uses
10-7C-3: Site And Structure Requirements
10-7C-4: Additional District Regulations
10-7C-5: Plan Commission Approval
10-7C-1: INTENT:
The I-3 planned industrial district is intended to provide lands for the
development of a wide variety of intensive industrial uses.
This district generally includes those activities which cannot be operated
economically without creating some conditions which might be objectionable to
adjoining properties. The district, therefore, must be located in accordance
with the comprehensive plan as a planned unit development. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-
1993)
10-7C-2: PERMITTED USES:
Within this district, no building, structure or premises shall be used and no
building or structure shall be erected or altered until and unless there shall
have been filed with the plan commission a written application for approval of
a contemplated use within said district, which application shall be accompanied
with the following information:
   A.   A plot plan indicating the location of the present and proposed
buildings, driveways, parking lots and other necessary uses.
   B.   Preliminary architectural plans for the proposed building or buildings.
   C.   An estimate of the maximum number of employees contemplated for the
proposed development and the number of shifts during which they would work.
Also, a description of the industrial operations proposed in sufficient detail
to indicate the effects of those operations in producing of excessive auto and
traffic congestion or problems of noise, glare, odor, sewerage, air pollution,
water pollution, fire or safety hazards or other factors detrimental to the
health, safety and welfare of the area.
   D.   Engineering and architectural plans for the handling of any problem of
the type outlined in subsection C of this section, including a designation of
sewers to be used and necessary plans for controlling of smoke and other
nuisances such as those enumerated under subsection C of this section.
   E.   Any other information the plan commission or village board of trustees
may need to adequately consider the effect that the proposed uses may have upon
the environment and the cost of providing municipal services to the area. (Ord.
93-695, 6-15-1993)
10-7C-3: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot area: Planned industrial districts shall be a minimum area of at
least 80 acres. Individual lots shall be of such size that the development will
have the architectural unity and flexibility in arrangements and be of such
size that all space requirements provided in this title are satisfied.
   B.   Yards: As required in the I-2 district.
   C.   Building height: Not to exceed 35 feet.
   D.   Building coverage: Not to exceed 40 percent.
   E.   Off street parking and loading: In accordance with
chapter 8 of this title. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
10-7C-4: ADDITIONAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS:
   A.   Outside Storage: All outside storage of materials must be screened with
berms and fencing to a height exceeding that which is stored and have a paved
surface.
   B.   Performance Standards: In accordance with article D of this chapter.
   C.   Accessory Wind Energy Facilities: Accessory wind energy facilities
require a conditional use permit to be installed in any industrial development
in the I-3 zoning district. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993; amd. Ord. 05-1307, 8-9-
2005; Ord. 25-2149, 7-8-2025)
10-7C-5: PLAN COMMISSION APPROVAL:
Upon the finding by the plan commission that the contemplated development will
constitute an industrial development of sustained desirability and stability,
that it will be in harmony with the character of the surrounding neighborhood
and consistent with the overall long range plans for the community, that it
will not result in undue traffic congestion or traffic hazards, that the plans
indicate that it will be adequately landscaped, buffered and screened and
otherwise promote the health, safety and welfare of the community, the plan
commission may authorize the issuance of a permit or permits for a proposed
development in any planned industrial district. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
ARTICLE D. PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
SECTION:
10-7D-1: Intent
10-7D-2: Compliance with Provisions
10-7D-3: Measurement
10-7D-4: Standards
10-7D-1: INTENT:
   A.   It is the intent of this Article to provide that business, utilities,
light industry, research and related activities shall be established and
maintained with proper appearance from streets and adjoining properties and to
provide that each such permitted use shall be a good neighbor to adjoining
properties by the control of emission of noise, odor, glare, light, vibration,
smoke, particulate matter, gases and wastes.
   B.   It is further the intent of this Article to state the conditions of
construction and operation with which uses will be expected to comply. In many
cases, the relation of a prospective use to all these performance standards
cannot be judged properly at the time of building permit issuance. In such
cases, the recipient of the building permit should note that these standards,
like all other provisions of this Title, are continuing obligations, and that
all uses shall be expected to operate in compliance with these standards. The
building plans shall bear the signature of a qualified professional stating
that all performance standards will be complied with based upon the submitted
building plans. The Village retains the option to conduct its own investigation
to determine compliance with the performance standards. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-93)
10-7D-2: COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
The performance standards set forth in Section
10-7D-4 of this Article shall be complied with, and any use which fails to
comply with these standards shall be in violation of this Title and shall be
subject to penalties provided for such violation. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-93)
10-7D-3: MEASUREMENT:
Each measurable standard shall be measured at the appropriate indicated
location in accordance with the provisions of Section
10-7D-4 of this Article. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-93)
10-7D-4: STANDARDS:
The following performance standards shall be adhered to:
   A.   Noise: Noise shall be measured on any property line of the tract on
which the operation is located. Noise shall be muffled so as not to become
objectionable due to intermittence, beat frequency, shrillness or intensity. At
the property line, the sound pressure level of noise radiated continuously from
a facility shall not exceed the value given in Tables 1 and 2 of the octave
band frequency. The sound pressure level shall be measured with a sound level
meter and an octave band analyzer that conform to specifications published by
the American Standards Association. Octave band analyzers shall be calibrated
in the Preferred Frequencies (American Standards Association S1.6-1967).
Preferred Frequencies for Acoustical Measurements shall be used.
TABLE 1
Center Frequency Cycles Per Second Maximum Permitted Sound Pressure Level,
                                   Decibels
Center Frequency Cycles Per Second Maximum Permitted Sound Pressure Level,
                                   Decibels
31.5                               79
63                                 74
125                                69
250                                64
500                                58
1,000                              52
2,000                              47
4,000                              43
8,000                              40
 
If the noise is not smooth and continuous, one or more of the corrections in
Table 2 shall be added or subtracted from each of the decibel levels given in
Table 1.
TABLE 2
 
Type of Operation or Character of Noise             Corrections in Decibels
Noise source operates less than 20% of any one hour plus 5*
period
Noise source operates less than 5% of any one hour  plus 10*
period
Noise source operates less than 1% of any one hour  plus 15%
period
Noise of impulsive character (hammering, etc.)      minus 5
Noise of periodic character (hum, screech, etc.)    minus 5
 
   * Apply one of these corrections only.
   B.   Odors: Odors from any use hereafter begun shall not be discernible at
the property line and shall not exceed the odor threshold concentration. The
measurement of the threshold odor shall be in accordance with the American
Society for Testing and Materials Method DI391-57 Standard Method for
Measurement of Odor in Atmosphere (Dilution Method) (Philadelphia: American
Society of Testing and Materials, 1957). Detailed plans for the prevention of
odors crossing property lines may be required before the issuance of a building
permit.
   C.   Glare: Glare, whether direct or reflected, such as from floodlights or
high temperature processes and as differentiated from general illumination,
shall not be visible at any property line.
   D.   Exterior Lighting: Any lights used for exterior illumination shall
direct light away from adjoining properties.
   E.   Vibration: Vibration shall not be discernible at any property line to
the human sense of feeling for three (3) minutes' or more duration in one hour.
Vibration at any time shall not produce at any time an acceleration of more
than 0.1 gravities or shall result in any combination of amplitudes and
frequencies beyond the "safe" range of Table 7 United States Bureau of Mines
Bulletin No. 442 Seismic Effects of Quarry Blasting, on any structure. The
methods and equations of said Bulletin No. 442 shall be used to compute all
values for the enforcement of this provision.
   F.   Smoke: Measurement shall be done at the point of emission. The
Ringelmann Smoke Chart published by the United States Bureau of Mines shall be
used for the measurement of smoke. Smoke not darker or more opaque than No. 0
on said Chart may be emitted; except that smoke not darker or more opaque than
No. 1 on said Chart may be emitted for periods not longer than 4 minutes in any
30 minutes. These provisions, applicable to visible grey smoke, shall also
apply to visible smoke of a different color but with an equivalent apparent
opacity.
   G.   Particulate Matter: Solid or liquid particles shall not be emitted at
any point in concentrations exceeding 0.1 grains per cubic foot of the
conveying gas or air. For measurement of the amount of particles in gases
resulting from combustion, standard corrections shall be applied to a stack
temperature of 500 degrees Fahrenheit and 50 percent excess air.
   H.   Gases: Fumes or gases shall not be emitted at any point in
concentrations or amounts that are noxious, toxic or corrosive. The values
given in Table I (Industrial Hygiene Standards - Maximum Allowable
Concentration for 8 hour day, 5 days per week), Table III (Odor Thresholds),
Table IV (Concentrations of Substances Causing Pain in the Eyes), and Table V
(Exposures to Substances Causing Injury to Vegetation) in the latest revision
of Chapter 5, Physiological Effect, that contains such tables, in the Air
Pollution Abatement Manual, by the Manufacturing Chemists' Association, Inc.,
Washington, D.C., are hereby established as guides for the determination of
permissible concentration or amounts. Detailed plans for the elimination of
fumes or gases may be required before the issuance of a building permit.
   I.   Hazard: Any operation allowed in Articles A and B of this Chapter shall
be carried on with reasonable precautions against fire and explosion hazards.
   J.   Waste: All sewage and industrial wastes shall be treated and disposed
of in such a manner as to comply with the water quality standards applicable to
the classification assigned to the receiving waters by the Village, the State,
and the USEPA approval of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency of all
plans for waste disposal facilities shall be required before issuance of any
building permit. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-93)
CHAPTER 8
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
SECTION:
10-8-1: Purpose
10-8-2: General Parking and Loading Provisions
10-8-3: Additional Parking Regulations
10-8-4: Schedule of Parking Requirements
10-8-5: Additional Loading Regulations
10-8-6: Schedule of Loading Requirements
10-8-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to increase safety and lessen congestion in the
public streets, to adequately provide for parking needs associated with the
development of land and increased automobile usage, to set standards for the
requirements of off-street parking and loading facilities according to the
amount of traffic generated by each use and to eliminate the on-street storage
of vehicles along major traffic routes. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-93)
10-8-2: GENERAL PARKING AND LOADING PROVISIONS:
   A.   Scope: The following provisions shall apply to off-street parking and
loading:
      1.   For all buildings and structures erected and all uses of land
established after the effective date hereof, accessory parking and loading
facilities shall be provided as required by the regulations of the district in
which such buildings or uses are located. However, where a building permit has
been issued prior to the effective date hereof; and provided, that construction
is started within one year of such effective date and diligently prosecuted to
completion, parking and loading facilities as required herein need not be
provided.
      2.   When the intensity of use of any building, structure or premises
shall be increased through addition of dwelling units, gross floor area,
seating capacity or other unit of measurement specified herein for required
parking or loading facilities, parking and loading facilities as required
herein shall be provided for such increase in intensity of use. However, no
building or structure lawfully erected or use lawfully established prior to the
effective date hereof shall be required to provide such additional parking or
loading facilities, unless and until the aggregate increase in units of
measurement shall equal not less than fifteen percent (15%) of the units of
measurement existing upon the effective date hereof, in which event, parking
and loading facilities as required herein shall be provided for the total
increase.
      3.   Whenever the existing use of a building or structure shall hereafter
be changed to a new use, parking and loading facilities shall be provided as
required for such new use. However, if the said building or structure was
erected prior to the effective date hereof, additional parking and loading
facilities are mandatory only in the amount by which the requirements for the
new use would exceed those for the existing use if the latter were subject to
the parking and loading provisions of this Title.
   B.   Existing Parking and Loading Facilities: Accessory off-street parking
or loading facilities which are located on the same lot as the building or use
served and which were in existence on the effective date hereof or were
provided voluntarily after such effective date shall not hereafter be reduced
below, or if already less than, shall not herefurther be reduced below the
requirements of this Title for a similar new building or use.
   C.   Permissive Parking and Loading Facilities: Nothing herein shall be
deemed to prevent the voluntary establishment of off-street parking or loading
facilities to serve any existing use of land or buildings; provided, that all
regulations herein governing the location, design, improvements and operation
of such facilities are adhered to.
   D.   Damage or Destruction: For any conforming or legally nonconforming
building or use which is in existence on the effective date hereof, which is
subsequently damaged or destroyed by fire, explosion or other causes and which
is reconstructed or repaired, off-street parking or loading facilities need not
be provided; except, that parking or loading facilities equivalent to any
maintained at the time of such damage or destruction shall be restored or
continued in operation. However, in no case shall it be necessary to restore or
maintain parking or loading facilities in excess of those required by this
Title for equivalent new uses or construction.
   E.   Control of Off-Site Parking Facilities: When required parking
facilities are provided on land other than the zoning lot on which the building
or use served by such facilities is located, they shall be and remain in the
same possession or ownership as the zoning lot occupied by the building or use
to which the parking facilities are accessory. Such off-site parking facilities
shall not be authorized and an occupancy permit shall not be issued unless the
Zoning Board determines that the common ownership or possession of the zoning
lot and the site of the parking facilities are reasonably certain to continue
and that the off-site parking facilities will be maintained at all times during
the life of the proposed use or building.
   F.   Drainage of Paved Driveways and Parking Lots:
      1.   Whenever a driveway or parking lot is constructed and paved with
concrete, asphalt, gravel or any other hard or bituminous surface, the person
constructing said driveway or parking lot shall construct the area in such a
manner that it affords adequate drainage of water away from the area toward
either a Village storm sewer or curb and gutter or to another area specially
designated and constructed to receive runoff.
      2.   Supervision of said driveways or parking lots to insure that they
are constructed with proper drainage control and setback requirements shall be
the responsibility of the village zoning officer, and no such driveway or
parking lot shall be constructed or approved by the zoning officer until he has
determined, in his discretion, that they are so properly constructed.
      3.   No driveway shall be less than five feet (5') from an interior lot
line, measured from edge of driveway to the lot line at the closest point.
      4.   No driveway constructed upon a corner lot shall be closer than
thirty feet (30') from the intersection of the right of way line and five feet
(5') from any adjoining lot line.
      5.   A driveway constructed upon a cul-de-sac lot must maintain a minimum
three foot (3') clearance from any adjoining lot line, measured from edge of
driveway to the lot line at the closest point. If a hardship should arise
whereby a three foot (3') clearance would be impossible to achieve, the zoning
officer, after consulting with the village administrator, may vary the three
foot (3') requirement.
   G.   Submission Of Plot Plans: Any application for a building permit or for
a certificate of occupancy where no building permit is required shall include
therewith a plot plan, drawn to scale and fully dimensioned, showing any
parking or loading facilities to be provided in compliance herewith. (Ord. 93-
695, 6-15-1993)
10-8-3: ADDITIONAL PARKING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Use Of Parking Facilities:
      1.   Off street parking facilities accessory to residential use and
developed in any residential district in accordance with the requirements
herein shall be used solely for the parking of passenger automobiles owned by
occupants of the dwelling structures to which such facilities are accessory or
by guests of said occupants. Under no circumstances shall required parking
facilities accessory to residential structures be used for the storage of
commercial vehicles or for the parking of automobiles belonging to the
employees, owners, tenants, visitors or customers of a business or
manufacturing establishment.
      2.   The parking area shall not be used for the repair, dismantling or
servicing of any vehicles, equipment, materials or supplies.
   B.   Collective And Joint Parking Facilities: Separate off street parking
space shall be provided for each use or the parking space required of two (2)
or more uses located on the same zoning lot may be combined and used jointly;
provided, however:
      1.   Collective Parking Facilities: Off street parking facilities for
separate uses may be provided collectively, if the total number of spaces so
provided is not less than the sum of the separate requirements for each such
use, and provided that all regulations governing location of parking spaces, in
relation to the use served, are observed. Further, no parking space or portion
thereof shall serve as the required space for more than one use unless
authorized by the planning and zoning commission.
      2.   Joint Use Parking Facilities: If groups of buildings contain uses
which vary in their parking requirements, the number of parking spaces required
shall be the sum of the individual requirements of each use. However, where
peak parking requirements occur at distinctly different times of the day or at
different times of the week, as determined by the village board, pursuant to
the recommendation of the plan and zoning commission, joint parking facilities
may be shared by two (2) or more uses if so authorized.
   C.   Parking In Yard:
      1.   Front Yards:
         a.   In the E-2, E-1, R-1-A, R-1, R-3, R-3-A, R-4 and R-5 zoning
districts, no vehicle shall be parked in any front yard, except upon a driveway
which is normally incidental to a single-family residence or other allowed use,
and then only if authorized by the building and subdivision codes of the
village 1 . (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
         b.   In the B-1, B-2, B-3, B-4, OCI, ORI, I-2 and I-3 zoning
districts, parking for passenger vehicles shall be permitted in the front yard
but only if set back from all property lines by a ten foot (10') landscaped
area, approved through the site plan review process, and improved with a
village approved hard surface in accordance with the respective district's
requirements.
      2.   Side Or Rear Yards: Parking may be located in the required side or
rear yards of any zoning district; provided, that a five foot (5') landscaped
area be used to separate the parking area from the lot line in all zoning
districts except for classifications where single-family detached residences
are allowed. In zoning districts where single-family detached residences are
allowed, parking may be located in any required side or rear yard. In the
business and industrial zoning districts, parking shall be approved through the
site plan review process and improved with a village approved hard surface in
accordance with the respective district's requirements. (Ord. 06-1373, 7-25-
2006)
      3.   Adjacent To A Residential District:
         a.   In any district, on any lot devoted to other than single-family
use, if any front lot line, side lot line or rear lot line separates the lots
from or is across the street or alley from a lot in a residential district, the
off street parking shall not be located closer to such lot line than the
minimum front yard depth, side yard depth, side yard width or rear yard depth
(as the case may be) prescribed by the district in which the off street parking
area is located. In no case, however, shall this distance be less than twenty
feet (20').
         b.   Further, all off street parking areas containing more than four
(4) spaces shall be effectively screened on each side adjoining or fronting on
any property situated in any residence district by a wall, fence or densely
planted, compact hedge not less than five feet (5') nor more than seven feet
(7') in height. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-1993)
      4.   Class J And Higher Vehicles 2 :
         a.   No vehicle, as defined by the Illinois vehicle code 3 ,
registered for an excess of twenty six thousand (26,000) pounds (class J and
higher) may be parked on any lot in any residential (E-2, E-1, R-1-A, R-1, R-3,
R-3-A, R-4, or R-5) zoned district, except for school buses during school hours
on school days. (Ord. 03-1172, 6-10-2003, eff. 6-10-2003)
   D.   Accessory Off Street Parking Facilities: The location of off street
parking spaces in relation to the use served shall be as prescribed
hereinafter. All distances specified shall be within walking distances between
such parking spaces and a main entrance to the use served.
      1.   Residential District Uses: Parking spaces accessory to dwellings
shall be located on the same zoning lot as the use served. Spaces accessory to
uses other than dwellings may be located on a lot adjacent to, or directly
across a street or alley from, the lot occupied by the use served, but in no
case at a distance in excess of three hundred feet (300') from such use.
      2.   Maximum Number of Spaces: The total number of accessory parking
spaces provided for single-family, two-family or multiple-family dwellings
shall not exceed that required herein for such use or any equivalent new use by
more than fifty percent (50%) or four (4) spaces, whichever is greater.
      3.   Business, Office and Manufacturing Uses: All required parking spaces
shall be within one thousand feet (1,000') of the use served, except for spaces
accessory to dwelling units which shall be within three hundred feet (300') of
use served.
      4.   Floor Area Exemptions: When two (2) or more uses are located on the
same zoning lot, only one exemption in terms of floor area shall be taken.
   E.   Units of Measurement: For purposes of this Chapter the following units
of measurement shall apply:
      1.   Definitions: The following definitions shall apply:
   DWELLING UNIT: A room or group of rooms providing living quarters for a
family or household.
   FLOOR AREA: In the case of offices, merchandising or service type of uses,
"floor area" shall mean the gross floor area used or intended to be used by
tenants and/or owners for service to the public as customers, patrons, clients
and patients, including areas occupied by fixtures and equipment used for
display or sale of merchandise. It shall not include areas used principally for
nonpublic purposes such as storage, incidental repair, processing or packaging
of merchandise, for show windows, for offices incidental to the management or
maintenance of stores or buildings, for toilet or rest rooms, for utilities or
for dressing rooms, fitting or alteration rooms.
   SEAT or BENCH: A "seat" shall be the space intended for one individual; in a
place where patrons or spectators occupy benches, pews or other seating
facilities, each twenty inches (20") of seating facilities shall be counted as
one seat.
      2.   Employees: Parking spaces required on an employee basis shall be
based on the maximum number of employees on the premises at any one time
whether on duty or residing therein.
      3.   Fractions: When units of measurement result in the requirement of a
fractional space, any fraction shall required one parking space.
   F.   Design and Development:
      1.   Parking Configurations 4 : Each off-street parking space and area
shall be designated in accord with and have an area of not less than that
required by the following table. Angle parking of a type not specified below is
not permitted:
 
Parking Type    Stall Width+ Stall Length++ Aisle Width Bay Width*
45 degree angle 12.7 feet    19.1 feet      14.0 feet   52.0 feet
60 degree angle 10.4 feet    20.1 feet      18.0 feet   58.2 feet
75 degree angle 9.3 feet     19.7 feet      20.0 feet   59.4 feet
90 degree angle 9.0 feet     18.0 feet      24.0 feet   60.0 feet
Parallel        22.0 feet    8.0 feet       **          **
 
Footnotes to Table:
+    Handicap Parking Spaces = 16'0" wide, space width dimensions parallel to
aisle: 45 degrees - 22'8" ; 60 degrees - 18'6" ; 75 degrees - 16'7" ; 90
degrees - 16'0".
++    Measured perpendicular to center line of access road beginning with face
of curb.
*    Measured perpendicular to face of curb or ground bumper; the overall bay
width dimension includes two (2) stall lengths and one aisle width.
**    Street pavement serves as aisle width and as bay width; parallel parking
is not permitted along access drives or in parking garages.
Each parking space shall have a vertical clearance of at least seven feet (7')
and shall be of usable shape and condition.
      2.   Design and Development: Every parcel of land hereafter used as a
public or private parking area greater than four (4) spaces, including a
commercial parking lot and an automobile sales lot, shall be designed,
developed and maintained in accordance with the following requirements:
         a.   Surfacing: All open off-street parking areas shall be improved
with a compacted macadam base, not less than six inches (6") thick, surfaced
with asphalt or concrete as specified by the Zoning Officer.
         b.   Screening and Landscaping: All open automobile parking areas
shall be effectively screened on each side adjoining or fronting on any
property situated on a residential district or any institutional premises by a
wall, fence or densely planted compact hedge not less than five feet (5') nor
more than seven feet (7') in height.
         c.   Lighting: Lighting facilities, if required, shall be so arranged
and operated so that they neither unreasonably disturb occupants of adjacent
properties nor interfere with traffic. All lighting used to illuminate off-
street parking areas in residential districts shall be shaded so that no direct
light is cast upon any property within the district.
         d.   Curbing And Parking: The plan commission may require that parking
areas be equipped with curbs, wheel guards or bumper guards located along all
exterior parking lot lines in such a manner so as to prohibit protrusion of any
portion of a parked vehicle beyond established parking areas.
         e.   Entrance And Exit Points:
            (1)   Each required off-street parking space shall be open directly
upon an aisle or driveway of such width and design as to provide safe and
efficient means of vehicular access to such parking space. All off-street
parking facilities shall be designed with appropriate means of vehicular access
to a street or alley in a manner which will least interfere with traffic
movements. No driveway across public property nor curb cut shall exceed a width
of thirty feet (30').
            (2)   The parking area shall be provided with entrances and exits
each of which shall not be less than twelve feet (12') in width nor more than
thirty feet (30') in width, excluding any lane control island or other such
device as may be commonly used to separate traffic.
         f.   Signs: Accessory signs are permitted on parking areas. (Ord. 93-
695, 6-15-1993)
 
Notes
1 1. See titles 8 and 11, respectively, of this code.
2 1. See also section 6-11-1313 of this code.
3 2. 625 ILCS 5/1-217.
4 1. Off-street parking configurations and dimensions are shown in Section
  10-13-10 of this Title.
10-8-4: SCHEDULE OF PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
Off-street parking spaces shall be provided in accordance with minimum
requirements as hereinafter set forth:
A. Parking Class No. 1 - Residential Uses:
   Dwelling unit
   Dwelling, single-family detached
  Dwelling, two-family                  2 parking spaces per each dwelling
   Duplex                                unit.
   Dwelling, single-family attached
   Mobile home
                                         2 parking spaces per each dwelling
                                         unit, plus additional parking spaces,
  Dwelling, multiple-family             as applicable, for the retail/service
                                         area in accordance with the provisions
                                         of subsections D and E of this
                                         section.
                                         1 parking space per each dwelling
                                         unit, plus additional parking spaces,
  Apartment hotel                       as applicable, for the retail/service
                                         area in accordance with the provisions
                                         of subsections D and E of this
                                         section.
   Boarding house
   Dormitory                             5 parking spaces per each 1,000 square
  Fraternity                            feet of gross floor area.
   Lodging house
   Rooming house
  Convalescent home                     1 parking space per each 4 beds based
   Nursing home                          on rated design capacity.
  Daycare homes                         2 parking spaces.
B. Parking Class No. 2 - Industrial Uses:
  Abrasive manufacture                  2 parking spaces per each 3 employees.
  Asphalt products manufacture
  Bakeries
  Boot and shoe manufacture
  Bottling companies
  Brick and structural clay products
   manufacture
  Chemical processing manufacture
  Clothes product manufacture
  Concrete mixing plants
  Dairies
  Dairy products processing
  Electronic and scientific precision
   instruments manufacture
  Electroplating
  Feed mills
  Food manufacture, packaging and
   processing
  Foundries and forge plants
  Furniture, bedding and carpet manu-
   facture
  General manufacturing and industrial
   activities
  Glass products production and sales
  Grain storage and processing
  Heavy machinery production
  Laboratories for engineering and
   testing activities
  Laboratories for research and
   development
  Leather tanning processing
  Light machinery production and
   assembly
  Lithographing
  Machine shops
  Meatpacking
  Metal reduction and refinement
  Metal stamping
  Miniwarehouse and self-storage        3 spaces plus 1 space for every 40
   facilities                            individual storage units.
  Mining operations                     2 parking spaces per each 3 employees
  Paper products manufacture
   Petroleum products storage,
  processing
   and refining
  Pilot plants
  Plastics processing
  Pottery and ceramics manufacture
  Printing and publishing
   establishments
  Rubber processing and manufacture
  Steel manufacture
  Stone products manufacture
   Warehouses, storage and distribution
  facilities, but excluding
   miniwarehouses and self-storage
   facilities
  Wearing apparel manufacture
  Woodworking
C. Parking Class No. 3 – Transportation, Communications And Utilities:
                                         Parking spaces as determined by the
                                         plan commission and village board as a
   Airports                              condition of granting the conditional
  Bus stations                          use, plus additional parking spaces,
   Heliports                             as applicable, for the retail/service
   Railroad passenger terminals          area in accordance with the provisions
                                         of subsections D and E of this
                                         section.
   Air freight terminals
  Cartage and express facilities        2 parking spaces per each 3 employees.
   Motor freight terminals
   Railroad freight terminals
   Automobile graveyards
   Disposals
  Dumps                                 2 parking spaces per each employee.
   Incinerators
   Sanitary landfills
   Parking garages, principal or
  accessoryParking lots, principal or   1 parking space per each employee.
   accessory
  Private utility facilities            2 parking spaces per each 3 employees.
   Public utility facilities
   Radio stations or studios
  Recording or sound studios            1 parking space per each employee.
   Television stations or studios
D. Parking Class No. 4 – Retail And Wholesale Trade:
  Antique shops                         5 1/2 parking spaces per each 1,000
                                         square feet of gross floor area.
  Art shops or galleries                 
  Auction rooms                          
  Automobile service stations and        
   repair facilities
  Bakeries                               
  Bicycle sales, rental and repair       
   stores
  Boat showrooms, sales and rentals      
  Book and stationery stores             
  Building materials and products sales  
   and storage
   Building or related trades, carpenter
   shops, air conditioning, plumbing and
  heating shops, wallpaper and paper     
   hanging shops, furniture
   upholstering, paint shops
  Business machine stores, sales and     
   service
  Camera and photographic supply stores  
  Candy and ice cream stores             
  Carpet and rug stores                  
  Catering establishments                
  China and glassware stores             
  Clothing and costume rental stores     
  Coin and philatelic stores             
  Contractor or construction offices,    
   shops or yards
  Dairy product establishments           
  Delicatessens                          
  Department stores                      
  Discount stores                        
  Drugstores                             
  Dry goods stores                       
  Electrical appliance stores            
  Electrical showroom and shops          
  Exterminating shops                    
  Farm implements                        
  Feed and seed stores                   
  Food stores                            
  Frozen food stores                     
  Fuel and ice sales                     
  Furrier shops                          
  Garden supply, tool and seed stores    
  Garages for storage, repair and        
   servicing of motor vehicles
  Gift shops                             
  Greenhouses and nurseries              
  Grocery stores                         
  Hearing aid stores                     
  Hobby shops                            
  Interior decorating shops              
  Jewelry stores                         
  Leather goods and luggage stores       
  Locksmith shops                        
  Machinery sales                        
  Mail order, catalog stores             
  Meat markets                           
  Millinery shops                        
  Musical instrument sales and repair    
  Office machine sales, servicing and    
   supply stores
  Opticians - sales                      
  Orthopedic and medical appliance       
   stores
  Package liquor stores                  
  Paint, glass and wallpaper stores      
  Pawnshops                              
  Pet shops                              
  Phonograph record and sheet music      
   stores
  Photography studios                    
  Picture framing                        
  Plumbing showrooms and shops           
  Radio and television sales, service    
   and repair
  Retail, general                        
  Secondhand stores and rummage shops    
  Sewing machine sales and service       
  Shoe stores                            
  Shopping centers, exclusive of eating  
   or drinking establishments
  Sporting goods stores                  
  Tobacco shops                          
  Toy shops                              
  Variety stores                         
  Wearing apparel shops                  
   Furniture stores
   Household appliance stores
   Mobile home sales and rental          2 parking spaces per each 1,000 square
  Model homes and garage displays       feet of gross floor area.
   Motor vehicle sales
   Trailer and camper trailer sales and
   rental
  Drinking establishments               10 parking spaces per each 1,000
   Eating establishments                 square feet of gross floor area.
                                         1 parking space per each 2 employees,
  Car washes                            plus 1 parking space per each manager,
                                         plus 30 reservoir/stacking parking
                                         spaces.
   Drive-in facilities for uses listed   20 reservoir/stacking parking spaces
  in this subsection.                   or 5 parking spaces per drive-in
                                         window, whichever is greater.
E. Parking Class No. 5 - Services and Institutions:
   Barber shops
   Beauty shops
   Clothing repair stores
   Custom dressmaking establishments
  Dry cleaning establishments           4 parking spaces per each 1,000 square
   Laundries                             feet of gross floor area.
   Services, general
   Shoe repair stores
   Tailor shops
   Taxidermists
   Banks                                 1 parking space for each 250 square
  Civic buildings                       feet of gross floor area.
   Financial institutions
   Offices - business or professional
   Blueprinting establishments
   Employment agencies
   Photostating establishments           3.3 parking spaces for each 1,000
  Ticket agencies                       square feet of gross floor area.
   Transportation ticket offices
   Travel bureaus
   Animal hospitals
   Kennels
                                         1 parking space per each dwelling
                                         unit, plus 1 parking space per each
                                         employee, plus additional parking
  Hotels                                spaces, as applicable, for the retail/
   Motels                                service/entertainment area in
                                         accordance with the provisions of this
                                         subsection and subsections D and F of
                                         this Section.
   Dental clinics
  Dental offices                        5 parking spaces per each 1,000 square
   Medical clinics                       feet of gross floor area.
   Medical offices
  Hospitals                             11/2 parking spaces per each 1,000
   Sanitariums                           square feet of gross floor area.
  Charitable institutions               1 parking space per each 1,000 square
   Philanthropic institutions            feet of gross floor area.
   Day care centers                      2 parking spaces per each 1,000 square
  Nursery schools                       feet of gross floor area.
   Preschools
  Elementary schools                    1 parking space per each employee.
   Junior high schools
                                         1 parking space per each employee,
  Senior high schools                   plus 1 parking space for each 6
                                         students based on rated design
                                         capacity.
                                         1 parking space per each 2 employees,
  Colleges                              plus 1 parking space per each 4
   Universities                          students based on rated design
                                         capacity.
   Dance schools                         1 parking space per each employee,
  Music schools                         plus 1 parking space per each 3
   Trade schools                         students based on rated design
   Vocational schools                    capacity.
                                         1 parking space per each 4 seats based
                                         on rated design capacity, plus
                                         additional parking spaces, as
  Religious institutions                applicable for the residential/
                                         service/cultural area in accordance
                                         with the provisions of this subsection
                                         and subsection F of this Section.
   Gymnasiums
  Health clubs                          5 parking spaces per each 1,000 square
   Physical culture and health services  feet of gross floor area.
   Reducing salons
   Cemeteries
   Crematories                           4 parking spaces per each 1,000 square
  Funeral parlors                       feet of gross floor area.
   Mausoleums
   Undertaking establishments
   Drive-in facilities for uses listed   2 reservoir/stacking parking spaces or
  in                                    5 parking spaces per drive-in window,
   this subsection                       whichever is greater.
F. Parking Class No. 6 - Cultural, Entertainment and Sports Facilities:
                                         10 parking spaces per each 1,000
                                         square feet of gross floor area, plus
                                         additional parking spaces, as
  Amusement establishments              applicable, for the retail/service/
                                         entertainment area in accordance with
                                         the provisions of this subsection and
                                         subsections D and E of this Section.
                                         3 parking spaces per each 1,000 square
   Amusement parks                       feet of gross land area, plus
   Carnivals                             additional parking spaces, as
  Kiddie parks                          applicable, for the retail/service/
   Outdoor amusement facilities          entertainment area in accordance with
                                         the provisions of this subsection and
                                         subsections D and E of this Section.
   Arenas                                10 parking spaces per each 1,000
  Community Center                      square feet of gross floor area.
   Stadiums
   Clubs                                 4 parking spaces per each 1,000 square
  Lodges                                feet of gross floor area.
   Meeting places for organizations
  Cultural institutions                 2 parking spaces per each 1,000 square
                                         feet of gross floor area.
   Forest preserves                      1 parking space per each 5,000 square
  Parks                                 feet of grassland area.
   Playgrounds
                                         60 parking spaces per each 9 holes,
                                         plus 1 parking space per each 2
                                         employees, plus additional parking
  Golf courses                          spaces, as applicable, for the retail/
                                         service area in accordance with the
                                         provisions of subsections D and E of
                                         this section.
                                         1 parking space per each 75 square
                                         feet of water area, plus 1 parking
                                         space per each 2 employees, plus
  Swim clubs                            additional parking spaces, as
   Swimming pools                        applicable, for the retail/service
                                         area in accordance with the provisions
                                         of subsections D and E of this
                                         section.
                                         1 parking space per each 2,000 square
                                         feet of court area, plus 1 parking
                                         space per each 2 employees, plus
  Tennis clubs                          additional parking spaces, as
   Tennis courts                         applicable, for the retail/service
                                         area in accordance with the provisions
                                         of subsections D and E of this
                                         section.
  Theaters                              1 parking space per each 21/2 seats
                                         based on rated design capacity.
                                         Reservoir/stacking parking spaces
                                         equal in number to 10 percent of rated
  Theaters, drive-in                    design capacity use. (Ord. 93-695, 6-
                                         15-1993; amd. Ord. 00-1008, 9-26-2000;
                                         Ord. 02-1129, 10-8-2002)
 
10-8-5: ADDITIONAL LOADING REGULATIONS:
Off street loading space shall be required and maintained in connection with
any building or part thereof hereafter erected or altered which is to be
occupied by uses requiring the receipt or distribution of materials or
merchandise.
   A.   Use Of Loading Space: Off street loading shall not be used for the
sale, repair, dismantling or servicing of any vehicles, equipment, materials or
supplies, if such loading facilities are within five hundred feet (500') of a
residential or business district.
   B.   Location:
      1.   Off street loading space shall be located on the same lot as the
structure for which it is provided.
      2.   No permitted or required loading berth shall be located within
twenty five feet (25') of the nearest point of intersection of any two (2)
streets.
      3.   Off street loading space may occupy all or any part of any required
yard space other than the front yard or side yard adjoining a street. The
village board may authorize off street loading in front or side yards adjoining
a street, if such authorization would not result in traffic hazards.
   C.   Landscaping: Off street loading spaces that adjoin or are across the
street from property zoned for any residential use shall have a dense evergreen
planting, fence, masonry wall or such other screening as may be determined by
the village board. The village board shall also determine the height, location
and density of the screening used to provide adequate protection to adjoining
property. In making its determination, the village board shall consider the
recommendation of the plan commission.
   D.   Design, Development And Maintenance: Every parcel of land hereafter
used for off street loading space shall be designed, developed and maintained
in accordance with the following requirements:
      1.   Surfacing: All off street loading berths shall be improved with a
compacted macadam base, not less than seven inches (7") thick, surfaced with
not less than two inches (2") of asphalt or five inches (5") of concrete.
      2.   Access And Maneuvering: Off street loading shall be provided with
entrances and exits, each of which shall not be less than twelve feet (12') in
width nor more than thirty six feet (36') in width, excluding any lane control
island or other such device as may be commonly used to separate traffic, and
shall be so designed as to provide adequate vehicular access and maneuvering
space in a manner which does not unduly interfere with safe vehicular traffic
movement.
      3.   Size: Unless otherwise specified, a required off street loading
berth shall be at least twelve feet (12') in width by at least thirty feet
(30') in length, exclusive of aisle and maneuvering space, and shall have a
vertical clearance of at least fifteen feet (15').
      4.   Projections Of Vehicles Into Public Ways: No portion of a vehicle
shall project into a street, alley or other public right of way while being
loaded or unloaded.
      5.   Use Of Parking Spaces For Loading Requirements: Space allocated to
any off street loading berth shall not, while so allocated, be used to satisfy
the space requirements for any off street parking facilities or portions
thereof.
      6.   Central Loading Facilities: Central loading facilities may be
substituted for loading berths on the individual zoning lots, providing the
following conditions are fulfilled:
         a.   Each zoning lot served shall have direct access to the central
loading area without crossing streets or alleys at grade.
         b.   Total off-street loading berths provided shall meet the minimum
requirements herein specified, based on the sum of several types of uses
served. (Area of types of uses may be totaled before computing number of
loading berths.)
         c.   No zoning lot served shall be more than five hundred feet (500')
removed from the central loading area.
         d.   The tunnel or ramp connecting the central loading area with the
zoning lot served shall not be less than seven feet (7') in width and have a
clearance of not less than seven feet (7').
      7.   Below Minimum Required Facilities: Uses for which off-street loading
facilities are required herein but which are located in buildings of less floor
area than the minimum prescribed for such required facilities shall be provided
with adequate receiving facilities, alley, service drive or open space serving
that zoning lot. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-93)
10-8-6: SCHEDULE OF LOADING REQUIREMENTS:
At least the following amounts of off-street loading spaces shall be provided,
plus an area or means adequate for maneuvering, ingress or egress:
A. Residential Uses:
                                         1 off-street loading berth for all
                                         buildings containing 10,000 to 200,000
                                         square feet of floor area, plus 1
                                         additional loading berth for each
  Multiple-family dwellings             additional 200,000 square feet of
                                         floor area thereof. Each such loading
                                         berth for buildings in excess of
                                         100,000 square feet of floor area
                                         shall not be less than 12 feet in
                                         width by 65 feet in length.
B. Commercial and Service Uses:
                                         1 loading berth for buildings
                                         containing 8,000 to 100,000 square
  Funeral parlors and undertaking es-   feet of floor area, plus 1 additional
   tablishments                          loading berth for each additional
                                         100,000 square feet of floor area or
                                         fraction thereof.
                                         1 loading berth for buildings
                                         containing 10,000 to 100,000 square
   Amusement parks and establishments    feet of floor area, plus 1 additional
   Billiard and pool halls               loading berth for each additional
  Bowling alleys                        100,000 square feet of floor area or
   Gymnasiums                            fraction thereof. Each such loading
   Skating rinks                         berth for buildings in excess of
   Swimming pools                        100,000 square feet of floor area
                                         shall not be less than 12 feet in
                                         width by 65 feet in length.
                                         1 loading berth for buildings
                                         containing 10,000 to 150,000 square
                                         feet of floor area, plus 1 additional
                                         loading berth for each additional
  Radio and television broadcast        150,000 square feet of floor area or
   stations                              fraction thereof. Each such loading
                                         berth for buildings in excess of
                                         20,000 square feet of floor area shall
                                         not be less than 12 feet in width by
                                         65 feet in length.
                                         1 loading berth for buildings
                                         containing 10,000 to 200,000 square
                                         feet of floor area, plus 1 additional
   Schools; business colleges and        loading berth for each additional
  commercial trade                      200,000 square feet of floor are or
   Theaters, indoor                      fraction thereof. Each such loading
                                         berth for buildings in excess of
                                         100,000 square feet of floor area
                                         shall not be less than 12 feet in
                                         width by 65 feet in length.
                                         1 loading berth for buildings
                                         containing 5,000 to 40,000 square feet
                                         of floor area. For buildings
                                         containing 40,000 to 100,000 square
   Catalog sales and mail order          feet of floor area 2 loading berths,
  establishments                        plus 1 additional loading berth for
   Printing and publishing services      each additional 100,000 square feet of
                                         floor area or fraction thereof. Each
                                         such loading berth for buildings in
                                         excess of 10,0000 square feet of floor
                                         area shall be not less than 12 feet in
                                         width by 65 feet in length.
                                         1 loading berth for buildings
                                         containing 10,000 to 100,000 square
                                         feet of floor area. For each
                                         additional 100,000 square fee of floor
                                         area up to 500,000 square feet, 1
                                         additional loading berth, plus 1
  Financial institutions; banks and     additional loading berth for each
   savings and loan associations         additional 500,000 square feet of
                                         floor area or fraction thereof in
                                         excess of 500,000 square feet. Each
                                         such loading berth for buildings in
                                         excess of 100,000 square feet of floor
                                         area shall not be less than 12 feet in
                                         width by 65 feet in length.
   Motor vehicle and machinery sales
   Retail stores (unless specified)      1 loading berth for buildings
   Restaurants (on-premises consumption  containing 5,000 to 10,000 square feet
  facilities)                           of floor area. For buildings
   Wholesale establishments (not         containing 10,000 to 40,000 square
   including warehouse and storage       feet of floor area, 2 loading berths.
   buildings
   other than accessory)
                                         1 loading berth for buildings
   Hotels (which contain exhibition or   containing 40,000 to 150,000 square
  convention halls, auditoriums, office feet of floor area, plus 1 additional
   facilities or retail shops)           loading berth for each additional
                                         150,000 square feet of floor area or
                                         fraction thereof.
                                         1 loading berth for buildings
                                         containing 10,000 to 200,000 square
  Hotels (except as specified above),   feet of floor area, plus 1 additional
   motels, clubs and lodges              loading berth for each additional
                                         200,000 square feet of floor area or
                                         fraction thereof.
C. Office Uses:
                                         1 loading berth for buildings
                                         containing 10,000 to 100,000 square
                                         feet of floor area. For each
                                         additional 100,000 square feet of
                                         floor area up to 500,000 square feet,
   Business and professional offices     1 additional loading berth, plus 1
  Dental and medical laboratories       additional loading berth for each
   Medical and dental offices            additional 500,000 square feet of
   Public offices                        floor area or fraction thereof in
                                         excess of 500,000 square feet. Each
                                         such loading berth for buildings in
                                         excess of 100,000 square feet of floor
                                         area shall not be less than 12 feet in
                                         width by 65 feet in length.
D. Industrial Uses:
                                         1 loading berth for buildings
                                         containing 5,000 to 40,000 square feet
                                         of floor area. For buildings
   Establishments engaged in production, containing 40,000 to 100,000 square
   processing, cleaning, servicing, test feet of floor area, 2 loading berths,
  ing, repair or storage of materials,  plus 1 additional loading berth for
   goods or products                     each additional 100,000 square feet of
   Storage and warehousing               floor area or fraction thereof. Each
   establishments                        such loading berth for buildings in
                                         excess of 10,000 square feet of floor
                                         area shall not be less than 12 feet in
                                         width by 65 feet in length.
   
                                         1 loading berth for buildings
                                         containing 10,000 to 100,000 square
   Airports and heliports, commercial    feet of floor area, plus 1 additional
  Air and railroad freight, terminals,  berth for each additional 100,000
   railroad switching and classification square feet of floor area or fraction
   yards, repair shops and roundhouses   thereof. Each such loading berth shall
                                         not be less than 12 feet in width by
                                         65 feet in length.
E. Schools, Institutions and Places of Assembly:
                                         1 loading berth for buildings
                                         containing 10,000 to 100,000 square
   Hospitals                             feet of floor area, plus 1 additional
   Mental health clinics and             loading berth for each additional
  institutions                          100,000 square feet of floor area or
   Penal and correctional institutions   fraction thereof. Each such loading
   Stadiums, auditoriums and arenas      berth for buildings in excess of
                                         20,000 square feet of floor area shall
                                         not be less than 12 feet in width by
                                         65 feet in length.
                                         1 loading berth for buildings
                                         containing 10,000 to 150,000 square
                                         feet of floor area, plus 1 additional
                                         loading berth for each additional
  Banquet halls                         150,000 square feet of floor area or
   Convention and exhibition centers     fraction thereof. Each such loading
                                         berth for buildings in excess of
                                         20,000 square feet of floor area shall
                                         be not less than 12 feet in width by
                                         65 feet in length.
                                         1 loading berth for buildings
                                         containing 10,000 to 100,000 square
                                         feet of floor area. For each
                                         additional 100,000 square feet of
                                         floor area up to 500,000 square feet,
                                         1 additional loading berth, plus 1
  Community and/or recreational centers additional loading berth for each
                                         additional 500,000 square feet of
                                         floor area or fraction thereof in
                                         excess of 500,000 square feet. Each
                                         such loading berth for buildings in
                                         excess of 20,000 square feet of floor
                                         area shall not be less than 12 feet in
                                         width by 65 feet in length.
F. Planned Unit Developments: Loading berths shall be provided on the basis of
   the required berths for each individual use.
G. Other Uses: For all other uses, loading facilities shall be provided in
   accordance with the following schedule:
   Floor Area of Establishments in
  Thousands of Square Feet  or          Required Number and  Size of Berths
   Fractional Part Thereof
  5 to 10                               1 - (12 ft. x 30 ft.)
  11 to 25                              2 - (12 ft. x 30 ft.)
  26 to 40                              2 - (12 ft. x 65 ft.)
  41 to 100                             3 - (12 ft. x 65 ft.)
  101 to 250                            4 - (12 ft. x 65 ft.)
   For each additional 200,000 square feet of floor area over 250,000 square
  feet of floor area, 1 additional loading berth, not less than 12 feet in
   width by 65 feet in length, shall be provided.
 
The Village Board may authorize a modification, reduction or waiver of the
foregoing requirements, if it should find that, in the particular case
appealed, the peculiar nature of the business, trade, industry or other use, or
the exceptional situation or condition would justify such action. Prior to
authorizing modification to these off-street loading requirements, the Village
Board shall consider the recommendation of the Plan Commission. (Ord. 93-695,
6-15-93)
CHAPTER 9
NONCONFORMITIES
SECTION:
10-9-1: General
10-9-2: Nonconforming Lots
10-9-3: Nonconforming Uses
10-9-4: Nonconforming Structures
10-9-1: GENERAL:
   A.   Scope: The regulations of this chapter govern nonconformities, which
are lots, uses, and structures that were lawfully established but - typically
because of the adoption of new or amended regulations, acts of condemnation or
other circumstances - no longer comply with one or more requirements of this
title.
   B.   Intent:
      1.   Occasionally, lots, uses, and structures that were lawfully
established (i.e., in compliance with all regulations in effect at the time of
their establishment) have been made nonconforming because of changes in the
zoning regulations that apply to the subject property (e.g., through zoning map
amendments or amendments to the text of this title), through acts of
condemnation, or other circumstances. The regulations of this chapter are
intended to clarify the effect of such nonconforming status and avoid confusion
with "illegal" buildings and uses (those established in violation of applicable
zoning regulations). The regulations of this Chapter are also intended to:
         a.   Recognize the interests of landowners in continuing to use their
property for uses and activities that were lawfully established;
         b.   Promote maintenance, reuse and rehabilitation of existing
buildings; and
         c.   Place reasonable limits on nonconformities that have the
potential to adversely affect surrounding properties.
      2.   The regulations recognize that buildings and structures have a long
useful life and allowing their continued occupancy and modernization can be
more desirable than requiring them to remain vacant if they cannot be converted
to conforming uses.
   C.   Authority To Continue: Any use which existed lawfully at the effective
date hereof, and which remains or becomes nonconforming upon the effective date
hereof, may be continued subject to the regulations herein set forth.
   D.   Determination Of Nonconforming Status:
      1.   The burden of proving that a nonconformity exists (as opposed to a
violation of this zoning ordinance) rests entirely with the subject owner.
      2.   The Zoning Officer is authorized to determine whether adequate proof
of nonconforming status has been provided by the subject owner.
      3.   Building permits, lawfully recorded plats, aerial photography owned
by the village and other official government records that indicate lawful
establishment of the use, lot or structure constitute conclusive evidence of
nonconforming status. If such forms of conclusive evidence are not available,
the community development director is authorized to consider whether other
forms of evidence provided by the applicant are reliable and adequate to
document nonconforming status. Common examples of evidence that may be
determined to be reliable and adequate include:
         a.   Professional registrations or licenses;
         b.   Utility billing records;
         c.   Leasing records;
         d.   Advertisements in dated publications;
         e.   Listings in telephone or business directories; and
         f.   Notarized affidavits affirming the date of lawful establishment
of the use, lot or structure.
      4.   The Zoning Officer's determination of nonconforming status may be
appealed in accordance with Sec.
10-12-6.
   E.   Repairs And Maintenance:
      1.   Nonconformities must be maintained to be safe and in good repair.
      2.   Repairs and normal maintenance necessary to keep a nonconformity in
sound condition are permitted unless the work increases the extent of the
nonconformity or is otherwise expressly prohibited by this zoning ordinance.
      3.   Nothing in this Chapter is intended to prevent nonconformities from
being structurally strengthened or restored to a safe condition in accordance
with an order from a duly authorized order of a public official.
   F.   Change Of Tenancy Or Ownership: Nonconforming status runs with the land
and is not affected by changes of tenancy, ownership, or management. (Ord. 20-
1982, 8-25-2020)
10-9-2: NONCONFORMING LOTS:
   A.   Description: A nonconforming lot is a lot that was lawfully created in
accordance with lot area and lot width regulations in effect at the time of the
lots establishment but that does not comply with currently applicable lot area
or lot width regulations.
   B.   Use of And Building On Nonconforming Lots:
      1.   A nonconforming lot in a residential district may be used as a
building site for dwelling units or accessory structures, subject to compliance
with applicable lot and building regulations other than those pertaining to lot
area and lot width, except that when two (2) or more contiguous nonconforming
lots are held in common ownership, the lots must be consolidated in order to
meet or come closer to meeting applicable minimum lot area and lot width
requirements. Except that lot consolidations are not required for decks, front
porches and stoops or when:
         a.   An addition does not exceed two hundred fifty (250) square feet;
or
         b.   An addition does not include the installation of a foundation,
footers or piers; or
         c.   The construction of an accessory structure is less than five
hundred (500) square feet.
      2.   Nonconforming lots in nonresidential districts may be utilized for
any use allowed in the subject zoning district, provided that:
         a.   The lot area and lot width are not less than seventy five percent
(75%) of the minimums required in the subject zoning district, or the lot width
is not less fifty feet (50') and the lot area is not less than seven thousand
five hundred (7,500) square feet;
         b.   If the zoning allows a variety of uses or a variety of
intensities of uses and one or more uses or intensities would comply with
applicable lot area and lot width standards, while others would not, then only
the uses or intensities that comply with applicable standards are permitted.
         c.   When two (2) or more contiguous nonconforming lots are held in
common ownership, the lots must be consolidated in order to meet or come closer
to meeting applicable minimum lot area and lot width requirements. (Ord. 20-
1982, 8-25-2020)
10-9-3: NONCONFORMING USES:
   A.   Description: A nonconforming use is a land use that was lawfully
established in accordance with all zoning regulations in effect at the time of
its establishment but that is no longer allowed by the use regulations of the
zoning district in which the use is now located. Lawfully established uses that
do not comply with any applicable separation (or spacing) distance requirements
(e.g., those that require one land use to be located a certain minimum distance
from another land use) are also deemed nonconforming uses.
   B.   Change Of Use: A nonconforming use may be changed to another other use
if it is allowed in the subject zoning district or if it is of substantially
the same character of the nonconforming use. Once changed to a conforming use,
a nonconforming use may not be re-established.
   C.   Expansion Of Use:
      1.   The nonconforming use of land that does not involve a building or
structure or that is accessory to the nonconforming use of a building may not
be expanded or extended beyond the area the use occupied at the time the use
became nonconforming.
      2.   Nonconforming uses within a building or structure may not be
expanded into another part of the same building or structure that was occupied
by the subject nonconforming use at the time the use became nonconforming.
   D.   Remodeling And Improvements: A building in which a nonconforming use is
located may be remodeled or otherwise improved as long as the remodeling or
improvements do not violate the other regulations of this title.
   E.   Moving: A nonconforming use may be moved in whole or in part to another
location on the same lot only if the movement or relocation does not increase
the extent of the nonconformity. A nonconforming use may be moved to another
lot only if the use is allowed under the zoning regulations that apply to that
(relocation) lot.
   F.   Loss Of Nonconforming Status:
      1.   Abandonment:
         a.   Once a nonconforming use is abandoned, its nonconforming status
is lost and any new, replacement use must comply with the regulations of the
zoning district in which it is located.
         b.   A nonconforming use is presumed abandoned when the use is
discontinued or ceases, such as when a building is unoccupied, for a continuous
period of six (6) months or more.
         c.   Any period of discontinuance caused by acts of God or accidental
fire are not counted in calculating the length of discontinuance.
      2.   Damage Or Destruction:
         a.   When a building or structure containing a nonconforming use is
damaged by fire, collapse, explosion or other casualty or act of God to the
extent that the cost of the restoration to the condition in which it was before
the occurrence shall exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the
structure, as determined by the property owner's certified appraiser as agreed
to by the Village, replacement cost of the building or structure at the time of
destruction or damage, the nonconforming use must cease, and any new
construction or reconstruction must comply with all regulations, including use
regulations, of the zoning district in which the building or structure is
located.
         b.   When a building or structure containing a nonconforming use is
damaged or destroyed to the extent that the cost of restoration to the
condition in which it was before the occurrence shall be fifty percent (50%) or
less of the market value of the structure, as determined by the property
owner's certified appraiser as agreed to by the Village, the nonconforming use,
if temporarily discontinued, shall not be reestablished, unless restoration is
started within six (6) months from the date of partial destruction, and
restoration proceeds and does not cease for a period of sixty (60) days, and
completion is accomplished within twenty four (24) months from the date of
partial destruction.
   G.   Accessory Uses: No use that is accessory to a principal nonconforming
use may continue after the principal nonconforming use has been abandoned.
(Ord. 20-1982, 8-25-2020)
10-9-4: NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES:
   A.   Description: A nonconforming structure is any structure that was
lawfully established but no longer complies with applicable lot and building
regulations or other dimensional or locational requirements of this title.
   B.   Use: A nonconforming structure may be used for any use allowed in the
zoning district in which the structure is located.
   C.   Alterations And Expansions:
      1.   Nonconforming structures may be altered or expanded if the proposed
alteration or expansion complies with all applicable lot, building, dimensional
and locational requirements and does not increase the extent of the structure's
nonconformity. A building with a nonconforming street setback, for example, may
be expanded to the rear as long as the rear expansion complies with applicable
rear setback standards.
      2.   A structure with a nonconforming setback may not be expanded
horizontally or vertically within the required setback area, except that either
a horizontal or a vertical extension of the nonconforming exterior walls of a
detached house may be approved through a variance in accordance with Sec.
10-12-2.
   D.   Moving: A nonconforming structure may be moved in whole or in part to
another location only if the movement or relocation eliminates or reduces the
extent of nonconformity.
   E.   Loss Of Nonconforming Status:
      1.   Damage Or Destruction:
         a.   When a nonconforming structure is destroyed or damaged by acts of
God or accidental fire, the structure may be restored or repaired, provided
that no new nonconformities are created and that the existing extent of
nonconformity is not increased. A building permit to reconstruct a destroyed or
damaged structure must be obtained within six (6) months of the date of
occurrence of such damage.
         b.   When a nonconforming structure is demolished, damaged or
destroyed by causes within the control of the owner and the extent of
demolition, damage or destruction is more than fifty percent (50%) of the
market value of the structure, as determined by the property owner's certified
appraiser as agreed to by the Village, the structure may not be reestablished
except in compliance with all regulations applicable to the zoning district in
which it is located.
      2.   Damage Or Destruction After Right-Of-Way Acquisition: If a structure
is rendered nonconforming or made more nonconforming by a public agency's
acquisition of right-of-way and the structure is subsequently damaged or
destroyed by any means, the structure may be reestablished, provided that no
new nonconformities are created and that the existing extent of nonconformity
is not increased. A building permit to reconstruct a destroyed or damaged
structure must be obtained within six (6) months of the date of occurrence of
such damage.
   F.   Nonconforming Fences: Nonconforming fences may continue to be
maintained and to exist but may not be replaced, if destroyed or removed, to
the extent that the violations would be continued. At such time as a new fence
is requested to be installed, the new fence shall comply with all applicable
code requirements at the time of permit application. (Ord. 20-1982, 8-25-2020)
CHAPTER 10
SIGN REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-10-1: Intent
10-10-2: Definitions
10-10-3: Prohibited Signs
10-10-4: Exemptions From Provisions
10-10-5: Sign Zone Map
10-10-6: Permitted Signs
10-10-7: Signs For Builders, Developers, And Subdivisions
10-10-8: Industrial Park Identification Signs
10-10-9: Church, School And Other Public/Quasi-Public Institution
Identification Signs
10-10-10: Construction, Materials And Performance Standards For All Signs
10-10-11: Administration And Enforcement
10-10-1: INTENT:
The intent of this chapter is to create the legal framework for a comprehensive
and balanced system of signage control and thereby to provide an attractive and
effective balance between signage and the environment. This chapter shall be
enforced and administered with the support of the signage regulations stated in
the codes adopted by title 8, chapter 1 and 4 of this code. In any instance of
conflict between these regulatory documents, the more restrictive shall apply.
With this concept in mind, this chapter is adopted for the following purposes:
   A.   To authorize the uses of signs which are:
      1.   Compatible with their surroundings;
      2.   Appropriate to, and descriptive of the type of activity to which
they pertain;
      3.   Balanced in the expression of the identity of individuals and of the
community as a whole; and
      4.   Legible in the circumstances in which they are seen.
   B.   To preserve, protect and promote the public health, safety and welfare.
   C.   To provide a positive economic climate for the business and industry of
the village by promoting the reasonable, orderly and effective display of
signage and encouraging better communication with the public.
   D.   To enhance the physical appearance of the village by preserving the
scenic and natural beauty of the area.
   E.   To protect the general public from damage and injury which may be
caused by the faulty and uncontrolled construction and use of signs within the
village.
   F.   To protect the pedestrians and motorists from damage or injury caused
by the distractions, obstructions and hazards created by certain signs.
   G.   To protect the public investment in streets and highways by reducing
distractions that may increase traffic accidents.
   H.   To protect the physical and mental well being of the general public by
recognizing and encouraging a sense of appreciation for the visual environment.
   I.   To preserve the value of private property by assuring the compatibility
of signs with surrounding land uses.
   J.   To encourage sound practices and lessen the objectionable effects of
competition in respect to and placement of signs. (Ord. 03-1161, 3-25-2003;
amd. Ord. 14-1748, 10-28-2014; Ord. 21-2011, 5-25-2021)
10-10-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless otherwise expressly stated, the following words and/or terms shall have
the meanings indicated in this section:
   ANIMATED SIGN: A sign or any part thereof which, by design, changes physical
position by any movement or creates the appearance of movement.
   APPROVED COMBUSTIBLE MATERIAL: Any material more than one-twentieth (1/20)
of an inch in thickness which burns at a rate of not more than two and one-half
inches (21/2") per minute when subjected to the American Society For Testing
Material (ASTM) standard test for flammability in sheets six one-hundredths
inches (0.06") in thickness.
   AREA: That area enclosed by one continuous line, connecting the extreme
points or edges of a sign. This area does not include the main supporting sign
structure, but all other ornamental attachments, inner connecting links, etc.,
which are not a part of the main supports of the sign are to be included in
determining sign area. The area shall be determined by drawing an imaginary
square or rectangular envelope so as to completely enclose each entire symbol,
word, phrase, title or name appearing on the sign as depicted in 10-10 Figure
1.
10-10 Figure 1
Sign Area
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/83ece28ad5d1d98ab77b4eed90247c0d90d24731/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3684.png]
   ATTENTION GETTING DEVICE: Any pennant, flag, valance, banner, propeller,
spinner, streamer, searchlight or similar device or ornamentation designed for
or intended to attract attention to it for the purpose of promotion or
advertising.
   AWNING: Any structure made of cloth, metal or other material attached to a
building which is constructed so as to permit its being raised or retracted to
a position against the building when not in use.
   AWNING SIGN: A sign attached to or in any way incorporated with the face or
valance, or underside of the awning. An example is shown in 10-10 Figure 2.
10-10 Figure 2:
Example of Awning Sign
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/83ece28ad5d1d98ab77b4eed90247c0d90d24731/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3710.png]
   BANNER SIGN: Any sign intended to be hung, either with or without frames,
possessing characters, letters, illustrations or ornamentations applied to
paper, plastic or fabric of any kind. National flags, flags of political
subdivisions and symbolic flags of any institution or business shall not be
considered banners for the purposes of this definition. Examples are shown in
10-10 Figure 3.
10-10 Figure 3:
Examples of Banner Signs
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/83ece28ad5d1d98ab77b4eed90247c0d90d24731/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3708.png]
   BILLBOARD: A single or double faced sign, permanently affixed to or placed
upon the premises, which may have "changeable copy", which is used for the
display of information not associated with the establishment located on the
same premises as the sign. Such signs include walls of a building that are
painted to display information that does not relate to a business or other
establishment located in the building.
   BUILDING LINE: The line as established by the vertical face of the building
or an extension thereof.
   BUILDING FRONTAGE: The length of the wall of a building facing a public
right-of-way. For a corner lot, each face of a building that faces a public
right-of-way will be considered as a building frontage. In buildings with
multiple units, the building frontage for each unit shall be considered as the
width of the unit from party wall to party wall at the front of the unit
regardless of if the unit has street frontage; provided however, that the
building frontage for corner units shall be the width of the unit from party
wall to exterior wall of the building.
   BULLETIN BOARD: A manual "changeable copy sign", as defined herein, to give
notice of events for public, charitable, or religious institutions. Examples
are shown in 10-10 Figure 4 and 10-10 Figure 5.
10-10 Figure 4:
Example of Bulletin Board (mounted to building)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/83ece28ad5d1d98ab77b4eed90247c0d90d24731/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3706.png]
10-10 Figure 5:
Example of Bulletin Board (freestanding)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/83ece28ad5d1d98ab77b4eed90247c0d90d24731/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3704.png]
   CANOPY: A structure, other than an awning, made of cloth, metal or other
material with frames attached to a building or carried by a frame supported by
the ground or sidewalks. A canopy will be considered a sign when it contains
advertising other than the business logo.
   CANOPY SIGN: A sign attached to or in any way incorporated with the face or
underside of a canopy or any other similar building projection. See also
definition of Shingle Sign.
   CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN: A sign upon which letters, words or characters can
separately be placed and replaced in or upon the surface area, either manually
or electronically, for the purpose of changing the information contained on the
sign.
   DIRECTORY SIGN: A sign upon which the names and locations of occupants or
the use of a building is given. This shall include office buildings and church
directories.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL: The zoning officer of the village as defined in
Section
10-2-1 of this title.
   EXTERIOR WALL SURFACE: The most exterior part of a wall, sunscreen or any
screening or material covering a building.
   FESTOON LIGHTING: A group of two (2) or more incandescent light bulbs hung
or strung overhead, not on a building or structure, which are visible to
persons on a public right of way or which are not shaded or hooded so as to
prevent the direct rays of light from being visible from beyond the property on
which the lights are located. An example is shown in 10-10 Figure 6.
10-10 Figure 6:
Example of Festoon Lighting
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/83ece28ad5d1d98ab77b4eed90247c0d90d24731/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3702.png]
   FLAG: A symbol or a crest of either a nation or an organization of nations,
a state, a municipality or a fraternal, religious, civic organization, sports
team, or corporation. The symbol or crest is usually displayed on fabric or
flexible material that must be affixed to a pole that is freestanding or
attached to another structure.
   FLASHING SIGN: Any directly or indirectly illuminated sign which exhibits
changing natural or artificial light or color effects by any means whatsoever,
not including message board signs.
   FREESTANDING SIGN: A sign completely self-supported by posts or other
supports, independent of any building or other structure and anchored in or
upon the ground. An example is shown in 10-10 Figure 7.
10-10 Figure 7:
Example of Freestanding Monument Sign
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/83ece28ad5d1d98ab77b4eed90247c0d90d24731/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3700.png]
   HIGHWAY IDENTIFICATION SIGN: A freestanding sign advertising the business on
the premises intended to provide notice of such business to motorists on an
adjacent interstate highway. An example is shown in 10-10 Figure 8.
10-10 Figure 8:
Example of Highway Identification Sign
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/83ece28ad5d1d98ab77b4eed90247c0d90d24731/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3698.png]
   ILLUMINATED SIGN (External): A sign illuminated by a source of light which
is cast upon the surface or face of the sign to illuminate the sign by
reflection. An example is shown in 10-10 Figure 9.
   ILLUMINATED SIGN (Internal): A sign, all or part of which is made of
incandescent or other types of lamps or a sign with painted, flush or raised
letters lighted by an electric lamp or lamps attached thereto or a sign having
a border of incandescent or fluorescent lamps attached to it reflecting light
on it or a transparent sign whether lighted by electricity or other illuminant.
An example is shown in 10-10 Figure 10.
10-10 Figure 9:
Illuminated Sign (External)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/83ece28ad5d1d98ab77b4eed90247c0d90d24731/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3696.png]
10-10 Figure 10:
Illuminated Sign (Internal)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/83ece28ad5d1d98ab77b4eed90247c0d90d24731/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3694.png]
   INCOMBUSTIBLE MATERIAL: Any material which will not ignite at or below a
temperature of one thousand two hundred degrees Fahrenheit (1,200°F) and will
not continue to burn or glow at that temperature.
   INFORMATIONAL TRAFFIC SIGN: A sign directing and guiding automotive or
pedestrian traffic which bears no advertising matter.
   INSTITUTIONAL SIGN: A sign identifying a public, charitable or religious
institution which is located on the premises.
   LINEAR LIGHTING: A series of small light bulbs packaged in a long, narrow
housing to create a strip of light which includes neon, fluorescent, rope-
lighting, LED lighting, and low- voltage strip lighting.
   MEMORIAL SIGN: A commemorative sign or tablet cut into masonry or inlaid as
a part of a building.
   MESSAGE BOARD: Signage designed so that characters, letters, or
illustrations can be changed or rearranged electronically, or manually without
altering the face or surface of the sign. A message board sign is accessory to
a development, identification, or business sign. An example is shown in 10-10
Figure 11.
10-10 Figure 11:
Example of Sign with Message Board
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/83ece28ad5d1d98ab77b4eed90247c0d90d24731/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3692.png]
   NAMEPLATE: A sign which displays only the name and/or address of the
occupant and is non-illuminated.
   NONCONFORMING SIGN: Any sign which does not conform to the ordinances of the
village.
   OBSOLETE SIGN: Any billboard or sign structure where the sign and/or sign
structure do not provide any information (i.e., blank, illegible, or maintained
in a manner inconsistent with the regulations of this chapter).
   OFF PREMISES SIGN: A sign which directs attention to a commercial use,
business, commodity, service or activity not conducted, sold or offered upon
the premises where the sign is located.
   ON PREMISES SIGN: A sign related solely to a use, business or profession
conducted or to a principal commodity, service or entertainment sold, provided
or offered upon the premises where the sign is located.
   PARKING SIGN: A sign which identifies a parking area for automobiles,
trucks, motorcycles or any other motor vehicle.
   PENNANT: A series of small flags of triangular or other geometric design
tied together by a rope or other means and used as an attention getting device.
   POLITICAL/CAMPAIGN SIGN: A sign or poster identifying or publicizing a
candidate seeking public office or identifying or publicizing a public issue or
advocating a position with respect to a public issue.
   PORTABLE SIGN: A type of temporary sign not designed to be permanently
attached to a building or anchored to the ground; any sign that is not
permanently affixed to a building, structure or the ground; a sign designed to
be moved from place to place. These signs include, but are not limited to,
signs attached to wood or metal frames designed to be self-supporting and
moveable and paper, cardboard or canvas signs wrapped around supporting poles.
   PROJECTING SIGN: Any sign, other than a wall sign or shingle sign, affixed
to any building or wall which leading edge extends beyond such building or wall
but which face is perpendicular to said building.
   PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY: The land, or interest therein, acquired for or devoted
to any public way for vehicular or pedestrian travel which has been laid out in
pursuance of any municipal, township, county, state or federal law.
   PUBLIC SIGN: A sign or notice erected or which erection was required by a
unit of government.
   RACEWAY: A portion of a sign structure designed to enclose electrical wires
and provide a mounting surface for individual letters and/or graphics that
constitute the message portion of the sign. An example is shown in 10-10 Figure
12.
10-10 Figure 12:
Example of Raceway
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/83ece28ad5d1d98ab77b4eed90247c0d90d24731/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3690.png]
   REAL ESTATE SIGN: A sign erected for purposes of identifying a parcel or
building to be available for sale, rental or lease.
   RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL, INDUSTRIAL SUBDIVISION IDENTIFICATION SIGN
(Permanent): A sign designed to identify a residential, commercial or
industrial subdivision or planned unit development which is located at the
entrance to said development.
   ROOF SIGN: A sign erected, constructed or maintained, in whole or in part,
upon or over the roof of a building or structure.
   ROOFLINE: Either the edge of the roof or top of the parapet, whichever forms
the top line of the building silhouette. Where a building has several levels,
the roofline shall be the roof or parapet of that portion of the building where
the sign is located.
   SHINGLE SIGN, BUILDING-MOUNTED: A sign suspended from and located entirely
under a covered porch, walkway, awning or projecting from the face of a
building. An example is shown in 10-10 Figure 13.
   SHINGLE SIGN, POLE-MOUNTED: A small sign suspended from and located entirely
under an arm attached to a wood or metal post. An example is shown in 10-10
Figure 14.
10-10 Figure 13:
Example of Shingle Sign (Building-Mounted)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/83ece28ad5d1d98ab77b4eed90247c0d90d24731/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3688.png]
10-10 Figure 14:
Example of Shingle Sign (Pole-Mounted)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/83ece28ad5d1d98ab77b4eed90247c0d90d24731/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3686.png]
   SIGN: Any device designed to inform or attract the attention of a person not
on the premises on which the sign is located. "Signs" shall mean any surface,
fabric, device or display which bears lettered, pictorial or sculptured matter,
including forms shaped to resemble any human, animal or product, designed to
convey information visually and which is exposed to public view. For purposes
of this chapter, the term "sign" shall include all structural members. A sign
shall be construed to be a display surface or device containing organized and
related elements composed to form a single unit. In cases where matter is
displayed in a random or unconnected manner without organized relationship of
the components, each such component shall be considered to be a single sign.
The term "sign" includes, but is not limited to, every type of sign listed in
this section.
   SIGN STRUCTURE: A structure constructed for the primary purpose of
displaying a sign.
   STRUCTURAL TRIM: Any molding, batten, capping, nailing strip, lattice or
platform which is attached to a sign structure.
   TEMPORARY SIGN: A portable sign or any sign, banner, or advertising display
constructed of cloth, canvas, light fabric, cardboard, wallboard, wood/plywood
or other light materials, with or without a frame which may be freestanding or
affixed to the wall of a building.
   VEHICLE SIGN: Any advertising or business sign attached to a motor vehicle.
   WALL SIGN: A sign or individual letters, symbols or combinations thereof
painted, mounted or attached to the exterior of a building or structure in a
plane parallel to that of the wall on which it is painted, mounted or attached.
   WINDOW SIGN: A sign or individual letters, symbols or combinations thereof
placed inside or upon a window facing the outside and which is intended to be
seen from the exterior. (Ord. 03-1161, 3-25-2003; amd. Ord. 21-2011, 5-25-2021)
10-10-3: PROHIBITED SIGNS:
It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain:
   A.   Any sign which is not included under the types of signs permitted in
the district or the general regulations of this chapter.
   B.   Any sign which advertises or publicizes an activity not conducted on
the premises upon which such sign is maintained, except as permitted elsewhere
in this chapter.
   C.   Projecting signs.
   D.   Flashing signs.
   E.   Animated signs.
   F.   Pennants, streamers and other attention getting devices.
   G.   Any signs attached to any tree, fence or public utility pole other than
warning signs issued by public utilities.
   H.   Festoon lighting, except when used to illuminate outdoor dining areas.
   I.   Flame as a source of light.
   J.   Portable signs, except as permitted via a temporary sign permit as
required by this chapter.
   K.   Any sign or sign structure which constitutes a hazard to public health
or safety.
   L.   Billboards, as defined in this chapter.
   M.   Vehicle signs, when used exclusively for the purpose of advertising.
   N.   Roof signs.
   O.   Obsolete signs.
   P.   Any sign that draws attention to items or activities that are illegal
under municipal, state, or federal laws or regulations.
   Q.   Any freestanding sign, other than a "pole mounted shingle sign" or
"highway identification sign" as defined in this chapter that allows visibility
through the area between the bottom of the message portion of the sign and the
ground, and extending the full width of the message portion.
   R.   Any "wall sign" as defined in this chapter that is designed to allow
the removal of the entire surface devoted to the message area and allow for its
replacement en masse. This includes, but is not limited to, signs designed to
accommodate a "face change", but excludes changeable copy signs, directory
signs and signs mounted on raceways were permitted in this chapter.
   S.   Linear lighting intended to attract attention to a use. This does not
include architectural lighting without exposed light bulbs when integrated into
the design of a building, such as under a cornice. (Ord. 03-1161, 3-25-2003;
amd. Ord. 21-2011, 5-25-2021)
10-10-4: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
The provisions and regulations of this chapter shall not apply to the following
signs, nor shall the area of such signs be included in the area of signage
permitted for any establishments:
   A.   Traffic or other municipal street graphics such as railroad crossing
signs, legal notices and such temporary emergency signs as may be authorized by
the village board.
   B.   Signs of public utility companies indicating danger or which serve as
an aid to public safety or which show the location of underground facilities or
of public telephones.
   C.   Directional, informational or public service signs, excluding public
utilities, not exceeding five (5) square feet in area per sign face, erected
for the convenience of the public such as signs identifying entrances, exits,
parking areas, restrooms, public telephones, walkways and similar features or
facilities.
   D.   Signs consisting of letters and/or numbers identifying the street
address of the building located on the premises, when displayed on the building
and not exceeding four (4) square feet in area.
   E.   Signs located in the interior of any building or within an enclosed
interior lobby or court of any building; said signs are to be designed and
located to be viewed exclusively by patrons of such use or uses but not
including those signs displayed as permanent or temporary window signs intended
to be viewed from the outside of the building.
   F.   Seasonal decorations temporarily displayed in connection with local
festivity approved by the village board or for a national holiday. Such
decorations may not be used for advertising purposes and shall have a time
limit on display of forty five (45) days.
   G.   "No Trespassing" signs or other such signs regulating the use of a
property such as "No Hunting", "No Fishing", etc., of no more than two (2)
square feet in area.
   H.   A single United States flag and a single corporate flag and/or any
other single flag. Flags shall be displayed on vertical flagpoles, not
exceeding the maximum height allowed for buildings in the zoning district, nor
larger in square feet than the maximum height allowed. On federal and state
holidays there shall be no maximum number or size of flags representing
political subdivisions.
   I.   Memorial signs or tablets, names of buildings and the date of erection,
and nameplate signs when cut into any masonry surface or inlaid so as to be
part of the building or when constructed of bronze or other incombustible
material not to exceed six (6) square feet in area.
   J.   Bulletin boards, not including message board signs, not over thirty two
(32) square feet in area for a public, charitable or religious institution when
same is located on the premises of such institution and located in such a
manner as not to interfere with the vision of motorists.
   K.   Public signs and other signs incidental thereto for identification,
information or directional purposes erected, authorized, or required by
governmental bodies, local civic organizations or authorized for a public
purpose by any law, statute or ordinance.
   L.   Informational signs such as "business hour" signs, "help wanted" signs
and "open-closed" signs not to exceed one square foot in area and located
within a street level window. (Ord. 03-1161, 3-25-2003; amd. Ord. 06-1373, 7-
25-2006; Ord. 07-1412, 3-27-2007; Ord. 21-2011, 5-25-2021)
10-10-5: SIGN ZONE MAP:
The sign zone map is attached as 10-10 Figure 15 and made part of this chapter.
It is the intent of this section to classify all properties within the
corporate limits of the village into the appropriate sign zone. The sign zone
map classifies all properties within the corporate limits of the village as
being within "sign zone A" or "sign zone B". The "sign zone" functions as an
overlay to the zoning district map.
Sign zone A is intended to recognize non-residentially zoned properties that,
by virtue of their proximity to an interstate highway, can attract the
attention of motorists traveling on the adjacent interstate highway. To this
end, "highway identification signs" as defined in this chapter are additional
permitted signs allowed on properties within specified zoning districts when
located in sign zone A, along with all other permitted signs within the
specified zoning district.
Whenever any territory is annexed to the village and is subsequently
reclassified to a nonresidential zoning district, the appropriate "sign zone"
shall be determined for the territory.
10-10 Figure 15:
Sign Zone Map
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/83ece28ad5d1d98ab77b4eed90247c0d90d24731/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3712.png]
(Ord. 03-1161, 3-25-2003; amd. Ord. 21-2011, 5-25-2021)
10-10-6: PERMITTED SIGNS:
The following signs shall be permitted in the Village upon issuance of a sign
permit in accordance with Title 8 and Sec.
10-10-11B of this chapter, unless otherwise exempted.
   A.   Exempted signs.
   B.   Table Of Permitted Signage: Signage that is permitted by zoning
district is depicted in 10-10 Table 1. The following standards apply to all
signage listed herein.
      1.   All freestanding and pole mounted sign heights shall be as measured
from the ground to the top of the sign structure in linear feet.
      2.   No sign shall project into, over or otherwise encroach upon a public
right-of-way. No freestanding sign shall be erected such that its hemisphere,
described by a radius equal to the vertical height of the freestanding sign
with the vertical centerline of the freestanding sign located at the center of
the hemisphere, intersects with any utility lines, electrical conductors or
service drops.
      3.   All references to building sizes, are based on gross indoor floor
area.
      4.   All references to sign height and area are maximums.
      5.   All references to setbacks are minimums as measured from the more
restrictive of the lot line.
10-10 Table 1: TABLE OF PERMITTED SIGNAGE
                           Residential     Business Districts Industrial
Type of Signage Regulation Districts       B-1 through OCI    Districts
                           E-2 through R-5                    ORI - I-3
10-10 Table 1: TABLE OF PERMITTED SIGNAGE
                               Residential     Business        Industrial
Type of Signage Regulation     Districts       Districts       Districts
                               E-2 through R-5 B-1 through OCI ORI - I-3
                Number         None            One (1)         One (1)
                                               For tenants
                                               7,500 square    For businesses
                                               feet and larger 100,000 square
                                               - 1.50 square   feet and larger
                                               feet per linear - one hundred
                                               foot of         fifty (150)
Wall Signs,                                    building        square feet
Primary         Area           Not Applicable  frontage
                                               For tenants
                                               smaller than    For businesses
                                               7,500 square    less than
                                               feet 1.25       100,000 square
                                               square feet per feet - fifty
                                               linear foot of  (50) square feet
                                               building
                                               frontage
                                               One for each
                                               secondary
                                               street frontage
                                               and one for
                Number         None            each internal   None
                                               shopping center
Wall Signs,                                    roadway which
Secondary                                      abuts the
                                               property1
                                               0.5 x linear
                                               feet per linear
                Area           Not Applicable  foot of         Not Permitted
                                               applicable
                                               building
                                               frontage
                                               For properties
                                               with less than
                                               five hundred
                                               feet (500') of
                                               street frontage
                                               - One (1)
                Number         None            For properties  One
                                               with five
                                               hundred feet
                                               (500') or more
                                               of street
                                               frontage - Two
                                               (2)
                                               For a single
                                               tenant sign -
                                               sixty (60)
                                               square feet
                                               For a multi-
Freestanding                                   tenant sign -
Signs                                          one hundred
                Area           Not Applicable  (100) square    Eighty (80)
                                               feet, with no   square feet
                                               more than fifty
                                               percent (50%)
                                               of the
                                               allowable area
                                               used for any
                                               individual
                                               tenant
                                               For single
                                               tenant signs -
                                               six feet (6')
                Height         Not Applicable  For multi-      Ten feet (10')
                                               tenant signs -
                                               twenty feet
                                               (20')
                Message Boards Not Applicable  Permitted       Not Permitted
                Setbacks       Not Applicable  Ten feet (10')
                Number         One (1) pole-   One (1) building-mounted or one
                               mounted         (1) pole- mounted
Shingle Signs                  Two (2) square  Eight (8) square feet - building
                Area           feet            mounted or two (2) square feet -
                                               pole mounted
                Height         Six feet (6') - pole mounted
Permanent       Area           Not Permitted   Maximum twenty-five percent
Window Signs                                   (25%) of window area
                                               Permitted in Sign Zone A if no
                Number         None            other freestanding sign exists
Highway                                        on the property
Identification  Area           Not Applicable  One hundred twenty (120) square
Sign                                           feet
                Height         Not Applicable  Forty-five feet (45')
                Setback        Not Applicable  Ten feet (10')
                                               Combined area of permanent
Temporary                                      window signs and temporary
Window Signs    Area           Not Permitted   window signs cannot exceed
                                               thirty percent (30%) of the
                                               total window area
                                               Four (4)2 except when
                                               construction activities are
                Number Per     Four (4)        occurring on the property the
Temporary       Calendar Year                  permit shall be valid until
Signs, Permits                                 construction activities are
                                               complete
                                               Fifteen (15) days3 except where
                Duration       Two (2) days    construction activities are
                                               occurring on the property
Temporary Signs                                One (1) freestanding or one (1)
(Excluding      Number         Two (2)         wall-mounted per frontage
Window Signs)
                                                               For tenant
                                                               spaces 300,000
                                                               square feet and
                                                               larger - one
                                                               hundred twenty
                                                               (120) square
                               Four (4) square Thirty-two (32) feet for signs
Temporary       Area           feet            square feet     and banners
Signs,                                                         combined
Freestanding                                                   For tenant
                                                               spaces less than
                                                               300,000 square
                                                               feet - thirty-
                                                               two (32) square
                                                               feet
                Height         Three feet (3') Ten feet (10')
                Setback        Ten feet (10')
                                                               For tenant
                                                               spaces 300,000
                                                               square feet and
                                                               larger - one
                                               0.5 square feet hundred twenty
                                               per linear foot (120) square
Temporary                      Four (4) square of building     feet for signs
Signs, Wall-    Area           feet            face to which   and banners
Mounted                                        the sign is     combined
                                               affixed         For tenant
                                                               spaces less than
                                                               300,000 square
                                                               feet - thirty-
                                                               two (32) square
                                                               feet
                Number         One (1) per     One (1) per property per street
                               street frontage frontage
                Area           Four (4) square Thirty-two (32) square feet
Real Estate                    feet
Signs                          Four and one
                Height         half (4.5)      Six feet (6')   Eight feet (8')
                               square feet
                Setback        Five feet (5')  Ten feet (10')
1   Two (2) additional signs which may identify various functional department
of the automotive dealership are permitted.
2   Automotive dealers have no maximum number of sign permits per calendar
year.
3   Temporary sign permits for automotive dealers are valid for thirty (30)
days.
4   Inflatable signs may be used by automotive dealers for an aggregate of
thirty (30) days per calendar year.
 
   C.   Permanent identification signs.
      1.   Wall signs.
         a.   Location: Wall signs shall be permitted only over or on the
portion of the building frontage occupied by the use identified by the wall
sign, or over the entrance if not on the building frontage. No wall sign shall
cover, wholly or partially, any wall opening nor project beyond the ends or top
of the wall to which it is affixed.
         b.   Design: All wall signs in a multiple-tenant/multiple storefront
development shall be of common vertical height and common architecture;
however, no sign shall be designed contrary to the regulations of this chapter.
      2.   Freestanding signs except highway identification signs.
         a.   Materials: Freestanding signs shall include a base constructed of
brick, stone, or masonry materials and be matched in type and color to these
materials used on the buildings on the premises if such materials are present.
Internally illuminated sign panels shall be constructed with opaque backgrounds
and routed out copy or on a solid background with individual letters.
         b.   Landscaping: A landscaped area consisting of trees, shrubs and
ground covers shall be provided around the base of the sign. The landscape area
must contain at least one (1) plant unit, as identified in Section
10-14-3J of this code, per four (4) square feet of signage.
         c.   Message Boards: Manual and digital message boards are allowed
subject to the following regulations:
            (1)   The message board element is calculated as part of the
freestanding sign's total area and is subject to the maximum size restrictions.
Only one message board is allowed on a sign face.
            (2)   A message board sign is not an off-premises sign and cannot
be used to advertise off-site businesses.
            (3)   The images and messages displayed on electronic message
boards must have a minimum dwell time of at least ten (10) seconds and may not
contain any movement, animation, audio, video, or other special effects. The
images and messages displayed must be complete in and of themselves within the
required dwell time.
            (4)   The transition or change from one message to another on an
electronic message board must occur in one second or less and involve no
animation or special effects.
            (5)   Electronic message boards must be equipped with a default
mechanism that freezes the display in one position or presents a static or
blank display if a malfunction occurs as well as a manual shut-off.
         (6)   Illuminated and electronic message boards may not have a
brightness of such intensity or brilliance that they impair the vision or
endanger the safety and welfare of any pedestrian, cyclist or person operating
a motor vehicle.
         (7)   Electronic message boards must be equipped with a light
detector/photocell that automatically adjusts the display's brightness
according to natural ambient light conditions.
         (8)   The maximum brightness level of an electronic message board may
not exceed five thousand (5,000) nits (candelas per square meter) during
daylight hours or two hundred fifty (250) nits between thirty (30) minutes
after sunset and thirty (30) minutes before sunrise, as those times are
determined by the National Weather Service (Actual Time). Brightness must be
measured from the brightest element of the sign's face. Before the issuance of
a sign permit, the applicant must provide written clarification from the sign
manufacturer that the light intensity has been factory preset so that it will
not exceed five thousand (5,000) nits (candelas per square meter).
         (9)   For the purpose of verifying compliance with maximum brightness
level requirements, the applicant shall provide a reading of brightness levels
of the digital message board set to run full white copy with a luminance meter
positioned at a location perpendicular to the sign face center. When taking the
luminance reading, the sign face must be the only subject visible in the
viewfinder.
         (10)   Regulations governing electronic message boards are subject to
ongoing monitoring and future modification in the exercise of the Village's
police powers. No vested right is ever created in an existing digital message
board. If regulations governing operational aspects of digital message boards
(i.e. dwell time, transitions, illumination/brightness, etc.) are modified by
the Village, sign owners and operators are required to bring digital message
boards into compliance with all applicable regulations.
      3.   Shingle Signs: Shingle signs may be placed perpendicular or parallel
to the street.
         a.   Building-mounted shingle signs shall be suspended from a roof
overhang, covered walkway, covered porch or open lattice walkway. No part of
the suspended sign shall extend beyond the edge of the overhang. Signs placed
parallel to the street may be attached to the fascia; provided, no part of the
signs extend above or below the fascia. A minimum clearance of eight feet (8')
shall be maintained between the bottom of the fascia and the nearest grade or
sidewalk.
         b.   Pole mounted shingle signs may not obstruct the path of
pedestrian or vehicular circulation.
      4.   Permanent window signs.
         a.   Area: Calculations of area shall be based on the total tenant
frontage window area. The area shall be determined by drawing an imaginary
square or rectangular envelope so as to completely enclose each entire symbol,
word, phrase, title, number or name appearing on the sign and by computing the
sum of all such envelopes.
         b.   Items Of Information: Items of information shall be affixed to
the window via paint, permanent decals or any other means acceptable to the
Village.
         c.   Location: Window signs shall be limited to placement within the
street level windows, location of the business if the business is located on an
upper floor, or as approved through the site plan review process.
      5.   Highway Identification Signs When Located In Sign Zone A: Internally
illuminated sign panels shall be constructed with opaque backgrounds and routed
out copy or on a solid background with individual letters.
   D.   Promotional and advertising signs.
      1.   Temporary window signs.
         a.   Items Of Information: Items shall be affixed to the window in a
means acceptable to the Village, comprised of materials in keeping with the
architecture of the building and character of the area, and in good condition
as determined by the zoning officer.
         b.   Location: Temporary window signs shall be limited to placement
within the street level windows, location of the business if the business is
located on an upper floor, or as approved through the site plan review process.
         c.   Permit Exemption: Temporary window signs shall be exempt from
acquiring a temporary sign permit.
      2.   Temporary signs.
         a.   Permit Required: A permit is required prior to the installation
of any temporary sign. The sign must be removed within twenty-four (24) hours
of permit expiration.
         b.   Location: All signs shall be located on the lot/property on which
the business is located.
         c.   No signs may be located within the public right of way or in such
a manner as to present a hazard to vehicle or pedestrian traffic entering or
leaving the site. No sign may be located in the vision triangle. If it is
deemed to create a hazard, the owner shall remove same upon notice from the
zoning officer or chief of police, or his or her designee, immediately.
         d.   Material: Signs, banners and flags shall be comprised of
materials in keeping with the architecture of the building and character of the
area, and in good condition as determined by the zoning officer.
   E.   Real estate signs.
      1.   Location: Real estate signs shall be located upon private property.
      2.   Illumination: Real estate signs shall not be illuminated. (Ord. 21-
2011, 5-25-2021)
10-10-7: SIGNS FOR BUILDERS, DEVELOPERS, AND SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   Model Home Areas: In a model home area, signs may be displayed only on
model home sites.
      1.   Area: The total footage limitation per model home shall not exceed
forty eight (48) square feet.
      2.   Items Of Information: No limitations on items of information.
      3.   Number: No more than three (3) signs shall be displayed on a model
home site.
      4.   Height: Shall not exceed nine feet (9') including ornamentation.
      5.   Ornamental Flags: Ornamental flags are not to exceed three (3) in
number and not to exceed nine feet (9') in height at each model home location.
   B.   Freestanding Subdivision Identification And Entry Signs:
      1.   Conditions: The erection of subdivision identification signs and/or
monuments together with their supporting structures, hereinafter collectively
referred to as "structure(s)", shall be permitted in all subdivisions in all
zoning districts, subject to the following terms and conditions:
         a.   The structure(s) is required to be located in an easement which
specifically, or by reference to a recorded set of declarations, covenants, and
restrictions, provides for the maintenance of the structure and any surrounding
landscape areas.
         b.   The structure(s) may contain a single sided message area
containing not more than twenty (20) square feet, the message area shall be
measured by the smallest square, rectangle, triangle, circle or combination
thereof, which will encompass the entire message. The message area may contain
the subdivision name and/or logo only and shall contain no commercial
advertisement.
         c.   The structure(s) shall be not more than six feet (6') in height
as measured from the final grade for the structure's lot and shall contain no
more than one hundred (100) square feet as determined by measuring the side of
the structure fronting on a public street.
         d.   The structure(s) shall not be located within the vision triangle.
         e.   No structure is permitted in a public right of way.
         f.   Signs and sign structures located along arterial and collector
roadways including Brook Forest Avenue, Cottage Street, Black Road, Vertin
Boulevard, River Road, Jefferson Street, Seil Road, and Mound Road may only be
constructed of a brick, stone or other masonry material. Lettering, ornaments
or other graphics on the structure must be stone, wrought iron or anodized
aluminum.
In addition to the materials listed above, wood-carved and sandblasted wood
signs may be installed along other Village roadways.
      g.   Structure(s) shall only be permitted on lots which have a minimum of
one hundred foot (100') frontages measured at the building setback line.
         h.   The structure(s) must have a minimum five foot (5') landscape
area around its base. The landscape area must contain at least one (1) plant
unit, as identified in Section
10-14-3J of this code, per four (4) square feet of signage.
         i.   An application for an entry sign permit shall be filed with the
zoning officer on such a form as may, from time to time, be required. Such
application shall minimally include the following:
            (1)   The applicant's name.
            (2)   A landscape plan.
            (3)   A drawing of the proposed sign, including any proposed
lettering and description of proposed construction material.
            (4)   A site plan depicting the proposed sign location.
         j.   The application shall be accompanied by a one hundred dollar
($100.00) application fee for each structure. If the application is allowed by
the Village Board and a building permit is therefore authorized, a building
permit fee as indicated in Sec.
8-1A-9 of this code shall be paid by the applicant prior to the issuance of a
building permit.
         k.   No portion of a structure shall be permitted within twenty feet
(20') of any driveway.
      2.   Planning And Zoning Commission Review; Village Board Approval: The
application required herein shall be reviewed by the Village Planning and
Zoning Commission who shall make a recommendation to the Village Board as to
whether any such application should be granted or denied. The Village Board
shall grant or deny the sign application. An application for a subdivision
identification and entry sign may be considered as part of a planned unit
development or subdivision approval provided the drawings and information
required above are made part of the PUD/subdivision plans. In such case,
separate review of the sign by the Planning and Zoning Commission and Village
Board is not required.
      3.   Sign Maintenance: The structure(s) shall be maintained by a
homeowners' association consisting of the property owners in the subdivision of
which the structure(s) is/are a part.
      4.   Declaration Of Covenants/Easements:
         a.   There shall be prepared, enacted and recorded a declaration of
covenants ("declaration") to run with the land of the subdivision of which the
easement is a part, which declaration shall, minimally:
            (1)   Provide for the organization of a homeowners' association
which shall assess sufficient dues to provide for maintenance of the easement
and structure.
            (2)   Provide for the continued maintenance of the easement and
structure.
         b.   The declaration and/or grant of easement shall provide that the
Village has the right, but not the obligation, to enter upon the easement from
an adjoining public street and demolish the structure if in the sole
determination of the Village the structure is not being properly maintained.
   C.   On Site Directionals:
      1.   Number And Area: One per turning corner from entrances to model home
area, not to exceed six (6) square feet.
      2.   Items Of Information: Items of information shall be limited to name
of subdivision or builder and logo, arrows and/or words of direction and
telephone number.
      3.   Height: The height of such a sign shall not exceed nine feet (9')
including ornamentation.
   D.   On Site Subdivision Advertisements:
      1.   Area: Sign(s) not to exceed ninety six (96) square feet.
      2.   Number: One sign only, allowed per public street frontage of the
subdivision.
      3.   Height: Shall not exceed twelve feet (12') from grade to the top of
the sign.
      4.   Duration: On site subdivision advertising signs shall be removed
when seventy five percent (75%) of the lots within the subdivision have
commenced building construction or five (5) years, whichever shall come sooner.
   E.   Off Site Advertisements:
      1.   Number And Area: Two (2) signs allowed within the corporate limits
of the Village with a maximum of one hundred twenty (120) square feet per sign.
Setback shall be fifty feet (50') minimum from edge of pavement or as directed
by the zoning officer.
      2.   Items Of Information: No limitation on items of information.
      3.   Height: Shall not exceed fourteen feet (14') including
ornamentation.
   F.   Off Site Directionals: Off site directional signs are prohibited except
that directional information may be contained in directional signs permitted by
subsection 10-10-4L of this chapter. (Ord. 21-2011, 5-25-2021; Ord. 22-2043, 5-
24-2022)
10-10-8: INDUSTRIAL PARK IDENTIFICATION SIGNS:
Industrial park identification signs shall be subject to the following
regulations:
   A.   Number: Each industrial park may have one identification sign for each
public street frontage.
   B.   Items Of Information: The freestanding or ground mounted sign shall
show the name of the industrial park and may incorporate multi-tenant signage.
   C.   Location: The sign shall be located near the entrance into the
industrial park and shall have a minimum ten foot (10') setback from a lot
line. When the sign is located at the intersection of two (2) streets, it shall
not be located within the vision triangle.
   D.   Area: A maximum of eighty (80) square feet per sign face.
   E.   Height: The sign shall have a maximum height of twenty feet (20').
   F.   Sign Face: The industrial park identification sign shall be singularly
predominant, constituting a minimum of thirty percent (30%) of the total sign
face. No single-tenant sign shall exceed twenty percent (20%) of the area of
the industrial park identification sign. All tenant signs shall incorporate the
identical font design, size and color.
   G.   Materials: Shall include a base constructed of brick, stone, or masonry
materials and be matched in type and color to these materials used on the
buildings on the premises if such materials are present. Internally illuminated
sign panels shall be constructed with opaque backgrounds and routed out copy or
on a solid background with individual letters.
   H.   Landscaping: A five foot (5') landscaped area consisting of trees,
shrubs and ground covers shall be provided around the base of the sign. The
landscape area must contain at least one (1) plant unit, as identified in
Section
10-14-3J, per four (4) square feet of signage. (Ord. 21-2011, 5-25-2021)
10-10-9: CHURCH, SCHOOL AND OTHER PUBLIC/QUASI-PUBLIC INSTITUTION
IDENTIFICATION SIGNS:
Churches, schools and other public/quasi-public institutions shall be subject
to the following regulations:
   A.   Freestanding sign.
      1.   Location: No sign shall project into, over or otherwise encroach
upon a public right of way. No sign shall be erected such that its hemisphere,
described by a radius equal to the vertical height of the freestanding sign
with the vertical centerline of the freestanding sign located at the center of
the hemisphere, intersects with any utility lines, electrical conductors or
service drops. Freestanding signs shall be located not less than ten feet (10')
from a lot line.
      2.   Area: The area, in square feet per sign face, shall not exceed forty
eight (48) square feet.
      3.   Height: The top of the sign shall be no higher than ten feet (10').
      4.   Number: One freestanding sign per site.
      5.   Materials: Shall include a base constructed of brick, stone, or
masonry materials and be matched in type and color to these materials used on
the buildings on the premises if such materials are present.
      6.   Landscaping: A five foot (5') landscaped area consisting of trees,
shrubs and ground covers shall be provided around the base of the sign. The
landscape area must contain at least one (1) plant unit, as identified in
Section
10-14-3J, per four (4) square feet of signage.
   B.   Wall signs.
      1.   Location: No wall sign shall project over, into or otherwise
encroach upon a public right of way. No wall sign shall cover, wholly or
partially, any wall opening nor project beyond the ends or top of the wall to
which it is affixed.
      2.   Area: Shall not exceed forty (40) square feet.
      3.   Number: One wall sign per site. (Ord. 21-2011, 5-25-2021)
10-10-10: CONSTRUCTION, MATERIALS AND PERFORMANCE STANDARDS FOR ALL SIGNS:
   A.   Design And Construction: Signs shall be constructed and maintained in
conformance with the codes adopted by title 8, chapter 1 of this code.
   B.   Electrical Requirements:
      1.   General Requirements: The electrical components, connections and
installations of all signs shall conform to the provisions of the current
adopted village electrical code referenced in title 8, chapter 1 of this code.
Electric signs shall be constructed of incombustible material. Electric signs
shall be raintight; except, that service holes fitted with waterproof covers
shall be provided to each compartment of such signs. All electric signs
hereafter installed or erected in the village shall carry the label of
Underwriters Laboratories, Inc.
      2.   Illuminated Signs:
         a.   No electrical equipment or electrical apparatus of any kind which
causes interference with radio or television reception shall be used in the
operation of illuminated signs.
         b.   All sources of illumination shall be kept in good working order.
         c.   In no case shall the lighting intensity of any sign exceed the
prevailing illuminating engineering standards (IES).
   C.   Wind Pressure And Load Requirements: All signs shall be designed to
withstand a wind pressure as required in the building code of the village and/
or other applicable village ordinances and codes.
   D.   Sign Structure And Support Requirements:
      1.   All signs shall be designed so that all framework for the lateral
support of the sign shall be contained within the sign's body or within the
structure of the building to which the sign is attached so as not to be visible
to the public. Raceway supports shall only be permitted on multiple-tenant
buildings.
      2.   Exposed guywires, chains or other similar connections attached to
the ground posing a threat to pedestrian safety are not permitted to serve as
supports for a sign.
      3.   If the supports or anchors of a sign are not galvanized or
constructed of a noncombustible, corrosive resistant material, they shall be
painted as necessary to prevent corrosion and peeling.
   E.   Sign Face: No sign or sign structure shall have any nails, tacks, wires
or sharp edges protruding from it. Exposed neon tubing shall be prohibited on
all signs located on an exterior wall surface.
   F.   Miscellaneous Advertising Objects: No person shall place on or suspend
from any building or structure any goods, wares, merchandise or other
advertising objects other than a sign, as defined within these provisions.
   G.   Glass Requirements: Any glass forming a part of any sign shall be heavy
safety glass and shall be in compliance with all applicable village codes and
ordinances.
   H.   Location:
      1.   No sign shall cover, wholly or partially, any opening nor project
beyond the ends or top of the wall to which it is attached. No sign shall
project into or otherwise encroach upon a public right of way.
      2.   No sign shall be erected so as to obstruct any fire escape, required
exit, window or door opening intended as a means of egress.
      3.   No sign shall be erected which interferes with any opening required
for ventilation.
      4.   Signs shall maintain all clearances from electrical conductors in
accordance with all applicable village codes and ordinances, except where
specified within this chapter.
      5.   Signs and their supporting structures shall maintain clearance and
noninterference with all surface and underground facilities and conduits for
water, sewage, gas, electricity, vehicles or communications equipment or lines.
Furthermore, placement shall not interfere with natural or artificial drainage
of surface or underground water.
   I.   Lettering: All letters, figures, characters or representations in
cutout or irregular form, maintained in conjunction with, attached to or
superimposed upon any sign shall be safely and securely built into or attached
to the sign.
   J.   Landscape Plan:
      1.   All ground mounted and freestanding signs shall incorporate a
landscape plan at time of application.
      2.   The landscape plan shall be reviewed and approved by the zoning
officer.
      3.   The landscape plan shall incorporate plants and shrubs in proportion
to the sign structure. The intent is to enhance the aesthetic integration of
the signage with the environment. Landscaping shall be maintained by the sign
owner. (Ord. 03-1161, 3-25-2003; amd. Ord. 14-1748, 10-28-2014; Ord. 21-2011,
5-25-2021)
10-10-11: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Enforcement Official: The primary enforcement official for the village
shall be the zoning officer.
   B.   Permit Requirements:
      1.   Building Permit And Compliance Required: No person shall erect,
alter, repair or relocate any sign without first obtaining a building permit
for such work from the zoning officer of the village. No permit shall be issued
until the zoning officer determines that such work is in compliance with the
requirements of this chapter and applicable village building codes.
      2.   Application For Permit: Every application for sign permit shall be
accompanied by plans, drawn to scale, and including:
         a.   The name, address and telephone number of the owner or persons
entitled to possession of the sign and of the sign contractor.
         b.   The location, by street address, of the proposed sign structure.
         c.   The dimensions of the sign and, where applicable, the dimensions
of the wall surface to which it is to be attached.
         d.   The distance the sign is set back from the roadway, building
setback, building/store frontage and building height to the eaves line.
         e.   The dimensions of the sign's supporting members.
         f.   A color rendering of the proposed sign.
         g.   The proposed location of the sign in relation to the face of the
building in front of which or above which it is to be erected.
         h.   The proposed location of the sign in relation to the boundaries
of the lot upon which it is to be situated.
         i.   When the sign is proposed to be attached to an existing building,
a current photograph of the face of the building to which the sign is to be
attached.
         j.   If the proposed sign is to be illuminated in any manner, the
proposed method of illumination and the amount of light generated by foot-
candles is to be submitted.
      3.   Permit And Inspection Fees: Consult the current village fee
schedule.
      4.   Issuance Of Permit; Withdrawal And Renewal: It shall be the duty of
the zoning officer, upon receipt of an application, to examine such plans and
other data, including the premises upon which the sign is proposed. If said
application and supporting data are determined to be in compliance with the
provisions of this chapter and applicable building codes, a permit shall be
issued. If a permit is not obtained within ninety (90) days after the applicant
has been notified that the plans are approved, the zoning officer shall assume
that the application is withdrawn and may destroy the plans and supporting
documentation. Renewed action on said plans shall require a new set of plans
and new fees.
      5.   Expiration Of Permit: If the work authorized by a sign permit has
not been completed within six (6) months after the date of initiation of
construction, said permit shall become null and void, and there shall be no
refund of any fee required by this section.
   C.   Maintenance And Removal: In any instance of conflict between the
adopted village building codes and this chapter, the more restrictive shall
apply. All commercial signs shall be removed from the premises and necessary
repairs made to the building and/or sign structures within thirty (30) calendar
days of a business closing or vacating the premises.
   D.   Existing Signs: All existing signs under the jurisdiction of this
chapter rendered nonconforming by adoption of this chapter shall be permitted
to remain in use, subject to the following provisions:
      1.   Any sign not in conformance with the allowable area (square feet) or
allowable height (linear feet) provisions of this chapter by an amount less
than twenty percent (20%) in excess of the allowable area or allowable height
shall be permitted to remain in use throughout the useful life of the sign.
      2.   Any sign not in conformance with the allowable area or allowable
height provisions of this chapter by an amount more than or equal to twenty
percent (20%) in excess of the allowable area or allowable height or is
nonconforming with any other provision of this chapter must be brought into
conformance by modification, replacement or removal of the nonconforming sign
when:
         a.   More than fifty percent (50%) of the nonconforming sign must be
replaced due to physical deterioration or damage; or
         b.   The business to which the sign pertains is sold, relocated or has
ceased operation for a period of six (6) months. (Ord. 03-1161, 3-25-2003; amd.
Ord. 14-1748, 10-28-2014; Ord. 21-2011, 5-25-2021)
CHAPTER 11
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
SECTION:
10-11-1: Standards and Regulations
10-11-2: Purpose and Intent
10-11-3: Design Standards and Criteria
10-11-4: Procedure
10-11-5: Content of Planned Unit Development Submittals
10-11-6: Changes to Planned Unit Development
10-11-7: Findings of Fact
10-11-8: Effective Period of Planned Unit Development
10-11-9: Filing Fees
10-11-1: STANDARDS AND REGULATIONS:
A planned unit development shall be granted as a conditional use. Even though
so classified, it is of substantially different nature from other conditional
uses. To reflect this difference, additional regulations, standards and
criteria are hereby established. The planned unit development shall conform to
the intent and character of the zoning district in which it is located. (Ord.
93-695, 6-15-93)
10-11-2: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
Land can be developed or redeveloped with innovation, creativity and design
effort. The end result can be a product which fulfills the objectives of the
Comprehensive Plan and planning policies of the Village while departing from
the strict application of the use and bulk regulations of this Title and the
design standards of the subdivision control regulations 1 . The planned unit
development is intended to permit and encourage such flexibility and to
accomplish the following purposes:
   A.   To stimulate creative approaches to the residential, commercial and
industrial development of land.
   B.   To provide more efficient use of land.
   C.   To preserve natural features and provide open space areas.
   D.   To develop new approaches to the living environment through variety in
type, design and layout of residential structures, commercial and industrial
buildings, transportation systems, and public facilities. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-
93)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 11 of this Code.
10-11-3: DESIGN STANDARDS AND CRITERIA:
The planned unit development shall be designed in accordance with the following
standards and criteria:
   A.   The planned unit development shall be under single ownership and/or
unified control at the time of filing an application for approval of the
planned unit development.
   B.   All public improvements shall conform to the regulations and design
standards of Title 11, Land Subdivisions, of this Village Code, including the
posting of required securities, except that the design standards may be
modified if the function of the public improvement is not altered.
   C.   The planned unit development shall provide for the dedication of land
for park and recreational purposes and land for school sites or a cash
contribution in lieu of actual land dedication or a combination of both, all in
accordance with this Code.
   D.   In a planned unit development, the provisions of this Code which
prohibit the utilization of any parcel of land or lot for the purpose of
erecting more than one principal building or structure may be waived by the
Village Board.
   E.   All buildings, structures and uses of land within the planned unit
development shall conform to the area, lot width, yard, height and bulk
regulations of the zoning district in which the planned unit development is
located or, for those uses which are not allowed in that zoning district but
are allowed as part of the planned unit development, the area, lot width, yard,
height and bulk regulations of the zoning district in which they are first
permitted. These regulations may be waived or modified by the Village.
   F.   A minimum of twenty five percent (25%) of the land area of the planned
unit development devoted to multiple-family residential use shall consist of
common open space. No area within thirty feet (30') of any building or
structure, except one used for recreational purposes, shall be included in the
computation of the common open space requirements. In no event shall the total
amount of common open space, including the required park donation, have to
exceed forty five percent (45%) of the gross land area of the planned unit
development. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-93)
10-11-4: PROCEDURE:
A planned unit development shall be granted as a conditional use to the zoning
district in which it is located. The process for obtaining a planned unit
development shall be as follows:
   A.   Pre-Application:
      1.   Prior to the filing of an application for the approval of a planned
unit development, the applicant shall meet and consult with the Plan
Commission. The applicant shall present a concept of his proposed planned unit
development and the Plan Commission shall inform the applicant of all
applicable officially adopted policies, standards, regulations and procedures.
      2.   A pre-application conference with the Village staff or a concept
review before the Plan Commission or Village Board may be conducted at the
discretion of the Zoning Officer or upon the request of the applicant.
Recommendations during the pre-application stage are advisory only.
   B.   Preliminary Plat:
      1.   An application for approval of a preliminary plat of planned unit
development shall be filed in writing with the Zoning Officer. The Zoning
Officer shall forward the application to the Village Clerk for processing and
to the Village Board. The Zoning Officer shall transmit the application to the
Plan Commission for review and public hearing. The application shall contain
such information as may be required. Prior to Plan Commission deliberation, all
information and data in accordance with subsection
10-11-5B of this Chapter shall be submitted. The Plan Commission shall hold a
public hearing within sixty (60) days after filing of the application.
      2.   Notice of the public hearing shall be published at least once before
the public hearing in a newspaper of general circulation in the Village.
      3.   The applicant shall also give written notice to the persons to whom
the current real estate tax bills are sent, as shown on the record of the local
real estate tax collector, of all lots lying within one hundred fifty feet
(150'), exclusive of public right of way, of the property lines of the parcel
of land for which the planned unit development is sought. The written notices
shall be delivered personally or may be sent by certified or registered mail,
properly addressed, with sufficient postage affixed thereon, with return
receipt requested. The applicant shall file a sworn affidavit with copies of
the notices with the Village Clerk, showing the names and addresses of the
persons to whom the written notices have been sent. Said affidavit shall be a
presumption of the giving of said notices.
      4.   All published notices shall contain the number assigned to the
application, the place, the nature, the purpose and the date and time of such
hearing and the common address or location of the property in question, the
name and address of the applicant and owner of the property and the office
address of the Village Clerk where full information including a legal
description may be obtained concerning the application and shall be published
or served not more than thirty (30) days nor less than fifteen (15) days in
advance of such hearing.
      5.   The public hearing shall be conducted by the Plan Commission, and a
record of such proceedings shall be preserved in such manner as the Plan
Commission shall, by rule, prescribe from time to time.
      6.   The Plan Commission shall make written findings of fact and shall
submit same together with its recommendations to the Village Board within one
hundred twenty (120) days of filing of the application.
      7.   After recommendation by the Plan Commission, the Village Board may,
by ordinance, grant or grant with modification the proposed planned unit
development authorizing the planned unit development as a conditional use. If
the Village Board does not approve of a planned unit development after
recommendation by the Plan Commission, it may deny the planned unit developer
or refer the planned unit development back to the Plan Commission for further
consideration.
      8.   Attached to the ordinance as exhibits shall be the preliminary plat
of planned unit development and supporting documents as necessary. Approval of
a preliminary plat of planned unit development shall not constitute final
approval of the final plat of planned unit development, rather it shall be
deemed an expression of approval of the layout submitted on the preliminary
plat as a guide to the preparation of the final plat of planned unit
development.
   C.   Final Plat:
      1.   The planned unit development may be final platted in segments. The
final plat or plats of the planned unit development shall conform substantially
to the preliminary plat of planned unit development as approved. The
preliminary plat of planned unit development shall generally specify uses of
land and locations of buildings, whereas the final plat of planned unit
development shall designate with particularity the uses of land and the
location of buildings.
      2.   An application for approval of a final plat of planned unit
development shall be filed in writing with the Zoning Officer. The Zoning
Officer shall forward the application to the Village Clerk for processing and
to the Village Board. The Zoning Officer shall transmit the application to the
Plan Commission for review. The application shall contain such information as
may be required. Prior to Plan Commission deliberation, all information and
data in accordance with subsection
10-11-5C of this Chapter shall be submitted. The Plan Commission shall commence
the review within sixty (60) days after filing of the application.
      3.   The review shall be conducted by the Plan Commission and a record of
such proceedings shall be preserved in such manner as the Plan Commission
shall, by rule, prescribe from time to time.
      4.   The Plan Commission shall make written findings of fact and shall
submit same together with its recommendations to the Village Board within one
hundred twenty (120) days of filing of the application.
      5.   After recommendation by the Plan Commission, the Village Board may,
by ordinance, grant or grant with modification the proposed planned unit
development authorizing the planned unit development as a conditional use. If
the Village Board does not approve of a planned unit development after
recommendation by the Plan Commission, it may deny the planned unit development
or refer the planned unit development back to the Plan Commission for further
consideration. Attached as exhibits to the ordinance authorizing the planned
unit development as a conditional use shall be the final plat of planned unit
development and supporting documents as necessary. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-93)
10-11-5: CONTENT OF PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT SUBMITTALS:
For each stage in the planned unit development review process, the following
information and data shall be submitted:
   A.   Pre-Application: The following information and data is required:
      1.   Data regarding site conditions, land characteristics, available
community facilities and utilities and other related general information about
uses of land within one-half (1/2) mile of the subject parcel of land.
      2.   Sketch drawing showing the proposed location of the uses of land,
major streets and other features.
      3.   Property survey and legal description of the subject parcel of land.
   B.   Preliminary Plat: The following information and data is required:
      1.   Preliminary Plat: A drawing of the planned unit development, at a
scale of one hundred feet to one inch (1" = 100'), composed of one or more
sheets showing the following information:
         a.   Title by which the proposed planned unit development is to be
referred.
         b.   Legal description of the property and total acreage included.
         c.   Date, scale, north point, and date of preparation.
         d.   Name and address of the owner, applicant, engineer and land
surveyor.
         e.   Location of corporate boundary, County and Township lines at or
near the planned unit development.
         f.   Location, dimensions and acreage of proposed land uses including
single-family residential, multi-family residential, business areas, industrial
areas, open spaces and school sites.
         g.   Location and dimensions of proposed streets, alleys, easements
and storm water control areas.
         h.   Dimensions of the lots into which the property is proposed to be
subdivided.
         i.   Density of the planned unit development for both the entire
development and individual land use areas.
         j.   Location map showing the location of the planned unit development
within the Village.
         k.   Character of the surrounding area within two hundred feet (200')
of the planned unit development including existing land uses, subdivision of
lands, location and dimensions of streets, alleys, easements, and storm water
control areas, and location of buildings and structures.
         l.   The zoning classification of the subject property and the
surrounding area within two hundred feet (200').
         m.   Location and dimensions of existing streets, alleys, easements,
storm water control areas, buildings, structures and public utilities within
the planned unit development.
         n.   Plan for sidewalks or pedestrian access and circulation.
         o.   General internal uses of each building or structure.
         p.   Ground elevations on the tract showing one foot (1') contours for
land that slopes less than one-half of one percent (0.5%); two foot (2')
contours for land that slopes more than one-half of one percent (0.5%); spot
elevations at all breaks in grades, along all drainage channels or swales, and
at selected points not more than one hundred feet (100') apart in all
directions (refer to USGS datum in compiling data).
         q.   Flood plain lines as to be delineated by the applicable USGS
Flood Quadrangle or other documents adopted by the Village as part of the flood
plain regulations.
      2.   Character: An explanation of the character of the planned unit
development, the reasons why it needs the flexibility of the planned unit
development regulations, how the official plan affects the property and how it
accomplishes the purposes of the planned unit development regulations.
      3.   Design Schedule: A listing of the area, lot width, yard, height and
bulk requirements applicable to the planned unit development.
      4.   Services Facilities: Information on all service facilities and off-
street parking facilities.
      5.   Preliminary Engineering: Engineering in sufficient detail which will
convey the general basis of design of the sanitary sewer, water, storm water
control, flood control and street facilities.
      6.   Natural Features Study: An analysis of the natural features and
drainage patterns of the property.
      7.   Geological and Soil Analysis: An examination of the adequacy of the
property for development.
      8.   Impact Studies: Impact studies and geological analysis and other
information and data as the Plan Commission may require for the full and
complete consideration of the planned unit development.
   C.   Final Plat: The following information and data is required:
      1.   Final Plat: A drawing of the planned unit development, suitable for
recording with the County Recorder of Deeds, showing the following information:
         a.   Designation with particularity the uses of the land and the
location of buildings and structures.
         b.   Title under which the proposed planned unit development is to be
recorded.
         c.   Legal description of the property and total acreage included.
         d.   Data, scale, north point and date of preparation.
         e.   Location, dimensions and acreage of proposed land uses, including
single-family residential, multi-family residential, business areas, industrial
areas, open spaces and school sites.
         f.   Location and dimensions of proposed streets, alleys, easements
and storm water control areas.
         g.   Dimensions of the lots into which the property is proposed to be
subdivided.
         h.   Plan for sidewalks or pedestrian access and circulation.
      2.   Population Estimate: A calculation of population equivalents for
residential development.
      3.   Design Schedule: A listing of the area, lot width, yard height and
bulk requirements applicable to the planned unit development.
      4.   Statement of Intent and Agreement: A document by the applicant
setting forth the nature, kind, character and the extent of all the public
improvements to be constructed, the specific park and school donation,
applicable fees and charges, agreement on cost sharing of public improvement
and agreement on any other items.
      5.   Financing Surety: Guarantee of funds in accordance with the
provisions of Title 11 of this Code.
      6.   Covenants: Final agreements, provisions or covenants which will
govern the use, maintenance and continued protection of the planned unit
development.
      7.   Final Engineering: Complete and detailed engineering which shows the
design of the sanitary sewer, water, storm water control, flood control and
street facilities, including specifications.
      8.   Cost Estimate: Estimates of cost for all public improvements.
      9.   Other information and data as the Plan Commission may require for
full and complete consideration of the planned unit development. (Ord. 93-695,
6-15-93)
10-11-6: CHANGES TO PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT:
   A.   A planned unit development shall be constructed in accordance with the
approved preliminary or final plat of planned unit development and all
supporting data. These plats shall control and limit the use of the parcel of
land (including the general internal use of buildings and structures) and the
location of buildings and structures in the planned unit development as
indicated on the plats.
   B.   Changes to the planned unit development shall be defined as follows:
      1.   Major changes are modifications which alter the concept or intent of
the planned unit development, such as changes in density, changes in location
and type of uses of land, increases in the height of buildings or structures,
reduction in the acreage of open space, modification of more than ten percent
(10%) in the number of dwelling units in any designated land use area or
alteration in road alignment.
      2.   Minor changes are changes not defined as major changes and which do
not alter the concept or intent of the planned unit development.
   C.   A revised preliminary plat of planned unit development and supporting
data shall be submitted upon a major change. The procedure for approval shall
be in accordance with the provisions of subsection
10-11-4B of this Chapter. If a final plat of planned unit development has also
been approved, it shall also be amended at the time of approval of the revised
preliminary plat of planned unit development.
   D.   Minor changes shall be approved by the Village Board without the review
and recommendation of the Plan Commission. This provision shall not prohibit
the Village Board from requesting of the Plan Commission its review and
recommendation. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-93)
10-11-7: FINDINGS OF FACT:
The Plan Commission shall not recommend nor the Village Board grant a planned
unit development unless it shall make findings based upon the evidence
presented to it in each specific case that:
   A.   The design of the planned unit development presents an innovative and
creative approach to the development of land and living environments.
   B.   The planned unit development meets the requirements and standards of
the planned unit development regulations.
   C.   The physical design of the planned unit development efficiently
utilizes the land and adequately provides for transportation and public
facilities while preserving the natural features of the site.
   D.   Open space areas and recreational facilities are provided.
   E.   The modifications in design standards from the subdivision control
regulations and the waivers in bulk regulations from the zoning regulations
fulfill the intent of those regulations.
   F.   The planned unit development is compatible with the adjacent properties
and the neighborhood.
   G.   The planned unit development fulfills the objectives of the
Comprehensive Plan and planning policies of the Village. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-93)
10-11-8: EFFECTIVE PERIOD OF PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT:
   A.   The planned unit development shall be constructed in a timely manner.
The planned unit development shall be subject to revocation under the following
conditions:
      1.   Final platting does not occur within two (2) years from the date of
approval of the preliminary plat of planned unit development.
      2.   Construction does not commence and proceed within two (2) years from
the date of approval of the final planned plat of a planned unit development.
   B.   The Village Board may extend those time limits in one year increments.
   C.   The Village Board may initiate or the owner of the parcel of land on
which the planned unit development is to be constructed may apply for the
revocation of the planned unit development. Said owner shall be notified, in
writing, at least thirty (30) days prior to the Village Board consideration of
the revocation.
   D.   Upon the revocation of the planned unit development, the parcel of land
shall conform to the permitted uses and other regulations of the zoning
district of which it is a conditional use unless an amendment or other
conditional use is initiated by the Village Board or is applied for by the
owner of the parcel of land on which the planned unit development was to be
constructed and granted by the Village Board. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-93)
10-11-9: FILING FEES:
Filing fees are as provided in Section
10-12-7 of this Title. (Ord. 93-695, 6-15-93)
CHAPTER 12
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
10-12-1: Administration And Enforcement Officials
10-12-2: Variances
10-12-3: Map Amendments
10-12-4: Conditional Uses
10-12-5: Procedures For Variances, Map Amendments And Conditional Uses
10-12-6: Appeals
10-12-7: Development Fees
10-12-8: Penalties
10-12-1: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS:
   A.   Village Board Of Trustees:
      1.   Jurisdiction: The Village Board shall retain the following duties
and responsibilities under this title:
         a.   Take final action on applications for amendments to the zoning
title text or map, site plans and conditional uses.
         b.   Take action on applications for temporary buildings, structures
and uses of land.
         c.   Designate certain days on which business establishments may
conduct their businesses outside the building structure.
         d.   Receive and act upon all annual reports on the effectiveness of
this title along with recommendations for changes.
         e.   Take final action on applications for variances, except variance
requests concerning:
            (1)   Fences; and
            (2)   Setbacks for single-family residential structures and
structures accessory thereto when such variance request concerns a then
existing lot of record for which decision-making authority is vested in the
Planning and Zoning Commission.
      2.   Final Action By Village Board: All decisions and findings of the
Village Board related to this title shall, in all instances, be the final
administrative decisions and shall be subject to judicial review as may be
provided by law. In the case of zoning amendments, conditional uses, planned
unit developments and other actions which require that approval or granting
thereof be by ordinance, the enactment of an approving or granting ordinance
shall be the final administrative decision and shall be subject to judicial
review as may be provided by law.
   B.   Zoning Officer:
      1.   Designation: The Economic Development Director shall be the Zoning
Officer.
      2.   Duties: The Zoning Officer, or his/her designees, shall enforce the
zoning regulations and, in addition thereto and in furtherance of such
authority, shall:
         a.   Maintain permanent and current records of this title, including,
but not limited to, all maps, amendments, conditional uses, planned unit
developments, variations, appeals and applications therefore.
         b.   Enforce all provisions of this title.
         c.   Provide determination of nonconforming status.
         d.   Conduct inspections of buildings, structures and uses of land to
determine compliance with the provisions of this title and notify in writing
the person responsible for any violation found, indicating the nature of the
violation and ordering the action necessary to correct it and advising of the
right of appeal.
         e.   Order the discontinuance of illegal use of land, building or
structures or any illegal work being done; removal of illegal buildings or
structures or of illegal additions, alterations or structural changes; and any
other action authorized by statute or by this title to enusre compliance with
or to prevent violation of its provisions.
         f.   Facilitate the application process for requests for annexation,
rezoning (map amendment), conditional use, planned unit development, variation,
and appeal.
         g.   Forward to the Village Board applications for temporary
buildings, structures and uses of land.
         h.   Review all cases of encroachment into required yards.
         i.   Interpret the zoning regulations when questions arise.
         j.   Determine which uses, though not contained by name in a zoning
district list of permitted uses, are of the same general character and permit
their establishment.
         k.   Determine the parking or loading class of a use which is not
contained by name in a parking or loading class.
         l.   Discharge such other duties as may be placed upon the Zoning
Officer by this code or the Village Board.
         m.   Initiate, direct and review from time to time a study of the
provisions of this title and make recommendations to the Planning and Zoning
Commission as such study requires.
   C.   Planning And Zoning Commission:
      1.   Planning And Zoning Commission Establishment: There is hereby
established and created the Village Planning and Zoning Commission which shall
perform all duties, functions and responsibilities required, necessitated or
otherwise convenient to be performed by a plan commission under division 12
section 11 of the Illinois Municipal Code 1  and a zoning board of appeals
under division 13 section 11 of the Illinois Municipal Code 2 .
      2.   Perform Duties And Function Of Prior Board Commission: All duties
and functions of the Village Zoning Board of Appeals and the Village Plan
Commission shall be performed by the Shorewood Planning and Zoning Commission
upon the effective date hereof except that the Planning and Zoning Commission
shall act solely in an advisory capacity with respect to all matters except
consideration of those variances enumerated in subsection A1e of this section.
Any reference to the Zoning Board of Appeals or to the Plan Commission either
at law or under this Code shall mean the Village "Planning and Zoning
Commission".
      3.   Members And Terms Of Office: The Planning and Zoning Commission
shall consist of eight (8) members who are residents of the Village who will
serve respectively for the following initial terms: four (4) 1-year terms and
four (4) 2-year terms, with the successor to each member initially appointed
serving for a term of two (2) years. The term of office for each Commissioner
shall begin on May 1 of the year of appointment (and shall be retroactive to
May 1, if the appointment is made after that date) and shall conclude on April
30 of the year the term of appointment concludes or thereafter until their
successor is duly appointed and qualified. A member of the Village Board of
Trustees shall serve as a member of the Planning and Zoning Commission as its
Chair, the Trustee member shall initially be appointed to one of the one year
terms. The Trustee member(s) shall only vote in the event of a tie.
Additionally, a Trustee shall be appointed to serve as Vice Chair of the
Planning and Zoning Commission and shall preside as Chairman in the absence of
the Chair. The Vice Chair shall vote only when there is a tie vote and the
Chair is not present. The terms of any current member of the Village Zoning
Board of Appeals and the Village Plan Commission shall automatically terminate
and cease on the effective date hereof.
      4.   Appointment Of Commissioners: The Village President shall appoint
all members of the Planning and Zoning Commission with the advice and consent
of the Board of Trustees. Members may be removed in like manner.
      5.   Powers And Duties: The Planning and Zoning Commission shall have all
powers, duties and functions as granted plan commissions under division 12
section 11 of the Illinois Municipal Code 3  and zoning boards of appeals under
division 13 section 11 of the Illinois Municipal Code 4 .
The Planning and Zoning Commission shall solely make recommendations to the
President and Board of Trustees on the following:
         a.   Comprehensive or other amendments to any Village development,
land use and development plans and ordinances including zoning ordinance,
Comprehensive Plan, annexations, and other adopted land use plans of the
Village.
         b.   Land planning use and development for property within the
corporate limits of the Village and all property within one and one-half (11/2)
miles of the Village corporate limits.
         c.   The development or redevelopment of any lands or lots within the
Village.
         d.   The subdivision of all land within the Village or within one and
one-half (11/2) miles of the corporate limits.
         e.   Landscaping and signs for projects requiring commission
consideration.
         f.   Site plan review for new buildings or structures or the
remodeling or restoration within the Village for projects requiring commission
consideration.
         g.   Cooperating with regional planning and zoning commissions to
further local planning programs and to assure harmonious integrated planning
for the area.
         h.   Providing recommendations to the President and Board of Trustees
with regard to all map amendments, planned unit developments, conditional use
permits, variances and all other zoning issues and conduct such public hearings
as may be required.
         i.   Initiating such other programs and exercise such other duties and
functions as may be from time to time granted to it under law or delegated to
it by the President and Board of Trustees.
         j.   Provide recommendations on variances which are requested, except
that the Planning and Zoning Commission shall have final decision making
authority for those variances enumerated in subsection A1e of this section.
      6.   Advisory Capacity: Except for those variances enumerated in
subsection A1e of this section, the President and Board of Trustees shall
exclusively determine any issues coming before the commission, the commission
shall be solely advisory in nature, any decision making duties of the former
Zoning Board of Appeals pursuant to this Code are hereby amended to reflect the
advisory nature of the Planning and Zoning Commission.
      7.   Meetings And Compensation: The Planning and Zoning Commission shall
meet in accordance with schedules adopted by the Village or on call of the
Chair or any three (3) members of the commission. All meetings shall be
conducted pursuant to law. The Chair may administer oaths and compel the
attendance of witnesses.
Each nontrustee member of the Planning and Zoning Commission shall be paid
fifty dollars ($50.00) for each meeting of the commission which that member
actually attends. Applicants who request a special meeting of the Planning and
Zoning Commission shall pay a special meeting fee of five hundred dollars
($500.00).
      8.   Records Of Proceeding: The commission shall keep minutes of each
meeting showing, among other things, the attendance, the issues presented
before the commission and the vote of each member of the commission on the
issues before it. The commission may incur such expenses as are authorized by
the President and Board of Trustees.
      9.   Quorum And Vote:
         a.   Five (5) members of the commission shall constitute a quorum;
         b.   A favorable vote of a majority of a quorum is required for any
recommendation to the President and Board of Trustees;
         c.   Neither the Chairman nor the Vice Chairman shall be counted to
establish a quorum. (Ord. 17-1864, 11-14-2017; amd. Ord. 20-1982, 8-25-2020)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-12-1 et seq.
2 2. 65 ILCS 5/11-13-1 et seq.
3 3. 65 ILCS 5/11-12-1 et seq.
4 4. 65 ILCS 5/11-13-1 et seq.
10-12-2: VARIANCES:
   A.   Authority: The Planning and Zoning Commission may vary the regulations
of this title for those variances enumerated in subsection
10-12-1A1e of this chapter in harmony with their general purpose and intent.
The Village Board may grant such other variances which are permitted by this
title in harmony with the general purpose and intent of those regulations.
   B.   Standards For Variances:
      1.   No variance from the regulations of this title shall be granted
unless there are findings based upon the evidence presented in each specific
case that:
         a.   The variance is in harmony with the general purpose and intent of
this title; and
         b.   Strict enforcement of this title would result in practical
difficulties or impose exceptional hardship due to special and unusual
conditions which are not generally found on other properties in the same zoning
district; and
         c.   The property cannot yield a reasonable return if permitted to be
used only under the conditions allowed by this title; and
         d.   The variance, if granted, will not alter the essential character
of the neighborhood and will not be substantial detriment to adjacent property.
      2.   No variance may be granted from the provisions of this title
concerning permitted uses, conditional uses or the regulation of nonconforming
uses.
   C.   Procedures For Variances: An application for a variance shall be
processed in accordance with the provisions of section 10-12-5 of this chapter.
   D.   Initiation Of Variance: A variance may be proposed by a person being
the owner, lessee or contract purchaser of the subject property.
   E.   Decision: The favorable vote of a majority of members of the quorum of
the Planning and Zoning Commission/Corporate Authorities, but in no case less
than four (4) members, shall be necessary for the granting of a variance.
   F.   Conditions And Restrictions:
      1.   Conditions and restrictions may be imposed upon the premises
benefited by a variance as may be necessary to comply with the standards set
forth in this section.
      2.   If a time limit is set forth by which conditions and restrictions
must be completed, they shall be so completed in the time specified. If no such
time limit is specified, then the conditions and restrictions shall be
completed within a reasonable amount of time. The applicant shall be obliged to
fulfill and maintain all conditions and restrictions for as long as the
variance is utilized or in effect. Such conditions and restrictions shall be
reasonably conceived to fulfill public needs emanating from the proposed
variance.
      3.   Changes or alterations of conditions and restrictions shall be
processed in the manner set forth in this section for variances.
      4.   The variance shall be valid only if the conditions and restrictions
imposed upon the premises are fulfilled.
   G.   Effective Period Of Variance:
      1.   No variance shall be valid for a period longer than one year from
the date of granting the variance, unless a building permit is obtained within
such period and the erection or alteration of a building or structure is
started or the use is commenced within such period.
      2.   A variance shall not be valid if a building, structure or use of
land for which a variance has been granted is destroyed or damaged by fire,
collapse, explosion or other casualty or act of God to the extent that the cost
of restoration to the condition in which it was before the occurrence shall
exceed fifty percent (50%) of the replacement cost of the building, structure
or use of land at the time of destruction or damage.
      3.   In the event such damage or destruction is less than fifty percent
(50%) of the replacement cost of the building, structure or use of land, the
variance shall be valid only if such restoration is started within six (6)
months from the date of partial destruction and restoration proceeds and does
not cease for a period of sixty (60) days and completion is accomplished within
twenty four (24) months from the date of partial destruction. (Ord. 17-1864,
11-14-2017)
10-12-3: MAP AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Authority: The Village Board, after receiving a report from the
Planning and Zoning Commission containing its findings and recommendations, may
amend the regulations of this title or may amend the zoning district boundary
lines.
   B.   Standards For Amendments: The Planning and Zoning Commission shall not
recommend nor shall the Village Board grant an amendment to alter the zoning
district boundary lines, unless it shall make findings based upon the evidence
presented to it in each specific case that:
      1.   The amendment promotes the public health, safety, comfort,
convenience and general welfare and complies with the policies and Official
Comprehensive Land Use Plan 1  and other official plans of the Village; and
      2.   The trend of development in the area of the subject property is
consistent with the requested amendment; and
      3.   The requested zoning classification permits uses which are more
suitable than the uses permitted under the existing zoning classification; and
      4.   The property cannot yield a reasonable return if permitted to be
used only under the conditions allowed under the existing zoning
classification; and
      5.   The subject property has not been utilized under the existing zoning
classification for a substantial period of time; and
      6.   The amendment, if granted, will not alter the essential character of
the neighborhood and will not be a substantial detriment to adjacent property.
   C.   Procedure: An application for an amendment shall be processed in
accordance with the provisions of section
10-12-5 of this chapter.
   D.   Initiation Of Amendment: An amendment which alters the zoning district
boundary line may be proposed by the Village Board, Planning and Zoning
Commission or by a person being the owner, lessee or contract purchaser of the
subject property. Text amendments may be initiated by the Village Board, the
Planning and Zoning Commission or the Zoning Officer.
   E.   Decisions Of The Village Board: After recommendation by the Planning
and Zoning Commission, the Village Board may, by ordinance, grant, or grant
with modification, an amendment. If the Village Board does not approve an
amendment after recommendation by the Planning and Zoning Commission, it may
deny the amendment or refer the proposed amendment back to the Planning and
Zoning Commission for further consideration. If the Village Board does not
concur with the recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Commission to deny,
the favorable vote of four (4) members of the Village Board shall be necessary
to pass an ordinance granting the amendment.
   F.   Conditions And Restrictions:
      1.   The Planning and Zoning Commission may recommend and the Village
Board may impose conditions and restrictions upon the premises benefited by an
amendment as may be necessary to comply with the standards set forth in this
section. They shall relate directly to the regulations and provisions of this
title.
      2.   If a time limit is set forth by which conditions and restrictions
must be completed, they shall be so completed in the time specified. If no such
time limit is specified, then the conditions and restrictions shall be
completed within a reasonable amount of time. The applicant shall be obliged to
fulfill and maintain all conditions and restrictions for as long as the
amendment is utilized or in effect.
      3.   Such conditions and restrictions shall directly benefit the premises
described in the amendment and shall be imposed only if the Village Board finds
them necessary to prevent circumstances which may be adverse to public health,
safety and welfare. Such conditions and restrictions shall be reasonably
conceived to fulfill public needs emanating from the proposed land use. Changes
or alterations of conditions and restrictions shall be processed in the manner
set forth in this section for amendments. (Ord. 17-1864, 11-14-2017; amd. Ord.
20-1960, 1-14-2020)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9, chapter 1 of this Code.
10-12-4: CONDITIONAL USES:
   A.   Authority: The development and execution of this title is based upon
the division of the Village into zoning districts, within which districts the
use of buildings, structures and land and the bulk and location of buildings
and structures in relation to the land are substantially uniform. It is
recognized, however, that there are certain uses which, because of their unique
characteristics, cannot be properly classified in any particular district or
districts without consideration, in each case, of the impact of those uses upon
adjacent land and of the public need for the particular use in the particular
location. The Village Board, after receiving a report from the Planning and
Zoning Commission containing its findings and recommendations, may allow a
conditional use in a particular zoning district or districts.
   B.   Standards For Conditional Uses: The Planning and Zoning Commission
shall not recommend nor shall the Village Board grant a conditional use in a
particular zoning district or districts unless they shall make findings based
upon the evidence presented to them in each specific case that:
      1.   The establishment, maintenance or operation of the conditional use
will not be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety and general
welfare; and
      2.   The conditional use will not be injurious to the use and enjoyment
of other property in the immediate area for the purposes already permitted nor
substantially diminish and impair property values within the neighborhood; and
      3.   The establishment of the conditional use will not impede the normal
and orderly development and improvement of the adjacent property for uses
permitted in the district.
   C.   Procedure For Conditional Uses: An application for a conditional use
shall be processed in accordance with the provisions of section
10-12-5 of this chapter.
   D.   Initiation Of Conditional Use: A conditional use may be proposed by a
person being the owner, lessee or contract purchaser of the subject property.
   E.   Decision Of The Village Board: After recommendation by the Planning and
Zoning Commission, the Village Board may, by ordinance, grant, or grant with
modification, the conditional use. If the Village Board does not approve of a
conditional use after recommendation by the Planning and Zoning Commission, it
may deny the conditional use or refer the conditional use back to the Planning
and Zoning Commission for further consideration. If the Village Board does not
concur with the recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Commission to deny,
the favorable vote of four (4) members of the Village Board shall be necessary
to pass an ordinance granting the conditional use.
   F.   Conditions And Restrictions: The Planning and Zoning Commission may
recommend and the Village Board may impose conditions and restrictions upon the
premises benefited by a conditional use as may be necessary to comply with the
standards set forth in this section.
If a time limit is set forth by which conditions and restrictions must be
completed, they shall be so completed in the time specified. If no such time
limit is specified, then the conditions and restrictions shall be completed
within a reasonable amount of time. The applicant shall be obliged to fulfill
and maintain all conditions and restrictions for as long as the conditional use
is utilized or in effect. Such conditions and restrictions shall be reasonably
conceived to fulfill public needs emanating from the proposed land use.
Changes or alterations of conditions and restrictions shall be processed in the
manner set forth in this section for conditional uses.
   G.   Effective Period Of A Conditional Use: The granting of a conditional
use shall be authorized for only one specific conditional use.
No conditional use shall be valid for a period longer than one year from the
date of the ordinance granting the conditional use, unless a building permit is
obtained within such period and the erection or alteration of a building or
structure is started or the use is commenced within such period. If the
conditional use is not utilized for a continuous period of one year, said
conditional use shall, to the extent of such nonutilization, become void. Upon
voiding of the conditional use, the parcel of land shall conform to the
permitted uses and other regulations of the zoning district in which it is
located, unless an amendment or other conditional use is applied for and
granted. This section shall be applicable to all conditional uses except
planned unit developments for which the provisions of chapter 11 of this title
shall apply. (Ord. 17-1864, 11-14-2017)
10-12-5: PROCEDURES FOR VARIANCES, MAP AMENDMENTS AND CONDITIONAL USES:
   A.   Procedures; Generally: The process for obtaining a variance, map
amendment (except zoning ordinance text amendment and Village-initiated map
amendment) or conditional use shall be as follows:
      1.   Application: An application shall be filed, in writing, with the
Zoning Officer and shall include a drawing of the property showing its
dimensions and also showing all streets, alleys and other properties within one
hundred fifty feet (150') of the subject property. The Zoning Officer shall
process the application and transmit a copy of the application to the Planning
and Zoning Commission for review and public hearing. The application shall
contain such information as may be required. The Planning and Zoning Commission
shall hold a public hearing within sixty (60) days after filing of the
application.
      2.   Notice Of Hearing:
         a.   Notice of the public hearing shall be published at least once
before the public hearing in a newspaper of general circulation in the Village.
         b.   The applicant shall give written notice to the owner of record,
as shown on the record of the local Real Estate Tax collector, of all lots
lying within one hundred fifty feet (150'), exclusive of public rights-of-way,
of the property lines of the lot for which the variance, map amendment or
conditional use is sought. The written notices shall be sent via USPS First
Class mail, properly addressed, with sufficient postage affixed thereon, with
delivery confirmation requested. Said notice shall be made not more than thirty
(30) days nor less than fifteen (15) days prior to the date of the public
hearing. The applicant shall file a sworn affidavit with copies of the notices
with the Zoning Officer, showing the names and addresses of the persons to whom
the written notices have been sent. Said affidavit shall be a presumption of
the giving of said notices.
         c.   A published notice shall contain the number assigned to the
application, the place, the nature, the purpose and the date and time of such
hearing and the common address or location of the property in question, the
name and address of the applicant and owner of the property and the office
address of the Village Hall where full information, including a legal
description, may be obtained concerning the application and shall be published
or served not more than thirty (30) days nor less than fifteen (15) days in
advance of such hearing.
         d.   A readable sign shall be posted facing each roadway adjacent to
the property not less than fifteen (15) days prior to the date of the public
hearing. The sign shall contain the words PUBLIC NOTICE in minimum two-inch
(2") block letters. It shall also include the phone number for Village Hall in
numbers that are at least one and one half inches (1½”) tall. The sign shall be
removed no later than ten (10) days after completion of the hearing.
      3.   Public Hearing Record: The public hearing shall be conducted by the
Planning and Zoning Commission and a record of such proceedings shall be
preserved in such manner as the Planning and Zoning Commission shall, by rule,
prescribe from time to time.
      4.   Recommendations Of The Commission: The Planning and Zoning
Commission shall make written findings of fact or decisions within one hundred
twenty (120) days of the closing of the public hearing.
      5.   Decisions Of Village Board: After recommendation by the Planning and
Zoning Commission, the Village Board may, by ordinance, grant, or grant with
modification, the proposed amendment, variance, map amendment or conditional
use. If the Village Board does not approve of a proposed amendment, variance,
map amendment or conditional use after recommendation by the Planning and
Zoning Commission, it may deny the proposed amendment, variance, map amendment
or conditional use or refer the proposed amendment, variance, map amendment or
conditional use back to the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   B.   Zoning Title Text Amendments And Village Initiated Map Amendments: The
process for a zoning title text amendment or a Village initiated map amendment
shall be as follows:
      1.   Initiation: The Planning and Zoning Commission or the Village Board
may initiate a zoning title text amendment or map amendment. The Planning and
Zoning Commission shall review the amendment and hold a public hearing thereon.
      2.   Notice Of Public Hearing:
         a.   For text amendments which eliminate a permitted or conditional
use from a zoning district list of permitted or conditional uses or which
imposes more stringent regulations on any zoning district and for Village
initiated map amendments, notice of the public hearing shall be published in a
newspaper of general circulation in the Village at least one time before the
public hearing not more than thirty (30) nor less than fifteen (15) days prior
to the date of public hearing.
         b.   In addition to the published notice provided above, written
notice of public hearings for all Village initiated map amendments, other than
for the revocation of a planned unit development as provided in subsection 10-
11-8C of this title, shall be given to the persons to whom the current Real
Estate Tax bills are sent, as shown on the record of the local Real Estate Tax
collector, for each parcel of property affected by such Village initiated map
amendment. All such notices shall be posted as first class, United States
letter carrier mail, not less than ten (10) days prior to the date of the
public hearing.
         c.   All other zoning title text amendments shall follow procedures as
specified in subsection A of this section.
      3.   Public Hearing; Record; Decisions:
         a.   The public hearing shall be conducted by the Planning and Zoning
Commission, and a record of such proceedings shall be preserved in such manner
as the Planning and Zoning Commission shall, by rule, prescribe from time to
time.
         b.   After recommendation by the Planning and Zoning Commission, the
Village Board may, by ordinance, grant, deny, or grant with modification, the
proposed zoning title text or map amendment.
(Ord. 17-1864, 11-14-2017; amd. Ord. 24-2123, 12- 10-2024)
10-12-6: APPEALS:
   A.   Procedure For Appeals: An appeal may be taken from any order,
requirement, decision or determination of the Zoning Officer. The appeal shall
be made within forty five (45) days of the action by filing with the Zoning
Officer a notice of appeal specifying the grounds therefor. The Zoning Officer
shall forthwith transmit to the Planning and Zoning Commission all of the
papers constituting a record upon which the action appealed from was taken. A
hearing before the Planning and Zoning Commission shall be held at its next
regularly scheduled meeting, which is at least fourteen (14) days after the
date of the filing.
   B.   Village Board Decisions: Upon conclusion of the hearing required in
subsection A of this section, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall transmit
its written recommendation to the President and Board of Trustees within thirty
(30) days. The President and Board of Trustees shall then decide the matter.
(Ord. 17-1864, 11-14-2017)
10-12-7: DEVELOPMENT FEES:
   A.   Generally: At the time of any application for any planned unit
development, conditional use, map amendment, variance or other petition
relating to the zoning or development of any property within the corporate
limits, the applicant shall pay the Village the fee(s) applicable to said
application in accordance with the fee schedule as from time to time
established by the Village.
   B.   Special Meetings Before Planning And Zoning Commission: Any person
requesting to present any matter to and meet with the Planning and Zoning
Commission at a meeting date other than the regularly scheduled meeting date
shall first deposit with the Zoning Officer an amount in accordance with the
provisions of subsection
10-12-1C7 of this chapter. (Ord. 17-1864, 11-14-2017)
10-12-8: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person or any agent, employee or contractor thereof who shall
violate, disobey, omit, neglect or refuse to comply with or resist enforcement
of any provision of this title shall be fined not less than twenty five dollars
($25.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
Each day that a violation of this title shall be permitted to continue shall
constitute a separate offense.
   B.   If any building, structure or improvement is erected, constructed,
reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted or maintained or any building,
structure or land is used in violation of this title, the Village or any other
person whose property is or may be affected by such violation may institute any
appropriate action or proceeding in equity.
   C.   No permit shall be issued unless that which is contemplated is in
compliance with this title. Any permit issued either intentionally or
inadvertently, in violation of this title, is null and void. (Ord. 17-1864, 11-
14-2017)
CHAPTER 13
ILLUSTRATIONS OF SELECTED ZONING TERMINOLOGY
SECTION:
10-13-1: Purpose
10-13-2: Dwelling Types
10-13-3: Lots
10-13-4: Lot Types
10-13-5: Required Yards
10-13-6: Buildings, Principal and Accessory
10-13-7: Fences, Walls and Hedges
10-13-8: Building Height
10-13-9: Floor Area Ratio
10-13-10: Off-Street Parking
10-13-1: PURPOSE:
This Chapter is established solely as a reference guide to this Title but does
not constitute a part thereof; for specific information, consult the text of
this Title.
10-13-2: DWELLING TYPES:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/83ece28ad5d1d98ab77b4eed90247c0d90d24731/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3262.png] 
 
10-13-3: LOTS:
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE: The line, perpendicular to the depth of the required
front yard setback and parallel to a front lot line and/or street right-of-way
line, whichever is greater, at which structures are permitted to be constructed
and where "lot width" is measured.
   FRONT LOT LINE: In the case of an interior lot abutting upon only one
street, the line separating such lot from the street; in the case of a through
lot, each line separating such lot from a street shall be considered a front
lot line; in the case of a corner lot, the shorter lot line separating such lot
from a street shall be considered the front lot line.
   LOT DEPTH: The horizontal distance between the front and rear lot line of a
lot, measured within the lot boundaries.
   LOT LINE: A property boundary line of any lot, except where any portion of
the lot extends into the abutting street or alley; the lot line shall be deemed
to be the street or the alley line.
   LOT WIDTH: The minimum horizontal distance between the side lot lines of a
lot measured within the lot boundary by a line passing through the center point
of the building setback line.
   REAR LOT LINE: The lot line most nearly parallel to and most distant from
the front lot line.
   SIDE LOT LINE: Any lot line other than a front lot line or a rear lot line.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/83ece28ad5d1d98ab77b4eed90247c0d90d24731/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3264.png]
 
10-13-4: LOT TYPES:
   CORNER LOT: A lot or parcel of land abutting upon two (2) or more streets at
their intersection or upon two (2) parts of the same street forming an interior
angle not exceeding one hundred thirty five degrees (135°).
   INTERIOR LOT: A lot other than a corner or reversed corner lot.
   LOT: A designated parcel, tract or area of land established by plat,
subdivision or as otherwise permitted by law, to be used, developed or built
upon as a unit.
   REVERSED CORNER LOT: A corner lot, the street side lot line of which is
substantially a continuation of the front lot line of the first lot to its
rear.
   THROUGH LOT: A lot which fronts on two (2) parallel or approximately
parallel streets and which is not a corner lot.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/83ece28ad5d1d98ab77b4eed90247c0d90d24731/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3266.png]
 
10-13-5: REQUIRED YARDS:
   CORNER SIDE YARD: A side yard which faces a public street.
   FRONT YARD: A yard extending across the full width of the zoning lot and
lying between the front line of the lot and the nearest line of the principal
building.
   INTERIOR SIDE YARD: A side yard which is located immediately adjacent to
another zoning lot or to an alley separating such side yard from another zoning
lot.
   REAR YARD: A yard extending across the full width of the zoning lot and
lying between the rear line of the lot and the nearest line of the principal
building.
   SIDE YARD: The yard lying between the nearest line of the principal building
and a side lot line, and extending from the required front yard to the required
rear yard.
   YARD: An open space on the same zoning lot with a principal building or
group of buildings which is unoccupied and unobstructed from its lowest level
upward.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/83ece28ad5d1d98ab77b4eed90247c0d90d24731/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3268.png]
 
10-13-6: BUILDINGS, PRINCIPAL AND ACCESSORY:
   ACCESSORY BUILDING, STRUCTURE OR USE: A subordinate building, structure or
use which is located on the same zoning lot on which the principal building or
use is situated and which is reasonably necessary and incidental to the conduct
of the primary use of such building or main use, when permitted by district
regulations.
   BUILDING: Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls and
intended for the shelter, housing or enclosure of any individual, animal,
process, equipment, goods or materials of any kind or nature.
   PRINCIPAL BUILDING: The main building upon a lot or the building which
houses the principal use of the premises.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/83ece28ad5d1d98ab77b4eed90247c0d90d24731/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3270.png]
 
10-13-7: FENCES, WALLS AND HEDGES:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/83ece28ad5d1d98ab77b4eed90247c0d90d24731/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3272.png]
10-13-8: BUILDING HEIGHT:
 
 [https://export.amlegal.com/media/83ece28ad5d1d98ab77b4eed90247c0d90d24731/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3274.png]
10-13-9: FLOOR AREA RATIO:
 [https://export.amlegal.com/media/83ece28ad5d1d98ab77b4eed90247c0d90d24731/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3276.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/83ece28ad5d1d98ab77b4eed90247c0d90d24731/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3278.png]
 
10-13-10: OFF-STREET PARKING:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/83ece28ad5d1d98ab77b4eed90247c0d90d24731/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3280.png]
 
CHAPTER 14
LANDSCAPING AND SCREENING
SECTION:
10-14-1: Purpose
10-14-2: Scope
10-14-3: Standards And Criteria
10-14-4: Existing Vegetation
10-14-5: Landscape Plan
10-14-6: Substitutions And Deviations
10-14-7: Maintenance
10-14-8: Landscaping Requirements For Single-Family Residential
10-14-9: Multiple-Family Residential, Office, Commercial, Institutional, And
Industrial Uses
10-14-10: Additional Requirements For Commercial, Office And Industrial Uses In
Yards Abutting Residential Districts
10-14-11: Retention/Detention Facilities
10-14-12: Innovative Landscaping
10-14-1: PURPOSE:
The landscaping and screening requirements specified herein are intended to
foster aesthetically pleasing development that will protect and preserve the
appearance, character, general health and welfare of the village while
encouraging native species, practicality, diversity and ease of maintenance.
Additionally, these regulations are intended to, in an environmentally
sensitive manner, increase the compatibility of adjacent uses by requiring a
buffer or screen between uses, and in doing so, minimize the harmful impact of
noise, dust or other debris, motor vehicle headlight glare or other artificial
light intrusions and other objectionable activities or impacts conducted or
created by an adjoining or nearby use. (Ord. 15-1766, 2-10-2015)
10-14-2: SCOPE:
   A.   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all development where a
site plan is submitted in accordance with the provisions of section
10-3-27 of this title, in accordance with section
4-7-5 of this code, or with any planned unit development, conditional use
permit, preliminary plat, or final plat.
   B.   Whenever an expansion of an existing use or structure on a lot is
proposed, the development shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter
provided that the expansion exceeds twenty five percent (25%) of either the
gross floor area or lot area of the existing development.
   C.   For any conforming or legally nonconforming building or use which is in
existence on the effective date hereof which subsequent thereto is damaged or
destroyed by fire, collapse, explosion or other cause, and which is
reconstructed, reestablished or repaired, landscaping equivalent to any
maintained at the time of such damage or destruction shall be restored or
maintained, except that when such damage or destruction exceeds fifty percent
(50%) of the value of the building or use, landscaping shall be provided as
required by this chapter for equivalent new use or construction.
   D.   All landscaping as required in this chapter shall be in addition to all
other landscaping requirements contained within this code including, but not
limited to, requirements for parkway trees and the preservation and replacement
of existing trees. (Ord. 15-1766, 2-10-2015)
10-14-3: STANDARDS AND CRITERIA:
   A.   All plant material shall comply with the provisions set forth by the
most recent edition of the "American Standard For Nursery Stock", as sponsored
and approved by American Association Of Nurserymen and the American National
Standards Institute, Inc. (ANSI).
   B.   Plant material used in conformance with the provisions of this chapter
shall be selected to provide:
      1.   Climate hardiness of plant material.
      2.   High disease resistance and stress tolerance.
      3.   Adaptability of proposed plant material to the particular
microclimate (sun, shade, dry or wet soils, etc.) in which it is to be located.
      4.   Inclusion of native plant material where appropriate.
      5.   Overall year round ornamental effect.
   C.   Plant material shall be healthy, free of insects and diseases and
physical damage (bark bruises, scrapes, cracked branches, etc.).
   D.   Unless otherwise specified, the minimum size for plant materials
installed to meet the requirements of this chapter shall be as follows:
      1.   Overstory trees: Two and one-half inch (2.5") caliper.
      2.   Evergreen trees: Six foot (6') height as planted.
      3.   Ornamental trees:
         a.   Single trunk: Two inch (2") caliper.
         b.   Multitrunk: Six foot (6') height as planted.
      4.   Large shrubs: Twenty four inch (24") height as planted.
      5.   Small shrubs: Eighteen inch (18") height as planted.
   E.   Caliper of the trunk shall be measured six inches (6") above the ground
up to and including four inch (4") caliper size and twelve inches (12") above
the ground for larger sizes.
   F.   The branches of deciduous trees and shrubs may be selectively thinned
by up to one-third (1/3) in accordance with good horticultural practice;
however, in no case shall trimming result in reducing the overall size of the
plant below that specified on the approved landscape plan.
   G.   All trees and shrubs shall be mulched with a minimum of four inch (4")
depth shredded bark, wood chips or other all organic mulch. All flower and
ground cover beds shall be mulched with a minimum of two inch (2") depth
shredded bark or other all organic mulch.
   H.   A minimum number of species of trees and a minimum number of species of
shrubs shall be required on each parcel as follows:
 
Size Of Parcel (Acres) Quantity Of Tree Quantity Of Shrub Species
                       Species
Less than 5.0          6                3
5.0 to 14.99           10               5
15.0 and greater       14               7
 
   I.   Landscape materials shall be selected and located so as to not obstruct
visual or physical access to fire hydrants or other firefighting facilities.
Trees and shrubs shall not be located closer than ten feet (10') to fire
hydrants, other firefighting facilities or other aboveground utilities. Trees
shall be planted no closer than thirty feet (30') from a traffic control device
and streetlight. Landscape materials to be planted on corner lots or near
intersections shall comply with the standard set forth in section
10-3-14, "Visibility On Corner Lots", of this title.
   J.   Landscaping requirements as defined by this chapter shall be based on
planting units as calculated as follows:
      1 overstory tree = 10 plant units
      1 evergreen tree = 7 plant units
      1 ornamental tree = 5 plant units
      1 large shrub = 2 plant units
      1 small shrub = 1 plant unit
      Perennials and ground covers = 1/2 plant unit per 100 square feet of area
(Ord. 15-1766, 2-10-2015)
10-14-4: EXISTING VEGETATION:
Credit toward the landscape requirements of this chapter may be allowed for
existing vegetation and other landscape features of a quality and of a size as
required by this chapter that the applicant proposes to preserve on an equal
basis. The existing vegetation for which credit is given shall be shown and
labeled as such on the landscape plan. (Ord. 15-1766, 2-10-2015)
10-14-5: LANDSCAPE PLAN:
   A.   Where the scope of this chapter applies, landscape plans shall be
submitted and approved by the same procedure set forth in this code for a site
plan for commercial and industrial developments, and for planned unit
developments.
   B.   The landscape plan shall show exact locations and quantities of
landscape features. Each proposed plant shall be identified as to botanical and
common name, size and installed condition (balled and burlapped, container,
etc.). Bare root plants shall not be allowed.
   C.   At the preliminary plat stage, a "preliminary landscape plan",
indicating general locations and approximate quantities of landscape features
shall be prepared. A list of typical plants proposed shall be provided,
including common and botanical names, installed condition, and approximate
sizes.
   D.   All landscape plans shall include the following:
      1.   North point and scale.
      2.   Topographic information and proposed grades.
      3.   Proposed pavements and structures, including at grade screen walls
and fences.
      4.   Existing and proposed utilities, above and below ground, including
pole mounted light fixtures.
      5.   Location, type, size, quantity and installed condition of all
proposed landscape materials.
      6.   Common and botanical names of all proposed plant material.
      7.   Location, size, and common/botanical name of existing vegetation to
remain, in a manner to differentiate this vegetation from proposed vegetation.
      8.   Symbols representing proposed plant material shall be drawn to scale
showing approximately two-thirds (2/3) to full mature size and labeled as to
quantity and type.
      9.   Summary of plant units required and proposed.
      10.   Locations of required irrigation system.
      11.   Location and details of all site amenities including, but not
limited to, trash receptacles, bicycle racks, benches, tables and chairs, and
movable planters. (Ord. 15-1766, 2-10-2015)
10-14-6: SUBSTITUTIONS AND DEVIATIONS:
Revisions to an approved landscape plan may be considered to address unforeseen
circumstances on site or availability of plant material. The village
administrator or his/her designee may authorize minor revisions to the approved
landscape plan including the substitution of equivalent plantings where such
revisions do not diminish the benefits of the approved landscape plan. A
revision shall be considered minor when there is no reduction in the quality of
plant material, no significant change in size or location of plant material and
new plants are of the same general category (overstory, ornamental, or
evergreen trees, or large or small shrubs) and have the same general design
characteristics (mature size, spread, density) as the materials being replaced.
When the village administrator or his/her designee authorizes any change, a
replacement revised landscape plan to include the changed conditions, and duly
noted as such on the plan, must be submitted and approved by the village
administrator or his/her designee. (Ord. 15-1766, 2-10-2015)
10-14-7: MAINTENANCE:
The owner, tenant, and/or his/her agent, if any, shall be jointly and severably
responsible for the maintenance of all landscaping required by the provisions
of this chapter or by any approved landscape plan currently applicable to the
site. Landscaping shall be maintained in good condition so as to present a
healthy, neat and orderly appearance and shall be kept free from refuse, debris
and weed growth. The owner, tenant or his/her agent shall replace any dead or
severely damaged or diseased plant materials during the next planting season
for the particular plant or plants in question. Maintenance and replacement of
plant materials and mulch shall be in accordance with section 10-14-3 of this
chapter. (Ord. 15-1766, 2-10-2015)
10-14-8: LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS FOR SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL:
   A.   Parkway Trees: Parkway trees are required in accordance with the
village of Shorewood subdivision ordinance.
   B.   Double Frontage Lots: Landscaping shall be provided on each double
frontage lot along the frontage from which lot does not have access to the
public right of way. The landscaping shall be located parallel to the lot line
and shall extend along the entire frontage. If a fence is located along the
frontage, the required landscaping shall be provided on the side of the fence
facing the public right of way. The landscaping shall be provided in accordance
with the following requirements depending on the classification of the adjacent
right of way as designated in the village of Shorewood comprehensive plan:
      1.   Adjacent to a local or collector right of way: A minimum of a
fifteen foot (15') wide landscape area consisting of a minimum of fifty (50)
plant units per one hundred (100) linear feet of frontage. Twenty five percent
(25%) of the unit count must be evergreen.
      2.   Adjacent to an arterial right of way: A minimum of a twenty five
foot (25') wide landscape area consisting of a minimum of seventy five (75)
plant units per one hundred (100) linear feet of frontage. Twenty five percent
(25%) of the unit count must be evergreen. Berming and mounding to a minimum
height of two feet (2') shall be incorporated into the landscape plan. (Ord.
15-1766, 2-10-2015)
10-14-9: MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL, OFFICE, COMMERCIAL, INSTITUTIONAL, AND
INDUSTRIAL USES:
   A.   Parkway Trees: Parkway trees are required in accordance with the
village of Shorewood land subdivisions ordinance and title 4, chapter 7 of this
code.
   B.   Front And Corner Side Yards: All front and corner side yards except
that part devoted to driveways, parking, and walkways shall be sodded and
landscaped with trees and shrubs. A minimum ratio of ten (10) plant units shall
be provided for each one thousand (1,000) square feet of yard area. This yard
area requirement is in addition to landscaping which is proposed to meet other
requirements of this chapter. All front and corner side yards shall include an
irrigation system.
   C.   Interior Side And Rear Yards: All interior side and rear yards except
that part devoted to driveways, parking, and walkways shall be sodded and
landscaped with trees and shrubs. A minimum ratio of ten (10) plant units shall
be provided for each one thousand (1,000) square feet of yard area. This yard
area requirement is in addition to landscaping which is proposed to meet other
requirements of this chapter. All front and corner side yards shall include an
irrigation system.
   D.   Foundation Landscaping: Foundation landscaping shall be provided on
those sides of the building that face a public right of way.
      1.   Required foundation landscaping shall be located in a planting bed a
minimum of ten feet (10') in width adjacent to the building.
      2.   Required foundation landscaping area shall remain open and free to
all paving except where sidewalks and driveways that lead directly into the
building are necessary for ingress and egress, or for access to firefighting
facilities. In no case shall the foundation landscaping area be reduced to
extend across less than fifty percent (50%) of the building face due to said
sidewalks, driveways, or firefighting facilities.
      3.   Required foundation landscaping shall consist of a minimum ratio of
thirty (30) plant units for every one thousand (1,000) square feet area of
planting bed. All planting area that is not occupied by trees, shrubs, flowers,
ground cover, ornamental grasses or mulch shall be sodded.
      4.   At the discretion of the village administrator or his/her designee,
required foundation landscaping may be relocated elsewhere on site or provided
in an alternate manner, such as through the use of aboveground planting
containers or boxes. This may be considered, for example, underneath gas pump
canopies or between a drive-through lane and the pick up window.
   E.   Vehicle Use Areas: Landscaping shall be provided for parking areas and
other areas devoted to use by vehicles (vehicle use areas).
      1.   Vehicle Use Areas Adjacent To A Public Right Of Way:
         a.   When vehicle use areas are adjacent to a public right of way, a
minimum five foot (5') wide landscape strip shall be provided along the length
of the vehicle use area. For properties that are one acre or less in area or
include common access with an adjacent property, said landscape strip shall be
a minimum ten feet (10') in width. The landscaping within this area shall
consist of one or more of the following options:
            (1)   A minimum of sixty (60) plant units per five hundred (500)
square feet of area between the vehicle use area and the public right of way.
            (2)   An undulating berm or earth mounding that is at least one
foot (1') higher than the finished elevation of the parking lot (at the nearest
point) and fifty (50) plant units per five hundred (500) square feet of area
between the vehicle use area and the public right of way.
            (3)   A minimum three foot (3') grade drop from the right of way
line to the vehicle use area, and fifty (50) plant units per five hundred (500)
square feet of area between the vehicle use area and the public right of way.
            (4)   A three foot (3') high wall of brick, stone or finished
concrete with a five foot (5') wide planting strip and fifty (50) plant units
per five hundred (500) square feet of area between the vehicle use area and the
public right of way.
            (5)   A minimum twenty five foot (25') wide strip of existing
woodlands.
         b.   Plant materials shall be limited to a mature height of two feet
(2') within ten feet (10') of any curb at a driveway intersection.
      2.   Vehicle Use Areas Adjacent To Residential Uses:
         a.   When vehicle use areas are adjacent to residential uses, a
minimum fifteen foot (15') wide landscape strip shall be provided along the
length of the vehicle use area. The landscaping within this area shall consist
of one or more of the following options:
            (1)   A minimum of one hundred (100) plant units per one thousand
(1,000) square feet of area between the vehicle use area and the residential
property.
            (2)   An undulating berm or earth mounding that is at least two and
one-half feet (2.5') higher than the finished elevation of the parking lot (at
the nearest point) and eighty (80) plant units per one thousand (1,000) square
feet of area between the vehicle use area and the residential property.
            (3)   A minimum three foot (3') grade drop from the property line
to the vehicle use area, and seventy (70) plant units per one thousand (1,000)
square feet of area between the vehicle use area and the public right of way.
            (4)   A minimum twenty five foot (25') wide strip of existing
woodlands.
         b.   Plant materials shall be limited to a mature height of two feet
(2') within ten feet (10') of any curb at a driveway intersection.
      3.   Drive-Through Lanes Adjacent To Other Vehicle Use Areas: If drive-
through lanes are separated from adjacent vehicle use areas, a curbed planting
bed along the entire length of the lane from the beginning of the vehicle
stacking area through the end of the drive-through canopy or, if no canopy is
present, to the transaction window or machine shall be required. The planting
bed shall be a minimum of three feet (3') wide (excluding the curb) and shall
contain a minimum ratio of one hundred (100) plant units per one thousand
(1,000) square foot area. If the drive- through lanes are not separated from
adjacent vehicle use areas, the plant units required by inclusion of such
separation pursuant to this section shall be located elsewhere on the property
and so noted on the landscape plan. These plants shall be in addition to all
other requirements of this chapter.
      4.   Interior Parking Lot Landscaping:
         a.   The interior of the parking lots shall be planted with overstory
trees at a ratio of one tree for every ten (10) parking spaces or fraction
thereof. They shall be evenly dispersed throughout the parking area. A minimum
of fifty percent (50%) of the required trees shall be placed in planting beds
at a ratio of one planting bed for every twenty (20) spaces and shall meet the
following requirements:
            (1)   The minimum area of planting bed for each tree shall be one
hundred sixty two (162) square feet with a minimum dimension of nine feet (9')
in any direction. These planting beds shall include a barrier curb. Planting
beds may be combined to create larger planting islands within the parking lot.
            (2)   These planting beds shall not be used for snow storage.
Separate snow storage areas shall be designated on the landscape plan.
            (3)   Small shrubs, flowers and ground covers other than turf grass
may be planted in the tree planting beds, in addition to the required overstory
trees.
            (4)   Plant materials other than ground cover shall be set back a
minimum of three feet (3') from the curb to avoid damage from overhanging car
bumpers and doors.
            (5)   Plant materials shall be limited to a mature height of no
more than two feet (2') within ten feet (10') of any curb at a driveway
intersection.
         b.   Curbed planting islands shall be provided at the ends of each row
of parking. These islands shall be a minimum of six feet (6') wide and shall
extend the length of the parking stalls. These islands shall be a minimum of
nine feet (9') wide and a minimum of one hundred sixty two (162) square feet to
contain a required parking lot overstory tree. They shall be landscaped with
trees, shrubs, flowers or ground covers.
   F.   Loading Docks, Service Yards, And Exterior Work Areas: Service yards,
loading docks and exterior work areas shall be screened from view from public
rights of way. The screening shall consist of either of the following:
      1.   Sightproof board fence constructed of cedar or preservative treated
lumber of a minimum six feet (6') in height.
      2.   Ornamental trees, evergreen trees, large shrubs or some combination
thereof, planted at a minimum ratio of fifty (50) plant units for each one
hundred (100) linear feet of perimeter to be screened. If large shrubs are
used, they shall be a minimum of four feet (4') in height at the time of
installation. Overstory trees may be used, but shall not count toward the
landscape requirement.
   G.   Open Storage Yards: Open storage yards shall be screened on all sides
by solid walls or fences (including solid doors or gates thereto) at least
eight feet (8') high, but in no case lower in height than the materials to be
stored. If stored materials exceed eight feet (8') in height, then landscaping
shall be provided at a minimum ratio of fifty (50) plant units for each one
hundred (100) linear feet of the fence or wall visible from the public right of
way. The landscaping shall be in addition to the fence or wall. The installed
height of the landscaping shall be equal to or greater than one-half (1/2) the
height of the fence or wall.
   H.   Recycling And Refuse Receptacle Areas: Refuse and recycling receptacles
and removal areas shall be screened from view on all sides. The screening shall
consist of a sight proof wall constructed of the same materials and style used
on the principal structure, and shall be a minimum six feet (6') in height. The
side that includes access into the facility shall include a sight proof gate,
and be oriented to be minimally visible from adjacent properties. Such gates
shall remain closed in idle times when the receptacles are not being actively
loaded or emptied. Landscape material should be provided adjacent to this area.
   I.   Rooftop Screening Required: All heating, air conditioning, ventilating,
communication receiving and transmitting devices, or other mechanical equipment
located on the roof of any structure or building, shall be screened by a
parapet wall that provides one hundred percent (100%) screening.
      1.   The design shall provide the one hundred percent (100%) screening
effect required by this section.
      2.   The parapet wall shall not exceed one-third (1/3) of the height of
the supporting wall.
      3.   The parapet wall shall be constructed of the same materials used in
the construction of the principal building or structure and shall be designed
to be architecturally integrated with the building's overall design.
      4.   Metal, wood or other materials which are installed as or appear as
an after the fact screening to surround mechanical equipment are not
acceptable.
      5.   If for any reason the required parapet walls are designed to vary in
height, and one hundred percent (100%) screening cannot be guaranteed, then a
rooftop mechanical placement plan shall be required to be submitted as part of
the village's site plan approval process. Such placement plan shall delineate
the limits of any mechanical system placement area such that one hundred
percent (100%) screening will be accomplished when final placement is
determined.
      6.   Communication devices shall be located and screened in such a manner
to minimize visibility to the greatest extent possible. (Ord. 15-1766, 2-10-
2015)
10-14-10: ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR COMMERCIAL, OFFICE AND INDUSTRIAL USES IN
YARDS ABUTTING RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:
   A.   The required landscaping in yards abutting residential districts shall
be comprised of a combination of overstory trees, evergreen trees, ornamental
trees and large shrubs. If shrubs are used, they shall be installed at a
minimum height of four feet (4'). Additional small shrubs may be used, but
shall not count toward meeting the landscape requirements.
   B.   The total amount of landscaping provided shall be in the proportion of
forty (40) plant units for each one thousand (1,000) square feet of a yard
abutting a residential district.
   C.   The landscaping shall be distributed throughout the yard abutting a
residential district.
   D.   The required number of plant units may be reduced by thirty percent
(30%) in that part of the yard abutting a residential district in which any of
the following are provided:
      1.   Sightproof, cedar or treated lumber board fence: Minimum six feet
(6') high.
      2.   Earthen berm: Minimum six feet (6') high and maximum three to one
(3:1) slope.
      3.   A combination of earthen berm and sightproof, cedar or treated
lumber board fence with a combined minimum height of six feet (6').
   E.   If existing woodlands are located within the yard abutting a
residential district, preservation of those woodlands may substitute for part
or all of the required landscaping. If existing woodlands are located in only
part of the transitional yard, the required number of plant units may be
proportionately reduced. If existing woodlands substitute for any portion of
the required landscaping, a six foot (6') high sightproof, wood board fence
shall be provided along the edge of the preserved woodlands area. The
substitution of existing woodlands for landscaping in a yard abutting a
residential district is at the discretion of the village administrator or his/
her designee and shall be indicated on the approved landscape plan.
   F.   The area of the yard abutting a residential district not planted with
trees, shrubs or existing woodlands shall be planted with sod, live ground
cover, flowers, ornamental grasses or some combination thereof.
   G.   No driveways, parking, loading areas or other vehicular use area shall
be allowed in yards abutting residential districts. (Ord. 15-1766, 2-10-2015)
10-14-11: RETENTION/DETENTION FACILITIES:
All developments that include stormwater retention or detention facilities
shall provide landscaping around the perimeter of such facility generally above
high water level. Only plants that are adapted to temporary flooding may be
planted below high water level. Such landscaping shall be comprised of a
minimum of twenty (20) plant units for every one hundred (100) linear feet of
perimeter, or part thereof, as measured at high water level. Where located
adjacent to a major arterial or collector road as designated in the village of
Shorewood comprehensive plan, an irrigation system shall be included. (Ord. 15-
1766, 2-10-2015)
10-14-12: INNOVATIVE LANDSCAPING:
Innovative landscaping treatments are encouraged and shall be considered as a
positive attribute in connection with any request for a variation from the
requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 15-1766, 2-10-2015)
CHAPTER 15
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
SECTION:
10-15-1: Purpose And Scope
10-15-2: Definitions
10-15-3: Regulation Of Small Wireless Facilities
10-15-4: Dispute Resolution
10-15-5: Indemnification
10-15-6: Insurance
10-15-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations,
standards and procedures for the siting and collocation of small wireless
facilities on rights-of-way within the Village's jurisdiction, or outside the
rights-of-way on property zoned by the Village exclusively for commercial or
industrial use, in a manner that is consistent with the Small Wireless
Facilities Deployment Act.
   B.   Conflicts With Other Ordinances: This chapter supersedes all ordinances
or parts of ordinances adopted prior hereto that are in conflict herewith, to
the extent of such conflict.
   C.   Conflicts With State And Federal Laws: In the event that applicable
Federal or State laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
chapter, the wireless provider shall comply with the requirements of this
chapter to the maximum extent possible without violating Federal or State laws
or regulations. (Ord. 18-1894, 7-24-2018)
10-15-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter the following terms shall have the following
meanings:
   ANTENNA: Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic
radio frequency signals used in the provision of wireless services.
   APPLICABLE CODES: Uniform Building, Fire, Electrical, Plumbing, or
Mechanical Codes adopted by a recognized national code organization or local
amendments to those codes, including the National Electric Safety Code.
   APPLICANT: Any person who submits an application and is a wireless provider.
   APPLICATION: A request submitted by an applicant to the Village for a permit
to collocate small wireless facilities, and a request that includes the
installation of a new utility pole for such collocation, as well as any
applicable fee for the review of such application.
   COLLOCATE OR COLLOCATION: To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or
replace wireless facilities on or adjacent to a wireless support structure or
utility pole.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: Cable service, as defined in 47 USC 522(6), as
amended; information service, as defined in 47 USC 153(24), as amended;
telecommunications service, as defined in 47 USC 153(53), as amended; mobile
service, as defined in 47 USC 153(53), as amended; or wireless service other
than mobile service.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER: A cable operator, as defined in 47 USC 522
(5), as amended; a provider of information service, as defined in 47 USC 153
(24), as amended; a telecommunications carrier, as defined in 47 USC 153(51),
as amended; or a wireless provider.
   FCC: The Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
   FEE: A one-time charge.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT OR HISTORIC LANDMARK: A building, property, or site, or
group of buildings, properties, or sites that are either: a) listed in the
National Register of Historic Places or formally determined eligible for
listing by the Keeper of the National Register, the individual who has been
delegated the authority by the Federal agency to list properties and determine
their eligibility for the National Register, in accordance with section
VI.D.1.a.i through section VI.D.1.a.v of the Nationwide Programmatic Agreement
codified at 47 CFR part 1, appendix C; or b) designated as a locally landmarked
building, property, site, or historic district by an ordinance adopted by the
Village pursuant to a preservation program that meets the requirements of the
Certified Local Government Program of the Illinois State Historic Preservation
Office or where such certification of the preservation program by the Illinois
State Historic Preservation Office is pending.
   LAW: A Federal or State Statute, common law, code, rule, regulation, order,
or local ordinance or resolution.
   MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY: A small wireless facility that is not larger in
dimension than twenty four inches (24") in length, fifteen inches (15") in
width, and twelve inches (12") in height and that has an exterior antenna, if
any, no longer than eleven inches (11").
   MUNICIPAL UTILITY POLE: A utility pole owned or operated by the Village in
public rights-of-way.
   PERMIT: A written authorization required by the Village to perform an action
or initiate, continue, or complete a project.
   PERSON: An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
association, trust, or other entity or organization.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY: The functional division of the Federal government, the
State, a unit of local government, or a special purpose district located in
whole or in part within this State, that provides or has authority to provide
firefighting, police, ambulance, medical, or other emergency services to
respond to and manage emergency incidents.
   RATE: A recurring charge.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY: The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway,
street, public sidewalk, alley, or utility easement dedicated for compatible
use. Right-of-way does not include Village-owned aerial lines.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY: A wireless facility that meets both of the
following qualifications: a) each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no
more than six (6) cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has
exposed elements, the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within
an imaginary enclosure of no more than six (6) cubic feet; and b) all other
wireless equipment attached directly to a utility pole associated with the
facility is cumulatively no more than twenty five (25) cubic feet in volume.
The following types of associated ancillary equipment are not included in the
calculation of equipment volume: electric meter, concealment elements,
telecommunications demarcation box, ground-based enclosures, grounding
equipment, power transfer switch, cut-off switch, and vertical cable runs for
the connection of power and other services.
   UTILITY POLE: A pole or similar structure that is used in whole or in part
by a communications service provider or for electric distribution, lighting,
traffic control, or a similar function.
   WIRELESS FACILITY: Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless
communications between user equipment and a communications network, including:
a) equipment associated with wireless communications; and b) radio
transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and backup power
supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of technological configuration.
Wireless facility includes small wireless facilities. Wireless facility does
not include: a) the structure or improvements on, under, or within which the
equipment is collocated; or b) wireline backhaul facilities, coaxial or fiber
optic cable that is between wireless support structures or utility poles or
coaxial, or fiber optic cable that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to or
directly associated with an antenna.
   WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER: Any person authorized to provide
telecommunications service in the State that builds or installs wireless
communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities, wireless support
structures, or utility poles and that is not a wireless services provider but
is acting as an agent or a contractor for a wireless services provider for the
application submitted to the Village.
   WIRELESS PROVIDER: A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services
provider.
   WIRELESS SERVICES: Any services provided to the general public, including a
particular class of customers, and made available on a nondiscriminatory basis
using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, whether at a fixed location or mobile,
provided using wireless facilities.
   WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER: A person who provides wireless services.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE: A freestanding structure, such as a monopole;
tower, either guyed or self-supporting; billboard; or other existing or
proposed structure designed to support or capable of supporting wireless
facilities. Wireless support structure does not include a utility pole. (Ord.
18-1894, 7-24-2018)
10-15-3: REGULATION OF SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES:
   A.   Permitted Use: Small wireless facilities shall be classified as
permitted uses and subject to administrative review, except as provided in
subsection C9 of this section regarding height exceptions or variances, but not
subject to zoning review or approval if they are collocated: 1) in rights-of-
way in any zoning district, or 2) outside rights-of-way in property zoned
exclusively for commercial or industrial use.
   B.   Permit Required: An applicant shall obtain one or more permits from the
Village to collocate a small wireless facility. An application shall be
received and processed, and permits issued shall be subject to the following
conditions and requirements:
      1.   Application Requirements: A wireless provider shall provide the
following information to the Village, together with the Village's Small Cell
Facilities Permit Application, as a condition of any permit application to
collocate small wireless facilities on a utility pole or wireless support
structure:
         a.   Site specific structural integrity and, for a Municipal utility
pole, make-ready analysis prepared by a structural engineer, as that term is
defined in section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of 1989;
         b.   The location where each proposed small wireless facility or
utility pole would be installed and photographs of the location and its
immediate surroundings depicting the utility poles or structures on which each
proposed small wireless facility would be mounted or location where utility
poles or structures would be installed. This should include a depiction of the
completed facility;
         c.   Specifications and drawings prepared by a structural engineer, as
that term is defined in section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of
1989, for each proposed small wireless facility covered by the application as
it is proposed to be installed;
         d.   The equipment type and model numbers for the antennas and all
other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility;
         e.   A proposed schedule for the installation and completion of each
small wireless facility covered by the application, if approved; and
         f.   Certification that the collocation complies with the collocation
requirements and conditions contained herein, to the best of the applicant's
knowledge.
         g.   In the event that the proposed small wireless facility is to be
attached to an existing pole owned by an entity other than the Village, the
wireless provider shall provide legally competent evidence of the consent of
the owner of such pole to the proposed collocation.
      2.   Application Process: The Village shall process applications as
follows:
         a.   Priority Applications: The first completed application shall have
priority over applications received by different applicants for collocation on
the same utility pole or wireless support structure.
         b.   Collocation On Existing Pole Or Structure: An application to
collocate a small wireless facility on an existing utility pole or wireless
support structure, or replacement of an existing utility pole or wireless
support structure shall be processed on a nondiscriminatory basis and shall be
deemed approved if the Village fails to approve or deny the application within
ninety (90) days after the submission of a completed application.
However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted activity on a
deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the Village in writing of its
intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than seventy five (75)
days after the submission of a completed application.
The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the 90th day after
submission of the complete application or the 10th day after the receipt of the
deemed approved notice by the Village. The receipt of the deemed approved
notice shall not preclude the Village's denial of the permit request within the
time limits as provided under this chapter.
         c.   Collocation On New Pole: An application to collocate a small
wireless facility that includes the installation of a new utility pole shall be
processed on a nondiscriminatory basis and deemed approved if the Village fails
to approve or deny the application within one hundred twenty (120) days after
the submission of a completed application.
However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted activity on a
deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the Village in writing of its
intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than one hundred five
(105) days after the submission of a completed application.
The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the 120th day after
submission of the complete application or the 10th day after the receipt of the
deemed approved notice by the Village. The receipt of the deemed approved
notice shall not preclude the Village's denial of the permit request within the
time limits as provided under this chapter.
         d.   Denial Of Application: The Village shall deny an application
which does not meet the requirements of this chapter.
If the Village determines that applicable codes, ordinances or regulations that
concern public safety, or the collocation requirements and conditions contained
herein require that the utility pole or wireless support structure be replaced
before the requested collocation, approval shall be conditioned on the
replacement of the utility pole or wireless support structure at the cost of
the provider.
The Village shall document the basis for a denial, including the specific Code
provisions or application conditions on which the denial is based, and send the
documentation to the applicant on or before the day the Village denies an
application.
The applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by the Village and resubmit
the revised application once within thirty (30) days after notice of denial is
sent to the applicant without paying an additional application fee. The Village
shall approve or deny the revised application within thirty (30) days after the
applicant resubmits the application or it is deemed approved. Failure to
resubmit the revised application within thirty (30) days of denial shall
require the applicant to submit a new application with applicable fees, and
recommencement of the Village's review period.
The applicant must notify the Village in writing of its intention to proceed
with the permitted activity on a deemed approved basis, which may be submitted
with the revised application.
Any review of a revised application shall be limited to the deficiencies cited
in the denial. However, this revised application does not apply if the cure
requires the review of a new location, new or different structure to be
collocated upon, new antennas, or other wireless equipment associated with the
small wireless facility.
         e.   Pole Attachment Agreement: Within thirty (30) days after an
approved permit to collocate a small wireless facility on a Municipal utility
pole, the Village and the applicant shall enter into a Master Pole Attachment
Agreement, provided by the Village for the initial collocation on a Municipal
utility pole by the application. For subsequent approved permits to collocate
on a small wireless facility on a Municipal utility pole, the Village and the
applicant shall enter into a License Supplement of the Master Pole Attachment
Agreement.
      3.   Completeness Of Application: Within thirty (30) days after receiving
an application, the Village shall determine whether the application is complete
and notify the applicant. If an application is incomplete, the Village must
specifically identify the missing information. An application shall be deemed
complete if the Village fails to provide notification to the applicant within
thirty (30) days after all documents, information and fees specifically
enumerated in the Village's permit application form are submitted by the
applicant to the Village.
Processing deadlines are tolled from the time the Village sends the notice of
incompleteness to the time the applicant provides the missing information.
      4.   Tolling: The time period for applications may be further tolled by:
         a.   An express written agreement by both the applicant and the
Village; or
         b.   A local, State or Federal disaster declaration or similar
emergency that causes the delay.
      5.   Consolidated Applications: An applicant seeking to collocate small
wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the Village shall be allowed, at
the applicant's discretion, to file a consolidated application and receive a
single permit for the collocation of up to twenty five (25) small wireless
facilities if the collocations each involve substantially the same type of
small wireless facility and substantially the same type of structure.
If an application includes multiple small wireless facilities, the Village may
remove small wireless facility collocations from the application and treat
separately small wireless facility collocations for which incomplete
information has been provided or that do not qualify for consolidated treatment
or that are denied. The Village may issue separate permits for each collocation
that is approved in a consolidated application.
      6.   Duration Of Permits: The duration of a permit shall be for a period
of not less than five (5) years, and the permit shall be renewed for equivalent
durations unless the Village makes a finding that the small wireless facilities
or the new or modified utility pole do not comply with the applicable Village
codes or any provision, condition or requirement contained in this chapter.
If the Act is repealed as provided in section 90 therein, renewals of permits
shall be subject to the applicable Village Code provisions or regulations in
effect at the time of renewal.
      7.   Means Of Submitting Applications: Applicants shall submit
applications, supporting information and notices to the Village by personal
delivery at the Village's designated place of business, by regular mail
postmarked on the date due or by any other commonly used means, including
electronic mail.
   C.   Collocation Requirements And Conditions:
      1.   Public Safety Space Reservation: The Village may reserve space on
Municipal utility poles for future public safety uses, for the Village's
electric utility uses, or both, but a reservation of space may not preclude the
collocation of a small wireless facility unless the Village reasonably
determines that the Municipal utility pole cannot accommodate both uses.
      2.   Installation And Maintenance: The wireless provider shall install,
maintain, repair and modify its small wireless facilities in safe condition and
good repair and in compliance with the requirements and conditions of this
chapter. The wireless provider shall ensure that its employees, agents or
contracts that perform work in connection with its small wireless facilities
are adequately trained and skilled in accordance with all applicable industry
and governmental standards and regulations.
      3.   No Interference With Public Safety Communication Frequencies: The
wireless provider's operation of the small wireless facilities shall not
interfere with the frequencies used by a public safety agency for public safety
communications.
A wireless provider shall install small wireless facilities of the type and
frequency that will not cause unacceptable interference with a public safety
agency's communications equipment.
Unacceptable interference will be determined by and measured in accordance with
industry standards and the FCC's regulations addressing unacceptable
interference to public safety spectrum or any other spectrum licensed by a
public safety agency.
If a small wireless facility causes such interference, and the wireless
provider has been given written notice of the interference by the public safety
agency, the wireless provider, at its own expense, shall remedy the
interference in a manner consistent with the abatement and resolution
procedures for interference with public safety spectrum established by the FCC
including 47 CFR 22.970 through 47 CFR 22.973 and 47 CFR 90.672 through 47 CFR
90.675.
The Village may terminate a permit for a small wireless facility based on such
interference if the wireless provider is not in compliance with the Code of
Federal Regulations cited in the previous paragraph. Failure to remedy the
interference as required herein shall constitute a public nuisance.
      4.   Collocation With Electric Distribution Or Transmission Systems: The
wireless provider shall not collocate small wireless facilities on Village
utility poles that are part of an electric distribution or transmission system
within the communication worker safety zone of the pole or the electric supply
zone of the pole.
However, the antenna and support equipment of the small wireless facility may
be located in the communications space on the Village utility pole and on the
top of the pole, if not otherwise unavailable, if the wireless provider
complies with applicable codes for work involving the top of the pole.
For purposes of this subparagraph, the terms "communications space",
"communication worker safety zone", and "electric supply zone" have the
meanings given to those terms in the National Electric Safety Code as published
by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
      5.   Compliance With Codes: The wireless provider shall comply with all
applicable codes and local code provisions or regulations that concern public
safety.
      6.   Compliance With Design Standards: The wireless provider shall comply
with written design standards that are generally applicable for decorative
utility poles, or reasonable stealth, concealment and aesthetic requirements
that are set forth in a Village ordinance, written policy adopted by the
Village, a comprehensive plan or other written design plan that applies to
other occupiers of the rights-of-way, including on a historic landmark or in a
historic district.
      7.   Alternate Placements: Except as provided in this subsection C, a
wireless provider shall not be required to collocation small wireless
facilities on any specific utility pole, or category of utility poles, or be
required to collocate multiple antenna systems on a single utility pole.
However, with respect to an application for the collocation of a small wireless
facility associated with a new utility pole, the Village may propose that the
small wireless facility be collocated on an existing utility pole or existing
wireless support structure within one hundred feet (100') of the proposed
collocation, which the applicant shall accept if it has the right to use the
alternate structure on reasonable terms and conditions, and the alternate
location and structure does not impose technical limits or additional material
costs as determined by the applicant.
If the applicant refuses a collocation proposed by the Village, the applicant
shall provide written certification describing the property rights, technical
limits or material cost reasons the alternate location does not satisfy the
criteria in this paragraph.
      8.   Height Limitations: The maximum height of a small wireless facility
shall be no more than ten feet (10') above the utility pole or wireless support
structure on which the small wireless facility is collocated.
New or replacement utility poles or wireless support structures on which small
wireless facilities are collocated may not exceed the higher of:
         a.   Ten feet (10') in height above the tallest existing utility pole,
other than a utility pole supporting only wireless facilities, that is in place
on the date the application is submitted to the Village, that is located within
three hundred feet (300') of the new or replacement utility pole or wireless
support structure and that is in the same right-of-way within the
jurisdictional boundary of the Village, provided the Village may designate
which intersecting right-of-way within three hundred feet (300') of the
proposed utility pole or wireless support structures shall control the height
limitation for such facility; or
         b.   Forty five feet (45') above ground level.
      9.   Height Exceptions Or Variances: If an applicant proposes a height
for a new or replacement pole in excess of the above height limitations on
which the small wireless facility is proposed for collocation, the applicant
shall apply for a variance in conformance with procedures, terms and conditions
set forth in section
10-12-2 of this title.
      10.   Contractual Design Requirements: The wireless provider shall comply
with requirements that are imposed by a contract between the Village and a
private property owner that concern design or construction standards applicable
to utility poles and ground- mounted equipment located in the right-of-way.
      11.   Ground-Mounted Equipment Spacing: The wireless provider shall
comply with applicable spacing requirements in applicable codes and ordinances
concerning the location of ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way
if the requirements include a waiver, zoning or other process that addresses
wireless provider requests for exception or variance and do not prohibit
granting of such exceptions or variances.
      12.   Undergrounding Regulations: The wireless provider shall comply with
local code provisions or regulations concerning undergrounding requirements
that prohibit the installation of new or the modification of existing utility
poles in a right-of-way without prior approval if the requirements include a
waiver, zoning or other process that addresses requests to install such new
utility poles or modify such existing utility poles and do not prohibit the
replacement of utility poles.
      13.   Collocation Completion Deadline: Collocation for which a permit is
granted shall be completed within one hundred eighty (180) days after issuance
of the permit, unless the Village and the wireless provider agree to extend
this period or a delay is caused by make-ready work for a Municipal utility
pole or by the lack of commercial power or backhaul availability at the site,
provided the wireless provider has made a timely request within sixty (60) days
after the issuance of the permit for commercial power or backhaul services, and
the additional time to complete installation does not exceed three hundred
sixty (360) days after issuance of the permit. Otherwise, the permit shall be
void unless the Village grants an extension in writing to the applicant.
   D.   Application Fees: Application fees are imposed as follows:
      1.   Applicant shall pay an application fee of six hundred fifty dollars
($650.00) for an application to collocate a single small wireless facility on
an existing utility pole or wireless support structure, and three hundred fifty
dollars ($350.00) for each small wireless facility addressed in a consolidated
application to collocate more than one small wireless facility on existing
utility poles or wireless support structures.
      2.   Applicant shall pay an application fee of one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for each small wireless facility addressed in an application that
includes the installation of a new utility pole for such collocation.
      3.   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of State law or local
ordinance, applications pursuant to this section shall be accompanied by the
required application fee. Application fees shall be non-refundable.
      4.   The Village shall not require an application, approval or permit, or
require any fees or other charges, from a communications service provider
authorized to occupy the rights- of-way, for:
         a.   Routine maintenance;
         b.   The replacement of wireless facilities with wireless facilities
that are substantially similar, the same size, or smaller if the wireless
provider notifies the Village at least ten (10) days prior to the planned
replacement and includes equipment specifications for the replacement of
equipment consistent with subsection B1d of this section; or
         c.   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation or
replacement of micro wireless facilities suspended on cables that are strung
between existing utility poles in compliance with applicable Safety Codes.
      5.   Wireless providers shall secure a permit from the Village to work
within rights-of-way for activities that affect traffic patterns or require
lane closures.
   E.   Exceptions To Applicability: Nothing in this chapter authorizes a
person to collocate small wireless facilities on:
      1.   Property owned by a private party or property owned or controlled by
the Village or another unit of local government that is not located within
rights-of-way, or a privately owned utility pole or wireless support structure
without the consent of the property owner;
      2.   Property owned, leased, or controlled by a park district, forest
preserve district, or conservation district for public park, recreation or
conservation purposes without the consent of the affected district, excluding
the placement of facilities on rights-of-way located in an affected district
that are under the jurisdiction and control of a different unit of local
government as provided by the Illinois Highway Code; or
      3.   Property owned by a rail carrier registered under section 18c-7201
of the Illinois Vehicle Code, Metra Commuter Rail or any other public commuter
rail service, or an electric utility as defined in section 16-102 of the Public
Utilities Act, without the consent of the rail carrier, public commuter rail
service, or electric utility. The provisions of this chapter do not apply to an
electric or gas public utility or such utility's wireless facilities if the
facilities are being used, developed and maintained consistent with the
provisions of subsection (i) of section 16-108.5 of the Public Utilities Act.
For the purposes of this subsection, "public utility" has the meaning given to
that term in section 3-105 of the Public Utilities Act. Nothing in this chapter
shall be construed to relieve any person from any requirement: a) to obtain a
franchise or a State-issued authorization to offer cable service or video
service or b) to obtain any required permission to install, place, maintain, or
operate communications facilities, other than small wireless facilities subject
to this chapter.
   F.   Pre-Existing Agreements: Existing agreements between the Village and
wireless providers that relate to the collocation of small wireless facilities
in the right-of-way, including the collocation of small wireless facilities on
Village utility poles, that are in effect on June 1, 2018, remain in effect for
all small wireless facilities collocated on the Village's utility poles
pursuant to applications submitted to the Village before June 1, 2018, subject
to applicable termination provisions contained therein. Agreements entered into
after June 1, 2018, shall comply with this chapter.
A wireless provider that has an existing agreement with the Village on the
effective date of the Act may accept the rates, fees and terms that the Village
makes available under this chapter for the collocation of small wireless
facilities or the installation of new utility poles for the collocation of
small wireless facilities that are the subject of an application submitted two
(2) or more years after the effective date of the Act by notifying the Village
that it opts to accept such rates, fees and terms. The existing agreement
remains in effect, subject to applicable termination provisions, for the small
wireless facilities the wireless provider has collocated on the Village's
utility poles pursuant to applications submitted to the Village before the
wireless provider provides such notice and exercises its option under this
paragraph.
   G.   Annual Recurring Rate: A wireless provider shall pay to the Village an
annual recurring rate to collocate a small wireless facility on a Village
utility pole located in a right-of-way that equals: 1) two hundred dollars
($200.00) per year or 2) the actual, direct and reasonable costs related to the
wireless provider's use of space on the Village utility pole.
If the Village has not billed the wireless provider actual and direct costs,
the fee shall be two hundred dollars ($200.00) payable on the first day after
the first annual anniversary of the issuance of the permit or notice of intent
to collocate, and on each annual anniversary date thereafter.
   H.   Abandonment: A small wireless facility that is not operated for a
continuous period of twelve (12) months shall be considered abandoned. The
owner of the facility shall remove the small wireless facility within ninety
(90) days after receipt of written notice from the Village notifying the
wireless provider of the abandonment.
The notice shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return receipt
requested, by the Village to the owner at the last known address of the
wireless provider. If the small wireless facility is not removed within ninety
(90) days of such notice, the Village may remove or cause the removal of such
facility pursuant to the terms of its pole attachment agreement for Municipal
utility poles or through whatever actions are provided for abatement of
nuisances or by other law for removal and cost recovery.
A wireless provider shall provide written notice to the Village if it sells or
transfers small wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the Village.
Such notice shall include the name and contact information of the new wireless
provider. (Ord. 18-1894, 7-24-2018)
10-15-4: DISPUTE RESOLUTION:
The Circuit Court of Will County shall have exclusive jurisdiction to resolve
all disputes arising under the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act.
Pending resolution of a dispute concerning rates for collocation of small
wireless facilities on Municipal utility poles within the right-of-way, the
Village shall allow the collocating person to collocate on its poles at annual
rates of no more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) per year per Municipal
utility pole, with rates to be determined upon final resolution of the dispute.
(Ord. 18-1894, 7-24-2018)
10-15-5: INDEMNIFICATION:
A wireless provider shall indemnify and hold the Village harmless against any
and all liability or loss from personal injury or property damage resulting
from or arising out of, in whole or in part, the use or occupancy of the
Village improvements or right- of-way associated with such improvements by the
wireless provider or its employees, agents, or contractors arising out of the
rights and privileges granted under this chapter and the Act. A wireless
provider has no obligation to indemnify or hold harmless against any
liabilities and losses as may be due to or caused by the sole negligence of the
Village or its employees or agents. A wireless provider shall further waive any
claims that they may have against the Village with respect to consequential,
incidental, or special damages, however caused, based on the theory of
liability. (Ord. 18-1894, 7-24-2018)
10-15-6: INSURANCE:
   A.   The wireless provider shall carry, at the wireless provider's own cost
and expense, the following insurance:
      1.   Property insurance for its property's replacement cost against all
risks;
      2.   Workers' compensation insurance, as required by law; or
      3.   Commercial general liability insurance with respect to its
activities on the Village improvements or rights-of-way to afford minimum
protection limits consistent with its requirements of other users of Village
improvements or rights-of-way, including coverage for bodily injury and
property damage.
The wireless provider shall include the Village as an additional insured on the
commercial general liability policy and provide certification and documentation
of inclusion of the Village in a commercial general liability policy prior to
the collocation of any wireless facility.
A wireless provider may self-insure all or a portion of the insurance coverage
and limit requirement required by the Village. A wireless provider that self-
insures is not required, to the extent of the self-insurance, to comply with
the requirement for the name of additional insureds under this section. A
wireless provider that elects to self- insure shall provide to the Village
evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self-insure the
insurance coverage limits required by the Village. (Ord. 18-1894, 7-24-2018)
TITLE 11
SUBDIVISION AND DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL SUBDIVISION AND DEVELOPMENT PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Short Title
11-1-2: Jurisdiction and Purpose
11-1-3: Rules of Construction; Definitions
11-1-4: Conceptual Drawing
11-1-5: Subdivision Variation or Modification
11-1-6: Planned Unit Developments
11-1-7: Appendices
11-1-8: Penalties
11-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
These regulations shall be known and cited as the SHOREWOOD SUBDIVISION AND
DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE. (Ord. 93-721, 12-14-93)
11-1-2: JURISDICTION AND PURPOSE:
   A.   Jurisdiction: The rules and regulations governing plats and
subdivisions of land contained herein shall apply to all land within both the
corporate limits of the Village of Shorewood, and within unincorporated area
within one and one-half (11/2) miles beyond the corporate limits of the Village
as existing at the time of adoption of this Title or as may be extended
thereafter by annexation or otherwise. In the event of overlapping jurisdiction
within such one and one-half (11/2) miles, the extent of jurisdiction hereunder
shall be as determined and agreed upon between Shorewood and the other
municipalities concerned, and in the absence of such agreement, as may be
determined according to law. The provisions of this Title shall also apply to
all planned unit developments whether residential, commercial or otherwise in
nature, and to any other developments whether a subdivision is required or not
under the law, statutes, ordinances or regulations of the governmental body or
agency having jurisdiction or control, and regardless of whether the same is
labeled a subdivision or not, it being the intent of this Title to apply to all
types of development, both within the Village and to areas lying within one and
one-half (11/2) miles of the corporate limits of the Village of Shorewood, Will
County or Kendall County, Illinois.
   B.   Purpose:
      1.   It is the purpose of these regulations to establish minimum
requirements for the subdivision of land within the corporate limits of the
Village and within the subdivision review and regulatory jurisdiction of the
Village, in order to protect, safeguard and promote the public health, safety,
convenience and welfare of the community. In addition to establishing minimum
requirements, these regulations attempt to assist land developers and public
officials in processing subdivisions. These regulations are designed to:
         a.   Facilitate the orderly growth and development of the Village by
providing suitable residential, commercial and industrial development.
         b.   Provide adequate traffic circulation through street systems with
consideration to major thoroughfares, adjoining subdivisions and public
facilities.
         c.   Achieve individual property lots of maximum utility and
livability.
         d.   Insure adequate provisions for water drainage, sanitary sewer and
water facilities, utilities and other health related requirements.
         e.   Provide adequate park and recreational areas, school sites and
other public facilities.
         f.   Facilitate the subdivision of large tracts into smaller parcels
of land.
      2.   These regulations are also formulated to aid in the enforcement of
development standards as provided in various Village ordinances including, but
not restricted to, the Building Code, Zoning Ordinance and the Comprehensive
Plan of the Village. (Ord. 93-721, 12-14-93; amd. Ord. 21-2023, 10-12-2021)
11-1-3: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; DEFINITIONS:
Unless another meaning is indicated, this Title shall be interpreted in
accordance with the following rules of construction:
   A.   The singular number includes the plural and the plural the singular.
   B.   The present tense includes the past and future tenses and the future
the present.
   C.   The word “shall” is mandatory, while the word “may” is permissive.
   D.   The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter.
   E.   Whenever a word or term defined hereinafter appears in the text of this
Title, its meaning shall be construed as set forth in the definition thereof,
and any word appearing in parentheses directly after a word herein defined
shall be construed in the same sense as that word.
The following words and terms, wherever used in this Title shall be construed
and defined as follows:
BLOCK: A tract of land bounded by streets or by a combination of streets and
public parks, railroad rights of way or other similar natural boundaries. A
block may be located in part beyond the boundary lines of the corporate limits
of the Village.
BUILDING SETBACK LINE: A line within a lot or other parcel of land, which
denotes the area between such line and the adjacent street right-of-way line
where a building and other obstructions are prohibited, except those
obstructions that are permitted by Zoning Ordinance regulations.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: The Plan adopted by Title 9 of this Code depicting among
other things, land uses, major water and sanitary sewer mains and major
drainageways, highways, roadways, primary and secondary thoroughfares and
parkways of the village and environs.
CONCEPTUAL DRAWING: A preliminary sketch of a proposed development intended for
feasibility study purposes only. The conceptual drawing can include street and
lot configurations, estimated minimum and maximum lot size, public land
dedications, land use information and major natural features including
floodplain and floodway.
COUNTY ENGINEER: The individual appointed by Will or Kendall County, Illinois,
to supervise the county roadway system.
CUL-DE-SAC: A local street with a single outlet.
DEVELOPER: Any person, firm, business, trust, corporation or other entity
engaged in the business of subdividing, developing or otherwise improving land.
DEVELOPMENT: Any construction activity including new construction or
renovation, mining, drilling, extraction, dredging, filling, excavation,
grading, clearing of land, deposit of refuse or debris, clearing of natural
vegetative cover; any material change in the use or appearance of any structure
or in the land itself; the division of land into parcels or lots; any change in
the intensity or use of land; any activity that alters a shore, river, stream,
pond, woodlands, wetland, endangered species habitat, aquifer or other resource
area.
EASEMENT: Land set aside over or under which a right, privilege, use or
advantage in land is dedicated and is distinct from ownership of the land and
is granted either to the public, a particular person or a combination of both.
FINAL PLAT: A map of all or part of the subdivision prepared and certified by a
registered Illinois land surveyor and certified by a registered Illinois
engineer in accordance with the requirements of the applicable provisions of
the Illinois Compiled Statutes as amended and other applicable governmental
regulations including this title and suitable for recordation by the county
recorder of deeds.
FRONTAGE ROAD: A minor street which is parallel to and either adjacent to or
within the right of way of a thoroughfare.
HALF STREET: A street of less than the total required width along one or more
property lines of a subdivision.
LAND IMPROVEMENT: Any sanitary sewer system, storm sewer system, water supply
and distribution system, roadway, side strip, sidewalk, pedestrianway, no
access strip, off street parking area, lot grading or other improvement which
the village may require under this title.
LOCAL STREET: Roads primarily serving to provide access to abutting property
and connect with minor collector and/or major thoroughfares discouraging
through traffic.
LOT: A portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land intended for transfer
of ownership or for building development.
LOT CONSOLIDATION: The merger of separate parcels, tracts of land or lots into
a single parcel, lot or tract of land.
LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE: A lot which has a pair of opposite lot lines along two
(2) substantially parallel streets.
MAJOR ARTERIAL: All state and U.S. designated highways connecting between
designated highway and freeway interchanges and other heavily traveled streets
described in the transportation plan as primary arterials.
MAJOR COLLECTOR STREET: All secondary thoroughfares shown on the major
thoroughfare plan. Major collector streets serve to collect and distribute
medium volume traffic between major thoroughfares and minor collector streets
and include section line roads.
MINOR COLLECTOR STREET: Streets used to collect and distribute medium volume
traffic between minor thoroughfares, major collectors, local streets and
abutting property.
NGVD: National geodetic vertical datum.
NO ACCESS STRIP: A land area at least twelve feet (12') wide along the rear lot
line of a double frontage lot and abutting a thoroughfare within which no
vehicular driveway shall be permitted.
OPEN SPACE: Any space or area of land or water essentially unimproved or
otherwise devoid of buildings or other structures and paved areas and set
aside, dedicated, designated or reserved for public or private use or enjoyment
of owners and occupants of land adjoining or neighboring such open space.
OWNER OR SUBDIVIDER: Shall include any person, firm, association, partnership,
private corporation, public or quasi-public corporation or a combination of any
of them or other legal entity having sufficient proprietary interest in the
land sought to be subdivided or divided to commence and maintain proceedings
under the provisions of this chapter.
PEDESTRIANWAY: A right of way across or within a block designated for
pedestrian use.
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION. The Planning and Zoning Commission of
Shorewood, Illinois as designated and organized per Title 10, Chapter 12, Sec.
10-12-1C of the Code.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD): A residential, commercial, industrial or mixed
use development which complies with the appropriate zoning classification
(i.e., residential, business, industrial) for the property which allows greater
design flexibility but requires more precise controls than provided for in
other zoning classifications.
PLAT: A map showing divisions of land and property.
PRELIMINARY PLAT: A preliminary map prepared by a registered Illinois land
surveyor and a registered Illinois engineer showing the proposed layout of a
subdivision in sufficient detail to allow review by the platting authority and
other interested agencies and meeting the requirements of these and other
applicable regulations.
ROADWAY: That portion of the street designated for vehicular use.
SERVICE DRIVE: A passage or way affording generally a secondary means or
vehicular access to abutting properties and not intended for general traffic
circulation.
SIDE STRIP: The unpaved strip of land within a street right of way and is
parallel to the roadway.
SIDEWALK: That portion of the street right of way or other area designated for
pedestrian use.
STREET: A private or public right of way which affords pedestrians and vehicles
primary access to abutting properties. No name or designation shall be material
to this definition.
STREET WIDTH: The shortest distance between the right of way lines of a given
street.
SUBDIVISION:
   A.   A described tract of land which is to be or has been divided into two
(2) or more parcels of land, regardless of the size of said parcels;
   B.   Any division of land which creates a lot for transfer of ownership and/
or building development where a new street is involved; or
   C.   The dedication of streets, ways or other areas for the use of the
public.
No division of a tract shall be deemed a subdivision if it merely transfers
ownership to adjacent property owners without creating additional lots.
The term “subdivision” includes “resubdivision” and, where it is appropriate to
the context, relates to the process of subdividing or to the land subdivided.
SUBDIVISION DESIGN STANDARDS: The basic land planning principles established as
guides for the preparation of preliminary plats.
UTILITIES: Overhead and/or underground gas, electrical, telephone, cable
television, water, sanitary sewer and storm sewer transmission or distribution
systems.
VILLAGE: The village of Shorewood, Illinois.
VILLAGE BOARD: The village board of the village of Shorewood, Illinois.
VILLAGE CLERK: The village clerk of the village of Shorewood, Illinois.
VILLAGE ENGINEER: A trained, licensed, and registered Illinois professional
civil engineer hired by the village as a consultant or as an employee, to
advise and represent the village in engineering matters.
ZONING OFFICER: As defined by Title 10, Chapter 2, Sec.
10-2-1 of this Code. (Ord. 93-721, 12-14-1993; amd. Ord. 05-1312, 9-27-2005,
eff. 10-2-2005; Ord. 20-1982, 8-25-2020; Ord. 21-2023, 10-12-2021)
11-1-4: CONCEPTUAL DRAWING:
   A.    Prospective subdividers and developers are encouraged to, and upon the
direction of the Zoning Officer shall, prepare a conceptual drawing or sketch
of the proposed plat or site plan for submission to the planning and zoning
commission. There is no prescribed format for a conceptual drawing. It should,
however, provide the village staff and planning and zoning commission with an
understanding of the type and location of the development, as well as its size
and general layout. The drawing should include as much detail as is necessary
to allow the village staff, the planning and zoning commission, and village
professional consultants to advise the prospective subdivider or developer
regarding the acceptability of the project and recommend appropriate changes.
The conceptual plan shall include location of streets, subdivision layout,
storm water management and dedications. The location of streets and lot sizes
should be included.
   B.   The developer shall submit copies of the conceptual plan, as listed on
the application form, to the Zoning Officer at least two (2) weeks prior to the
regular village planning and zoning commission meeting. (Ord. 93-721, 12-14-
1993; amd. Ord. 21-2023, 10-12-2021)
11-1-5: SUBDIVISION VARIATION OR MODIFICATION:
In any case where the developer can show that by reason of exceptional
topographic or other physical conditions, strict compliance with any
requirement of this title would cause undue hardship, the planning and zoning
commission may recommend a variance to the board of trustees. The board of
trustees may vary such requirements to the extent deemed just and proper, so as
to relieve such difficulty or hardship, provided that such relief may be
granted without detriment to the public good and without impairing the intent
and purpose of these regulations or the desirable general development of the
neighborhood and the community in accordance with the comprehensive plan and
the zoning ordinance. Any variance thus granted by the board of trustees shall
be in writing, filed with the records of the subdivision in the office of the
Village Clerk, and shall set forth the final basis on which it was granted.
(Ord. 93-721, 12-14-1993; amd. ord. 21-2023, 10-12-2021)
11-1-6: PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS:
   A.   The standards and requirements of these regulations may be modified by
village board upon the recommendation of the planning commission in the case of
a plan and program for a complete community or a planned unit development which
in the judgment of village board upon the recommendation of the planning
commission will provide adequate public spaces and improvements for traffic
circulation, recreation, light, air, and the service needs of the area when
fully developed and populated.
   B.   Such plan and program shall include such legal provisions as will
assure achievement of the plan as finally approved by the village board.
   C.   Procedure for submitting, processing and disposition of proposals for
planned unit developments shall be in accordance with applicable plans and
village ordinances and shall proceed with any rezoning seeking PUD. (Ord. 93-
721, 12-14-1993)
11-1-7: APPENDICES:
The Standard Construction Details are a portion of this title and are hereby
incorporated by reference. The information and provisions of the Standard
Construction Details pertain to engineering design of improvements and are to
be adhered to in the preparation of the engineering and design of all proposed
subdivisions and improvements required in this title. In matters of engineering
design not provided for in the body of this title nor in the appendices hereto,
the latest sound engineering principles and materials shall be provided, all
subject to approval of the village engineer. (Ord. 93-721, 12-14-1993; amd.
Ord. 21-2023, 10-12-2021)
11-1-8: PENALTIES:
Any person, who violates, omits, neglects, refuses or in any manner fails to
comply with any of the provisions of these regulations shall be subject to the
fines listed in Title 1, Chapter 4 of this code. In addition, the village shall
have such other remedies as may be available at law and equity. (Ord. 93-721,
12-14-1993; amd. Ord. 21-2023, 10-12-2021)
CHAPTER 2
SUBDIVISION PROCESS AND PROCEDURE
SECTION:
11-2-1: Compliance With Ordinance Prior To Construction
11-2-2: Subdivision Design Principles
11-2-3: Consultation And Conceptual Drawing
11-2-4: Developer Reimbursement Agreement
11-2-5: Processing Of Plats
11-2-6: Preliminary Plat
11-2-7: Final Plat
11-2-8: Dedication Of All Improvements
11-2-1: COMPLIANCE WITH ORDINANCE PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION:
No developer shall proceed with any construction or development work on
projects requiring compliance with this Title, including grading, until the
village board has approved the final plat for the proposed subdivision, said
plat has been recorded with the County recorder’s office; and all fees, charges
and contributions have been paid by the developer and financial surety for
public improvements have been approved by and deposited with the village; and
all other required governmental permits have been issued; and the developer has
complied with all requisite village ordinances and regulations, including Title
12, Flood Control, of this Code as applicable. (Ord. 93-721, 12-14-1993; amd.
Ord. 21-2023, 10-12-2021)
11-2-2: SUBDIVISION DESIGN PRINCIPLES:
In planning and developing a subdivision the developer or his agent shall
comply with accepted engineering and land planning practices for the design and
layout of subdivisions, the rules and regulations concerning required
improvements and the procedure set forth in this title. (Ord. 93-721, 12-14-
1993)
11-2-3: CONSULTATION AND CONCEPTUAL DRAWING:
Before preparing and submitting the preliminary plat, it is recommended that
the developer, his engineer or his surveyor consult with village staff and
present a conceptual drawing and thereafter appear before the planning and
zoning commission while the plat is in conceptual drawing form, to ascertain,
among other things, the location of proposed highways, major thoroughfares,
major and minor collectors, local streets, parkways, parks, playgrounds,
utilities, major drainageways and storm water facilities and other planned
developments. The conceptual drawing may also be presented to the Village
Board. Conceptual drawings are optional, informational and nonofficial and no
approval can be based upon such drawings. A “conceptual drawing” is nonofficial
and neither approved nor disapproved by the planning and zoning commission or
village board. It is rather a device to facilitate consultation between the
developer and the village and the orderly progression of the development
through the plat approval process. It does not substitute for the preliminary
or final plats of subdivision as described and provided for in this title.
(Ord. 93-721, 12-14-1993; amd. Ord. 21-2023, 10-12-2021)
11-2-4: DEVELOPER REIMBURSEMENT AGREEMENT:
A written agreement, as provided for in Sec.
1-7-5(C), is required to be submitted with any petition or application for
requests made pursuant to this Title.
(Ord. 93-721, 12-14-1993; amd. Ord. 07-1436, 9-11-2007; Ord. 20-1962, 1-14-
2020)
11-2-5: PROCESSING OF PLATS:
Every plat and accompanying document required by ordinance, whether preliminary
or final, submitted in accordance with these regulations shall be processed and
reviewed by village staff and by the planning and zoning commission. After
holding a public meeting thereon, the planning and zoning commission shall
transmit to the board of trustees its recommendations to the village president
and board of trustees for their approval or denial of the plat. (Ord. 93-721,
12-14-1993; amd. Ord. 21-2023, 10-12-2021)
11-2-6: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
The developer shall submit to the village, for staff review and comments, a
preliminary plat prepared in conformance with this title. The planning and
zoning commission shall consider the plat at a public meeting and make
recommendations to the village president and board of trustees. The president
and board of trustees shall review the preliminary plat and advise the
developer of any conditions. Once the developer complies with any such
conditions, the president and board of trustees shall approve or deny the plat.
(Ord. 93-721, 12-14-1993; amd. Ord. 21-2023, 10-12-2021)
11-2-7: FINAL PLAT:
During the term of preliminary plat, the developer shall submit to the village
a final plat and supporting documents for village staff, planning and zoning
commission and board review, approval or denial. (Ord. 93-721, 12-14-1993; amd.
Ord. 21-2023, 10-12-2021)
11-2-8: DEDICATION OF ALL IMPROVEMENTS:
Upon completion of the public improvements required by village ordinances and
acceptance of the improvements by the village, the developer shall cause all
right, title and interest in said improvements, including water and sanitary
sewer mains and facilities within the subdivision to be dedicated and conveyed
to the village by proper instruments to be approved by the village attorney.
Such dedications, conveyances and transfers shall be at no cost or expense to
the village and in accordance with Chapter 6 of this Title. (Ord. 93-721, 12-
14-1993; amd. Ord. 21-2023, 10-12-2021)
CHAPTER 3
PRELIMINARY PLATS
SECTION:
11-3-1: Preliminary Plat Approval
11-3-2: Applications For Preliminary Plats
11-3-3: Preliminary Plat Requirements
11-3-4: Preliminary Plat Filing Fee
11-3-5: Distribution Of Preliminary Plats
11-3-6: Term Of Preliminary Plat
11-3-1: PRELIMINARY PLAT APPROVAL:
Preliminary plat approval by the village board is required for all proposed
subdivisions within the jurisdiction of the village, including those located in
unincorporated areas within one and one-half (1 ½) miles of the corporate
limits. The village board will not act on such plats unless and until it
receives a written recommendation from the planning and zoning commission.
(Ord. 93-721, 12-14-1993; amd. Ord. 21-2023, 10-12-2021)
11-3-2: APPLICATIONS FOR PRELIMINARY PLATS:
Applications for approval of a preliminary plat of subdivision must be
submitted, in writing, to the Zoning Officer. A copy of the application form,
which contains the number of copies of each document to be submitted, is
available from village staff. Complete applications must include the following:
   A.   Preliminary Plat Submittal:
      1.   Preliminary plat drawing prepared and certified by an Illinois
registered engineer and/or an Illinois registered land surveyor.
   B.   Soil Reports:
      1.   A current report concerning the subject property prepared by Will-
South Cook soil and water conservation and an independent soil investigation
report for the site based upon a minimum representative soil borings as
follows:
         a.   For parcels fifty (50) acres and larger: One boring for every
five (5) acres.
         b.   For parcels smaller than fifty (50) acres: A minimum of ten (10)
borings but not more than one boring per vacant lot.
      2.   If preliminary soil investigation reveals problem soils, additional
borings will be required at locations determined by the village engineer prior
to the design of the public improvements.
   C.   Floodplain Data: Accompanying the preliminary plats of each proposed
subdivision which involves any portion of a base flood area as described by the
official FEMA map for this village or the County of Will or County of Kendall,
there shall be furnished the following information and data:
      1.   Floodplains With Identified Floodways: The floodplain and floodway
limits and the base flood elevation shall be clearly identified on the
preliminary plat. Proposed uses with the floodplain and floodway shall be
identified and shall be in accordance with those permitted by the floodplain
regulations of the village 1 .
      2.   Floodplains Where Floodways Are Not Identified: The entire
floodplain is considered to be a floodway by the floodplain regulations of the
village and shall be so identified on the preliminary and final plats. As an
alternative, the developer should have an engineering study performed to
determine a floodway in the manner set forth in the floodplain regulations of
the village.
      3.   Modification Of Floodplains Or Floodways: If any modification of the
floodplain is proposed, sufficient information and data shall be provided to
demonstrate to the satisfaction of the village engineer that such modification
will meet the requirements of floodplain regulations of the village.
   D.   Development Report: All subdivisions should have a development report
which is a narrative statement describing the existing features of the site and
the engineering impact of the development of the site.
   E.   Utilities Letter: (Rep. by Ord. 97-887, 11-25-1997)
   F.   Public Improvement Dedication Agreement: The owner and/or developer of
the proposed subdivision shall execute with the village a written agreement
providing for the dedication of public improvements to the village. The
agreement shall provide that upon completion of installation and construction
of all public improvements to be located within the proposed subdivision
(including all pumping, storage, transmission and distribution facilities for
water and sewer, as well as any other utility facilities), the owner and/or
developer shall dedicate such public improvements to the village by executing
any and all instruments specified by the village. However, no such instrument
shall be executed without prior acceptance and approval of the public
improvements by the village. The developer shall certify that the property
being dedicated is free of any and all liens and encumbrances.
   G.   Septic Or Mechanical Systems: In subdivisions to be served by septic
systems as opposed to central sewage treatment, written approval by the Will
County or Kendall County health department and/or other applicable governmental
agencies for the installation of septic systems on each lot shall be provided.
   H.   Vicinity Sketch: Vicinity sketch at a readable scale drawn on or
accompanying the preliminary plat. This sketch shall show all existing
subdivisions and the street and track lines of acreage parcels of land within
two hundred feet (200') to the plat boundaries together with the name of record
owners of all such unplatted parcels contiguous to the proposed subdivision. It
shall also show the streets and alleys in neighboring subdivisions or unplatted
property within seven hundred fifty feet (750') of the plat boundaries. (Ord.
93-721, 12-14-1993; amd. Ord. 21-2023, 10-12-2021)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 12, chapter 1 of this code.
11-3-3: PRELIMINARY PLAT REQUIREMENTS:
Any preliminary plat shall be prepared at a horizontal scale which shall be one
hundred feet (100') or less to the inch and at a minimum shall display or
include the following:
   A.   The proposed name of the subdivision and names of all streets within
the subdivision. No subdivision shall duplicate the name of any other
subdivision in Will County or Kendall County. No street name shall duplicate
the name of any other street in Shorewood or Troy Township or Seward Township
unless it is an extension thereof.
   B.   The names and addresses of the owner of record, the subdivider and
registered Illinois engineer and land surveyor of the subdivider.
   C.   The names of the adjacent subdivisions and the names of record owners
of abutting parcels of unplatted land.
   D.   The boundary lines, accurate in scale, of the tract to be subdivided
and its legal description.
   E.   The location, widths and names of all existing or platted streets or
other public ways within the tract or adjacent thereto and of other important
features such as, but not restricted to, the following: existing permanent
buildings, watercourses, lowlands, woodlands, limits of floodplain, wooded
areas, railroad lines, corporation lines, township lines.
   F.   The location and dimensions of existing sewers, water mains, culverts
and other underground structures and field tiles within the tract and
immediately adjacent thereto with pipe sizes and grades indicated. If water
mains and sewers are not on or adjacent to the parcel, the plat shall indicate
the direction of, distance to and size of the nearest usable facility.
   G.   A topographic map of the tract to be subdivided and extending at least
one hundred feet (100') beyond with contour intervals of one foot (1')
referenced to national geodetic vertical datum (NGVD). The location and top of
foundation elevations of all structures on all adjoining properties shall be
shown on this map.
   H.   A topographic map indicating all existing trees to be preserved and
trees to be removed together with a proposed landscape plan to be provided by
the developer as herein required.
   I.   The layout, classification, names and widths of all proposed streets,
alleys and easements; the location and approximate sizes of culverts, storm
drains and other drainage structures including overland flood routes; locations
of proposed detention/retention areas and their normal and high water
elevations and outlet locations and elevations; location and size of sanitary
sewers and water mains; the layout and dimensions of proposed lots; the
location and elevations of any proposed top of foundation elevations for all
structures on the perimeter of the subdivision.
   J.   The plat shall contain a chart giving the gross acreage, areas in
roadways and open spaces, area net of roadways and open space, and minimum lot
size. There shall be a notation on each lot stating the gross number of square
feet contained within the boundaries of the lot.
   K.   Zoning boundary lines and village limit lines, if any, along with
proposed uses of property and proposed setback lines. Zoning classifications of
the parcel and of all adjacent parcels shall be indicated.
   L.   All parcels of land intended to be dedicated or temporarily reserved
for public use or to be reserved in the deeds for the common use of property
owners in the subdivision, with the purpose, conditions or limitations of such
reservation indicated.
   M.   A north point, legend and title.
   N.   Locations of any proposed subdivision entrance signs.
   O.   Any other information required by law, regulation or policy.
   P.   The preliminary plat shall bear the following certificates for
execution by the planning and zoning commission showing its recommendation for
approval thereof and for execution by the village president and the village
clerk showing approval by the board of trustees:
      1.   The Preliminary Plat is recommended by the Village of Shorewood
Planning and Zoning Commission for approval this      day of                ,
20   .
      2.   This Preliminary Plat was approved by the Board of Trustees of the
Village of Shorewood at a meeting held on the     day of                ,
20   .
                                
   Village President  
   ATTEST:                             
      Village Clerk
(Ord. 93-721, 12-14-1993; amd. Ord. 05-1312, 9-27-2005, eff. 10-2-2005; Ord.
21-2023, 10-12-2021)
11-3-4: PRELIMINARY PLAT FILING FEE:
At the time of submittal of the preliminary plat, the village shall receive a
preliminary plat filing fee as prescribed in Section
1-7-5 of this Code. (Ord. 05-1277, 2-8-2005, eff. 4-1-2005; amd. Ord. 21-2023,
10-12-2021)
11-3-5: DISTRIBUTION OF PRELIMINARY PLATS:
Upon receipt of the complete preliminary plat application, including supporting
documents required by section
11-3-2 of this chapter, the zoning officer will establish a file for the
proposed subdivision.
   A.   The preliminary plat and all supporting documents will be placed on
file and copies of the preliminary plat drawing will be distributed to
applicable Village departments and governmental agencies.
   B.   The village engineer shall examine and check the plat for general
engineering compliance with the village subdivision ordinance and related
ordinances, including Title 12 of this Code, and conformance to required
improvements and comment on availability and capacity of the village to provide
water and sanitary sewer service.
   C.   When applicable, the superintendent of each affected school district is
asked to advise the planning and zoning commission regarding the potential
aspects for the proposed subdivision upon the school system and of any need for
a new school site within or in the vicinity of the proposed plat and the school
district’s preference for site contributions or cash in lieu of site
contributions.
   D.   When applicable, the Troy fire protection district is asked to comment
on their ability to provide fire protection and ambulance services to the
development, including the effects of its roadway design and configuration.
   E.   The village staff and all other recipients will make comments and
recommendations as they deem appropriate.
   F.   For subdivisions outside the corporate limits of the village, the Troy
Township Highway Commissioner or the Seward Township Highway Commissioner shall
determine whether the roadways and streets in the proposed subdivision conform
with the county standards for the acceptance of publicly dedicated roadways and
streets. The highway commissioner shall specifically address location, width,
grading, surface, and drainage issues.
   G.   The village staff will distribute these written comments to the
developer and his engineer so that they may make revisions and submit for
additional review, if applicable.
   H.   Once the preliminary plat has been reviewed by all applicable entities,
Village staff will forward its recommendation to the Planning and Zoning
Commission for review and recommendation.
   I.   Preliminary plat approval by the village board is required for all
proposed subdivisions within the planning jurisdiction of the village. The
village board will not act on such plats until and unless it receives a
recommendation from the planning and zoning commission.
The agenda packet for the village board will include the recommendation of the
planning and zoning commission, a copy of the preliminary plat, and staff memo.
The corporate authorities, at a public meeting, will approve or disapprove the
preliminary plat application. Approval or conditional approval of the
preliminary plat by the corporate authorities shall not qualify a plat for
recording or authorize or otherwise permit commencement of construction
improvement but is to be considered only as an approval of the general layout
of the streets, lots, sewers, drains and street cross sections as shown or as
amended. (Ord. 93-721, 12-14-1993; amd. Ord. 20-1982, 8-25-2020; Ord. 21-2023,
10-12-2021)
11-3-6: TERM OF PRELIMINARY PLAT:
Approval of the preliminary plat shall be for the term of one year from the
date of final approval thereof by the corporate authorities and the same shall
automatically terminate unless a final plat has been approved by the village
board, which such approval shall automatically extend the term of the
preliminary plat for one year from the date of the approval of each final plat
of a unit thereof. Upon written application by the owner/subdivider at least
thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of the original one year term of
preliminary plat approval and for good cause shown, the board of trustees may
extend the term of the preliminary plat for one additional period not to exceed
one year from the original expiration date. (Ord. 93-721, 12-14-1993)
CHAPTER 4
FINAL ENGINEERING PLAN AND FINAL PLAT
SECTION:
11-4-1: Final Engineering Plan and Final Plat Requirements
11-4-2: Application
11-4-3: Final Plat Of Subdivision
11-4-4: Supporting Documents
11-4-5: Variations From Preliminary Plat
11-4-6: Cost Estimate
11-4-7: Financial Surety
11-4-8: Certifications Required
11-4-9: Final Plat Filing Fee
11-4-10: Construction Plans
11-4-11: Developer’s Schedule
11-4-12: Distribution Of Engineering Plans And Final Plats
11-4-13: Reviews Of Final Plat And Final Engineering
11-4-14: Amendments To Approved Final Plats Of Subdivision
11-4-15: Completion Of Subdivision Public Improvements
11-4-16: Subdivision Surety Forfeiture
11-4-1: FINAL ENGINEERING PLAN AND FINAL PLAT REQUIREMENTS:
All development, regardless of whether a final plat is required, shall be
subject to the engineering requirements of this chapter . (Ord. 21-2023, 10-12-
2021)
11-4-2: APPLICATION:
Applications for approval of final engineering plans and final plats must be
submitted, in writing, to the Zoning Officer. A copy of the application form,
which contains the number of copies of each document to be submitted, is
available from village staff. (Ord. 21-2023, 10-12-2021)
11-4-3: FINAL PLAT OF SUBDIVISION:
Copies of the final plat of subdivision meeting the following requirements
shall be submitted to the village where applicable:
   A.   Prepared and certified by a registered Illinois land surveyor.
   B.   The original final plat shall be drawn on Mylar with waterproof,
nonfading black ink; and at a scale of not less than one hundred feet (100') to
the inch, which scale must be graphically indicated on the plat.
   C.   Contain all boundary lines with lengths of courses to hundredths of a
foot and bearing to half minutes with the boundaries determined by an accurate
field survey which shall be balanced and closed with an error of closure not to
exceed one to ten thousand (1:10,000).
   D.   Contain an accurate legal description of the parcel.
   E.   Show the exact location and width along the property line of all
existing recorded roads and streets intersecting or paralleling within two
hundred feet (200') of the boundaries of the tract.
   F.   Show true courses and bearings to at least three (3) established survey
or other official monuments, one of which monuments must be a section corner
and shall be located or accurately described on the plat. Any corporation lines
shall be accurately described, monument marked and located on the plat.
   G.   Show the accurate location and material of all permanent reference
monuments used for the plat.
   H.   Illustrate the exact subdivision layout, including:
      1.   Street line names, bearings, angles of intersection and widths,
including widths along the line of any obliquely intersecting street.
      2.   The length of all arcs, radii, points of curvature, tangent and
chord length and bearings.
      3.   All easements and rights of way, with description and limitations.
      4.   All lot lines with dimensions in feet and hundredths, and with
bearings to minutes of other than right angles to the street lines. Monument
markers required for all lot corners.
   I.   Show consecutively numbered lots and blocks as portrayed on the
preliminary plat and street addresses.
   J.   Accurately portray all property which is dedicated for public use and
all property reserved for the common use of the property owners in the
subdivision, with the purpose indicated thereon. All lands dedicated to public
use other than streets or roads shall be marked “dedicated to the public”.
Streets and roads dedicated to the public shall be marked “hereby dedicated”.
Streets and roads not dedicated shall be marked “private street”.
   K.   Show all utility, drainage, access, or no access and other easements.
   L.   If the subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, channel, stream or
creek, the proper or present location of such watercourse, channel, stream or
creek must be indicated. In the event the subdivision borders or includes water
in which the United States or the state has any property rights or other
interest, approval by the appropriate governmental entities shall be obtained
before presentation of the plat to the Planning And Zoning Commission. In
addition, any land lying within a special flood hazard area as identified by
the federal emergency management agency shall be so labeled. If any subdivision
accesses a county, state or township highway, the approval by the appropriate
governmental entity shall be required before presentation of the plat to the
Planning And Zoning Commission.
   M.   Name of subdivision must be clearly shown.
   N.   The names and addresses of the owner of record, the subdivider, the
registered Illinois land surveyor and engineer must be indicated.
   O.   Include the north point and date of plat preparation and date(s) of any
revisions.
   P.   For those subdivisions within the corporate limits, a statement that
all public improvements including, but not limited to, streets, lighting, storm
sewers, sanitary sewers, water mains and rights of way are hereby offered for
dedication to the village.
   Q.   Certificates required to be attached to the final plat shall include
and be in the form as provided by this title and attached as exhibit E.
   R.   Provide an independent table indicating all lot areas in square feet.
   S.   All lettering on the plat shall not be less than Leroy lettering
template one hundred (100) or equivalent.
   T.   Provide by independent documents all protective and restrictive
covenants, if any.
   U.   Provide all such other information as may from time to time be required
by statute or other governmental regulations. (Ord. 93-721, 12-14-1993; amd.
Ord. 97-887, 11-25-1997; Ord. 07-1436, 9-11-2007; Ord. 21-2023, 10-12-2021)
11-4-4: SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS:
At the time of final plat and/or final engineering plan submittal, engineering
plans, data and drawings, including drainage profile study, grading plan, cross
sections, and details and calculations and other supporting data for all
improvements as may be reasonably required by the village engineer for his
review shall be submitted. The developer shall provide the village printed
copies of the approved engineering plans as well as electronic (.pdf) files.
(Ord. 05-1312, 9-27-2005, eff. 10-2-2005; amd. Ord. 21-2023, 10-12-2021)
11-4-5: VARIATIONS FROM PRELIMINARY PLAT:
A letter from the developer or its engineer to the Planning and Zoning
Commission, shall be submitted detailing any and all variations of the proposed
final plat and engineering data from the approved preliminary plat and
engineering data. (Ord. 93-721, 12-14-1993; amd. Ord. 21-2023, 10-12-2021)
11-4-6: COST ESTIMATE:
Prior to village board approval, an estimate from the developer’s engineer of
all costs of all public improvements for the subdivision shall be submitted to
the village engineer for his review and determination of required surety. (Ord.
93-721, 12-14-1993; amd. Ord. 21-2023, 10-12-2021)
11-4-7: FINANCIAL SURETY:
   A.   Time Of Submittal: Before the village president and the village clerk
sign the final plat, the developer shall submit Financial surety as described
herein.
   B.   Amount And Form: The financial surety shall be in the amount of one
hundred twenty five percent (125%) of the total costs of all the subdivision
improvements as determined by the village engineer together with all of the
required dedications and village fees, costs and expenses through the
completion of the subdivision and approval by the village board and shall run
for a minimum period of two (2) years from the date of the recordation of the
final plat and shall be renewed as required until the acceptance of the public
improvements by the village. The financial surety shall be in a form acceptable
to the village.
   C.   Reduction Of Surety Upon Partial Completion: The amount of the surety
may be reduced as the improvements are partially completed and approved by the
village engineer, in accordance with the following procedure:
      1.   From time to time during the course of construction, but not more
often than once each month, the developer may request the village engineer to
inspect the construction work completed to that date, and the village engineer
shall use his best efforts to make such inspection within seven (7) days after
the request.
      2.   The request to inspect shall be accompanied by a certification
prepared by the developer’s engineer and stating the work completed, his
estimate of the dollar value of the work completed to the date of the request
and since the developer’s engineer’s last certification and that the work has
been completed in a good and workmanlike manner and in compliance with the
approved plans, specifications, and ordinances.
      3.   The request for inspection shall also be accompanied by a
certification from the developer’s engineer of his estimate of the cost to
complete the remaining balance of the improvements, with the estimated dollar
value of the improvements completed and the estimated cost to complete the
remaining improvements on a form and in a manner reasonably acceptable to the
village engineer.
      4.   The request for inspection shall further be accompanied by a sworn
contractor’s statement and appropriate lien waivers showing that all work in
place and for which a reduction in the surety is requested has been fully paid
for or that all mechanic’s or other liens have been waived.
      5.   Upon receipt of the required documentation, the village engineer
shall conduct his inspection and certify to the village and to the financial
institution issuing any commitment of funds the dollar value of the work
completed to the date of the request for inspection and since the last village
engineer’s certification, provided the village engineer finds that the work has
been completed in a good and workmanlike manner and in compliance with the
approved plans, specifications, and ordinances, that no mechanic’s or other
liens will attach to the subject property or to any property of the village as
a result of the installation of the improvements and that the developer’s
engineer’s estimate of the dollar value of the work completed and the cost to
complete the remaining improvements are reasonable. Based upon these findings,
the village engineer may approve a reduction in the surety by an amount not in
excess of ninety percent (90%) of the value certified by the village engineer
of the completed work, so long as the balance remaining in the surety is at
least equal to one hundred twenty five percent (125%) of the cost to complete
the remaining improvements plus retentions for completed work and engineering,
inspection and testing fees for the engineers of the developer and the village
to inspect the improvements remaining to be completed.
   D.   Release Of The Surety Upon Completion: Upon final completion of all the
improvements, the acceptance by the village of the subdivision, completion of
the landscaping and posting of any required warranty or maintenance surety, the
then remaining balance of the surety shall be released and returned, provided
all fees and costs due and owing to the village are fully paid pursuant to all
ordinances applicable to the subject property.
   E.   Return Of Excess Proceeds After Default: In the event of default and
the draw upon the cash deposit or commitment of funds, should any of the surety
funds remain in the possession of the village after all of the improvements
have been completed in a good and workmanlike manner and in accordance with the
approved plans, specifications, and ordinances, the subdivision accepted, all
warranty or maintenance obligations satisfied and all fees, costs and expenses
of the village, including reasonable attorney fees, engineering fees,
consultant fees or out of pocket expenses incurred in completing the
improvements, in releasing liens thereon, in paying for work completed prior to
default are paid or other costs incurred as a result of the default of the
developer, then any remaining balance shall be paid to the developer, subject
to any claim to said funds exerted by any financial institution issuing any
commitment of funds given as surety. (Ord. 93-721, 12-14-1993; amd. Ord. 07-
1436, 9-11-2007; Ord. 21-2023, 10-12-2021)
11-4-8: CERTIFICATIONS REQUIRED:
The plat must contain all relevant certificates as prescribed by the Zoning
Officer. (Ord. 93-721, 12-14-1993; amd. Ord. 21-2023, 10-12-2021)
11-4-9: FINAL PLAT FILING FEE:
At the time of submittal of the final plat, the village shall receive a final
plat filing fee as prescribed in section
1-7-5 of this Code. (Ord. 05-1277, 2-8-2005, eff. 4-1-2005; amd. Ord. 21-2023,
10-12-2021)
11-4-10: CONSTRUCTION PLANS:
Construction plans for improvements to be installed shall be first approved by
the village engineer. Where a final plat is needed, all construction plans must
be approved concurrent with final plat approval by the village board prior to
construction of any improvement. Construction plans shall include:
   A.   The plan and profile for each proposed street.
   B.   Typical cross section of each proposed street, showing the width of
pavement and the location and width of sidewalks.
   C.   The plans and profiles of proposed water mains, sanitary sewers and
storm sewers or, in lieu of central sanitary sewer or storm sewers and if
previously approved in conjunction of the preliminary plat, the alternate
method of sanitary or storm water disposal.
   D.   An overall utility plan showing water mains and sanitary sewers,
including manholes and valves.
   E.   A final overall grading and drainage plan providing for adequate
disposition of natural storm water runoff. The grading plan shall be at a
minimum scale of one inch equals fifty feet (1" = 50'), but shall not exceed a
scale of one inch equals twenty feet (1" = 20'). All storm sewers, structures,
ditches, watercourses and limits of any wetlands, floodplains and floodways
shall be shown. Elevations for all major and minor drainage system swales as
required by the Shorewood storm water management regulations 1  shall be noted
and graded to provide adequate drainage from all lots and tributary areas.
Arrows drawn along all lot lines shall show the direction of drainage flow. The
top of the foundation shall be shown by a NGVD elevation. The foundation
elevation shall be noted inside the symbol for the structure location on the
lot. Where there is more than one foundation level for the structure, the
elevation for the lowest foundation level shall be shown. The foundation
elevation shall be such that the lot drainage is designed to run away from the
top of the foundation. In the event that conditions dictate that some parts of
the lot be higher than the structure foundation, the grading plan will show
specific drainage configurations for the lot specifying that all drainage is
directed away from the foundation. Swales shall have a minimum of one percent
(1%) grade if one lot is surface drained. Swales draining two (2) or more lots
shall have a minimum of one and one-half percent (11/2%) grade. The top of
foundation shall be set in accord with the Shorewood storm water management
regulations. The grading plan shall also show any proposed mass grading or
regrading of lots which is proposed for the development. The intent of these
elevations shall be to provide positive drainage away from all buildings and to
avoid concentration of storm water drainage from each lot to adjacent lots. In
addition, the grading plan must show:
      1.   Each lot should have at least six (6) proposed grade points as
follows shown in NGVD elevations:
         a.   Each lot corner.
         b.   Side yard break points and/or for side yard swales with no
breakpoint within the foundation area (30 to 70 feet from the front lot line),
a spot grade point on the side lot line fifty feet (50') back of the front lot
line. Side yard break points shall be dimensioned from the nearest lot corner.
The foundation area spot grade shall be a minimum of six inches (6") below the
building pad elevation.
         c.   Where the back yard slopes towards the house, a spot grade with
drainage arrows shall be provided to show how runoff is to be directed around
the house.
      2.   Street curb lines should be shown.
      3.   Top of curb grades should be provided for each lot line extended.
      4.   Roadway centerline grades should be shown at each station and at all
summits and low points.
      5.   All storm sewers with inlet rim grades should be shown.
      6.   Lot number for each lot.
      7.   All drainage easements, floodway limits, floodplain limits.
   F.   Plan and details of storm water management facilities and structures
conforming to the requirements of the Shorewood storm water management
regulations.
   G.   A soil erosion control plan providing for the adequate control of
erosion and sedimentation and conforming to the requirements of the Shorewood
storm water management regulations. The plan shall show proposed temporary and
permanent control practices and measures which will be implemented during all
phases of development including clearing, grading, and construction operations.
The plan shall comply with the green book. The developer shall not be relieved
from providing additional or revised erosion and sedimentation control during
construction as may become necessary as determined by the village during
construction.
   H.   Certificates signed by the owner/developer and an Illinois registered
professional engineer, that the development plans and specifications conform
with all state and village requirements including those for drainage of surface
waters in accordance with the Illinois plat act.
   I.   Locations and details of street lighting facilities. (Ord. 93-721, 12-
14-1993; amd. Ord. 05-1312, 9-27-2005, eff. 10-2-2005; Ord. 21-2023, 10-12-
2021)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 12, chapter 2 of this code.
11-4-11: DEVELOPER’S SCHEDULE:
At the time of final plat submittal, the developer shall submit a construction
schedule showing by number of days after final plat approval by the village
board the completion schedule of the following items:
   A.   Mass grading.
   B.   Street construction.
   C.   Sanitary storm sewer, water line installation.
   D.   Installation of curbs and gutters.
   E.   Installation of bituminous binder course.
   F.   Installation of fire hydrants.
   G.   Installation of streetlights.
   H.   Completion of final subdivision grading.
   I.   Installation of all other utilities including telephone, electric,
natural gas and cable TV.
   J.   Anticipated date for request of issuance of first building permits.
(Ord. 93-721, 12-14-1993; amd Ord. 21-2023, 10-12-2021)
11-4-12: DISTRIBUTION OF ENGINEERING PLANS AND FINAL PLATS:
Immediately upon receipt of the complete final plat package, including
supporting documents required herein, the final plat and all supporting
documents will be placed on file and copies will be distributed to applicable
Village departments and governmental agencies. (Ord. 93-721, 12-14-1993; amd.
Ord. 20-1982, 8-25-2020; Ord. 21-2023, 10-12-2021)
11-4-13: REVIEWS OF FINAL PLAT AND FINAL ENGINEERING:
   A.   Review By Village Engineer: The Village Engineer will review the final
plat drawing, engineering data, specifications and drawings, lot grading plans,
foundation elevation plans and supporting documents and will render a written
report to the Village staff. All variations from the preliminary plat will be
noted. The Village Engineer will state that he finds the final plat, as
submitted to be either:
      1.   Satisfactory, in which case the report will:
         a.   Address any acceptable variances from the preliminary plat.
         b.   State that the technical details have been reviewed and found
satisfactory.
         c.   List any and all permits which the developer must obtain
including from the Will County or Kendall County Health Department, Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency, Illinois Department of Transportation, Will
County or Kendall County Highway Department, Township Highway Commissioner or
other agencies as may be necessary.
      2.   Unsatisfactory, in which case the report will include the reasons
why it is unsatisfactory. Recommendations regarding minor changes which, if
made, would render the proposed plat satisfactory, are desired, if appropriate.
Unacceptable variations from the preliminary plat will be noted. The Village
Engineer is not expected to redesign the subdivision.
   B.   Review By Zoning Officer: The zoning officer will review the final plat
drawing and will render a written report. The report will address any and all
variations from the preliminary plat and include the zoning officer’s opinion
regarding the acceptability of the variations and the plat’s conformity with
the Village’s Comprehensive Plan 1 , Zoning Ordinance 2 , Subdivision Ordinance
3 , other applicable ordinances and good planning principles, noting any
variations therefrom. The report will state that the planning consultant finds
the final plat and/or final engineering, as submitted to be:
      1.   Satisfactory.
      2.   Unsatisfactory, in which case the report will include reasons why
the plat is unsatisfactory. If minor changes will result in a satisfactory
plat, these will be recommended. The zoning officer is not expected to redesign
the subdivision.
   C.   Review By Village Staff: The proposed final plat will be reviewed by
the Village Engineer, Zoning Officer, the Public Works Director, and such other
persons as deemed necessary. A written report will be prepared including all
comments by the Village staff and Village Engineer. This report together with
all other reports required herein will be distributed to the Planning and
Zoning Commission.
   D.   Review By Planning and Zoning Commission:
      1.   The Planning and Zoning Commission will conduct a public meeting to
review and discuss the final plat of subdivision at its next regularly
scheduled meeting which convenes at least four (4) weeks after receipt by the
Village staff of the completed final plat package. The written reports
submitted by those listed herein, will be considered at the meeting, as will
written and oral comments from the public. The Planning and Zoning Commission
will, through its chairperson, make one of the following written
recommendations to the Board of Trustees:
         a.   Approval.
         b.   Approval with alterations, in which case the exact nature of the
alterations shall be included in the report. Furthermore, the final plat
presented to the Board of Trustees must include all alterations upon which the
Planning and Zoning Commission’s recommendation is based.
         c.   Disapproval, listing reasons.
      2.   The commission’s recommendation shall be distributed to the elected
body with meeting agenda packets. A copy of the commission’s recommendation
should also be sent to the developer and his engineer.
   E.   Village Board: The village board will, during a public meeting,
consider the final plat and the recommendation of the planning and zoning
commission. The chairperson of the planning and zoning commission, in his or
her role as trustee, shall at the appropriate time, move to approve or
disapprove the final plat as presented. Once the motion is seconded and after
discussion, the village board will, by roll call vote, approve or disapprove
the final plat as presented.
      1.   Approval: Before submittal and approval of financial surety by the
village, the original (Mylar) will be signed by the chairperson of the planning
and zoning commission. Such approval shall not constitute acceptance, by the
village, of any public improvements whether completed or planned. Such action
shall be accomplished separately in accordance with this title.
      2.   Nonapproval: If the village board votes not to approve a final plat,
the village shall notify the developer and his engineer, in writing, of the
disapproval. Such notification may include reasons and, if appropriate,
recommendations. The developer may abandon the plat or make amendments to it.
An amended plat must be submitted and reviewed in the same manner as the
original plat and in accordance with this title, except that documents
submitted with the original that apply equally to the amended plat need not be
resubmitted. Action on the amended plat shall be in accordance with this title.
(Ord. 93-721, 12-14-1993; amd. Ord. 97-887, 11-25-1997; Ord. 20-1982, 8-25-
2020; Ord. 21-2023, 10-12-2021)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 9 of this Code.
2 2. See Title 10 of this Code.
3 3. See Title 11 of this Code.
11-4-14: AMENDMENTS TO APPROVED FINAL PLATS OF SUBDIVISION:
In the event that any developer or subdivider requests any modifications of a
previously approved final plat of subdivision, the developer shall, as a
condition to Planning And Zoning Commission and village board consideration of
the proposed modifications submit to the village:
   A.   The final plat as originally approved.
   B.   Record drawings showing the existing condition of all areas within the
subdivision affected by such requested amendments as certified by the
developer’s engineer.
   C.   The plat of the subdivision or unit thereof previously approved as
requested to be amended by the developer. Revisions of any amendments to a
final plat shall be in conformance with the final plat revision provisions of
this title.
   D.   Any other materials that the village requests. (Ord. 93-721, 12-14-
1993; amd. Ord. 21-2023, 10-12-2021)
11-4-15: COMPLETION OF SUBDIVISION PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
Except for roadway final surface course, sidewalks and parkway trees, all other
subdivision required public improvements shall be fully constructed and
completed within one year from the recordation of the approved final plat of
subdivision. All sidewalks and parkway trees shall be installed in accordance
with this code. For residential developments, the final road surface course
shall not be installed before house construction is completed on seventy five
percent (75%) of the lots but shall be installed not later than two (2) years
from the installation of binder course pavement. (Ord. 10-1587, 7-13-2010; amd.
Ord. 21-2023, 10-12-2021)
11-4-16: SUBDIVISION SURETY FORFEITURE:
In the event that all public improvements and all other contributions required
are not fully completed or made within the time limitations for subdivisions as
set forth by village ordinance or otherwise required by agreement, the surety
shall be forfeited. (Ord. 10-1587, 7-13-2010; amd. Ord. 21-2023, 10-12-2021)
CHAPTER 5
SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENT SPECIFICATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
11-5-1: Utilities to be Underground
11-5-2: Improvement Requirements
11-5-3: Oversize Improvements
11-5-4: Soil Testing
11-5-1: UTILITIES TO BE UNDERGROUND:
All utilities, including those on the perimeter of the development, must be
installed underground. Prior to installation of public utilities, the
developer’s engineer shall certify that all public utility easements are to
rough grade and are suitable and ready for installation of all the utilities.
After installation of utilities, the easement areas shall be restored to final
grade and seeded with grass as soon as practicable. (Ord. 93-721, 12-14-93;
amd. Ord. 21-2023, 10-12-2021)
11-5-2: IMPROVEMENT REQUIREMENTS:
All roadways, sidewalks and other surface improvements shall be constructed in
accordance with the then current editions of the Illinois Department of
Transportation's "Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction",
and "Highway Design Manual" and the requirements of this Title, whichever are
more restrictive. All sanitary sewers, storm sewers, and water mains shall be
constructed in accordance with the then current edition of "Standard
Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois" and the
requirements of this Title, whichever are more restrictive. (Ord. 93-721, 12-
14-93)
11-5-3: OVERSIZE IMPROVEMENTS:
Whenever it is deemed to be in the best interest of the Village, the Village
may require certain improvements be made of a greater size than is necessary to
serve that particular subdivision. Such improvements may include but are not
limited to: sewer and water pumps, mains, lines, storage or distribution
facilities, streets and roadways, and public utility facilities. Factors
relevant to the Village's best interest include but are not limited to:
   A.   The likelihood of future subdivision growth; and
   B.   Proximity to existing or planned development; and
   C.   Density of the subdivision; and
   D.   Industrial, commercial or residential character of the subdivision; and
   E.   Geographic, topographic or hydrologic peculiarities within the
subdivision or its immediate vicinity; and
   F.   The general health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of Shorewood.
(Ord. 93-721, 12-14-93)
11-5-4: SOIL TESTING:
All soils and materials testing and consulting required by these regulations
shall be performed by an Illinois licensed, registered professional engineer at
no cost to the Village. (Ord. 93-721, 12-14-93)
CHAPTER 6
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
11-6-1: Site Construction
11-6-2: Building and Occupancy Permits
11-6-3: Record Drawings
11-6-4: Developer’s Warranties and Surety for Public Improvements
11-6-5: Monuments
11-6-6: Dedication and Transfer/Conveyance of Public Improvements
11-6-7: Acceptance of the Dedication of Public Improvements
11-6-1: SITE CONSTRUCTION:
At least two (2) business days prior to starting any of the work covered by the
plans approved as provided in this Title, the developer shall arrange with the
Village Engineer for inspection of the work and public improvements in the
development, to insure compliance. Failure to timely notify the Village
Engineer may result in work stoppage, dismantling or uncovering of
installations. Prior to any work on the site, the developer shall designate, in
writing, to the Village and the Village Engineer, the name, address, home,
office pager and cellular telephone number of at least two (2) field
representatives, one of whom must be readily available whenever construction
and/or testing is taking place. (Ord. 93-721, 12-14-93)
11-6-2: BUILDING AND OCCUPANCY PERMITS:
   A.   The public improvements, including the water mains, sanitary sewers,
the entire above and below ground storm drainage system including detention/
retention areas, curb and gutter and binder roadway surface course as required
by this Title must be fully completed, certified as correctly installed and in
conformance with the subdivision plans and specifications by the developer's
engineer and inspected and approved by the Village for each separate phase or
unit of a development prior to the issuance of any occupancy permits for any
buildings in any such phase or unit. The issuance of building and/or occupancy
permits does not constitute acceptance of any public improvements by the
Village. No occupancy permits shall be issued by the Village until operating
permits for water and sewer have been approved and issued by the Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency.
   B.   If building permits are requested for buildings in any phase or unit
prior to the completion of the above listed public improvements, the builder
and/or developer must:
      1.   Secure a permit from the Village for a temporary road to serve the
building or buildings under construction. The roadway must be a minimum of
twenty feet (20') in width and constructed of crushed stone aggregate to a
minimum compacted depth of eight inches (8"). The temporary road must include a
stabilized construction entrance. The temporary road shall not encroach upon
the permanent roadway. The road must be kept in good repair during the entire
period of construction of the building or buildings. If at any time the Village
Engineer is of the opinion that the roadway does not meet the requirements
stated above, construction will be halted.
      2.   No installation of combustible materials shall be commenced until
water mains for the entire phase have been installed and the Village has
certified that they are in proper working order and can be utilized for fire
fighting purposes. Prior to the completion of the water improvements and the
certification by the Village, only foundation permits may be issued for any
phase or unit in accordance with all the requirements in this Code.
      3.   No service connections shall be made to any of the above listed
public improvements until the improvements have been approved by the Village
for operation.
      4.   In a residential development the public improvements, including the
water mains, sanitary sewers, and entire above and below ground storm drainage
systems including detention and retention areas, curb and gutter and binder
roadway surface course, and any approved landscaping must be fully completed
for each separate phase or unit of a phased development prior to the issuance
of any building permits for buildings in any subsequent phase or unit.
      5.   Prior to the issuance of any foundation or building permits when the
public improvements listed above have not been completed and accepted, the
developer must provide the Village staff with an installation schedule for
these public improvements. The developer will then be required to adhere to
this schedule unless unusual circumstances are encountered. If the developer
fails to adhere to the schedule, the Village may complete the public
improvements utilizing the financial surety submitted by the developer in
accordance with escrow agreement required by the subdivision regulations. (Ord.
93-721, 12-14-93; amd. Ord. 21-2023, 10-12-2021)
11-6-3: RECORD DRAWINGS:
Prior to acceptance of any dedication, the developer shall provide the Village
with printed copies and AutoCAD files of record drawings including location and
depth of all water mains and storm and sanitary sewers and location of water
and sewer services tied to fire hydrants and downstream manholes. (Ord. 93-721,
12-14-93; amd. Ord. 20-1982, 8-25-2020; Ord. 21-2023, 10-12-2021)
11-6-4: DEVELOPER’S WARRANTIES AND SURETY FOR PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
As a condition to subdividing and/or developing land in the village, the
developer specifically agrees and warrants to the village that all work shall
specifically conform to the final plat of subdivision and supporting documents
submitted to and approved by the village.
   A.   Warranty Period: The developer specifically warrants all public
improvements dedicated to and accepted by the village for a period of two (2)
years after village acceptance of the dedication of all public improvements.
The developer specifically warrants to the village that all materials were of
highest grade and quality, that all of such improvements were correctly and
completely installed in conformance with the approved final subdivision plat,
supporting final plat documents and village standards, and that all dedicated
improvements are free from all liens and encumbrances. The developer agrees
that during the two (2) year warranty period, it will correct all defects or
deficiencies in such public improvements as determined solely by the village.
   B.   Warranty Surety: As additional surety and as a condition for the
village’s acceptance of the dedication of all public improvements, the
developer shall post financial surety with a minimum of a two (2) year term
with an institution or company in a form solely acceptable to the village in
the amount of fifteen percent (15%) of the cost of all such public
improvements. This surety may be called upon by the village as an additional
remedy in the event the developer fails to fully perform warranty work required
under this title. The financial surety shall be in a form acceptable to the
village. (Ord. 07-1436, 9-11-2007; amd. Ord. 21-2023, 10-12-2021)
11-6-5: MONUMENTS:
A minimum of three (3) permanent monuments shall be placed at corners of the
subdivision. Each permanent monument shall consist of a steel bar not less than
one-half inch (1/2") in diameter and thirty six inches (36") in length, encased
in a concrete cylinder at least four inches (4") in diameter and thirty six
inches (36") in depth so that the top of the steel bar is flush with the
surface and at the center of the monument. All lot corners, angles in the
boundaries of the land platted, intersections of the lines of streets or
alleys, and intersections of the lines of streets or alleys with the boundaries
of the plat not marked by concrete monuments shall be marked by galvanized or
wrought iron pipe or iron or steel bars at least eighteen inches (18") in
length and not less than one-half inch (1/2") in diameter. The top of the pipe
or bar is to be set level with the established grade of the ground. All NGVD
state, county, village or other official benchmarks, monuments or triangulation
stations in or adjacent to the property shall be preserved in their precise
position. (Ord. 93-721, 12-14-1993)
11-6-6: DEDICATION AND TRANSFER/CONVEYANCE OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
Unless expressly requested otherwise, upon completion and full approval by the
village of the public improvements required by this title, the owner/developer
shall cause all right, title and interest in said improvements including, but
not limited to, water and sanitary sewer mains, streets, street lighting,
parkways, storm sewers and, if requested by the village, storm water management
facilities to be dedicated to the village by proper instruments to be approved
by the village attorney. All dedications shall be at no expense to the village.
The village attorney shall notify the village administrator, in writing, when
such conveyance has been accomplished. (Ord. 93-721, 12-14-1993)
11-6-7: ACCEPTANCE OF THE DEDICATION OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
Upon completion of all required improvements, the developer must arrange an
inspection of the improvements by the village and the village engineer. If, at
the time of the inspection, items are found that are not completed or
acceptable, the developer shall complete or correct the improvements to the
satisfaction of the village. Prior to acceptance of the dedication of all
public improvements, all required record drawings must be submitted to the
village by the developer and approved. The village engineer must submit a
written recommendation to the village board after all improvements have been
made. The village board must pass a written resolution before any improvements
dedicated can be officially accepted into the village. (Ord. 93-721, 12-14-
1993)
CHAPTER 7
PRINCIPLES OF DESIGN AND MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS FOR LAYOUT OF SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
11-7-1: Subdivision Layout
11-7-1: SUBDIVISION LAYOUT:
The subdivision layout shall conform to the comprehensive plan of the village
(plan) 1 :
   A.   Whenever a tract to be subdivided embraces any part of a major arterial
or major collector street, so designated on said plan, such part of such public
way shall be platted by the subdivider considering the location and the width
indicated on the plan.
   B.   Where a proposed park, playground, school site or other public area
shown on any park and playground plan or the Comprehensive Plan is located in
whole or in part within the proposed subdivision, such proposed public ground
or park, if not dedicated to the village, board of education, county, or other
governmental entity, shall be reserved for acquisition by the village, board of
education, county, or other governmental entity within a period of one year
following the date of approval.
   C.   Allowance for open space within the proposed subdivision.
   D.   The street layout of the subdivision shall be in general conformity
with a plan for the most advantageous development of adjoining areas and the
entire neighborhood.
      1.   Where appropriate to the design, proposed streets shall be
continuous and in alignment with existing planned or platted streets with which
they are to connect.
      2.   Unless the village determines to the contrary, proposed streets
shall be extended to the boundary lines of the tract to be subdivided.
      3.   Cul-de-sac (dead end) streets shall not exceed five hundred feet
(500') in length with not more than fifteen (15) single- family residential
lots fronting the street.
   E.   Proposed streets shall intersect one another as nearly at right angles
as topography and other limiting factors of good design permit.
   F.   Wherever a common law dedicated or platted half width street or alley
exists adjacent to the tract to be subdivided, such street or alley must be
constructed and completed with the full width and in conformance with village
ordinances. If any existing pavement is to remain, the entire width shall be
overlaid. The subdivider shall pay for such improvement.
   G.   At a minimum, the rear ten feet (10') of all lots shall be reserved as
a public utility and drainage easement. Easements for utilities or drainage
also shall be provided at such other locations required by the village or its
franchised utilities. Easements for major open drainage channels shall include
the channel and shall include an additional thirty foot (30') wide easement
from the top of the channel bank on at least one side of the channel for
maintenance access. The width of easements for water mains, sanitary and storm
sewers shall be as follows:
      1.   Pipes of twenty four inches (24") or less: Ten feet (10').
      2.   Pipes in excess of twenty four inches (24"): Four (4) times the
nominal pipe diameter of the largest pipe size.
   H.   Lands contemplated for residential development which abut railroads,
major arterials and major collector streets or which abut lands in
nonresidential zoning districts existing or so designated by the plan may be
platted if appropriate when interference with traffic such as accident hazards
can be minimized. This may be accomplished in the village's sole discretion
considering topography and other physical conditions, the character of existing
and contemplated developments and these additional factors:
      1.   The lots abutting such traffic ways or existing or future
nonresidential zoning districts shall be at least ten feet (10') greater in
depth or width (the dimension normal to such traffic way or zoning district)
than otherwise required.
      2.   No lot shall front on a major arterial or major collector street.
Lots may front on a parallel local street where the front of the lot faces such
local street. All such lots shall have a depth of at least one hundred fifty
feet (150') between the major street and the local street. All homes shall be
oriented to a local street.
      3.   Protective screen planting, berming and/or fencing may be required
to secure a reasonably effective physical barrier between residential
properties and adjoining uses, railroads and major streets in order to minimize
adverse sight and sound conditions. The screen planting or fencing shall be in
accordance with the requirements of the village and must be maintained in good
condition by the lot owner.
   I.   Blocks shall have sufficient width to provide for two (2) tiers of lots
of appropriate depth.
      1.   The lengths of blocks shall be such as, in the opinion of the
village board, are appropriate for the locality and the type of development
contemplated, but shall not exceed one thousand five hundred feet (1,500')
where the average size of lots does not exceed two (2) acres in area.
      2.   The number of intersecting streets with a major street shall be held
to a minimum. Whenever practicable, blocks along such major streets shall not
be less than one thousand two hundred feet (1,200') in length.
   J.   Lots:
      1.   The size, shape and orientation of lots shall be appropriate for the
location of the proposed subdivision and for the type of development
contemplated, provided that no residential lot shall contain less than the
minimum square footage as required by village zoning ordinance 2 .
      2.   Excessive depth in relation to width shall be avoided, with a two to
one (2:1) ratio as a general guideline.
      3.   Every lot shall abut a street and shall conform to minimum required
zoning width at the minimum building setback line.
      4.   Lots for single-family residential purposes shall meet the village
zoning ordinance 3  requirements, except that the cul-de-sac lots may be
seventy five percent (75%) of the normal lot width requirement at the street
right of way line.
      5.   Double frontage lots shall not be platted, except as permitted in
subsection H of this section.
      6.   Side lot lines shall be approximately at right angles to the right
of way of the street on which the lot abuts.
      7.   Corner residential lots shall be larger than interior lots to
provide for a thirty foot (30') corner side or front yard abutting the street
in lieu of the normal required side yard.
      8.   Residential lots abutting on major streets shall have a minimum
setback distance of at least ten feet (10') greater than otherwise required for
the yard abutting the thoroughfare or major street. (Ord. 93-721, 12-14-1993;
amd. Ord. 05-1312, 9-27-2005, eff. 10-2-2005; Ord. 21-2023, 10-12-2021)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9 of this code.
2 1. See title 10 of this code.
3 2. See title 10 of this code.
CHAPTER 8
ROADWAY, STREET AND SIDEWALK IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
11-8-1: Street Grades, Curves And Sight Distances
11-8-2: Intersections
11-8-3: Right Of Way Widths
11-8-4: Pavement Widths
11-8-5: Curbs And Gutters
11-8-6: Roadway And Street Composition
11-8-7: Sidewalks And Parkways
11-8-8: Street Lighting
11-8-9: Street Trees
11-8-10: Street Signs
11-8-11: Mailboxes
11-8-1: STREET GRADES, CURVES AND SIGHT DISTANCES:
   A.   The minimum grades of streets shall be not less than five- tenths of
one percent (0.5%) nor exceed the following except where topography
necessitates:
      1.   Major streets: Four percent (4%).
      2.   Collector streets: Six percent (6%).
      3.   Local streets and service drives: Seven percent (7%).
      4.   Pedestrianways or crosswalks: Built pursuant to federal and state
standards and for handicap access. (Ord. 93-721, 12-14-1993)
   B.   All changes in street grades in excess of one and one-fourth percent
(1.25%) shall be connected by vertical curves. Minimum length in feet of these
curves shall provide a sight distance of not less than three hundred feet
(300') measured from an eye level four feet (4') high, with a clear view of an
obstacle not over two feet (2') high. The minimum length of a vertical curve
shall be as required by the village engineer. (Ord. 05-1312, 9-27-2005, eff.
10-2-2005)
   C.   The radii of curvature on the centerline shall not be less than the
following: (Ord. 93-721, 12-14-1993)
      1.   Major arterials: Four hundred feet (400'). (Ord. 05-1312, 9-27-2005,
eff. 10-2-2005)
      2.   Collector streets: Three hundred feet (300').
      3.   Local streets and service drives: One hundred fifty feet (150').
(Ord. 93-721, 12-14-1993)
11-8-2: INTERSECTIONS:
   A.   Street curb intersections shall be rounded by radii of at least twenty
feet (20') where local streets intersect with other local streets in
residential districts and shall be at least twenty five feet (25') at any
intersection with any other street of higher classification or in any
nonresidential zoning district.
   B.   The above minimum radii shall be increased when the smallest angle of
intersection is less than sixty degrees (60°). (Ord. 93-721, 12-14-1993)
11-8-3: RIGHT OF WAY WIDTHS:
   A.   Right of way widths shall be as shown on the standard construction
details.
   B.   All cul-de-sac streets shall terminate in a circular turnaround having
a minimum right of way diameter of one hundred twenty feet (120'). (Ord. 05-
1312, 9-27-2005, eff. 10-2-2005)
11-8-4: PAVEMENT WIDTHS:
Pavement widths shall be as shown in the standard construction details. The
pavement of a turning circle at the end of a dead end street shall have a
minimum outside diameter of ninety feet (90') measured between the backs of
curbs. (Ord. 05-1312, 9-27-2005, eff. 10-2-2005)
11-8-5: CURBS AND GUTTERS:
Curbs and gutters are required on all streets. Curbs and gutters shall be as
shown in the standard construction details. (Ord. 05-1312, 9-27-2005, eff. 10-
2-2005)
11-8-6: ROADWAY AND STREET COMPOSITION:
The design and construction of streets in the village shall be, at minimum, in
accordance with the standard construction details. These are minimum
requirements, and if soil or other conditions warrant, then the requirements
may be more restrictive.
   A.   Prerequisite To Street Construction: Before the base course of the
roadway pavement is laid, all of the underground work such as sewer, water and
gas mains, house service connections therewith, and any underground conduits or
wires for electric or telephone shall be completely installed in place and the
installation approved by the village engineer. The roadway pavement shall not
be laid until the backfilling of all trenches dug for the installation of the
aforementioned utility services has been completely settled or compacted to the
satisfaction of the village. In the alternative three (3) 4-inch PVC schedule
40 tubes, three feet (3') deep, extended six feet (6') beyond the back of curb
shall be installed at all locations approved in writing by the utility
companies and cable TV franchisee. Wooden two by four (2 x 4) stakes, painted
white shall be placed at the ends of the tubes for easy location.
   B.   Prerequisite To Building Construction: For flexible pavement streets
the bituminous binder course shall be in place prior to the opening of the
street to traffic.
   C.   Prerequisite For Final Surface Course: Before the surface course of the
roadway pavement is laid, all depressions in the binder course shall be
properly filled and brought to the required grade so as to create a level
surface. The final surface course shall not be installed until the binder
course has been in place for one winter season and the requirements of section
11-4-13 of this title are met.
   D.   Testing: The village reserves the right to require that borings be
taken and other tests performed by the developer.
   E.   Portland Cement Concrete Pavement: Portland cement concrete pavement
(PCC pavement) will also be permitted for roadway pavements. PCC pavement shall
be designed in accordance with the "Illinois Department Of Transportation
Standard Specifications Design Manual". Minimum thickness of PCC pavements
shall be six inches (6"). (Ord. 05-1312, 9-27-2005, eff. 10-2-2005)
11-8-7: SIDEWALKS AND PARKWAYS:
Sidewalks shall be constructed on both sides of every street, including cul-de-
sac streets. Sidewalks shall have a minimum thickness of five inches (5") and
shall be five feet (5') wide. If a building permit has been issued within two
(2) years of the recording of the final plat, the sidewalk must be installed
within twelve (12) months of the issuance of the building permit. On lots for
which no building permit has been issued, the sidewalk shall be installed
within twenty four (24) months of recordation of the final plat. (Ord. 04-1244,
10-12-2004)
11-8-8: STREET LIGHTING:
   A.   A complete street lighting system shall be installed in all
subdivisions, including the necessary service connections made by Commonwealth
Edison Company, at the developer's expense.
   B.   Streetlights shall be installed at all street intersections, at the end
of cul-de-sac streets and at a maximum spacing of two hundred fifty feet (250')
between lights on local streets. Streetlights on minor collectors shall be
installed at a maximum spacing of one hundred ninety five feet (195').
Streetlights on major collectors shall be installed at a maximum spacing of one
hundred eighty five feet (185'), and should be located on only one side of the
road. Streetlight spacing on major arterials shall be reviewed by the village
and the governmental authority having jurisdiction thereof.
   C.   Streetlight locations shall be shown on the construction plans and are
subject to review and approval by the village engineer.
   D.   All streetlights and appurtenances thereto shall be in accordance with
the standard construction details. (Ord. 05-1312, 9-27-2005, eff. 10-2-2005)
11-8-9: STREET TREES:
Trees shall be installed and preserved as required under village ordinances 1 .
(Ord. 93-721, 12-14-1993)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 4, chapter 7 of this code.
11-8-10: STREET SIGNS:
The developer shall submit a striping and signage plan for review and approval
by the village. All such striping and signage shall be installed or furnished
by the developer. Street signs shall be in accordance with the standard
construction details. (Ord. 05-1312, 9-27-2005, eff. 10-2-2005)
11-8-11: MAILBOXES:
For parcels annexed to the village on or after January 1, 2001, single- and
two-family residences shall comply with the following provisions:
   A.   Mailboxes shall be freestanding or paired. The grouping of three (3) or
more mailboxes is prohibited.
   B.   All mailboxes shall be placed at the curb on the right of way in front
of each residence. If paired, mailboxes shall also be placed along the shared
property line. (Ord. 04-1261, 11-23-2004)
CHAPTER 9
PUBLIC UTILITIES
SECTION:
11-9-1: Public Utilities Location
11-9-2: Water System
11-9-3: Storm Sewers And Drains
11-9-4: Sanitary Sewers
11-9-5: Manholes
11-9-1: PUBLIC UTILITIES LOCATION:
   A.   Village Utilities: Water, sanitary sewers and storm drains and lines
shall be located within the street right of way in locations determined by the
village engineer.
   B.   Underground Franchise Utilities: Underground conduits for electric,
cable TV, gas or telephone lines shall be located in easements along rear or
side lot lines, with the right of the utilities and services concerned to
install, lay, construct, renew, operate and maintain conduits, cables and pipes
with all necessary normal equipment or appurtenances for the purpose of
providing the subdivision with adequate gas, cable TV, electric or telephone
service. No permanent buildings shall be placed on an easement provided for
utilities. Prior to final plat approval, all utilities must indicate that the
size and location of the easement shown on the plat is satisfactory for their
purposes. (Ord. 93-721, 12-14-1993)
11-9-2: WATER SYSTEM:
Water supply and water distribution facilities shall be designed in accordance
with the requirements of the state environmental protection agency to provide
adequate flow for fire and domestic needs. The water system shall be designed
to provide for reasonable expansion and extension of the system. The minimum
size water main shall be six inch (6") internal diameter. Larger water mains
will be required where necessary for fire flow or for continuity of the system.
All water mains shall be sized to meet the fire protection requirements of the
then current edition of the fire rating manual or as otherwise required by the
village. The sizing of the water mains shall be subject to approval of the
village. No valves shall be located in sidewalk or driveway approach. All
buffalo boxes shall be within the parkway and not more than eight feet (8') off
the street line opposite the center of the proposed building pad. (Ord. 93-721,
12-14-1993)
11-9-3: STORM SEWERS AND DRAINS:
   A.   Every subdivision shall be provided with a storm water or surface
drainage system adequate to facilitate a 10-year flood in the area, being
platted and in conformance with a master storm drainage plan of the watershed
of which it is a part. All subdivisions should comply with the village's storm
water management ordinance 1  and floodplain ordinance 2  together with other
regulations and policy as applicable.
   B.   All existing field tiles must be identified on the preliminary plat and
on the development grading plan. (Ord. 93-721, 12-14-1993)
   C.   Major drainage swales shall have a minimum bottom width of two feet
(2') and the side slopes shall not exceed a slope of greater than four to one
(4:1). (Ord. 05-1312, 9-27-2005, eff. 10-2-2005)
   D.   The mainline storm sewers shall be not less than twelve inches (12") in
diameter and adequately sized to accept the storm water discharge from these
services in addition to the ten (10) year design storm.
   E.   Immediately prior to the final inspection of the public improvements
and before their acceptance by the village, all storm sewers, manholes, inlets
and catch basins in the entire system shall be cleaned of all debris and the
complete system shall be thoroughly flushed out. (Ord. 93-721, 12-14-1993)
   F.   A four inch (4") PVC SDR 35 ASTM D3034 storm sewer service line shall
be provided for each lot within the subdivision, unless it can be demonstrated
that the building will not have a sump pump. All storm water sump discharge
lines shall be attached to this service line, which shall be connected to a
storm drainage structure. At locations where it is not practical to connect
these storm sewer service lines directly to a storm drainage structure in a
rear yard, storm sewer service laterals (minimum diameter of 6 inches) shall be
placed in a five foot (5') easement parallel to and behind the sidewalk. Said
laterals shall be connected to the storm sewer system at drainage structures,
and shall be increased in size if more than four (4) houses are connected. The
maximum number of houses connected to a lateral shall be eight (8). (Ord. 05-
1312, 9-27-2005, eff. 10-2-2005)
   G.   For all new subdivisions, a minimum of one drainage structure (inlet or
manhole) shall be furnished along the rear lot line unless otherwise approved
by the village engineer based on sound engineering practices. The subdivider's
engineer shall furnish to the public works department and the village engineer
for approval an "as built" drawing showing the rim and invert elevations of all
rear lot drainage structures. No building permit shall be issued until these
elevations have been approved. For purposes of this section, a "new
subdivision" shall mean all property, which has not secured preliminary plat
approval before December 31, 2001. (Ord. 01-1065, 9-11-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 12, chapter 2 of this code.
2 2. See title 12, chapter 1 of this code.
11-9-4: SANITARY SEWERS:
   A.   Where a public sanitary sewer main is within five thousand two hundred
eighty feet (5,280') of the subdivision and is reasonably accessible, the
village board, on recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Commission, shall
require that a complete sanitary sewer system be provided for the subdivision.
This system shall be connected to the public sanitary sewer main and include
service connections for each lot at the lot line. Where the village board, on
recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Commission, determines that a public
sanitary main is not reasonably accessible, proper provisions shall be made for
the disposal of sanitary wastes by the following method.
   B.   In the case of a subdivision in which the minimum size of the net lot
is forty three thousand five hundred sixty (43,560) square feet, private
restrictions shall be filed with the final or record plat and incorporated in
each deed calling for the installation on each lot of an individual sewage
disposal system meeting fully the requirements of the officials having
jurisdiction, including the county of Will and the Will County health
department. No individual sewage system shall be installed on a lot of less
than forty three thousand five hundred sixty (43,560) square feet. (Ord. 93-
721, 12-14-1993; amd. Ord. 21-2023, 10-12-2021)
11-9-5: MANHOLES:
No manholes shall be located in a sidewalk and no manhole or storm sewer inlets
shall be located in a crosswalk or sidewalk and should be avoided in the
driveway approach. (Ord. 93-721, 12-14-1993)
TITLE 12
FLOOD CONTROL
CHAPTER 1
FLOOD CONTROL AND STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
12-1-1: Adoption
12-1-2: Amendments
12-1-1: ADOPTION:
   A.   Adoption Of WCSMO: The Will County Stormwater Management Ordinance
("WCSMO"), as adopted by Will County on January 1, 2004 and most recently
amended by Will County on November 15, 2018 and as hereafter amended or
modified, is hereby adopted and shall apply in all areas of the Village. To the
extent of any conflict between the regulations or provisions of the WCSMO and
section
12-1-2 of this chapter, the more stringent regulation or provision shall apply.
The Village shall further be bound by the rules and procedures of the Will
County Stormwater Committee by which certification is granted or revoked, and
County jurisdiction is reasserted over the enforcement of WCSMO within the
boundaries of the Village.
   B.   Adoption Of Flood Insurance Study And Flood Insurance Rate Maps: While
the WCSMO and the corresponding Kendall County Countywide Stormwater and
Floodplain Ordinance includes a list of streams, maps, and stream profiles, the
following Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs) apply specifically to the Village
of Shorewood, as well as extraterritorial jurisdiction and areas that may be
annexed. These FIRM maps include:
      1.   17093C0145H (Kendall County dated January 8, 2014).
      2.   17093C0225H (Kendall County dated January 8, 2014).
      3.   17197C0137G (Will County dated February 15, 2019).
      4.   17197C0139G (Will County dated February 15, 2019).
      5.   17197C0141G (Will County dated February 15, 2019).
      6.   17197C0143G (Will County dated February 15, 2019).
   C.   Flood Insurance Studies: The following Flood Insurance Studies which
correspond to the above FIRMs apply specifically to the Village of Shorewood:
      1.   Will County, Illinois dated February 15, 2019 including the
following creeks and rivers: DuPage River, Hammel Creek, Hammel Creek Tributary
and Robin Hill Split Flow.
      2.   Kendall County, Illinois dated January 8, 2014. (Ord. 19-1926, 1-22-
2019, eff. 2-15-2019)
12-1-2: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   That Section 55.005 "Definitions" of the WCSMO is hereby amended by
deleting the definitions of "Flood Protection Elevation (FPE)", "Floodplain",
"Regulatory Floodway" and "Substantial Improvement" and inserting the following
in their place:
ADMINISTRATOR - The Village Administrator shall administer, implement and
enforce this chapter; utilizing staff, consultant and other personnel as deemed
necessary.
FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE) - The elevation of the base flood plus two (2)
feet at any given location in the SFHA. Outside of the plan limits, the water
table or 100-year design water surface elevation of any adjacent stormwater
facility, whichever is higher, plus one (1) foot of freeboard.
FLOODPLAIN - That land typically adjacent to a body of water with ground
surface elevations at or below the base flood with the 100-year frequency flood
elevation. Floodplains may also include the detached, special flood hazard
areas, ponding areas, etc. The floodplain is also known as the "special flood
hazard area" (SFHA). The floodplains are those lands within the jurisdiction of
the village that are subject to inundation by the base flood or 100-year
frequency flood. The SFHAs of the village are generally identified as such on
the flood insurance rate map for Will County, Illinois, and incorporated areas
prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated February 15,
2019, and as from time to time amended or updated, and such amendments to such
study and maps as may be prepared from time to time. The base flood elevation
of the SFHAs within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the village or that
may be annexed into the village shall be delineated on the 100-year flood
profiles in the flood insurance study of Will County prepared by FEMA and dated
February 15, 2019 and on in the flood insurance study of Kendall County
prepared by FEMA and dated January 4, 2018, and as from time to time amended or
updated, and such amendments to such study and maps as may be prepared from
time to time.
REGULATORY FLOODWAY - The channel, including on stream lakes, and that portion
of the floodplain adjacent to a stream or watercourse as designated by IDNR-OWR
pursuant to Section 18g of The Rivers, Lakes and Stream Act (615 ILCS 5), which
is needed to store and convey the existing and anticipated future 100-year
frequency discharge with no more than one-tenth foot (0.1') increase in stage
due to the loss of flood conveyance or storage, and no more than a ten percent
(10%) increase in velocities. Regulatory floodways are designated for the
DuPage River, Hammel Creek, Hammel Creek tributary, and Hammel Creek - Robin
Hill split flow on the Flood Insurance Rate Map for Will County, Illinois and
incorporated areas prepared by FEMA and dated February 15, 2019. To locate the
regulatory floodway boundary on any site, the regulatory floodway boundary
should be scaled off the regulatory floodway map and located on a site plan,
using reference marks common to both maps. Where interpretation is needed to
determine the exact location of the regulatory floodway boundary, IDNR-OWR
should be contacted for interpretation.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT - Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
improvement of a structure taking place subsequent to April 1, 1990, in which
the cumulative percentage of improvements equals or exceeds 50% of the market
value of the structure before the improvement or repair is started or increases
the floor area by more than 20%. SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is considered to occur
when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part
of the building commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building. This term includes structures that have incurred
repetitive loss or substantial damage, regardless of the actual work done. This
term does not, however, include any project for improvement of a structure to
comply with existing state or local health, sanitary or safety code
specifications which are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions, or
any alteration of a historic structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or the State Register of historic places, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure.
   B.   That Section 55.005 "DEFINITIONS" of the WCSMO is hereby amended by
inserting the definition of "Substantial Damage:
Substantial Damage - Damage of any origin sustained by a structure, subsequent
to April 1, 1990, whereby the cumulative percentage of damage equals or exceeds
50 percent of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred
regardless of actual repair work performed. Volunteer labor and materials must
be included in this determination.
   C.   That Section 55.062(C) "BUILDING PROTECTION STANDARDS" of the WCSMO is
hereby amended by adding Section 55.062(C)(5) and inserting the following text:
All buildings located within a 100-year floodplain, also known as a SFHA, shall
be protected from flood damage below the flood protection elevation. However,
existing buildings located within a regulatory floodway shall also meet the
more restrictive appropriate use standards included in Section 55.064. This
building protection criteria applies to the following situations:
a) Construction or placement of a new building.
b) A structural alteration to an existing building that either increases the
first floor area by more than twenty percent (20%) or the building's market
value by more than fifty percent (50%). This alteration shall be figured
cumulatively, beginning with any alteration which has taken place subsequent to
April 1, 1990.
   D.   That Section 55.062(C)(1)(a) "BUILDING PROTECTION STANDARDS" of the
WCSMO is hereby amended by deleting it and the following inserted in its place:
If placed on fill, the top of the fill for the residential structure shall be
above the FPE. The top of fill for an attached garage shall be at least 0.1
foot above the BFE. The fill shall be placed at that elevation for a distance
of ten feet out from the building before sloping to the FPE. The top of the
fill shall be above the flood protection elevation and shall not settle below
the FPE for the residential structure and not below 0.1 feet above the base
flood for an attached garage, and shall be adequately protected against
erosion, scour and differential settlement. If vegetative cover is used, the
slopes shall be no steeper than three horizontal to one vertical (3:1). The
fill should not adversely affect surface drainage from or onto neighboring
properties.
   E.   That Section 55.062(C)(3) "BUILDING PROTECTION STANDARDS" of the WCSMO
is hereby amended by deleting it and the following inserted in its place:
Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles to be installed on a site for more
than 180 days shall be at or above the FPE and shall be anchored to resist
flotation, collapse or lateral movement in accordance with the State
Manufactured Home Tie-Down Code (77 Ill. Adm. Code 870), as amended. This does
not apply to returning a mobile home or manufactured home to the same site it
lawfully occupied before it was removed to avoid flood damage.
   F.   That Section 55.063(A) "COMPENSATORY STORAGE VOLUME STANDARDS" of the
WCSMO is hereby amended by deleting it and the following inserted in its place:
Hydraulically equivalent compensatory storage volume will be required for
development in a riverine regulatory floodplain and shall be at least equal to
one and two-tenths (1.2) times the volume of storage lost. In case of streams
and watercourses, such excavation shall be made opposite or adjacent to the
areas so filled or occupied. All floodplain storage lost below the existing 10-
year flood elevation shall be replaced below the proposed 10-year flood
elevation. All floodplain storage lost above the existing 10-year flood
elevation shall be replaced above the proposed 10-year flood elevation. The
additional compensatory storage required beyond a one to one (1:1) ratio may be
placed above or below the proposed ten-year flood elevation. All such
excavations shall be constructed to drain freely and openly to the watercourse.
   G.   That Section 55.064(B)(1)(d) "FLOODWAY STANDARDS" of the WCSMO is
hereby amended by deleting it and the following inserted in its place:
Underground and overhead utilities;
      (1)   Do not result in any increase in existing ground elevations;
      (2)   Do not require the placement of above-ground structures in the
floodway;
      (3)   In the case of underground stream crossings, the top of the pipe or
encasement is buried a minimum of three feet (3') below the existing streambed;
      (4)   In the case of overhead utilities, no supporting towers are placed
in the watercourse and are designed in such a fashion as not to catch debris.
   H.   That Section 55.064(B)(1)(f) "FLOODWAY STANDARDS" of the WCSMO is
hereby amended by deleting it and the following inserted in its place:
Detached garages, storage sheds, boat houses or other non- habitable structures
without sanitary facilities that are accessory to existing buildings and will
not block flood flows nor reduce floodway storage. Such structures shall be
properly anchored and not exceeding seventy (70) square feet in size nor ten
feet (10') in any dimension.
   I.   That Section 55.064(B)(4) "FLOODWAY STANDARDS" of the WCSMO is hereby
amended by adding Section 55.064(B)(4)(d) and inserting the following text:
In areas where a floodway has been determined, compensatory storage shall be
provided for any regulatory floodway storage lost due to the proposed work from
the volume of fill or structures placed and the impact of any related flood
control projects. Compensatory storage for fill or structures shall be equal to
at least one and one-half (1.5) times the volume of floodplain storage lost. In
the area outside the floodway, the excavation volume shall be at least equal to
one and two-tenths (1.2) times the volume of storage lost. The additional
compensatory storage required beyond a one to one (1:1) ratio may be placed
above or below the proposed ten-year flood elevation. Artificially created
storage lost due to a reduction in head loss behind a bridge shall not be
required to be replaced. The compensatory regulatory floodway storage shall be
placed between the proposed normal water elevation and the proposed 100-year
flood elevation. All regulatory floodway storage lost below the existing 10-
year flood elevation shall be replaced below the proposed 10-year flood
elevation. All such excavations shall be constructed to drain freely and openly
to the watercourse. If the compensatory storage will not be placed at the
location of the proposed construction, the applicant's engineer shall
demonstrate to IDNR-OWR through a determination of flood discharges and water
surface elevations that the compensatory storage is hydraulically equivalent.
Finally, there shall be no reduction in floodway surface area as a result of a
floodway modification, unless such modification is necessary to reduce flooding
at an existing structure.
A recorded covenant running with the land is required to maintain the
compensatory storage volume in areas modified to provide compensatory storage
volume.
   J.   That Section 55.080(B) "PERMIT REVIEW FEES" of the WCSMO is hereby
amended by deleting it and the following inserted in its place:
Fees for permits shall be as follows:
      A.   For a use permit: Thirty Dollars ($30.00)
      B.    For a development for work in the floodplain not requiring review
by a professional engineer: Three (3) times current hourly rate of Chief
Building Official times 2.5.
      C.   For a development permit for work in the floodplain requiring review
by a professional engineer: At the time of application for a development
permit, the applicant shall sign a statement agreeing to fully reimburse the
village for all fees, costs and expenses directly or indirectly incurred by the
village to have the application and supporting documentation reviewed by
village staff, the village engineer, attorney, and having improvements
inspected by the village engineer as they are installed.
   K.   That Section 55.081(A) "Permit Expiration" of the WCSMO is hereby
amended by deleting this section and the following inserted in its place:
Every site development permit shall expire and become null and void if the work
authorized by such permit has not been commenced within one hundred eighty
(180) days or is not completed by a date which shall be specified in the
permit, which shall not be longer than the third year following the date of
permit issuance or upon expiration of state or federal permits required for
stormwater management.
   L.   That Section 55.081(B) "Permit Extension" of the WCSMO is hereby
amended by deleting this section and the following inserted in its place:
If the permitted activity has been started but is not completed by the
expiration date of the permit, and the permittee intends to pursue the
permitted activity, then the permittee may submit a written request that the
expiration date be extended. Upon receipt of the request, the Administrator may
extend the expiration date of time not to exceed one hundred eighty (180) days
a maximum of three times for permitted activities outside regulatory
floodplains and floodways. Expiration dates for permitted activities in
regulatory floodplains and floodways may be extended in one hundred eighty
(180) day increments a maximum of three times provided the activity is in
compliance with the then current requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 19-1926, 1-22-2019, eff. 2-15-2019; amd. Ord. 20-1982, 8-25-2020)
APPENDICES
APPENDIX A
FRANCHISES
Ordinance Passage Date Description
                       An Ordinance authorizing Commonwealth Edison Company
                       (Public Service Company Division), its successors and
3         4-23-58      assigns, to construct, operate and maintain an electric
                       light and power system in and through the Village of
                       Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
Ordinance Passage Date Description
                       An Ordinance authorizing Commonwealth Edison Company
                       (Public Service Company Division), its successors and
3         4-23-58      assigns, to construct, operate and maintain an electric
                       light and power system in and through the Village of
                       Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
                       An Ordinance authorizing Northern Illinois Gas Company,
9         8-13-58      its successors and assigns, to construct, operate and
                       maintain a gas distributing system in and through the
                       Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
                       An Ordinance granting to the Illinois Bell Telephone
10        9-10-58      Company, its lessees, successors and assigns, certain
                       rights in the Village of Shorewood, Will County,
                       Illinois.
                       An Ordinance granted to Oakwood Utility Company, an
                       Illinois corporation, its successors and assigns, for a
                       period of 25 years from the acceptance of this
35A       7-31-62      ordinance, as hereinafter provided, the right and
                       authority to establish, construct, operate and maintain
                       a water utility within the Village of Shorewood, Troy
                       Township, Will County, Illinois.
                       An Ordinance granting a franchise to construct and
36        11-8-62      operate a water and a sewage disposal plant in a portion
                       of the Village of Shorewood, Illinois.
                       An Ordinance providing an additional franchise to Will
172       3-13-73      County Water Company to construct and operate a water
                       and sewer system in a portion of the Village of
                       Shorewood.
                       An Ordinance providing an additional franchise to Will
175       6-26-73      County Water Company to construct and operate a water
                       and sewer system in a portion of the Village of
                       Shorewood.
                       An Ordinance providing an additional franchise to Will
176       6-26-73      County Water Company to construct and operate a water
                       and sewer system in a portion of the Village of
                       Shorewood.
                       An Ordinance amending Ordinance 10, granting to the
202       1-14-75      Illinois Bell Telephone Company, its lessees, successors
                       and assigns, certain rights in the Village of Shorewood,
                       Will County, Illinois.
                       An Ordinance providing an additional franchise to Will
234       11-23-76     County Water Company to construct and operate a water
                       and sewer system in a portion of the Village of
                       Shorewood.
                       An Ordinance providing an additional franchise to Will
239       11-23-76     County Water Company to construct and operate a water
                       system in a portion of the Village of Shorewood.
                       An Ordinance providing an additional franchise to Will
249       4-26-77      County Water Company to construct and operate a water
                       system in a portion of the Village of Shorewood.
                       An Ordinance granting a franchise concerning the
83-350    6-14-83      establishment, construction, operation, and maintenance
                       of a cable television system in the Village of
                       Shorewood.
                       An Ordinance amending Ordinance 10, granting to the
84-382    12-11-84     Illinois Bell Telephone Company, its lessees, successors
                       and assigns, certain rights in the Village of Shorewood,
                       Will County, Illinois.
                       An Ordinance amending the Cable Television Franchise
86-421    11-25-86     Ordinance pertaining to community access and local cable
                       programming.
                       An Ordinance authorizing Commonwealth Edison Company to
                       use the public ways and other public property in
92-656    8-11-92      conjunction with its construction, operation and
                       maintenance of an electric system in and through the
                       Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
                       An Ordinance amending Ordinance 83-350 known as "An
                       Ordinance Granting a Franchise Concerning the
                       Establishment, Construction, Operation and Maintenance
                       of a Cable Television System of the Village of
92-670    11-10-92     Shorewood".94-7373-22-1994An ordinance amending
                       ordinance 83-350 known as "an ordinance granting a
                       franchise concerning the establishment, construction,
                       operation and maintenance of a cable television system
                       in the village of Shorewood".
                       An ordinance of the village of Shorewood approving the
96-846    6-25-1996    merger between Continental Cablevision, Inc., and US
                       West, Inc.
98-905    7-14-1998    An ordinance authorizing the execution of the Shorewood
                       cable television franchise ordinance.
                       An ordinance consenting to the transfer of control of
99-932    4-6-1999     the cable television franchisee from Mediaone Of
                       Northern Illinois, Inc., to TCI TKR Of South Dade, Inc.
                       An ordinance consenting to the change of control of the
02-1107   6-25-2002    cable television franchisee from AT&T Corporation to
                       AT&T Comcast Corporation.
11-1631   10-25-2011   An ordinance granting a cable television franchise to
                       Comcast Of Illinois VI, LLC.
21-2027   10-26-2021   An ordinance granting a cable television franchise to
                       Comcast Of Illinois VI, LLC.
                      
 
APPENDIX B
AGREEMENTS AND CONTRACTS
Ordinance Passage Date Description
88        6-11-68      An Ordinance directing execution of pre-annexation
                       agreement.
Ordinance Passage Date Description
88        6-11-68      An Ordinance directing execution of pre-annexation
                       agreement.
103       7-8-69       An Ordinance directing execution of pre-annexation
                       agreement.
                       An Ordinance authorizing the execution of a boundary
227       5-25-76      agreement between the Village of Shorewood, Illinois and
                       the Village of Channahon, Illinois
                       An Ordinance authorizing the execution of a boundary
79-291    5-8-79       agreement between the Village of Shorewood, Illinois and
                       the Village of Plainfield, Illinois.
85-398    9-10-85      An Ordinance amending Article XVII of the Contract and
                       Bylaws of Southwest Agency for Risk Management.
                       An Ordinance approving and authorizing execution of
86-416    9-9-86       intergovernmental cooperation agreement with the Village
                       of Woodridge, the Illinois Municipal League and other
                       units of local government.
                       An Ordinance authorizing an agreement between Village of
86-417    10-14-86     Shorewood and City of Joliet pertaining to wastewater
                       treatment.
                       An Ordinance authorizing an amended agreement between
86-418    10-28-86     Village of Shorewood and City of Joliet pertaining to
                       wastewater treatment.
                       An Ordinance authorizing execution of an amended
87-442    8-17-87      agreement between the Village of Shorewood and the City
                       of Joliet pertaining to wastewater treatment.
87-444    8-25-87      An Ordinance authorizing an amendment to the contract
                       between the Village of Shorewood and the City of Joliet.
                       An Ordinance authorizing an amendment to the contract
87-447    10-27-87     between the Village of Shorewood and the City of Joliet
                       pertaining to wastewater treatment.
87-448    10-27-87     An Ordinance authorizing the amendment to a contract
                       between the Village of Shorewood and the City of Joliet.
                       An Ordinance authorizing the execution of a written
88-464    5-10-88      contract with Will County Water Company for the purchase
                       of a water and sanitary sewer system.
88-473    7-26-88      An Ordinance amending Article XVII of the Contract and
                       Bylaws of Southwest Agency for Risk Management.
                       An Ordinance authorizing an agreement between the
88-477    8-23-88      Village of Shorewood and Layne-Western Company, Inc.,
                       for construction of a well and installation of a pump.
                       An Ordinance authorizing an agreement between the
88-479    9-13-88      Village of Shorewood, Illinois and Donohue and
                       Associates, Inc., for Utilities System Master Plan -
                       Phase I.
                       An Ordinance authorizing the execution of a boundary
88-484    11-9-88      agreement between the Village of Shorewood, Will County,
                       Illinois and the Village of Plainfield, Will County,
                       Illinois.
                       An Ordinance authorizing the execution of a written
89-486    1-10-89      agreement between Donohue & Associates, Inc., and the
                       Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
                       An Ordinance authorizing the execution of a written
89-490    2-28-89      agreement for refuse removal service between Tri-County
                       Disposal Service, Inc., and the Village of Shorewood,
                       Will County, Illinois.
                       An Ordinance authorizing the execution of a written
                       agreement for the service of processing and supplying
89-493    3-28-89      criminal history information between the State of
                       Illinois, Department of State Police and the Village of
                       Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
                       An Ordinance authorizing the execution of an
89-511    6-13-89      intergovernmental cooperative planning and boundary
                       agreement between the City of Joliet and the Village of
                       Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
                       An Ordinance authorizing execution of an amended
90-529    2-27-90      intergovernmental cooperative planning agreement between
                       the City of Joliet and the Village of Shorewood, Will
                       County, Illinois.
                       An Ordinance authorizing execution of an agreement
90-530    2-27-90      between the Village of Shorewood and the City of Joliet
                       for treatment of wastewater.
                       An Ordinance adopting a pre-annexation agreement between
90-531    4-3-90       the Village of Shorewood and First National Bank of
                       Joliet, Trust No. 3289 relating to Cobblestone Crossing
                       Subdivision.
                       An Ordinance adopting a pre-annexation agreement between
90-544    7-10-90      the Village of Shorewood and First Midwest Bank of
                       Joliet, Trust No. 5427 relating to Lake of the Woods
                       North.
90-557    10-23-90     An Ordinance authorizing intergovernmental police
                       service agreement with the Village of Channahon.
                       An Ordinance authorizing the execution of a hold
91-577    4-9-91       harmless agreement between the Village of Shorewood and
                       Homewood Beverage Co., Inc., and Kovacevich Enterprises,
                       Inc., Profit Sharing Trust.
                       An Ordinance adopting and authorizing the execution of
91-581    5-21-91      an intergovernmental cooperation agreement between the
                       City of Joliet and the Village of Shorewood for water
                       service.
                       An Ordinance adopting and authorizing the execution of
91-582    5-21-91      an amendment to an intergovernmental cooperation
                       agreement with the City of Joliet for the provision of
                       wastewater treatment services.
                       An Ordinance authorizing an agreement for refuse removal
                       service, landscape waste removal service and curbside
91-611    10-22-91     recycling service between the C&A Disposal Corporation
                       and the Village of Shorewood, an Illinois Municipal
                       Corporation, Will County, Illinois.
                       An Ordinance authorizing an employment contract between
91-613    11-12-91     the Village of Shorewood, an Illinois Municipal
                       Corporation, Will County Illinois, and Donald R. Lattin.
                       An Ordinance authorizing the execution of an
92-627    3-10-92      intergovernmental agreement creating the Western Will
                       County Communication Center.
                       An Ordinance accepting and authorizing the execution of
92-630    3-24-92      a grant agreement between the Village of Shorewood, Will
                       County, Illinois and the Illinois Environmental
                       Protection Agency.
                       An Ordinance authorizing the Village of Shorewood to
                       become a member of the Southwest Agency for Health
92-641    5-12-92      Management and authorizing the President and Village
                       Clerk to execute an intergovernmental agreement creating
                       the Southwest Agency for Health Management.
                       An Ordinance authorizing the execution of an agreement
92-642    5-12-92      between the Village of Shorewood and P.T. Ferro
                       Construction regarding Shorewood Interceptor Sewer
                       Program Phase II-A.
92-645    6-9-92       Agreement for use of the public way.
                       An Ordinance authorizing the execution of an agreement
92-650    7-24-92      with Rogina and Associates, Ltd., and the Village of
                       Shorewood for engineering services (re: River Road
                       improvements).
                       An Ordinance adopting and authorizing the execution of
92-651    7-28-92      an amendment to an intergovernmental cooperation
                       agreement between the City of Joliet and the Village of
                       Shorewood for water service.
                       An Ordinance adopting and authorizing the execution of
92-652    7-28-92      the Second Amendment to an intergovernmental cooperation
                       agreement between the City of Joliet and the Village of
                       Shorewood for wastewater treatment services.
                       An Ordinance authorizing the execution of a pre-
                       annexation agreement between the Village of Shorewood
                       and Donald N. Kodrick and Carol A. Kodrick and Margaret
92-653    7-28-92      K. Pubentz and Lawrence J. Pubentz.92-6547-28-1992An
                       Ordinance authorizing the execution of a hold harmless
                       agreement between the Village of Shorewood and Homewood
                       Beverage Co., Inc., and Kovacevich Enterprises, Inc.,
                       profit sharing trust.
                       An Ordinance adopting and authorizing the execution of
92-657    8-11-1992    an agreement between the Village of Shorewood, Illinois
                       and Metropolitan Alliance of Police Shorewood Chapter
                       57.
                       An Ordinance authorizing and requiring a reimbursement
92-666    10-13-1992   agreement between the Village of Shorewood and
                       developers.
                       An Ordinance authorizing entering into an agreement for
92-667    10-27-1992   the purchase of a Public Works Department truck for the
                       Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
                       An Ordinance authorizing the execution of an
92-672    11-24-1992   intergovernmental agreement between the Village of
                       Shorewood and the County of Will, Illinois (re:
                       agricultural preservation).
                       An Ordinance authorizing the execution of an
92-674    11-24-1992   administrative services agreement with ICMA Retirement
                       Corporation.
                       An Ordinance authorizing the execution of an agreement
92-675    12-8-1992    between the Village of Shorewood and J.S. Alberico
                       Construction Co., Inc., regarding Shorewood Interceptor
                       Sewer Program Phase II-B.
93-679    1-12-1993    (Rep. by Ord. 99-966, 11-9-1999)
                       An Ordinance amending Ordinance 92-657 and authorizing
93-681    1-26-1993    the execution of an amendment to an agreement between
                       the Village of Shorewood, Illinois and Metropolitan
                       Alliance of Police, Shorewood Chapter 57.
                       An Ordinance authorizing the execution of a Will County
93-693    5-25-1993    mutual aid intergovernmental police service assistance
                       agreement.
                       An Ordinance authorizing the execution of a hold
93-700    7-13-1993    harmless agreement between the Village of Shorewood and
                       Homewood Beverage Co., Inc., and Kovacevich Enterprises,
                       Inc., Profit Sharing Trust.
                       An Ordinance authorizing entering into an agreement for
93-705    8-24-1993    the purchase of a Public Works Department vehicle for
                       the Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
                       An Ordinance authorizing the execution of an agreement
93-717    11-23-1993   between the Village of Shorewood and the Illinois
                       Department of Transportation relative to the Illinois
                       Route 59/Black Road Improvement.
                       An Ordinance authorizing an intergovernmental,
93-728    12-22-1993   cooperation and redevelopment agreement between the
                       Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois and
                       Tirapelli Leasing and Development Partners, L.P.
                       An Ordinance authorizing the execution of an interagency
94-729    1-11-1994    agreement between the Village of Shorewood Local Liquor
                       Control Commissioner and the State of Illinois, Illinois
                       State Police for criminal history record information.
                       An Ordinance authorizing the execution of an employment
94-730    1-11-1994    agreement between the Village of Shorewood, an Illinois
                       Municipal Corporation, Will County, Illinois and Robert
                       P. Puleo.
                       An Ordinance authorizing the execution of an agreement
                       between United States of America, Bureau of the Census,
94-750    5-24-1994    Department of Commerce and the Village of Shorewood,
                       Will County, Illinois for a special census and payment
                       thereof.
                       An Ordinance authorizing the execution of a hold
                       harmless agreement between the Village of Shorewood,
94-753    6-28-1994    Kovacevich Enterprises, Inc., a Delaware corporation as
                       sole beneficiary of First National Bank of Joliet Trust
                       No. 3146.
                       An Ordinance authorizing a business district development
                       assistance agreement between the Village of Shorewood,
                       Will County, Illinois and Tirapelli Leasing and
                       Development Partners, L.P.95-7773-14-1995An Ordinance
94-759    9-27-1994    authorizing the execution of a first amendment to an
                       agreement for refuse removal and curbside recycling
                       service between C & A Disposal Corporation and the
                       Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois. Entered
                       into on the 22nd day of October, 1991.
                       An Ordinance authorizing the execution of an agreement
95-784    4-25-1995    between Stromsland & De Young, Architects, Inc., and the
                       Village of Shorewood, Illinois.
                       An Ordinance authorizing the execution of a hold
                       harmless agreement between the Village of Shorewood and
95-790    5-23-1995    Kovacevich Enterprises, Inc., a Delaware Corporation as
                       sole beneficiary of First National Bank of Joliet Trust
                       No. 3146.
                       An Ordinance authorizing the execution of a consulting
95-816    10-10-1995   agreement between Executive Services Corps. of Chicago
                       and the Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
                       An Ordinance authorizing the execution of an agreement
                       between Hanson Engineers, Inc., for professional
95-818    10-10-1995   services to perform cultural resource studies for the
                       Ridge Road sanitary sewer project in the Village of
                       Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
95-819    10-10-1995   An Ordinance amending article II of the contract and
                       bylaws of the Southwest Agency for Risk Management.
                       An Ordinance authorizing the execution of an agreement
96-829    1-23-1996    between the Shorewood Crossroads Festival Committee and
                       the Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
                       An Ordinance adopting and authorizing the execution of a
96-847    7-9-1996     collective bargaining agreement between the Village of
                       Shorewood and Illinois Fraternal Order of Police Labor
                       Council from April 1, 1995, to March 31, 1998.
                       An Ordinance authorizing the execution of an agreement
                       between the Village of Shorewood and record owners of
                       certain structures to be demolished in the Village of
                       Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.96-8529-24-1996An
96-851    8-27-1996    Ordinance authorizing the execution of the option
                       agreement between First Midwest Bank (f/k/a National
                       Bank of Joliet), as trustee under trust agreement dated
                       June 28, 1984, and known as Trust No. 84-869 and the
                       Village of Shorewood.
                       An Ordinance authorizing the execution of an employment
96-856    10-22-1996   agreement between the Village of Shorewood, an Illinois
                       Municipal Corporation, Will County, Illinois, and Robert
                       P. Puleo.
                       An Ordinance authorizing entering into an agreement for
96-858    11-12-1996   the purchase of two (2) International dump trucks for
                       the Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
                       An Ordinance authorizing entering into an agreement for
96-859    11-12-1996   the purchase of a Comdial Digitech Phone System for the
                       Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
                       An Ordinance amending Ordinance 96-858 to correct the
96-860    11-26-1996   dollar amount of annual installment payments for the
                       purchase of two International dump trucks.
                       An Ordinance authorizing the execution of an agreement
                       between the Village of Shorewood on behalf of its Police
97-865    2-11-1997    Department and the Illinois Criminal Justice Information
                       Authority entitled Area-Wide Law Enforcement Radio
                       Terminal System ("ALERTS") User's Agreement.
                       An Ordinance authorizing the execution of a second
                       amendment to an agreement for refuse removal and
97-870    3-25-1997    recycling service between C & A Disposal Corporation and
                       the Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois, entered
                       into on the 22nd day of October, 1991.
                       An Ordinance authorizing the execution of consulting
97-888    11-25-1997   agreement between the Village of Shorewood and Executive
                       Service Corps of Chicago.
                       An Ordinance authorizing the execution of a wireless
                       communications consulting and marketing agreement
98-892    1-13-1998    between the Village of Shorewood and Metrosite
                       Management, LLC.98-9047-14-1998An ordinance authorizing
                       the execution of an agreement between the village of
                       Shorewood and Mediaone, Inc.
                       An ordinance authorizing the execution of an economic
98-913    11-24-1998   development incentive agreement between the village of
                       Shorewood, Tyson Motor Corporation and C.T. Ventures,
                       L.L.C.
                       An ordinance authorizing the execution of an agreement
98-919    11-30-1998   for the payment and recapture of sewer & water
                       improvements (Ward farm).
                       An ordinance adopting a successor collective bargaining
99-923    1-12-1999    agreement between the village of Shorewood and the
                       Illinois fraternal order of police labor council.
                       An ordinance authorizing the execution and delivery of
                       an intergovernmental cooperation agreement and certain
99-929    2-23-1999    documents in connection therewith; and related matters
                       (issuance of revenue bonds to aid in providing
                       residential housing).
                       An ordinance authorizing the execution of an agreement
                       for refuse removal service, landscape waste removal
99-931    3-23-1999    service and curbside recycling service between C & A
                       Disposal Corporation, and the village of Shorewood, Will
                       County, Illinois.
                       An ordinance approving an intergovernmental cooperative
99-936    4-27-1999    planning and boundary agreement between the village of
                       Shorewood and city of Joliet, Will County, Illinois.
                       An ordinance authorizing the execution of a municipal
99-941    5-25-1999    facilities use agreement between the village of
                       Shorewood, an Illinois municipal corporation and
                       Metricom, Inc.
                       An ordinance approving an intergovernmental
99-966    11-9-1999    jurisdictional boundary line agreement between the
                       village of Shorewood and the village of Minooka.
                       Repealing ordinance 93-679.
                       An ordinance authorizing the execution and delivery of
                       an intergovernmental cooperation agreement and certain
99-969    12-14-1999   documents in connection therewith; and related matters
                       (issuance of revenue bonds to aid in providing
                       residential housing).
                       An ordinance adopting an amendment to the collective
99-970    12-14-1999   bargaining agreement between the village of Shorewood
                       and the Illinois fraternal order of police labor
                       council.
                       An ordinance authorizing the execution of an
00-978    3-14-2000    intergovernmental agreement between the village of
                       Shorewood, an Illinois municipal corporation and the
                       township of Joliet for animal control services.
                       An ordinance authorizing the execution and delivery of
                       an intergovernmental cooperation agreement and certain
00-980    3-28-2000    documents in connection therewith; and related matters
                       (issuance of revenue bonds to aid in providing
                       residential housing).
                       An ordinance authorizing the execution of an economic
00-995    6-27-2000    development incentive agreement between the village of
                       Shorewood and Dominick's Finer Foods, Inc.
                       An ordinance authorizing the execution of an economic
00-1012   10-24-2000   development incentive agreement between the village of
                       Shorewood and Jewel Food Store, Inc.
                       An ordinance authorizing the execution and delivery of
                       an intergovernmental cooperation agreement and certain
01-1046   3-27-2001    documents in connection therewith; and related matters
                       (issuance of revenue bonds to aid in providing
                       residential housing).
                       An ordinance authorizing the execution of an interagency
01-1053   5-22-2001    agreement between the Illinois state police and local
                       liquor control commission.
01-1062   8-28-2001    (Rep. by Ord. 01-1070, 10-9-2001)
                       An ordinance adopting a successor collective bargaining
01-1063   8-28-2001    agreement between the village of Shorewood and the
                       Illinois fraternal order of police labor council.
                       An ordinance authorizing a lease and declaration of
                       official intent for the purchase of two public works
                       vehicles and five police vehicles and repealing
                       ordinance 01-1062.02-10923-26-2002An ordinance
01-1070   10-9-2001    authorizing the execution and delivery of an
                       intergovernmental cooperation agreement and certain
                       documents in connection therewith; and related matters
                       (issuance of revenue bonds to aid in providing an
                       adequate supply of residential housing).
                       An ordinance authorizing an agreement between
02-1099   5-28-2002    Commonwealth Edison, an Illinois electric public utility
                       and the village of Shorewood, an Illinois municipal
                       corporation.
                       An ordinance approving an engineering services agreement
02-1116   8-13-2002    with Baxter and Woodman Consulting Engineers for the
                       Seil Road sewer and water extension project.
                       An ordinance approving an engineering services agreement
02-1117   8-13-2002    with Baxter and Woodman Consulting Engineers for the
                       Illinois Route 59 and Black Road improvements.
                       An ordinance approving a service agreement between the
02-1118   8-13-2002    village of Shorewood and Ameritech Information Systems,
                       Incorporated, for local phone service.
                       An ordinance approving a service agreement between the
02-1119   8-13-2002    village of Shorewood and Qwest Communications
                       Corporation for long distance service.
                       An ordinance authorizing an agreement between
02-1140   12-10-2002   Deligiannis and the village of Shorewood, an Illinois
                       municipal corporation.
                       An ordinance authorizing the execution and delivery of
03-1145   2-11-2003    an intergovernmental cooperation agreement and certain
                       documents in connection therewith; and related matters.
                       An ordinance authorizing a contract between Waste
03-1150   2-11-2003    Management - Southwest, a division of Waste Management
                       of Illinois, Inc. and the village of Shorewood.
                       An ordinance authorizing an economic incentive agreement
                       between the village of Shorewood and Ryan Companies,
03-1157   3-11-2003    U.S., Inc.03-11603-25-2003An ordinance approving an
                       intergovernmental cooperative agreement between the city
                       of Joliet and the village of Shorewood.
                       An ordinance authorizing an intergovernmental agreement
03-1165   5-27-2003    between the county of Will County and the village of
                       Shorewood (regarding improvements within the county road
                       right of ways).
                       An ordinance authorizing a tower lease option agreement
04-1208   3-9-2004     between Voicestream GSM I Operating Company, LLC, a
                       Delaware limited liability company and the village of
                       Shorewood (T-mobile).
04-1251   10-12-2004   An ordinance authorizing a first amendment to PCS site
                       agreement with the village of Shorewood.
                       An ordinance authorizing a communications site lease
04-1254   10-26-2004   agreement (water tank) between Nextel West Corp., a
                       Delaware corporation, d/b/a Nextel Communications and
                       the village of Shorewood.
                       An ordinance adopting a collective bargaining agreement
05-1286   3-22-2005    between the International Union of Operating Engineers,
                       Local 150, public employees division and the village of
                       Shorewood.
                       An ordinance adopting a successor collective bargaining
05-1288   4-26-2005    agreement between the village of Shorewood and the
                       Illinois fraternal order of police labor council.
                       An ordinance authorizing the execution and delivery of
05-1291   4-26-2005    an intergovernmental cooperation agreement and certain
                       documents in connection therewith; and related matters.
                       An ordinance authorizing an agreement between the
05-1293   5-10-2005    village of Shorewood and DMJMH+N, an Illinois
                       corporation.
                       An ordinance authorizing an agreement between the
                       village of Shorewood and M.A. Mortenson Company.05-
05-1295   5-24-2005    13109-13-2005An ordinance authorizing the execution of a
                       contract for police protection and traffic control of
                       privately owned roadways between the Timbers of
                       Shorewood, AL/IL and the village of Shorewood.
                       An ordinance authorizing a tower lease option agreement
05-1316   10-25-2005   between Voicestream GSM I Operating Company, LLC, a
                       Delaware limited liability company and the village of
                       Shorewood (T-Mobile).
05-1328   12-13-2005   An ordinance authorizing and approving the execution of
                       an economic incentive agreement (Conrad's).
06-1339   1-24-2006    An ordinance authorizing and approving the execution of
                       an economic incentive agreement (Home Depot).
                       An ordinance approving an amendment to an
06-1353   2-28-2006    intergovernmental agreement between the city of Joliet
                       and the village of Shorewood.
                       An ordinance authorizing an intergovernmental agreement
06-1364   5-23-2006    for the installation of emergency vehicle preemption
                       equipment at the existing signalized intersection of
                       Black Road and Sharp Drive in the county of Will.
                       An ordinance authorizing a recapture agreement and
06-1372   7-25-2006    establishing a recapture for certain public improvements
                       (Kennedy Homes).
06-1377   9-12-2006    An ordinance authorizing and approving the execution of
                       an economic incentive agreement (Ron Tirapelli Ford).
                       An ordinance approving a data sharing intergovernmental
07-1399   1-23-2007    agreement between the county of Will and the village of
                       Shorewood (GIS).
                       An ordinance authorizing and approving the first
07-1411   3-27-2007    amendment to the Tyson Chrysler-Plymouth development
                       incentive agreement.
                       An ordinance approving and authorizing the execution of
07-1420   6-12-2007    an amended and restated intergovernmental agreement
                       between the city of Joliet and the village of Shorewood
                       for wastewater treatment services.
                       An ordinance approving an intergovernmental
08-1463   2-26-2008    communications lease agreement between Troy fire
                       protection district and the village of Shorewood (Water
                       Tower Antenna).
                       An ordinance authorizing the execution of a contract
08-1466   3-11-2008    between Waste Management - Southwest, a division of
                       Waste Management of Illinois, Inc., and the village of
                       Shorewood.
                       An ordinance authorizing a recapture agreement and
08-1481   6-24-2008    establishing a recapture for certain public improvements
                       (Lake Forrest).
                       An ordinance authorizing the execution of a customer
08-1488   7-22-2008    service agreement between United Communication Systems,
                       Inc., D/B/A Call One and the village of Shorewood.
                       An ordinance authorizing the execution of a license
08-1489   7-22-2008    agreement between Elgin, Joliet and Eastern Railway
                       Company and the village of Shorewood.
                       An ordinance authorizing the execution of an agreement
08-1492   8-12-2008    between the state of Illinois department of
                       transportation and the village of Shorewood (Illinois
                       Route 59 improvements).
                       An ordinance authorizing the execution of an agreement
08-1496   8-12-2008    between the state of Illinois department of
                       transportation and the village of Shorewood (Interstate
                       55 at Illinois Route 59 improvements).
                       An ordinance authorizing the execution of an economic
08-1500   8-26-2008    development incentive agreement between the village of
                       Shorewood and Kohl's Illinois, Inc.
                       An ordinance adopting a successor collective bargaining
08-1508   10-14-2008   agreement between the village of Shorewood and the
                       fraternal order of police labor council.
                       An ordinance adopting an extension to the collective
09-1522   1-27-2009    bargaining agreement between the International Union Of
                       Operating Engineers, Local 150, public employees
                       division and the village of Shorewood.
                       An ordinance approving an intergovernmental agreement
                       regarding use of facilities at Troy Hofer Elementary
09-1523   2-10-2009    School between the board of education of Troy community
                       consolidated school district 30-C and the village of
                       Shorewood.
                       An ordinance adopting a collective bargaining agreement
09-1551   9-22-2009    between the International Union Of Operating Engineers,
                       Local 150, public employees division and the village of
                       Shorewood.
                       An ordinance authorizing an amendment to the
09-1552   10-13-2009   communications site lease agreement (water tank) between
                       Nextel West Corp., a Delaware corporation, d/b/a Nextel
                       Communications and the village of Shorewood.
                       An ordinance authorizing the execution of an agreement
10-1574   2-23-2010    between United States Cellular Operating Company Of
                       Chicago and the village of Shorewood (Black Road Water
                       Tower).
                       An ordinance approving an intergovernmental agreement by
10-1575   3-9-2010     and between the Will County 9-1-1 emergency telephone
                       system board and for the funding of a 9-1-1 surcharge
                       reallocation.
                       An ordinance approving an intergovernmental agreement
10-1589   8-24-2010    for the installation and maintenance of flashing school
                       zone signs at Troy Crossroads Elementary School on Black
                       Road in the county of Will.
                       An ordinance adopting a successor collective bargaining
10-1595   11-9-2010    agreement between the village of Shorewood and the
                       Fraternal Order Of Police Labor Council.
                       An ordinance authorizing a recapture assignment
11-1620   5-10-2011    agreement between the Village of Shorewood, Edward
                       Mattox, Kipling Homes, LLC and Kipling Development Corp.
11-1623   6-14-2011    An ordinance approving an economic incentive agreement
                       with Granite Shorewood, LLC.
                       An ordinance approving an intergovernmental planning and
11-1627   9-13-2011    boundary agreement between the city of Joliet and the
                       village of Shorewood.
                       An ordinance approving an amended and restated
11-1630   9-13-2011    intergovernmental agreement between the city of Joliet
                       and the village of Shorewood for wastewater treatment
                       services.
12-1649   3-27-2012    An ordinance approving an amendment to an economic
                       incentive agreement with Granite Shorewood, LLC.
                       An ordinance adopting a collective bargaining agreement
12-1664   6-26-2012    between the International Union Of Operating Engineers,
                       Local 150, public employees division and the village of
                       Shorewood.
                       An ordinance adopting a successor collective bargaining
12-1677   11-13-2012   agreement between the village of Shorewood and the
                       Fraternal Order Of Police Labor Council.
                       An ordinance authorizing the execution of an agreement
12-1681   12-11-2012   between the state of Illinois, acting by and through its
                       department of transportation and the village of
                       Shorewood.
                       An ordinance authorizing the execution of an agreement
                       by and between the state of Illinois, acting by and
13-1686   2-26-2013    through the Illinois commerce commission, the Wisconsin
                       Central Ltd., village of Shorewood and the state of
                       Illinois, department of transportation.
                       An ordinance approving an intergovernmental agreement by
13-1687   2-26-2013    and between the Will County 9-1-1 emergency telephone
                       system board and the village of Shorewood for the
                       funding of a 9-1-1 surcharge reallocation.
                       An ordinance authorizing the execution of an agreement
13-1711   10-22-2013   by and between the village of Shorewood, an Illinois
                       municipal corporation, and A Beep, LLC an Illinois
                       limited liability company.
                       An ordinance approving an intergovernmental agreement
14-1722   2-11-2014    between the county of Will and the village of Shorewood
                       for the provision of animal control services.
                       An ordinance adopting a collective bargaining agreement
15-1775   6-9-2015     between the village of Shorewood and Fraternal Order Of
                       Police Labor Council.
                       An ordinance adopting a collective bargaining agreement
15-1776   6-9-2015     between the International Union Of Operating Engineers,
                       Local 150, public employees division and the village of
                       Shorewood.
                       An ordinance authorizing execution of the Illinois
                       public works mutual aid network agreement (IPWMAN).15-
15-1782   7-14-2015    17837-14-2015An ordinance authorizing a second amendment
                       to the communications site lease agreement (water tank)
                       between Sprintcom Inc. a Kansas corporation and the
                       Village of Shorewood.
16-1810   7-12-2016    An ordinance authorizing and approving the execution of
                       an economic incentive agreement (TransChicago).
                       An ordinance authorizing the first amendment of the
16-1818   9-13-2016    contract by and between the Village of Shorewood and
                       Waste Management (at your door special collection).
                       An ordinance adopting a collective bargaining agreement
18-1892   6-26-2018    between the Village of Shorewood and Fraternal Order of
                       Police Labor Council.
                       An ordinance authorizing the execution of a Water Tower
18-1901   8-28-2018    Lease Agreement between the Village of Shorewood and
                       Chicago SMSA Limited Partnership d/b/a Verizon Wireless.
                       An ordinance adopting a collective bargaining agreement
18-1906   9-25-2018    between the International Union of Operating Engineers,
                       Local 150, Public Employees Division and the Village of
                       Shorewood.
                       An ordinance approving a Redevelopment and Financing
18-1918   11-27-2018   Agreement between the Village of Shorewood and SWGR
                       Development LLC.
                       An ordinance approving an intergovernmental boundary
19-1955   11-26-2019   line agreement between the Village of Shorewood and the
                       Village of Minooka.
                       An ordinance authorizing the execution of a master pole
20-1963   1-14-2020    attachment agreement between the Village of Shorewood
                       and New Cingular Wireless, PCS, LLC (AT&T).
                       An ordinance authorizing the execution of a master pole
20-1964   1-28-2020    attachment agreement between the Village of Shorewood
                       and Chicago SMSA Limited Partnership d/b/a Verizon
                       Wireless.
                       An ordinance authorizing the execution of a contract by
22-2034   3-22-2022    and between the Village of Shorewood, an Illinois
                       municipal corporation, and Waste Management - Southwest,
                       a division of Waste Management of Illinois, Inc.
                       An ordinance adopting a collective bargaining agreement
23-2062   2-28-2023    between the International Union of Operating Engineers,
                       Local 150, Public Employees Division and the Village of
                       Shorewood.
                      
 
APPENDIX C
BOND ORDINANCES
Ordinance Passage Date Description
                       An ordinance authorizing $670,000.00 Waterworks and
                       Sewerage Revenue Bonds of the village of Shorewood, Will
51        12-22-1964   County, Illinois, and providing for the payment, sale,
                       and delivery thereof, and making certain covenants in
                       that connection.
Ordinance Passage Date Description
                       An ordinance authorizing $670,000.00 Waterworks and
                       Sewerage Revenue Bonds of the village of Shorewood, Will
51        12-22-1964   County, Illinois, and providing for the payment, sale,
                       and delivery thereof, and making certain covenants in
                       that connection.
                       An ordinance calling a special election in the village
                       of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois, for the purpose of
                       submitting to the electors of said village the question
52        3-9-1965     of improving and extending the waterworks and sewerage
                       system of said Village and of issuing Waterworks and
                       Sewerage Revenue Bonds in the aggregate amount of
                       $670,000.00 as provided in ordinance no. 0-51, passed on
                       December 22, 1964.
                       An ordinance providing for the issuance of $500,000.00
216       7-28-1975    Ad Valorem Tax Bonds of village of Shorewood special
                       service area number one.
                       An Ordinance authorizing the issuance of Waterworks and
88-465    5-10-1988    Sewerage Revenue Bonds of the Village of Shorewood, Will
                       County, Illinois.
                       An Ordinance authorizing and providing for the issue of
                       $2,300,000.00 Waterworks and Sewerage Revenue Bonds,
                       Series 1988, of the Village of Shorewood, Will County,
                       Illinois, for the purpose of acquiring a complete
88-469    6-21-1988    waterworks and sewerage system for said Village,
                       prescribing all the details of said bonds, and providing
                       for the collection, segregation and distribution of the
                       revenues of the combined waterworks and sewerage system
                       of said Village.
                       An Ordinance authorizing the issuance of Waterworks and
                       Sewerage Revenue Bonds of the Village of Shorewood, Will
90-541    5-22-1990    County, Illinois in an aggregate principal amount of
                       $600,000.00 for the purpose of defraying the cost of
                       improving and extending the waterworks and sewerage
                       system of the Village.
                       An Ordinance authorizing and providing for the issue of
                       $600,000.00 Waterworks and Sewerage Revenue Bonds,
                       Series 1990, of the Village of Shorewood, Will County,
                       Illinois, for the purpose of improving and extending the
90-545    7-10-1990    waterworks and sewerage system for said Village,
                       prescribing all the details of said bonds, and providing
                       for the collection, segregation and distribution of the
                       revenues of the combined waterworks, and sewerage system
                       of said Village.
                       An Ordinance providing for the issuance of $2,965,000.00
                       General Obligation Bonds, Series 1990, of the Village of
90-561    11-27-1990   Shorewood, Will County, Illinois, and providing for the
                       levy and collection of a direct annual tax for the
                       payment of the principal of and interest on said bonds.
                       An Ordinance providing for the issuance of $2,395,000.00
                       General Obligation Refunding Bonds, Series 1993, of the
93-701    7-27-1993    Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois, and
                       providing for the levy and collection of a direct annual
                       tax for the payment of the principal of and interest on
                       said bonds.
                       An Ordinance authorizing and providing for the issue of
                       $1,815,000.00 Waterworks and Sewerage Refunding Revenue
                       Bonds, Series 1993, of the Village of Shorewood, Will
                       County, Illinois, for the purpose of refunding
93-703    8-10-1993    outstanding waterworks and sewerage revenue bonds of
                       said Village, prescribing all the details of said bonds,
                       and providing for the collection, segregation and
                       distribution of the revenues of the combined waterworks
                       and sewerage system of said Village.
                       An Ordinance authorizing the issuance of General
                       Obligation Bonds (alternate revenue source) in an
96-836    2-27-1996    aggregate principal amount not to exceed $795,000.00 for
                       the purpose of defraying the cost of a Village Hall
                       expansion project in and for the Village of Shorewood,
                       Will County, Illinois.
                       An Ordinance authorizing and providing for the issue of
                       $795,000.00 General Obligation Bonds, Series 1996, of
                       the Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois, for the
                       purpose of defraying the cost of a Village Hall
                       expansion project in said Village, prescribing the
                       details of said bonds and providing for collection,
96-838    4-9-1996     segregation and application of utility tax receipts to
                       pay said bonds.00-102212-12-2000An ordinance authorizing
                       the issuance of waterworks and sewerage revenue bonds of
                       the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois, in an
                       aggregate principal amount not to exceed $4,600,000 or
                       in lieu thereof, general obligation bonds (alternate
                       revenue bonds), in an aggregate principal amount not to
                       exceed $4,600,000.
                       An ordinance authorizing and providing for the issue of
                       $4,600,000 general obligation bonds, series 2001, of the
                       village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois, for the
                       purpose of defraying the cost of improving the
01-1041   3-27-2001    waterworks and sewerage system of said village,
                       prescribing the details of said bonds, and providing for
                       the imposition of taxes to pay the same, and for the
                       collection, segregation and application of the
                       waterworks and sewerage system revenues to pay said
                       bonds.
                       An ordinance providing for the issuance of $1,440,000
                       general obligation refunding bonds, series 2001, of the
01-1073   11-13-2001   village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois, and
                       providing for the levy and collection of a direct annual
                       tax sufficient for the payment of the principal of and
                       interest on said bonds.
                       An ordinance authorizing the issuance of general
                       obligation bonds (alternative revenue source) in an
03-1151   2-25-2003    aggregate principal amount not to exceed $1,055,000 for
                       the purpose of refunding the waterworks and sewerage
                       refunding revenue bonds, series 1993, of the village of
                       Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
                       An ordinance authorizing and providing for the issuance
                       of $1,055,000 general obligation refunding bonds, series
                       2003, of the village of Shorewood, Will County,
                       Illinois, for the purpose of refunding certain
                       outstanding waterworks and sewerage revenue bonds,
                       prescribing all the details of said bonds and providing
                       for the imposition of taxes to pay the same, and for the
                       collection, segregation and distribution of the
                       waterworks and sewerage system operated by said village;
03-1163   4-8-2003     further authorizing and providing for implementing the
                       plan of refunding for waterworks and sewerage revenue
                       bonds.04-12287-13-2004An ordinance authorizing the
                       issuance of general obligation bonds (alternate revenue
                       source) in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed
                       $6,365,000 for the purpose of paying the costs of the
                       construction of a new public works building and a new
                       village hall located in the Shorewood Towne Center,
                       along with the improvements to the existing village hall
                       building.
                       An ordinance authorizing and providing for the issue of
                       $6,365,000 general obligation bonds, series 2004, of the
04-1234   8-24-2004    village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois, prescribing
                       the details of said bonds and providing for collection,
                       segregation and application of certain utility and
                       telecommunications taxes to pay said bonds.
                       An ordinance providing for the issue of $285,000 general
                       obligation limited tax refunding bonds, series 2005, of
05-1319   11-8-2005    the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois, and for
                       the levy of a direct annual tax to pay the principal of
                       and interest on said bonds.
                       An ordinance providing for the issue of $285,000 general
                       obligation limited tax refunding bonds, series 2006, of
06-1387   11-14-2006   the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois, and for
                       the levy of a direct annual tax to pay the principal of
                       and interest on said bonds.
                       An ordinance providing for the issue of $285,000 general
                       obligation limited tax refunding bonds, series 2008, of
08-1512   11-11-2008   the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois, and for
                       the levy of a direct annual tax to pay the principal of
                       and interest on said bonds.
                       An ordinance authorizing and providing for the issuance
                       of $4,250,000 general obligation refunding bonds
                       (alternate revenue source), series 2009, of the village
                       of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois, for the purpose of
                       refunding certain outstanding waterworks and sewerage
                       alternate bonds, prescribing all the details of said
                       bonds and providing for the imposition of taxes to pay
09-1526   3-10-2009    the same, and for the collection, segregation and
                       distribution of the waterworks and sewerage system
                       operated by said village.09-155711-10-2009An ordinance
                       providing for the issue of $293,000 general obligation
                       limited tax refunding bonds, series 2009A, of the
                       Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois, and for the
                       levy of a direct annual tax to pay the principal of and
                       interest on said bonds.
                       An ordinance authorizing the issuance of general
                       obligation bonds (alternate revenue source) in an
10-1564   1-12-2010    aggregate principal amount not to exceed $620,000 for
                       the purpose of paying the costs of purchasing a building
                       for the Public Works Department of the Village.
                       An ordinance authorizing and providing for the issue of
                       $620,000 general obligation bonds (alternate revenue
                       source), series 2010, of the Village of Shorewood, Will
10-1573   2-23-2010    County, Illinois, prescribing the details of said bonds
                       and providing for collection, segregation and
                       application of certain Utility and Telecommunications
                       Taxes to pay said bonds.
                       An ordinance providing for the issue of $301,000 general
                       obligation limited tax refunding bonds, series 2010A, of
10-1594   11-9-2010    the Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois, and for
                       the levy of a direct annual tax to pay the principal of
                       and interest on said bonds.
                       An ordinance authorizing and providing for the issuance
                       of not to exceed $4,850,000 general obligation refunding
                       bonds (alternate revenue source), series 2011, of the
11-1628   9-13-2011    Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois, for the
                       purpose of refunding certain outstanding alternate
                       bonds, prescribing all the details of said bonds and
                       providing for the imposition of taxes to pay the same.
                       An ordinance providing for the issuance of $304,000
                       general obligation limited tax refunding bonds, series
11-1636   11-8-2011    2011A, of the Village of Shorewood, Will County,
                       Illinois, and for the levy of a direct annual tax to pay
                       the principal of and interest on said bonds.
                       An ordinance providing for the issue of $315,000 general
                       obligation limited tax refunding bonds, series 2012A, of
12-1672   11-13-2012   the Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois, and for
                       the levy of a direct annual tax to pay the principal of
                       and interest on said bonds.
                       An ordinance providing for the issue of $320,000 general
                       obligation limited tax refunding bonds, series 2013, of
                       the Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois, for the
13-1715   11-12-2013   purpose of refunding certain outstanding bonds of the
                       Village and for the payment of the expenses incident
                       thereto, and providing for the levy of a direct annual
                       tax to pay the principal and interest on said bonds.
                       An ordinance providing for the issue of $325,000 general
                       obligation limited tax refunding bonds, series 2014, of
                       the Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois, for the
14-1751   11-11-2014   purpose of refunding certain outstanding bonds of the
                       Village and for the payment of the expenses incident
                       thereto, and providing for the levy of a direct annual
                       tax to pay the principal and interest on said bonds.
                       An ordinance providing for the issuance of $327,000
                       general obligation refunding bonds, series 2015, of the
                       Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois, for the
                       purpose of providing the revenue source for certain
15-1796   11-10-2015   outstanding bonds of said Village, providing for the
                       levy and collection of a direct annual tax sufficient to
                       pay the principal and interest on said bonds, and
                       authorizing the sale of said bonds to Standard Bank and
                       Trust Company.
                       An ordinance providing for the issuance of $329,000
                       general obligation refunding bonds, series 2016A, of the
                       Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois, for the
                       purpose of providing the revenue source for the payment
16-1821   11-8-2016    of certain outstanding bonds of said Village, providing
                       for the levy and collection of a direct annual tax
                       sufficient to pay the principal and interest on said
                       bonds, and authorizing the sale of said bonds to First
                       Bank & Trust.
                       An ordinance providing for the redemption and payment
18-1912   10-23-2018   prior to maturity of $175,000 general obligation bonds
                       (alternate revenue source), series 2010, of the Village
                       of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
                       An ordinance providing for the issuance of $14,200,000
                       General Obligation Bonds, Series 2021, of the Village of
                       Shorewood, Will County, Illinois, for the purpose of
                       financing the building and equipping of a new building
21-2017   7-27-2021    public works facility and paying the expenses incident
                       thereto, providing for the levy and collection of a
                       direct annual tax sufficient to pay the principal of and
                       interest on said bonds, and authorizing the sale of said
                       bonds to Northland Securities, Inc., Milwaukee,
                       Wisconsin.
                       An ordinance abating the taxes hereto levied for the
22-2057   11-22-2022   year 2022 to pay the principal of and interest on the
                       $14,200,000 General Obligation Bonds, Series 2021, of
                       the Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
                       An ordinance abating the taxes hereto levied for the
23-2080   11-14-2023   year 2023 to pay the principal of and interest on the
                       $14,200,000 General Obligation Bonds, Series 2021, of
                       the Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
                       An ordinance providing for the issuance of $8,220,000
                       General Obligation Bonds, Series 2024, of the Village of
                       Shorewood, Will County, Illinois, for the purpose of
                       completing capital improvements in and for the Village
                       including, but not limited to, street improvements,
24-2110   8-27-2024    installation or improvement of street lights, sewer and
                       storm sewer improvements and water main replacements,
                       including infrastructure improvements related thereto,
                       providing for the levy and collection of a direct annual
                       tax sufficient to pay the principal of and interest on
                       said bonds, and authorizing the sale of said bonds to
                       the purchaser thereof.
                       An ordinance abating the taxes hereto levied for the
24-2117   - -2024      year 2024 to pay the principal of and interest on the
                       $14,200,000 General Obligation Bonds, Series 2021, of
                       the Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
                       An ordinance abating the tax hereto levied for the year
24-2118   11-12-2024   2024 to pay the principal of and interest on General
                       Obligation Bonds, Series 2024, of the Village of
                       Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
                      
 
APPENDIX D
ELECTION ORDINANCES
 
Ordinance Passage Date Description
17        2-8-1961     An ordinance for regular election 1961 election
                       ordinance.
102       6-24-1969    An ordinance for special election (to fill vacancy).
85-384    1-8-1985     An ordinance providing authorizing submission of a
                       question to referendum.
                       An ordinance authorizing the submission of a question
91-576    1-22-1991    concerning curbside waste recycling to a nonbinding
                       advisory referendum in the village of Shorewood, Will
                       County, Illinois.
                       An ordinance providing for the submission to the
                       electors of the village of Shorewood, Will County, the
11-1635   11-8-2011    question whether the village should have the authority
                       under public act 096-0176 to arrange for the supply of
                       electricity for its residential and small commercial
                       retail customers who have not opted out of such program.
 
APPENDIX E
PURCHASE AND SALE OF REAL ESTATE AND PERSONAL VILLAGE PROPERTY
Ordinance Passage Date Description
80-315    9-23-1980    An Ordinance directing the sale of real estate by the
                       Village of Shorewood.
Ordinance Passage Date Description
80-315    9-23-1980    An Ordinance directing the sale of real estate by the
                       Village of Shorewood.
80-316    11-11-1980   An Ordinance accepting a bid for the sale of real estate
                       by the Village of Shorewood.
82-331    4-13-1982    An Ordinance directing the sale of real estate by the
                       Village of Shorewood.
82-333    6-8-1982     An Ordinance accepting a bid for the sale of real estate
                       by the Village of Shorewood.
                       An Ordinance authorizing adoption of a contract for sale
90-540    5-16-1990    of real estate and conveyance of permanent and temporary
                       easements.
                       An Ordinance authorizing the execution of an option to
91-575    1-22-1991    purchase real estate (Brighton Lakes Partnership - Well
                       Site No. 6).
                       An Ordinance authorizing the acquisition of certain
91-609    10-8-1991    properties for Municipal purposes for the Village of
                       Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
                       An Ordinance authorizing the sale of certain personal
92-635    4-14-1992    property owned by the Village of Shorewood, Will County,
                       Illinois.
92-668    10-27-1992   An Ordinance authorizing the sale and/or disposal of
                       certain property owned by the Village of Shorewood.
93-699    6-22-1993    An Ordinance authorizing the sale and/or disposal of
                       certain property owned by the Village of Shorewood.
                       An Ordinance authorizing the sale and/or disposal of
                       certain property owned by the Village of Shorewood
93-712    9-28-1993    (Police Department equipment).94-7568-9-1994An Ordinance
                       authorizing the sale and/or disposal of certain property
                       owned by the Village of Shorewood (Police Department
                       equipment).
94-766    11-10-1994   An Ordinance authorizing the sale and/or disposal of
                       certain property owned by the Village of Shorewood.
                       An Ordinance authorizing the execution of a real estate
                       contract between the Village of Shorewood and First
95-792    6-27-1995    National Bank of Joliet as trustee under trust agreement
                       #3529 (Kipling Development Corporation - Lot 62 and 63
                       in Hunt Club, Unit 2).
                       An Ordinance authorizing the execution of a real estate
                       purchase agreement between the Village of Shorewood,
95-796    7-25-1995    Will County, Illinois and Prairie Trail Limited
                       Partnership (Site for well #7: Lot 91, Prairie Trail
                       Subdivision, Unit 1, Joliet, Illinois).
                       An Ordinance authorizing the execution of a real estate
95-802    8-8-1995     contract between the Village of Shorewood and Dirst
                       Farms, Inc., or record title owner at the time of
                       conveyance (5.501 acres in Fox Bend Subdivision).
                       An Ordinance authorizing the sale by public auction of
95-803    8-22-1995    personal property owned by the Village of Shorewood
                       (Police and Municipal utilities equipment).
                       An Ordinance authorizing entering into an agreement for
95-823    11-14-1995   the purchase of a one-ton dump truck for the Village of
                       Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
                       An Ordinance authorizing the Village of Shorewood to
96-828    1-9-1996     execute a real estate sales contract for the sale of
                       certain property owned by the Village of Shorewood (146
                       Turtle Street).
                       An Ordinance authorizing the sale by public auction of
                       personal property owned by the Village of Shorewood.97-
                       8672-25-1997An ordinance authorizing the execution of a
96-848    7-23-1996    real estate contract between the village of Shorewood
                       and First Midwest Bank, as trustee, under trust
                       agreement dated June 28, 1984, and known as trust no.
                       84-869 (0.281 acre - Christi's property - part of PIN
                       #06-15-300-017).
97-880    8-12-1997    An ordinance authorizing the sale by public auction of
                       personal property owned by the village of Shorewood.
                       An ordinance amending ordinance 97-880 with regard to
97-883    8-26-1997    the sale by public auction of certain personal property
                       owned by the village of Shorewood.
                       An ordinance authorizing the execution of an agreement
                       between the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois,
97-885    10-28-1997   and First National Bank of Joliet, not individually, but
                       as trustee under trust no. 3146 (Shorewood industrial
                       park water tower site).
                       An ordinance authorizing the execution of a real estate
97-889    11-25-1997   purchase and sale agreement between the village of
                       Shorewood and Lorraine Feeney and Eleanor Murphy
                       (community park site).
98-906    7-14-1998    An ordinance authorizing the sale by public auction of
                       personal property owned by the village of Shorewood.
                       An ordinance authorizing the sale and/or disposal of
98-922    12-8-1998    certain property owned by the village of Shorewood
                       (Baker Flink snowplow).
00-987    5-23-2000    An ordinance authorizing the sale by public auction of
                       personal property owned by the village of Shorewood.
01-1067   10-9-2001    An ordinance authorizing the sale by public auction of
                       personal property owned by the village of Shorewood.
02-1100   5-28-2002    An ordinance authorizing the sale by public auction of
                       personal property owned by the village of Shorewood.
                       An ordinance directing and authorizing the sale of
02-1110   7-23-2002    personal property by the village of Shorewood.03-11522-
                       25-2003An ordinance directing and authorizing the sale
                       of personal property by the village of Shorewood.
03-1177   8-12-2003    An ordinance authorizing the sale by public auction of
                       personal property owned by the village of Shorewood.
03-1181   9-23-2003    An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       personal property for services in lieu of payment.
04-1240   8-24-2004    An ordinance authorizing the sale by public auction of
                       personal property owned by the village of Shorewood.
05-1269   1-11-2005    An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       personal property by the village of Shorewood.
05-1274   1-25-2005    An ordinance directing and authorizing the sale of
                       personal property by the village of Shorewood.
05-1280   2-22-2005    An ordinance directing and authorizing the sale of
                       personal property by the village of Shorewood.
05-1311   9-27-2005    An ordinance authorizing the sale by public auction of
                       personal property owned by the village of Shorewood.
06-1337   1-10-2006    An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       personal property by the village of Shorewood.
06-1361   5-9-2006     An ordinance authorizing the sale by public auction of
                       personal property owned by the village of Shorewood.
06-1384   10-10-2006   An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       surplus property by the village of Shorewood.
07-1402   2-13-2007    An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       personal property by the village of Shorewood.
07-1408   3-13-2007    An ordinance directing and authorizing the sale of
                       personal property by the village of Shorewood.
07-1416   5-22-2007    An ordinance authorizing the sale by public auction of
                       personal property owned by the village of Shorewood.
07-1442   10-9-2007    An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       surplus property by the village of Shorewood.
                       An ordinance directing and authorizing the sale of
08-1461   1-22-2008    surplus real estate by the village of Shorewood (former
                       Geneva Street water tank site).
                       An ordinance authorizing the sale of surplus real estate
08-1482   6-24-2008    owned by the village of Shorewood and the execution of a
                       vacant land sales contract.
08-1501   8-26-2008    An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       surplus property by the village of Shorewood.
08-1507   10-14-2008   An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       surplus property by the village of Shorewood.
08-1515   11-11-2008   An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       personal property by the village of Shorewood.
08-1516   11-11-2008   An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       personal property by the village of Shorewood.
09-1531   4-14-2009    An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       surplus property by the village of Shorewood.
09-1545   9-8-2009     An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       surplus property by the village of Shorewood.
09-1553   10-13-2009   An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       personal property by the village of Shorewood.
10-1566   1-12-2010    An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       surplus property by the village of Shorewood.
10-1567   1-12-2010    An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       personal property by the village of Shorewood.
10-1571   1-26-2010    An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       personal property by the village of Shorewood.
10-1596   11-23-2010   An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       surplus property by the village of Shorewood.
10-1604   12-14-2010   An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       surplus property by the village of Shorewood.
11-1607   1-11-2011    An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       surplus property by the village of Shorewood.
11-1624   8-8-2011     An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       surplus property by the village of Shorewood.
11-1626   8-23-2011    An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       surplus property by the village of Shorewood.
11-1633   10-25-2011   An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       surplus property by the village of Shorewood.
11-1634   10-25-2011   An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       personal property by the village of Shorewood.
12-1659   5-22-2012    An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       surplus property by the village of Shorewood.
12-1662   6-12-2012    An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       personal property by the village of Shorewood.
12-1678   11-13-2012   An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       surplus property by the village of Shorewood.
13-1682   1-8-2013     An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       surplus property by the village of Shorewood.
13-1689   4-10-2013    An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       surplus property by the village of Shorewood.
13-1694   5-14-2013    An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       surplus property by the village of Shorewood.
13-1698   5-28-2013    An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       personal property by the village of Shorewood.
14-1729   3-11-2014    An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       personal property by the village of Shorewood.
14-1731   4-8-2014     An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       surplus property by the village of Shorewood.
14-1746   10-14-2014   An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       surplus property by the village of Shorewood.
14-1759   11-25-2014   An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       surplus property by the village of Shorewood.
                       An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       surplus property by the village of Shorewood.15-17724-
15-1764   1-27-2015    14-2015An ordinance directing and authorizing the
                       disposal of surplus property by the Village of
                       Shorewood.
15-1778   6-9-2015     An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       surplus property by the Village of Shorewood.
15-1786   7-28-2015    An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       surplus property by the Village of Shorewood.
15-1787   7-28-2015    An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       surplus property by the Village of Shorewood.
15-1799   11-24-2015   An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       surplus property by the Village of Shorewood.
16-1801   3-8-2016     An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       surplus property by the Village of Shorewood.
16-1811   7-26-2016    An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       surplus property by the Village of Shorewood.
16-1812   7-26-2016    An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       personal property by the Village of Shorewood.
17-1838   2-14-2017    An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       surplus property by the Village of Shorewood.
17-1852   7-25-2017    An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       surplus property by the Village of Shorewood.
17-1855   9-12-2017    An ordinance authorizing for the purchase of 204 Diana
                       Street at Sheriff's sale.
17-1867   11-28-2017   An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       surplus property by the Village of Shorewood.
18-1874   3-13-2018    An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       personal property by the Village of Shorewood.
18-1888   6-12-2018    An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       personal property by the Village of Shorewood.
18-1895   7-24-2018    An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       personal property by the Village of Shorewood.
18-1903   8-28-2018    An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       personal property by the Village of Shorewood.
18-1907   9-25-2018    An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       surplus property by the Village of Shorewood.
18-1920   12-11-2018   An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal/sale
                       of surplus property by the Village of Shorewood.
18-1921   12-11-2018   An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       surplus property by the Village of Shorewood.
19-1933   - -2019      An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       surplus property by the Village of Shorewood.
19-1937   7-23-2019    An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       surplus property by the Village of Shorewood.
19-1445   - -2019      An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       surplus property by the Village of Shorewood.
19-1446   - -2019      An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       surplus property by the Village of Shorewood.
20-1965   1-28-2020    An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       surplus property by the Village of Shorewood.
20-1981   8-11-2020    An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       surplus property by the Village of Shorewood.
20-1987   9-8-2020     An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       surplus property by the Village of Shorewood.
20-1992   - -2020      An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       surplus property by the Village of Shorewood.
20-1993   - -2020      An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       surplus property by the Village of Shorewood.
21-2008   4-13-2021    An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       surplus property by the Village of Shorewood.
21-2009   5-11-2021    An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       personal property by the Village of Shorewood.
                       An ordinance authorizing the sale of surplus real
21-2016   6-22-2021    property owned by the Village of Shorewood and the
                       execution of a purchase and sale contract with respect
                       thereto.
21-2019   8-10-2021    An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       surplus property by the Village of Shorewood.
22-2039   3-22-2022    An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       surplus property by the Village of Shorewood.
22-2054   9-27-2022    An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       surplus property by the Village of Shorewood.
23-2071   4-25-2023    An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       surplus property by the Village of Shorewood.
23-2086   12-12-2023   An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       surplus property by the Village of Shorewood.
24-2093   2-13-2024    An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       surplus property by the Village of Shorewood.
24-2100   3-26-2024    An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       surplus property by the Village of Shorewood.
24-2103   4-23-2024    An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       surplus property by the Village of Shorewood.
24-2105   6-11-2024    An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       surplus property by the Village of Shorewood.
24-2119   11-12-2024   An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       surplus property by the Village of Shorewood.
25-2127   1-14-2025    An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       personal property by the Village of Shorewood.
25-2128   1-28-2025    An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       surplus property by the Village of Shorewood.
25-2139   3-25-2025    An ordinance directing and authorizing the disposal of
                       surplus property by the Village of Shorewood.
                      
 
APPENDIX F
SPECIAL SERVICE AREAS
Ordinance Passage Date Description
                       An ordinance proposing the establishment of a special
193       7-23-1974    service area in the village of Shorewood, Will County,
                       Illinois, and providing for a public hearing and other
                       procedures in connection therewith.
Ordinance Passage Date Description
                       An ordinance proposing the establishment of a special
193       7-23-1974    service area in the village of Shorewood, Will County,
                       Illinois, and providing for a public hearing and other
                       procedures in connection therewith.
                       An ordinance rescinding ordinance 0-193 of the village
                       of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois, being an ordinance
196       9-10-1974    proposing the establishment of a special service area in
                       the village of Shorewood, and making certain findings
                       relative thereto.
                       An ordinance proposing the establishment of a special
200       11-12-1974   service area in the village of Shorewood, Will County,
                       Illinois, and providing for a public hearing and other
                       procedures in connection therewith.
201       1-14-1975    An ordinance establishing village of Shorewood special
                       service area no. 1.
205       1-28-1975    An ordinance amending ordinance 0-201 establishing
                       village of Shorewood special service area no. 1.
                       An ordinance repealing ordinance 0-205 which was an
206       3-25-1975    ordinance amending ordinance 0-201 establishing village
                       of Shorewood special service area no. 1.
87-427    1-27-1987    An ordinance abating all future tax levies for Shorewood
                       special service area no. 1.
                       An ordinance repealing ordinance 92-664 entitled "an
                       ordinance proposing the establishment of special service
94-747    4-26-1994    area #2 of the village of Shorewood, Will County,
                       Illinois, and the issuance of bonds in an amount not to
                       exceed $350,000.00 for the purpose of paying the cost of
                       providing special services and in such area".
                       An ordinance repealing ordinance 92-665 entitled "an
                       ordinance proposing the establishment of special service
94-748    4-26-1994    area #3 of the village of Shorewood, Will County,
                       Illinois, and the issuance of bonds in an amount not to
                       exceed $350,000.00 for the purpose of paying the cost of
                       providing special services and in such area".
                       An ordinance of the village of Shorewood, Will County,
06-1331   1-10-2006    Illinois, proposing the establishment of a special
                       service area and calling for a public hearing with
                       regard thereto (Fields Of Shorewood).
                       An ordinance of the village of Shorewood, Will County,
06-1332   1-10-2006    Illinois, proposing the establishment of a special
                       service area and calling for a public hearing with
                       regard thereto (Lake Forrest).
                       An ordinance of the village of Shorewood, Will County,
06-1333   1-10-2006    Illinois, proposing the establishment of a special
                       service area and calling for a public hearing with
                       regard thereto (Towne Center).
                       An ordinance of the village of Shorewood, Will County,
06-1334   1-10-2006    Illinois, proposing the establishment of a special
                       service area and calling for a public hearing with
                       regard thereto (Estates Of Hidden Creek).
                       An ordinance of the village of Shorewood, Will County,
06-1335   1-10-2006    Illinois, proposing the establishment of a special
                       service area and calling for a public hearing with
                       regard thereto (Edgewater).
                       An ordinance for the establishment of special service
06-1346   2-28-2006    area number 4 (Edgewater subdivision) in the village of
                       Shorewood, Will County, Illinois, following notice and
                       public hearing in connection therewith.
                       An ordinance for the establishment of special service
                       area number 5 (Estates of Hidden Creek subdivision) in
06-1347   2-28-2006    the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois,
                       following notice and public hearing in connection
                       therewith.
                       An ordinance for the establishment of special service
06-1348   2-28-2006    area number 6 (Fields of Shorewood subdivision) in the
                       village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois, following
                       notice and public hearing in connection therewith.
                       An ordinance for the establishment of special service
06-1349   2-28-2006    area number 7 (Towne Center subdivision) in the village
                       of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois, following notice
                       and public hearing in connection therewith.
                       An ordinance of the village of Shorewood, Will County,
06-1374   8-22-2006    Illinois, proposing the establishment of a special
                       service area and calling for a public hearing with
                       regard thereto (Lake Forrest).
                       An ordinance of the village of Shorewood, Will County,
06-1375   8-22-2006    Illinois, proposing the establishment of a special
                       service area and calling for a public hearing with
                       regard thereto (Shorewood Glen).
                       An ordinance of the village of Shorewood, Will County,
06-1376   8-22-2006    Illinois, proposing the establishment of a special
                       service area and calling for a public hearing with
                       regard thereto (Westminster Gardens).
                       An ordinance for the establishment of special service
                       area number 8 (Kipling Estates, Unit 8 and Lake Forrest
06-1381   10-10-2006   Subdivisions) in the village of Shorewood, Will County,
                       Illinois, following notice and public hearing in
                       connection therewith.
                       An ordinance for the establishment of special service
06-1382   10-10-2006   area number 9 (Shorewood Glen Subdivision) in the
                       village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois, following
                       notice and public hearing in connection therewith.
                       An ordinance for the establishment of special service
06-1383   10-10-2006   area number 10 (Westminster Gardens Subdivision) in the
                       village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois, following
                       notice and public hearing in connection therewith.
                       An ordinance for the public hearing for special service
07-1423   7-10-2007    area number 11 (Heritage Mills Subdivision) in the
                       village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois, following
                       notice in connection therewith.
                       An ordinance for the public hearing for special service
07-1424   7-10-2007    area number 12 (Lake Forrest South Subdivision) in the
                       village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois, following
                       notice in connection therewith.
                       An ordinance for the public hearing for special service
07-1425   7-10-2007    area number 13 (Towne Center II Subdivision) in the
                       village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois, following
                       notice in connection therewith.
                       An ordinance for the establishment of special service
07-1430   8-28-2007    area number 11 (Heritage Mills Subdivision) in the
                       village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois, following
                       notice and public hearing in connection therewith.
                       An ordinance for the establishment of special service
07-1431   8-28-2007    area number 12 (Lake Forrest South Subdivision) in the
                       village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois, following
                       notice and public hearing in connection therewith.
                       An ordinance for the establishment of special service
07-1432   8-28-2007    area number 13 (Towne Center II Subdivision) in the
                       village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois, following
                       notice and public hearing in connection therewith.
 
APPENDIX G
APPROPRIATION AND TAX LEVIES
Ordinance Passage Date Description
Ordinance Passage Description
          Date
          5-28-   Annual appropriations ordinance for the village of Shorewood, Will County,
91-583    1991    Illinois, for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 1991, and ending March 31,
                  1992.
          12-17-  An ordinance for the levy and collection of taxes for the village of Shorewood,
91-623    1991    Will County, Illinois, for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 1991, and ending
                  March 31, 1992.
          6-23-   Annual appropriations ordinance for the village of Shorewood, Will County,
92-647    1992    Illinois, for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 1992, and ending March 31,
                  1993.
          12-8-   An ordinance for the levy and collection of taxes for the village of Shorewood,
92-676    1992    Will County, Illinois, for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 1992, and ending
                  March 31, 1993.
          6-22-   Annual appropriations ordinance for the village of Shorewood, Will County,
93-696    1993    Illinois, for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 1993, and ending March 31,
                  1994.
          12-14-  An ordinance for the levy and collection of taxes for the village of Shorewood,
93-723    1993    Will County, Illinois, for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 1993, and ending
                  March 31, 1994.
          6-28-   Annual appropriations ordinance for the village of Shorewood, Will County,
94-754    1994    Illinois, for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 1994, and ending March 31,
                  1995.
          9-27-   First supplemental appropriations ordinance for the village of Shorewood, Will
94-760    1994    County, Illinois, for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 1994, and ending March
                  31, 1995.
          12-13-  An ordinance for the levy and collection of taxes for the village of Shorewood,
94-770    1994    Will County, Illinois, for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 1994, and ending
                  March 31, 1995.
                  Annual appropriations ordinance for the village of Shorewood, Will County,
          6-30-   Illinois, for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 1995, and ending March 31,
95-793    1995    1996.95-82612-12-1995An ordinance for the levy and collection of taxes for the
                  village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois, for the fiscal year beginning April
                  1, 1995, and ending March 31, 1996.
          6-11-   Annual appropriations ordinance for the village of Shorewood, Will County,
96-843    1996    Illinois, for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 1996, and ending March 31,
                  1997.
          12-17-  An ordinance for the levy and collection of taxes for the village of Shorewood,
96-862    1996    Will County, Illinois, for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 1996, and ending
                  March 31, 1997.
          12-17-  An ordinance abating the tax hereto levied for the year 1996 to pay the
96-863    1996    principal of and interest on $795,000 general obligation bonds, series 1996, of
                  the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
          6-30-   Annual appropriations ordinance for the village of Shorewood, Will County,
97-875    1997    Illinois, for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 1997, and ending March 31,
                  1998.
          12-9-   An ordinance for the levy and collection of taxes for the village of Shorewood,
97-890    1997    Will County, Illinois for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 1997, and ending
                  March 31, 1998.
          12-9-   An ordinance abating the tax hereto levied for the year 1997 to pay the
97-891    1997    principal of and interest on $795,000 general obligation bonds, series 1996, of
                  the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
98-903    6-23-   Annual appropriations ordinance for the village of Shorewood, Will County,
          1998    Illinois for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 1998, and ending March 31, 1999.
          11-30-  An ordinance for the levy and collection of taxes for the village of Shorewood,
98-920    1998    Will County, Illinois for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 1998, and ending
                  March 31, 1999.
                  An ordinance abating the tax hereto levied for the year 1998 to pay the
          12-8-   principal of and interest on $795,000 general obligation bonds, series 1996, of
98-921    1998    the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.99-9466-22-1999Annual
                  appropriations ordinance for the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois,
                  for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 1999, and ending March 31, 2000.
          12-14-  An ordinance for the levy and collection of taxes for the village of Shorewood,
99-967    1999    Will County, Illinois, for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 1999, and ending
                  March 31, 2000.
          12-14-  An ordinance abating the tax hereto levied for the year 1999 to pay the
99-968    1999    principal of and interest on $795,000 general obligation bonds, series 1996, of
                  the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
          6-27-   Annual appropriations ordinance for the village of Shorewood, Will County,
00-997    2000    Illinois, for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 2000, and ending March 31,
                  2001.
          12-12-  An ordinance for the levy and collection of taxes for the village of Shorewood,
00-1016   2000    Will County, Illinois, for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 2000, and ending
                  March 31, 2001.
          12-12-  An ordinance abating the tax hereto levied for the year 2000 to pay the
00-1017   2000    principal of and interest on $795,000 general obligation bonds, series 1996, of
                  the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
01-1054   6-12-   Annual appropriations ordinance for the village of Shorewood, Will County,
          2001    Illinois for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 2001, and ending March 31, 2002.
          12-11-  An ordinance abating the tax hereto levied for the year 2001 to pay the
01-1077   2001    principal of and interest on $795,000 general obligation bonds, series 1996, of
                  the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
          12-11-  An ordinance abating the tax hereto levied for the year 2001 to pay the
01-1078   2001    principal of and interest on $4,600,000 general obligation bonds, series 2001,
                  of the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
                  An ordinance for the levy and collection of taxes for the village of Shorewood,
          12-18-  Will County, Illinois, for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 2001, and ending
01-1079   2001    March 31, 2002.02-11066-25-2002Annual appropriations ordinance for the village
                  of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois, for the fiscal year beginning April 1,
                  2002, and ending March 31, 2003.
          11-12-  An ordinance abating the tax hereto levied for the year 2002 to pay the
02-1133   2002    principal of and interest on $795,000 general obligation bonds, series 1996, of
                  the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
          11-12-  An ordinance abating the tax hereto levied for the year 2002 to pay the
02-1134   2002    principal of and interest on $4,600,000 general obligation bonds, series 2001,
                  of the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
          12-10-  An ordinance for the levy and collection of taxes for the village of Shorewood,
02-1136   2002    Will County, Illinois, for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 2002, and ending
                  March 31, 2003.
          6-10-   Annual appropriations ordinance for the village of Shorewood, Will County,
03-1167   2003    Illinois, for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 2003, and ending March 31,
                  2004.
          11-25-  An ordinance abating the tax hereto levied for the year 2003 to pay the
03-1189   2003    principal of and interest on $4,600,000 general obligation bonds, series 2001,
                  of the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
          11-25-  An ordinance abating the tax hereto levied for the year 2003 to pay the
03-1190   2003    principal of and interest on $1,055,000 general obligation refunding bonds,
                  series 2003, of the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
          11-25-  An ordinance abating the tax hereto levied for the year 2003 to pay the
03-1191   2003    principal of and interest on $795,000 general obligation bonds, series 1996, of
                  the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
                  An ordinance for the levy and collection of taxes for the village of Shorewood,
          12-15-  Will County, Illinois, for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 2003, and ending
03-1195   2003    March 31, 2004.04-12205-25-2004Annual appropriations ordinance for the village
                  of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois, for the fiscal year beginning April 1,
                  2004, and ending March 31, 2005.
          11-9-   An ordinance abating the tax hereto levied for the year 2004 to pay the
04-1256   2004    principal of and interest on $6,365,000 general obligation bonds, series 2004,
                  of the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
          11-9-   An ordinance abating the tax hereto levied for the year 2004 to pay the
04-1257   2004    principal of and interest on $795,000 general obligation bonds, series 1996, of
                  the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
          11-9-   An ordinance abating the tax hereto levied for the year 2004 to pay the
04-1258   2004    principal of and interest on $4,600,000 general obligation bonds, series 2001,
                  of the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
          11-9-   An ordinance abating the tax hereto levied for the year 2004 to pay the
04-1259   2004    principal of and interest on $1,055,000 general obligation refunding bonds,
                  series 2003, of the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
          12-14-  An ordinance for the levy and collection of taxes for the village of Shorewood,
04-1263   2004    Will County, Illinois, for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 2004, and ending
                  March 31, 2005.
          6-28-   Annual appropriations ordinance for the village of Shorewood, Will County,
05-1299   2005    Illinois, for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 2005, and ending March 31,
                  2006.
          11-22-  An ordinance abating the tax hereto levied for the year 2005 to pay the
05-1321   2005    principal of and interest on $795,000 general obligation bonds, series 1996, of
                  the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
                  An ordinance abating the tax hereto levied for the year 2005 to pay the
                  principal of and interest on $4,600,000 general obligation bonds, series 2001,
05-1322   11-22-  of the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.05-132311-22-2005An ordinance
          2005    abating the tax hereto levied for the year 2005 to pay the principal of and
                  interest on $1,055,000 general obligation refunding bonds, series 2003, of the
                  village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
          11-22-  An ordinance abating the tax hereto levied for the year 2005 to pay the
05-1324   2005    principal of and interest on $6,365,000 general obligation bonds, series 2004,
                  of the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
          12-13-  An ordinance for the levy and collection of taxes for the village of Shorewood,
05-1326   2005    Will County, Illinois, for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 2005, and ending
                  March 31, 2006.
          6-13-   Annual appropriations ordinance for the village of Shorewood, Will County,
06-1366   2006    Illinois, for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 2006, and ending March 31,
                  2007.
          11-14-  An ordinance abating the tax hereto levied for the year 2006 to pay the
06-1388   2006    principal of and interest on $6,365,000 general obligation bonds, series 2004,
                  of the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
          11-14-  An ordinance abating the tax hereto levied for the year 2006 to pay the
06-1389   2006    principal of and interest on $1,055,000 general obligation refunding bonds,
                  series 2003, of the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
          11-14-  An ordinance abating the tax hereto levied for the year 2006 to pay the
06-1390   2006    principal of and interest on $4,600,000 general obligation bonds, series 2001,
                  of the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
          12-12-  An ordinance for the levy and collection of taxes for the village of Shorewood,
06-1393   2006    Will County, Illinois, for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 2006, and ending
                  March 31, 2007.
          6-12-   Annual appropriations ordinance for the village of Shorewood, Will County,
07-1419   2007    Illinois, for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 2007, and ending March 31,
                  2008.
                  An ordinance for the levy and collection of taxes for the village of Shorewood,
                  Will County, Illinois, for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 2007, and ending
07-1448   11-13-  March 31, 2008.07-144911-13-2007An ordinance abating the tax hereto levied for
          2007    the year 2007 to pay the principal of and interest on $6,365,000 general
                  obligation bonds, series 2004, of the village of Shorewood, Will County,
                  Illinois.
          11-13-  An ordinance abating the tax hereto levied for the year 2007 to pay the
07-1450   2007    principal of and interest on $4,600,000 general obligation bonds, series 2001,
                  of the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
08-1478   6-10-   Annual appropriations ordinance for the village of Shorewood, Will County,
          2008    Illinois for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 2008 and ending March 31, 2009.
          11-11-  An ordinance abating the tax hereto levied for the year 2008 to pay the
08-1513   2008    principal of and interest on $6,365,000 general obligation bonds, series 2004,
                  of the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
          11-11-  An ordinance abating the tax hereto levied for the year 2008 to pay the
08-1514   2008    principal of and interest on $4,600,000 general obligation bonds, series 2001,
                  of the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
          12-9-   An ordinance for the levy and collection of taxes for the village of Shorewood,
08-1521   2008    Will County, Illinois for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 2008, and ending
                  March 31, 2009.
09-1536   6-9-    Annual appropriations ordinance for the village of Shorewood, Will County,
          2009    Illinois for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 2009 and ending March 31, 2010.
          11-10-  An ordinance abating the tax hereto levied for the year 2009 to pay the
09-1558   2009    principal of and interest on $6,365,000 general obligation bonds, series 2004,
                  of the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
          11-10-  An ordinance abating the tax hereto levied for the year 2009 to pay the
09-1559   2009    principal of and interest on $4,140,000 general obligation bonds, series 2009,
                  of the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
          11-23-  An ordinance abating the tax hereto levied for the year 2010 to pay the
10-1597   2010    principal of and interest on $620,000 general obligation bonds, series 2010, of
                  the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
          11-23-  An ordinance abating the tax hereto levied for the year 2010 to pay the
10-1598   2010    principal of and interest on $6,365,000 general obligation bonds, series 2004,
                  of the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
          11-23-  An ordinance abating the tax hereto levied for the year 2010 to pay the
10-1599   2010    principal of and interest on $4,140,000 general obligation bonds, series 2009,
                  of the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
          12-14-  An ordinance for the levy and collection of taxes for the village of Shorewood,
10-1601   2010    Will County, Illinois for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 2010 and ending
                  March 31, 2011.
11-1625   6-28-   Annual appropriations ordinance for the village of Shorewood, Will County,
          2011    Illinois for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 2011 and ending March 31, 2012.
          11-8-   An ordinance abating the tax hereto levied for the year 2011 to pay the
11-1638   2011    principal of and interest on $6,365,000 general obligation bonds, series 2004,
                  of the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
          11-8-   An ordinance abating the tax hereto levied for the year 2011 to pay the
11-1639   2011    principal of and interest on $4,140,000 general obligation bonds, series 2009,
                  of the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
          11-8-   An ordinance abating the tax hereto levied for the year 2011 to pay the
11-1640   2011    principal of and interest on $620,000 general obligation bonds, series 2010, of
                  the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
          11-8-   An ordinance abating the tax hereto levied for the year 2011 to pay the
11-1641   2011    principal of and interest on $4,700,000 general obligation refunding bonds,
                  series 2011, of the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
          12-13-  An ordinance for the levy and collection of taxes for the village of Shorewood,
11-1642   2011    Will County, Illinois for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 2011 and ending
                  March 31, 2012.
          12-13-  A revised ordinance abating the tax hereto levied for the year 2011 to pay the
11-1643   2011    principal of and interest on $4,140,000 general obligation bonds, series 2009,
                  of the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
12-1661   6-12-   Annual appropriations ordinance for the village of Shorewood, Will County,
          2012    Illinois for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 2012 and ending March 31, 2013.
          11-13-  An ordinance abating the tax hereto levied for the year 2012 to pay the
12-1673   2012    principal of and interest on $4,140,000 general obligation bonds, series 2009,
                  of the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
          11-13-  An ordinance abating the tax hereto levied for the year 2012 to pay the
12-1674   2012    principal of and interest on $620,000 general obligation bonds, series 2010, of
                  the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
          11-13-  An ordinance abating the tax hereto levied for the year 2012 to pay the
12-1675   2012    principal of and interest on $4,700,000 general obligation refunding bonds,
                  series 2011, of the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
          12-11-  An ordinance for the levy and collection of taxes for the village of Shorewood,
12-1680   2012    Will County, Illinois for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 2012 and ending
                  March 31, 2013.
13-1699   6-11-   Annual appropriations ordinance for the village of Shorewood, Will County,
          2013    Illinois for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 2013 and ending March 31, 2014.
          11-12-  An ordinance abating the tax hereto levied for the year 2013 to pay the
13-1712   2013    principal of and interest on $4,140,000 general obligation bonds, series 2009,
                  of the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
          11-12-  An ordinance abating the tax hereto levied for the year 2013 to pay the
13-1713   2013    principal of and interest on $620,000 general obligation bonds, series 2010, of
                  the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
          11-12-  An ordinance abating the tax hereto levied for the year 2013 to pay the
13-1714   2013    principal of and interest on $4,700,000 general obligation refunding bonds,
                  series 2011, of the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
          12-10-  An ordinance for the levy and collection of taxes for the village of Shorewood,
13-1716   2013    Will County, Illinois for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 2013 and ending
                  March 31, 2014.
14-1734   5-13-   Annual appropriations ordinance for the village of Shorewood, Will County,
          2014    Illinois for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 2014 and ending March 31, 2015.
          11-11-  An ordinance abating the tax hereto levied for the year 2014 to pay the
14-1756   2014    principal of and interest on $4,700,000 general obligation refunding bonds,
                  series 2011, of the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
          11-11-  An ordinance abating the tax hereto levied for the year 2014 to pay the
14-1757   2014    principal of and interest on $620,000 general obligation bonds, series 2010, of
                  the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
          11-11-  An ordinance abating the tax hereto levied for the year 2014 to pay the
14-1758   2014    principal of and interest on $4,140,000 general obligation bonds, series 2009,
                  of the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
          12-9-   An ordinance for the levy and collection of taxes for the village of Shorewood,
14-1761   2014    Will County, Illinois for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 2014 and ending
                  March 31, 2015.
15-1780   6-23-   Annual appropriations ordinance for the village of Shorewood, Will County,
          2015    Illinois for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 2015 and ending March 31, 2016.
          10-13-  An ordinance abating the tax hereto levied for the year 2015 to pay the
15-1792   2015    principal of and interest on $4,700,000 general obligation refunding bonds,
                  series 2011, of the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
          10-13-  An ordinance abating the tax hereto levied for the year 2015 to pay the
15-1793   2015    principal of and interest on $620,000 general obligation bonds, series 2010, of
                  the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
          10-13-  An ordinance abating the tax hereto levied for the year 2015 to pay the
15-1794   2015    principal of and interest on $4,140,000 general obligation bonds, series 2009,
                  of the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
                  An ordinance for the levy and collection of taxes for the village of Shorewood,
          11-10-  Will County, Illinois for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 2015 and ending
15-1798   2015    March 31, 2016.16-18086-14-2016    Annual appropriations ordinance for the
                  Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois for the fiscal year beginning April
                  1, 2016 and ending March 31, 2017.
                  An ordinance abating the tax hereto levied for the year 2016 to pay the
16-1822   11-8-   principal of and interest on $4,700,000 general obligation refunding bonds
          2016    (alternate revenue source), series 2011, of the Village of Shorewood, Will
                  County, Illinois.
                  An ordinance abating the tax hereto levied for the year 2016 to pay the
16-1823   11-8-   principal of and interest on $4,140,000 general obligation bonds (alternate
          2016    revenue source), series 2009, of the Village of Shorewood, Will County,
                  Illinois.
                  An ordinance abating the tax hereto levied for the year 2016 to pay the
16-1824   11-8-   principal of and interest on $620,000 general obligation bonds (alternate
          2016    revenue source), series 2010, of the Village of Shorewood, Will County,
                  Illinois.
17-1836   2-14-   An ordinance adopting tax increment allocation financing for the "Jefferson
          2017    Street/RT 59 TIF" redevelopment project area.
17-1846   6-13-   Annual appropriations ordinance for the Village of Shorewood, Will County,
          2017    Illinois for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 2017 and ending March 31, 2018.
                  An ordinance abating the tax hereto levied for the year 2017 to pay the
17-1861   10-24-  principal of and interest on $4,700,000 general obligation refunding bonds
          2017    (alternate revenue source), series 2011, of the Village of Shorewood, Will
                  County, Illinois.
                  An ordinance abating the tax hereto levied for the year 2017 to pay the
17-1862   10-24-  principal of and interest on $4,140,000 general obligation bonds (alternate
          2017    revenue source), series 2009, of the Village of Shorewood, Will County,
                  Illinois.
                  An ordinance abating the tax hereto levied for the year 2017 to pay the
17-1863   10-24-  principal of the interest on $620,000 general obligation bonds (alternate
          2017    revenue source), series 2010, of the Village of Shorewood, Will County,
                  Illinois.
          12-12-  An ordinance for the levy and collection of taxes for the Village of Shorewood,
17-1869   2017    Will County, Illinois for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 2017 and ending
                  March 31, 2018.
18-1889   6-26-   Annual appropriations ordinance for the Village of Shorewood, Will County,
          2018    Illinois for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 2018 and ending March 31, 2019.
                  An ordinance abating the tax hereto levied for the year 2018 to pay the
18-1915   11-13-  principal of and interest on $4,140,000 general obligation bonds (alternate
          2018    revenue source), series 2009, of the Village of Shorewood, Will County,
                  Illinois.
                  An ordinance abating the tax hereto levied for the year 2018 to pay the
18-1916   11-13-  principal of and interest on $4,700,000 general obligation refunding bonds
          2018    (alternate revenue source), series 2011, of the Village of Shorewood, Will
                  County, Illinois.
          12-11-  An ordinance for the levy and collection of taxes for the Village of Shorewood,
18-1919   2018    Will County, Illinois for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 2018 and ending
                  March 31, 2019.
19-1936   6-25-   Annual appropriations ordinance for the Village of Shorewood, Will County,
          2019    Illinois for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 2019 and ending March 31, 2020.
                  An ordinance abating the tax hereto levied for the year 2019 to pay the
19-1452   11-22-  principal of and interest on $4,140,000 general obligation bonds (alternate
          2019    revenue source), series 2009, of the Village of Shorewood, Will County,
                  Illinois.
                  An ordinance abating the tax hereto levied for the year 2019 to pay the
19-1453   11-22-  principal of and interest on $4,700,000 general obligation refunding bonds
          2019    (alternate revenue source), series 2011, of the Village of Shorewood, Will
                  County, Illinois.
                  An ordinance for the levy and collection of taxes for the Village of Shorewood,
19-1959   - -2019 Will County, Illinois for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 2019 and ending
                  March 31, 2020.
20-1974   6-9-    Annual appropriations ordinance for the Village of Shorewood, Will County,
          2020    Illinois for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 2020 and ending March 31, 2021.
                  An ordinance abating the tax hereto levied for the year 2020 to pay the
20-1997   - -2020 principal of and interest on $4,700,000 general obligation refunding bonds
                  (alternate revenue source), series 2011, of the Village of Shorewood, Will
                  County, Illinois.
          12-8-   An ordinance for the levy and collection of taxes for the Village of Shorewood,
20-2001   2020    Will County, Illinois for the fiscal year beginning April 1 2020 and ending
                  March 31, 2021.
21-2012   6-8-    Annual appropriations ordinance for the Village of Shorewood, Will County,
          2021    Illinois for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 2021 and ending March 31, 2022.
          11-2-   An ordinance abating the taxes hereto levied for the year 2021 to pay the
21-2029   2021    principal of and interest on the $14,200,000 General Obligation Bonds, Series
                  2021, of the Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
          12-14-  An ordinance for the levy and collection of taxes for the Village of Shorewood,
21-2030   2021    Will County, Illinois for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 2021 and ending
                  March 31, 2022.
20-2044   6-14-   Annual appropriations ordinance for the Village of Shorewood, Will County,
          2022    Illinois for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 2022 and ending March 31, 2023.
          12-13-  An ordinance for the levy and collection of taxes for the Village of Shorewood,
22-2058   2022    Will County, Illinois for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 2022 and ending
                  March 31, 2023.
          12-12-  An ordinance for the levy and collection of taxes for the Village of Shorewood,
23-2085   2023    Will County, Illinois for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 2023 and ending
                  march 31, 2024.
24-2104   6-11-   Annual appropriations ordinance for the Village of Shorewood, Will County,
          2024    Illinois for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 2024and ending March 31, 2025.
          12-10-  An ordinance for the levy and collection of taxes for the Village of Shorewood,
24-2122   2024    Will County, Illinois for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 2024 and ending
                  March 31, 2025.
25-2141   5-13-   Annual appropriations ordinance for the Village of Shorewood, Will County,
          2025    Illinois for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 2025 and ending March 31, 2026.
                 
 
APPENDIX H
ZONING DISTRICT AND MAP CHANGES, CONDITIONAL AND SPECIAL USES
Ordinance Passage Date Description
Ordinance Passage Description
          Date
26        11-13-  An Ordinance to amend Ordinance 0-8 of the Village of Shorewood, Illinois.
          61
30        12-12-  An Ordinance to amend Ordinance 0-8 of the Village of Shorewood, Illinois.
          61
38        11-27-  An Ordinance rezoning certain property within the Village of Shorewood,
          62      Illinois.
41        4-9-63  An Ordinance to amend Ordinance 0-8 of the Village of Shorewood, Illinois.
43        5-5-63  An Ordinance to amend Ordinance 0-8 of the Village of Shorewood, Illinois.
48        7-14-64 An Ordinance to amend Ordinance 0-8 of the Village of Shorewood, Illinois.
66        2-14-67 An Ordinance to amend the zoning within the Village of Shorewood, Will County,
                  Illinois.
                  An Ordinance amending Ordinance 0-63 of the Village of Shorewood, said
91        6-11-68 ordinance being passed November 22, 1966, and known as Zoning Ordinance 0-63,
                  Village of Shorewood, Illinois.
101       6-24-69 An Ordinance amending Ordinance 0-63, Zoning Ordinance of the Village of
                  Shorewood, Illinois, and reclassifying certain property within the Village.
105       7-8-69  An Ordinance amending Ordinance 0-63, Zoning Ordinance of the Village of
                  Shorewood, Illinois, and reclassifying certain property within the Village.
129       1-12-71 An Ordinance to amend the zoning within the Village of Shorewood, Will County,
                  Illinois.
141       10-26-  An Ordinance to amend the zoning within the Village of Shorewood, Will County,
          71      Illinois.
160       9-12-72 An Ordinance to amend the zoning within the Village of Shorewood, Will County,
                  Illinois.
169       1-23-73 An Ordinance to amend the zoning within the Village of Shorewood, Will County,
                  Illinois.
199       11-12-  An Ordinance to amend the zoning within the Village of Shorewood, Will County,
          74      Illinois.
209       5-13-75 An Ordinance to amend the zoning within the Village of Shorewood, Will County,
                  Illinois.
233       9-14-76 An Ordinance amending the Village of Shorewood Zoning Ordinance reclassifying
                  zoning of certain lands.
78-264    11-22-  An Ordinance amending Zoning Ordinance 0-122 reclassifying zoning of Richard F.
          77      Anderson land.
78-282    9-26-78 An Ordinance amending the Zoning Ordinance of the Village of Shorewood.
79-295    7-24-79 An Ordinance amending the Shorewood Zoning Ordinance reclassifying zoning of
                  land.
81-322    4-14-81 An Ordinance amending the Shorewood Zoning Ordinance by amending district
                  classification of lands.
86-406    1-14-86 An Ordinance rezoning portions of the Northwest Quarter of Section 10 in Troy
                  Township.
86-410    2-25-86 An Ordinance rezoning portions of the Southwest Quarter of Section 15 in Troy
                  Township.
87-432    4-14-87 An Ordinance rezoning lands of Homewood Beverage Co., Inc., by amendment to the
                  Village Zoning Ordinance.
                  An Ordinance rezoning lands of Chicago Title and Trust Company, trustee under a
87-453    12-8-87 trust agreement dated August 31, 1972, and known as Trust No. 60533 by
                  amendment to the Village Zoning Ordinance.
                  An Ordinance rezoning land, issuing a special use permit for the construction,
88-457    3-8-88  operation and maintenance of a concrete plant and granting a variance in
                  height.
                  An Ordinance amending the Village of Shorewood Zoning Ordinance
88-467    6-14-88 reclassification zoning of Lots 2-7 in Brookshore Park Unit One and Lots 8 and
                  9 in Brookshore Park Unit Four.
89-497    4-29-89 An Ordinance rezoning certain land located in the Village of Shorewood, Will
                  County, Illinois, from A-1 to R-1.
89-503    6-13-89 An Ordinance rezoning certain land in the Village of Shorewood, Will County,
                  Illinois to I-1 with additional uses (Kurtz-Brakur Custom Cabinetry).
89-506    6-13-89 An Ordinance rezoning certain land in the Village of Shorewood, Will County,
                  Illinois to I-1 with additional uses (Mc Craney).
89-509    6-13-89 An Ordinance rezoning certain land in the Village of Shorewood, Will County,
                  Illinois to I-1 with additional uses (Schmitz).
89-525    12-12-  An amendment to Ordinance 181, amending Zoning Ordinance 0-122 of the Village
          89      of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois, pertaining to application filing fee.
          12-11-  An Ordinance amending the Zoning Ordinance of Village of Shorewood, Will
90-567    90      County, Illinois to provide for the reclassification of certain real estate in
                  the Village of Shorewood (River Oaks South).
          12-11-  An Ordinance of Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois to provide for the
90-568    90      reclassification of certain real estate in the Village of Shorewood (River Oaks
                  Manor).
          12-11-  An Ordinance amending the Zoning Ordinance of Village of Shorewood, Will
90-569    90      County, Illinois to provide for the reclassification of certain real estate in
                  the Village of Shorewood (River Oaks West Addition).
                  An Ordinance amending Ordinance No. 569 entitled "An Ordinance amending the
91-589    6-25-91 Zoning Ordinance of the Village Of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois to provide
                  for the reclassification of certain real estate in the Village Of Shorewood
                  (River Oaks West Addition)".
91-604    9-10-91 An Ordinance rezoning certain land located in the Village of Shorewood, Will
                  County, Illinois, from A-1 to R-1 (Hunt Club-Rezoning).
                  An Ordinance granting a zoning change from Ordinance 122 known as the Revised
91-607    9-24-91 Zoning Ordinance of the Village of Shorewood (Frontage Road west of I-55, N. of
                  Rt. 52).
                  An Ordinance granting a special use permit as provided by Ordinance 93-637
93-704    8-10-93 which amends the Shorewood Zoning Ordinance 122 (Central Plains Residences,
                  Inc. - United Cerebral Palsy).
93-707    9-14-93 An Ordinance granting a special use permit to provide children's in-home day
                  care at 808 Madiera Drive, Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
                  An Ordinance granting a special use permit to provide children's in-home day
93-708    9-14-93 care at Lot #148, Imperial Mobile Home Park, 106 E. Jefferson Street,
                  Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
93-709    9-14-93 An Ordinance granting a special use permit to provide children's in-home day
                  care at 806 Ravinia Drive, Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
93-710    9-14-93 An Ordinance granting a special use permit to provide children's in-home day
                  care at 1103 Hummingbird Court, Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
                  An Ordinance granting a special use permit to provide children's in-home day
                  care at 204 Oakwood, Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.93-72612-14-1993An
93-711    9-14-93 Ordinance granting a conditional use as provided by Ordinance 93-695 known as
                  the Crossroads Zoning Ordinance of the Village of Shorewood (19405 S. Frontage
                  Road - Joliet Church of God).
94-731    1-25-   An Ordinance designating a business district pursuant to the Business District
          1994    Development and Redevelopment Act, 65 ILCS 5/11-74.3-1 (1992).
          2-22-   An Ordinance granting a conditional use as provided by Ordinance 93-695 known
94-734    1994    as the Crossroads Zoning Ordinance of the Village of Shorewood (600 Frontage
                  Road).
94-741    4-12-   An Ordinance granting a conditional use permit in the Village of Shorewood
          1994    (Drive-in Banking Facility).
94-742    4-12-   An Ordinance granting a conditional use permit in the Village of Shorewood (Day
          1994    Care Center).
94-751    6-14-   An Ordinance granting a conditional use permit as provided by Ordinance 94-740
          1994    for a drive-in banking facility (711 W. Jefferson Street).
          8-23-   An Ordinance granting a conditional use permit as provided by the Shorewood
94-757    1994    Village Code Title 10, Chapter 7B for a motor vehicle body repair facility (215
                  Amendodge Drive).
94-758    9-27-   An Ordinance granting a conditional use permit as provided by Shorewood Village
          1994    Code Title 10, Chapter 6 for a day care facility (700 W. Jefferson Street).
94-762    10-25-  An Ordinance granting a conditional use permit as provided by Shorewood Village
          1994    Code Title 10, Chapter 7B for an engine repair facility (215 Amendodge Drive).
          1-10-   An Ordinance granting the classification of a B-3 General Commercial District
95-774    1995    for certain property located in the Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois
                  (400 E. Frontage Road).
          3-28-   An Ordinance approving the official Zoning Map of the Village of Shorewood,
95-779    1995    Will County, Illinois.95-7885-23-1995An Ordinance granting a conditional use to
                  permit the operation of a cartage/freight facility in an ORI District (BUDA).
95-797    6-25-   An Ordinance granting a conditional use permit to provide children's in-home
          1995    day care at 208 Whisper Lane, Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
                  An Ordinance granting the classification of a B-4 Automotive Service District
95-798    8-8-    for certain property located in the Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois
          1995    (Parcel 1, 2 and 3 - part of Lots 8 and 9 of Assessors Subdivision - located at
                  the northeast corner of Rt. 52 and 59).
          8-8-    An Ordinance zoning property to the R-1 Single-Family District and granting a
95-801    1995    conditional use permit to allow the development of a residential planned unit
                  development (Fox Bend Subdivision).
          9-12-   An Ordinance rezoning certain parcels of land in the Village of Shorewood to a
95-807    1995    B-3 General Commercial District (subject to certain conditions) and granting a
                  conditional use permit to a car wash (Rt. 59 at School Road).
          9-12-   An Ordinance granting a conditional use permit for a family entertainment
95-808    1995    center as provided by Shorewood Village Code Section
                  10-6C-3 (near northwest corner of Illinois Rt. 59 and Black Road).
          9-12-   An Ordinance rezoning certain parcels of land in the Village of Shorewood to a
95-811    1995    B-3 General Commercial District and granting a conditional use (subject to
                  certain conditions) for one of said parcels (Grobarcik Subdivision).
          9-26-   An Ordinance granting a conditional use permit for an automobile repair
95-812    1995    facility as provided by Shorewood Village Code Section
                  10-6B-3 (722 Cottage Street).
                  An Ordinance granting a conditional use (subject to certain limitations) for
                  certain property within the Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (722
          4-23-   Cottage Street).96-8404-23-1996An Ordinance granting the classification of a B-
96-839    1996    2 Community Shopping Center District for certain property located in the
                  Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois, and repealing Ordinance 95-785
                  (Apple Tree Plaza, 707 W. Jefferson Street and Park Place Plaza, 805-807 West
                  Jefferson Street).
96-854    10-22-  An Ordinance granting a conditional use for certain property within the Village
          1996    of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (205B-207B Earl Road).
          3-25-   An Ordinance granting the classification of an OCI (Office, Commercial and
97-869    1997    Institutional) District for certain property located in the Village of
                  Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (600 Brookforest Avenue).
          4-22-   An Ordinance amending Ordinance 95-788 to extend the conditional use permit
97-871    1997    granted to a cartage/freight facility in an ORI District (Werner Enterprises,
                  Inc.).
97-872    4-22-   An Ordinance approving the Official Zoning Map of the Village of Shorewood,
          1997    Will County, Illinois.
97-876    7-22-   An Ordinance granting a conditional use permit to provide children's in-home
          1997    day care at 628 Shorewood Drive, Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
                  An Ordinance amending Ordinance 95-801 entitled "An Ordinance rezoning property
98-893    2-10-   to the R-1 Single-Family District and granting a conditional use permit to
          1998    allow the development of a residential planned unit development" (Fox Bend
                  Planned Unit Development).
          3-10-   An Ordinance granting the classification of an I-2 General Industrial District
98-895    1998    for certain property located in the Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois
                  (402 E. Frontage Road).
98-898    3-24-   An Ordinance approving the Official Zoning Map of the Village of Shorewood,
          1998    Will County, Illinois.
                  An Ordinance granting a conditional use permit to provide children's in-home
          7-28-   day care at 1002 Madiera Drive, Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.98-9118-25-
98-907    1998    1998An Ordinance rezoning property to the R-1 Single Family District and
                  granting a conditional use permit to allow the planned unit development of the
                  property (Wynstone).
          11-24-  An Ordinance granting a conditional use permit for a heavy duty truck and
98-914    1998    equipment repair facility as provided by Shorewood Village Code 10-7B-3 (906 S.
                  Cottage Street).
          1-26-   An Ordinance rezoning property to the R-1 Medium Density Single Family District
99-926    1999    and granting a conditional use permit to allow the planned unit development of
                  the property (Rollingwood).
          2-9-    An Ordinance granting the classification of a B-4 Automotive Service District
99-927    1999    for certain property located in the Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois
                  (Tyson Motors - S.W. I-55 at U.S. Rt. 52).
          2-9-    An Ordinance granting the classification of a R-5 Multiple- Family Residence
99-928    1999    District for certain property located in the Village of Shorewood, Will County,
                  Illinois (309 Channahon Street).
99-933    4-27-   An Ordinance amending Ordinance 95-788 to extend a conditional use permit for a
          1999    cartage/freight facility in an ORI District (Werner Enterprises, Inc.).
          5-11-   An Ordinance granting the classification of a B-3 General Commercial District
99-938    1999    for certain property located in the Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois
                  (a parcel on N.W. Frontage Road).
99-955    9-14-   An Ordinance approving the Official Zoning Map of the Village of Shorewood,
          1999    Will County, Illinois.
99-963    11-9-   An Ordinance rezoning certain land located in the Village of Shorewood, Will
          1999    County, Illinois, from A-1 to R-1 (Ostermeyer Property).
                  An Ordinance rezoning certain land located in the Village of Shorewood, Will
          11-9-   County, Illinois, from A-1 to R-1 (Shorewood Four Seasons Park Property).00-
99-965    1999    9711-11-2000An ordinance granting the classification of a B-3 general
                  commercial district for certain property located in the village of Shorewood,
                  Will County, Illinois (vacant land on Route 59 and Black Road).
00-977    3-14-   An ordinance rezoning certain properties and granting a conditional use permit
          2000    for a planned unit development (River Bluff).
00-994    6-27-   An ordinance rezoning certain properties and granting a conditional use permit
          2000    for a planned unit development (Dominick's Finer Foods, Inc.).
00-1009   9-26-   An ordinance granting a conditional use permit to allow a daycare home in the
          2000    village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
                  An ordinance approving a: 1) rezoning from B-2 to B-3; 2) conditional use for
          10-24-  planned unit development; 3) preliminary and final plat of subdivision; 4)
00-1011   2000    conditional use for a drive- through pharmacy on lot 1; 5) site plan approval
                  for lots 1 and 4; and 6) a form reciprocal easement agreement for shared
                  parking between all lots.
00-1021   12-12-  An ordinance rezoning certain properties and granting a conditional use permit
          2000    for a planned unit development (Baltz farm).
01-1024   1-9-    An ordinance rezoning certain properties and granting a conditional use permit
          2001    for a planned unit development (Phelps farm).
01-1027   1-9-    An ordinance granting a conditional use permit for a planned unit development
          2001    (Ward farm).
          7-10-   An ordinance granting the classification of a B-3 general commercial district
01-1057   2001    for certain property located in the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois
                  (Capista-Gregory development).
                  An ordinance granting a conditional use permit to allow a church in a
01-1060   7-24-   residential district in the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.01-
          2001    10648-28-2001An ordinance approving the official zoning map of the village of
                  Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
01-1069   10-9-   An ordinance amending the conditional use permit for planned unit and
          2001    development (Ward farm).
01-1075   11-27-  An ordinance granting a conditional use permit for a drive-in restaurant
          2001    facility at Shorewood crossings shopping center.
02-1080   2-12-   An ordinance granting a conditional use permit to allow the use of a portion of
          2002    the premises as a retail furniture warehouse by Shorewood village code 10-7A-3.
02-1087   3-12-   An ordinance granting a conditional use permit for a drive through banking
          2002    facility in a B-3 zoning district (First National Bank of Illinois).
                  An ordinance granting a conditional use permit to allow retail sales of trucks,
02-1089   3-12-   truck trailers and associated parts and to operate a garage for storage, repair
          2002    and servicing of motor vehicles including body repair and painting and engine
                  rebuilding (Fleet Equipment).
                  An ordinance granting the classification of a B-1 neighborhood convenience
02-1093   4-9-    shopping district and a conditional use permit for planned unit development for
          2002    certain property located in the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois
                  (Michelle Rowe).
          4-9-    An ordinance granting the classification of a B-3 general commercial district
02-1096   2002    for certain property located in the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois
                  (Vertin homestead).
02-1097   4-23-   An ordinance granting a conditional use permit for a residential planned unit
          2002    development and waiver for storm water detention (Rollingwood Estates).
                  An ordinance granting a conditional use to permit the operation of an in home
                  children's daycare facility at 805 South Raven Road in the village of
02-1105   6-25-   Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.02-11158-13-2002An ordinance granting a
          2002    conditional use to permit the operation of an in home children's daycare
                  facility at 900 Shorewood Drive in the village of Shorewood, Will County,
                  Illinois.
02-1137   12-10-  An ordinance granting a conditional use permit for a drive- through banking
          2002    facility in a B-3 zoning district (Fifth Third Bank).
03-1144   1-14-   An ordinance rezoning certain properties and granting a conditional use permit
          2003    for a planned unit development (Van Arsdell).
          2-11-   An ordinance granting a conditional use permit for drive- through facilities to
03-1146   2003    allow current development of the Shorewood Retail Center with Ryan Companies
                  US, Inc., as provided by Shorewood village code 10-6E.
03-1147   2-11-   An ordinance amending the conditional use permit for planned unit and
          2003    development (Vertin Farm).
          2-11-   An ordinance granting a conditional use permit for a drive- through restaurant
03-1148   2003    facility and sign variance at Crossroads Retail Center (Dunkin' Donuts/Baskin
                  Robbins).
03-1170   6-10-   An ordinance granting a conditional use permit for a planned unit development
          2003    (Lake Forrest).
03-1188   11-25-  An ordinance granting a conditional use permit for a planned unit development
          2003    (Kimball Hill Homes, Inc.).
04-1196   1-13-   An ordinance granting a conditional use permit for a drive- through banking
          2004    facility in a B-3 zoning district (Fifth Third Bank).
04-1198   2-10-   An ordinance granting a conditional use permit to allow the use of the premises
          2004    as retail sales by Shorewood village code 10-7A-3.
                  An ordinance approving preliminary and final plat of subdivision and individual
                  site plans and granting conditional use permits for a planned unit development
04-1201   2-24-   and other conditional uses (Shorewood Commons II).04-12094-13-2004An ordinance
          2004    granting a conditional use to permit the operation of a recreational and
                  competitive gymnasium for children at 1002 Geneva Street in the village of
                  Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
04-1217   5-11-   An ordinance granting a conditional use permit for a planned unit development
          2004    (Towne Center).
                  An ordinance granting the classification of residential under zoning
04-1218   5-11-   classifications TCR-1, TCR-2 and B-3 general commercial district for certain
          2004    property located in the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (Towne
                  Center).
04-1222   6-8-    An ordinance amending the planned unit development regarding the monument sign
          2004    for Shorewood Commons.
04-1237   8-24-   An ordinance rezoning certain properties and granting a conditional use permit
          2004    for a planned unit development (Ingalls Farm).
04-1239   8-24-   An ordinance amending the planned unit development regarding the monument sign
          2004    for Shorewood Crossings.
          10-12-  An ordinance granting a conditional use permit to allow outdoor storage of
04-1245   2004    boats, RVs, trailers, etc., of Shorewood village code 10-7B-3 at 1009 Geneva
                  Street.
          10-12-  An ordinance granting the classification of an OCI district for certain
04-1246   2004    property located in the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (101
                  Shorewood Lane).
          10-12-  An ordinance granting a zoning map amendment to B-2 (community shopping center
04-1250   2004    district) for certain property located in the village of Shorewood, Will
                  County, Illinois (N.W. corner of Route 59 and Amendodge).
04-1252   10-12-  An ordinance regarding text amendments to the village zoning ordinance
          2004    regarding the Shorewood beach overlay district.
04-1262   12-14-  An ordinance rezoning certain properties and granting a conditional use permit
          2004    for drive-through facilities (Brookforest Centre Subdivision).
                  An ordinance granting a conditional use permit for a planned unit development
05-1270   1-11-   with regard to office and retail use in a B-3 zoning district (Brookforest
          2005    Centre Subdivision).05-12792-22-2005An ordinance regarding a second amendment
                  to conditional use permit for planned unit development (Shorewood Crossings).
05-1283   3-8-    An ordinance granting a conditional use permit to allow a civic building in an
          2005    R-1 zoning district (Troy fire district).
05-1285   3-8-    An ordinance granting a conditional use permit for a drive-through restaurant
          2005    facility at Shorewood Crossings II (Taco Bell/Long John Silver's Restaurant).
          4-26-   An ordinance approving preliminary and final plat of subdivision and site plan
05-1289   2005    and granting conditional use permit for a planned unit development and drive-
                  through pharmacy uses.
          6-14-   An ordinance granting a conditional use to permit the operation of an in home
05-1296   2005    children's daycare facility at 1103 S. Raven Road in the village of Shorewood,
                  Will County, Illinois.
05-1297   6-14-   An ordinance granting a conditional use permit for a drive-through banking
          2005    facility in a B-3 zoning district (TCF Bank).
05-1306   7-26-   An ordinance rezoning certain property in the village of Shorewood, Will
          2005    County, Illinois (LIT Industrial).
          11-8-   An ordinance granting a conditional use permit to allow the use of the premises
05-1318   2005    as retail sales by Shorewood village code section
                  10-7A-3.
05-1327   12-13-  An ordinance rezoning certain property and granting a conditional use permit
          2005    for a planned unit development (Conrad's).
06-1330   1-10-   An ordinance rezoning certain property and granting a conditional use permit
          2006    for a planned unit development (First Classic Development Group, LLC).
06-1338   1-24-   An ordinance rezoning certain property and granting a conditional use permit
          2006    for a planned unit development (Home Depot).
06-1340   1-24-   An ordinance granting a conditional use permit for a drive-through banking
          2006    facility in a B-3 zoning district (Old Second Bank).
06-1354   3-14-   An ordinance rezoning certain property and granting a conditional use permit
          2006    for a planned unit development (Concept Hauler's).
06-1357   3-28-   An ordinance rezoning certain property and granting a conditional use permit
          2006    for a planned unit development (Towne Center II).
          4-11-   An ordinance granting a conditional use permit for the operation of an in home
06-1359   2006    children's daycare facility at 906 S. Raven Road in the village of Shorewood,
                  Will County, Illinois.
          5-9-    An ordinance granting a conditional use to permit the operation of a daycare
06-1362   2006    facility in a B-1 district in the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois
                  (Chesterbrook Academy).
          7-11-   An ordinance granting a conditional use to permit the operation of a
06-1369   2006    recreational facility and indoor batting cages at 403 Earl Road in the village
                  of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (Sharp Sports).
06-1380   10-10-  An ordinance amending the conditional use for a planned unit development
          2006    granted in ordinance no. 00-1011 (Brook Forest Plaza Lot 3).
06-1386   11-14-  An ordinance granting a conditional use permit for a drive-through banking
          2006    facility in a B-1 zoning district (People First Bank).
          12-12-  An ordinance granting conditional use permit for a planned unit development and
06-1394   2006    drive-through pharmacy use, and approving preliminary and final plat of
                  subdivision and site plans for lots 1 and 2.
                  An ordinance rezoning certain property and granting conditional use permits for
          12-12-  a planned unit development and public and private utilities and civic buildings
06-1396   2006    (Kipling Homes, LLC).07-13971-9-2007An ordinance granting a conditional use to
                  permit a residential dwelling unit in an OCI district in the village of
                  Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (Holy Family Parish Rectory).
07-1418   6-12-   An ordinance granting a conditional use permit for a planned unit development
          2007    (People First Bank Center).
          8-14-   An ordinance granting a conditional use permit for a planned unit development
07-1429   2007    and zoning change to OCI office, commercial, and institutional district (25157
                  Route 52, Coldwell Banker Honig-Bell).
          8-28-   An ordinance approving a zoning change for proposed lot 1 and granting
07-1433   2007    conditional use permit for a planned unit development and drive-through, and
                  approving a final plat of subdivision and site plans for lots 1 through 4.
07-1435   9-11-   An ordinance amending the conditional use permit for planned unit development
          2007    (Home Depot - Market Street, Lot 6).
07-1443   10-9-   An ordinance granting a conditional use permit to allow automobile rental in an
          2007    ORI zoning district (18622 S. Route 59, Enterprise Rent-A-Car).
          11-13-  An ordinance granting a conditional use permit to allow the operation of an in-
07-1446   2007    home daycare facility in an R-1 district at 602 Ravinia Drive (Linda Mick - 602
                  Ravinia Drive).
          11-13-  An ordinance granting a conditional use permit to allow the operation of a
07-1447   2007    daycare facility in a B-1 district in the village of Shorewood (Linda's
                  Learning Center) Linda Mick - 594–596 Brook Forest Avenue, Shorewood.
07-1453   11-27-  An ordinance granting a conditional use permit for a planned unit development
          2007    (N.W. Corner Black Rd. and Shorewood Drive, Alden Realty Services).
                  An ordinance granting an amendment to a conditional use permit for a planned
08-1472   4-8-    unit development (People First Bank Center).08-14744-8-2008An ordinance
          2008    approving the official zoning map of the village of Shorewood, Will County,
                  Illinois.
          5-13-   An ordinance granting a conditional use permit for a recreational facility and
08-1475   2008    servicing of electric boat motors in an industrial district (401 Earl Road,
                  Strictly Fishing and Archery).
          7-8-    An ordinance granting a conditional use permit for machinery sales including
08-1485   2008    display in the B-3 zoning district (power station/grand rental station, 200 W.
                  Black Road).
          9-9-    An ordinance granting an amendment to a conditional use permit for a planned
08-1503   2008    unit development including two (2) drive- throughs (Towne Center I and II
                  commercial, east of Wynstone).
          11-11-  An ordinance granting a conditional use permit to allow the operation of a
08-1510   2008    daycare facility in a B-3 district in the village of Shorewood (Children Of
                  America) 590 Brook Forest Avenue, Shorewood.
09-1524   2-10-   An ordinance approving the official zoning map of the village of Shorewood,
          2009    Will County, Illinois.
          3-24-   An ordinance granting an amendment to the conditional use permit for a planned
09-1529   2009    unit development in the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (Towne
                  Center 1, specifically the neo-traditional neighborhood).
          5-12-   An ordinance granting a conditional use permit for a recreational facility in
09-1532   2009    an industrial district in the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (403
                  Earl Road, Downstage Dance Company).
09-1541   8-11-   An ordinance granting a conditional use permit for a recreational facility in
          2009    an industrial district (900-926 Geneva Street, J&K Elite Cheerleading).
                  An ordinance granting a conditional use permit for a forklift repair and
                  servicing facility in an industrial district as provided by Shorewood village
09-1542   8-11-   code 10-7B-3 (900-926 Geneva Street, Material Handling Plus).09-15438-11-2009An
          2009    ordinance granting a conditional use permit for the operation of an automotive
                  aftermarket parts facility in an industrial district as provided by Shorewood
                  village code 10-7B-3 (900-926 Geneva Street, Longo Brothers).
          8-11-   An ordinance granting a zoning map amendment to E-1 (estate transition
09-1544   2009    residential district) for certain property located in the village of Shorewood,
                  Will County, Illinois (Saddlebrook Subdivision).
          9-22-   An ordinance granting an amendment to a conditional use permit for a planned
09-1548   2009    unit development (N.W. Corner Black Rd. & Shorewood Drive, Alden Realty
                  Services).
10-1565   1-12-   An ordinance approving an amendment to a planned unit development and other
          2010    conditional uses (Shorewood Market Street).
10-1577   3-23-   An ordinance amending the conditional use permit for a planned unit development
          2010    (Alden Realty Services, N.W. Corner Black Rd. & Shorewood Drive).
10-1578   3-23-   An ordinance approving the official zoning map of the village of Shorewood,
          2010    Will County, Illinois.
                  An ordinance granting a zoning map amendment to B-3 general commercial district
10-1579   4-13-   and B-4 automotive service district for certain property located in the village
          2010    of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (18600 and 18622 South Route 59/Shorewood
                  Northpoint).
          6-8-    An ordinance granting a conditional use permit for the installation of a radio
10-1583   2010    communication tower in excess of 60 feet in the village of Shorewood, Will
                  County, Illinois (700 Cottage Street, Troy fire protection district station 1).
          9-14-   An ordinance granting a conditional use permit to allow the operation of an in-
10-1590   2010    home daycare facility in an R-1 district in the village of Shorewood, Will
                  County, Illinois (25145 W. Glen Oaks Lane, Angels N Training, Michele Manning).
                  An ordinance granting a zoning map amendment to R-3A and granting an amendment
10-1593   10-12-  to the conditional use permit for a planned unit development for certain
          2010    property located in the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (Waterstone
                  Subdivision, Beith Farm LLC).
                  An ordinance granting a conditional use permit for the operation of a garage
          12-14-  for storage, repair and servicing of motor vehicles, including body repair,
10-1602   2010    painting and engine rebuilding in an industrial district in the village of
                  Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (400 Earl Road Unit N/Mean Machines
                  Restorations, Inc.).
                  An ordinance granting a zoning map amendment to B-3 general commercial district
          4-12-   and a conditional use permit for a planned unit development, and approving a
11-1614   2011    preliminary plat of subdivision, final plat of subdivision for lot 1 and site
                  plan for lot 1 (Shorewood Crossroads Plaza/Northwest corner of Route 59 and
                  Route 52).
                  An ordinance granting a conditional use permit for the operation of a garage
          5-10-   for storage, repair and servicing of motor vehicles (specifically fire trucks
11-1618   2011    and other emergency vehicles) including body repair, painting and engine
                  rebuilding in an industrial district in the Village of Shorewood, Will County,
                  Illinois (600 Earl Road - EMC Fire).
                  An ordinance granting a zoning map amendment to B-4 automotive service district
11-1629   9-13-   and a conditional use permit for a planned unit development in the village of
          2011    Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (200 West Black Road/Car Care Collision
                  Centers).
          4-10-   An ordinance granting a conditional use permit for a recreational facility in
12-1655   2012    an industrial district in the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (401
                  Earl Road, Essence Of Life Healing Arts).
12-1656   4-10-   An ordinance approving the official zoning map of the village of Shorewood,
          2012    Will County, Illinois.
                  An ordinance granting a conditional use permit for a garage for storage, repair
12-1668   9-11-   and servicing of motor vehicles (boats), including body repair, painting and
          2012    engine rebuilding in the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (400 Earl
                  Road unit H/Boats R Us).
          9-11-   An ordinance granting a conditional use permit to allow the operation of an in
12-1669   2012    home daycare facility in an R-1 district in the village of Shorewood, Will
                  County, Illinois (1115 Country Drive/Lauren Kurtyak).
          1-22-   An ordinance granting an amendment to the conditional use permit for a planned
13-1683   2013    unit development (Towne Center, specifically the traditional residential
                  neighborhood excluding unit 1).
          4-10-   An ordinance granting a conditional use permit for a recreational storage yard
13-1691   2013    (boats & boat trailers) in the I-2 zoning district of the village of Shorewood,
                  Will County, Illinois (400 Earl Road unit H-2:Boats R Us).
13-1693   4-10-   An ordinance approving the official zoning map of the village of Shorewood,
          2013    Will County, Illinois.
          7-11-   An ordinance granting a conditional use permit to Dean Gymnastics And Dance to
13-1705   2013    operate a recreational facility in the I-2 zoning district of the village of
                  Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (304 Amendodge Road).
          8-13-   An ordinance granting a conditional use permit to operate a recreational
13-1707   2013    facility in the I-2 zoning district of the village of Shorewood, Will County,
                  Illinois (400 Earl Road unit D).
          9-10-   An ordinance granting an amended conditional use permit to operate a
13-1708   2013    recreational facility in the I-2 zoning district of the village of Shorewood,
                  Will County, Illinois (403 Earl Road unit D & E).
          1-14-   An ordinance granting an amendment to a conditional use permit for a planned
14-1717   2014    unit development in the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (Market
                  Street Subdivision Lot 3A/643-659 Brookforest Avenue).
14-1721   2-11-   An ordinance of the village of Shorewood amending the Shorewood code of
          2014    ordinances title 10 regarding the Shorewood Beach overlay district.
          3-11-   An ordinance granting a conditional use permit for a daycare in the B-3 zoning
14-1726   2014    district including an additional monument sign in the village of Shorewood,
                  Will County, Illinois (Crossroads Business Park Lot 14/201 Capista Drive).
14-1733   5-13-   An ordinance approving the official zoning map of the village of Shorewood,
          2014    Will County, Illinois.
          6-10-   An ordinance granting a conditional use permit for Internet Auto Sales And
14-1737   2014    Detailing Services in the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (304
                  Amendodge Drive/First Class Motor Group).
          10-14-  An ordinance granting an amendment to the conditional use permit for a planned
14-1744   2014    unit development in the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (Edgewater
                  unit 4).
          10-14-  An ordinance granting an amendment to the conditional use permit for a planned
14-1745   2014    unit development in the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (Towne
                  Center unit 3, neo- traditional neighborhood).
                  An ordinance granting a conditional use permit for a planned unit development
14-1762   12-9-   and zoning change to B-1 neighborhood commercial shopping center district in
          2014    the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (301 Channahon Street/Whiteside
                  & Goldberg Law Office).
                  An ordinance granting an amended conditional use permit for a planned unit
15-1763   1-13-   development including a drive-through and final site plan for the east
          2015    buildings at Anderson's Crossroads Plaza (Anderson's Crossroads Plaza/Northwest
                  corner of Route 59 and Route 52).
          2-24-   An ordinance granting a conditional use permit for a planned unit development
15-1768   2015    and amendment to the site plan in the village of Shorewood, Will County,
                  Illinois (920 Brookforest Avenue/Speed-GMX Shorewood, LLC).
15-1771   4-14-   An ordinance approving the official zoning map of the village of Shorewood,
          2015    Will County, Illinois.
                  An ordinance granting a conditional uses permit for a planned unit development,
          7-14-   approving a preliminary plat of planned unit development, approving a final
15-1781   2015    plat of planned unit development for lot 4 and a site plan for lot 4 and
                  approving other conditional uses (Rose Shorewood Center and Lenny's Gas N
                  Wash).
                  An ordinance granting a zoning map amendment to B-4 automotive service district
15-1785   7-28-   and approval of a site plan for certain property located in the village of
          2015    Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (309 Channahon Street - CT Ventures/Tyson
                  Motor Corporation).
                  An ordinance granting a conditional use permit to allow the operation of an in-
                  home daycare facility in an R-1 district in the village of Shorewood, Will
15-1791   9-8-    County, Illinois (1010 Trillium Lane/Fabiola Estrada).16-18034-12-2016An
          2015    ordinance granting a conditional use permit to allow the operation of an in-
                  home daycare facility in an R-1 District in the Village of Shorewood, Will
                  County, Illinois (818 N/Edgewater Lane/Elizabeth Williams).
16-1804   4-12-   An ordinance approving the official zoning map of the Village of Shorewood,
          2016    Will County, Illinois.
          11-8-   An ordinance granting a conditional use permit for a planned unit development
16-1825   2016    in the Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (19747 NE Frontage Road/
                  LaQuinta Inn).
          1-10-   An ordinance granting a conditional use permit for automotive/truck service and
17-1831   2017    cleaning in the I-2 Industrial District in the Village of Shorewood, Will
                  County, Illinois (301 Earl Road/R & L Ultimate Truck Shop).
          4-11-   An ordinance granting an amendment to the conditional use permit for a planned
17-1840   2017    unit development and final site plan in the Village of Shorewood, Will County,
                  Illinois 102 West Jefferson Street/Anderson's Crossroads Plaza (West Building).
17-1843   4-11-   An ordinance approving the official zoning map of the Village of Shorewood,
          2017    Will County, Illinois.
          6-13-   An ordinance granting a conditional use permit for a drinking establishment in
17-1847   2017    the B-1 Zoning District in the Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois
                  (1142 W Jefferson Street/Will County Brewing Company).
          9-12-   An ordinance granting an amendment to the conditional use permit for a planned
17-1854   2017    unit development and final site plan in the Village of Shorewood, Will County,
                  Illinois 102 West Jefferson Street/Anderson's Crossroads Plaza (East Building).
          12-12-  An ordinance granting a zoning map amendment to B-4 Automotive Service District
17-1868   2017    for certain property located in the Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois
                  (approximately west half of 18600 South Route 59/Shorewood Northpoint).
                  An ordinance granting a conditional use permit for a planned unit development
18-1877   4-10-   and zoning map amendment to ORI Office, Research and Light Industrial District
          2018    in the Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (SW corner of Mound Road and
                  Frontage Road/HSA Acquisitions, Inc.).
                  An ordinance granting a zoning map amendment to B-1 Neighborhood Convenience
18-1878   4-10-   Shopping Center District and site plan for certain property located in the
          2018    Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (601 and 605 W Jefferson Street/
                  Shorewood Family Dental parking lot expansion).
18-1879   4-10-   An ordinance approving the official zoning map of the Village of Shorewood,
          2018    Will County, Illinois.
          5-8-    An ordinance granting a conditional use permit for radio tower in excess of
18-1885   2018    sixty feet in the Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (25846 W Mound
                  Road/Shorewood Public Works Site- WESCOM Communication Tower).
          7-24-   An ordinance granting a conditional use permit for an auto rental business in
18-1893   2018    the B-3 Zoning District in the Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (300
                  and 310 Gregory Court, Shorewood Crossings Business Park LLC).
          8-14-   An ordinance granting a conditional use permit for a day care facility in the
18-1896   2018    B-3 Zoning District and final site plan in the Village of Shorewood, Will
                  County, Illinois (Lot 8 Shorewood Market Street/The Learning Experience).
          8-14-   An ordinance granting a conditional use permit to construct a 120' monopole
18-1897   2018    cell tower with a 5' lightning rod in the I-2 Zoning District in the Village of
                  Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (PI Tower Development/300 Earl Road).
                  An ordinance granting an amendment to the conditional use permit for a planned
18-1904   9-11-   unit development and final site plan in the Village of Shorewood, Will County,
          2018    Illinois (102 West Jefferson Street and 150 Brookforest Avenue/Anderson's
                  Crossroads Plaza).
          9-11-   An ordinance granting a conditional use permit for a fitness center in the B-
18-1905   2018    3 Zoning District in the Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (954-960
                  Brookforest Avenue/Orange Theory Fitness).
                  An ordinance amending the Village of Shorewood zoning ordinance to amend the
18-1910   10-9-   zoning map to OCI (Office, Commercial District and Institutional District), and
          2018    approving a site plan in the Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois
                  (Restoration Church).
                  An ordinance granting a zoning map amendment to B-4 Automotive Service District
18-1913   11-13-  for certain property located in the Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois
          2018    (approximate east 223 feet of the north half of 18600 South Route 59/Shorewood
                  Northpoint).
          11-13-  An ordinance amending the conditional use permit for a planned unit development
18-1914   2018    and final site plan approval in the Village of Shorewood, Illinois (Aldi Store-
                  Shorewood Market Street, Lot 6).
                  An ordinance granting a conditional use permit for an indoor shooting range,
18-1917   11-27-  zoning map amendment to B-3 General Commercial District, a variance for wall
          2018    signage and final site plan for Shoot Point Blank in the Village of Shorewood,
                  Will County, Illinois (19641 NE Frontage Road).
          1-22-   An ordinance granting a minor amendment to the existing PUD/conditional use
19-1923   2019    permit for Shorewood Commons/Target Store in the Village of Shorewood, Will
                  County, Illinois (1111 Brookforest Avenue).
19-1930   3-12-   An ordinance approving the official zoning map of the Village of Shorewood,
          2019    Will County, Illinois.
          6-11-   An ordinance granting a conditional use permit for an indoor baseball training
19-1934   2019    facility, with variances, and final site plan for Rhino Baseball (301 Gregory
                  Court).
19-1935   6-11-   An ordinance amending the conditional use permit for the People First Bank
          2019    Center PUD (1226 W. Jefferson Street).
19-1938   8-13-   An ordinance granting a conditional use for a recreation and social facility at
          2019    201 Earl Road (Dynasty Baseball).
19-1941   8-27-   An ordinance granting a conditional use for an automobile repair facility at
          2019    301 Earl Road in the Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
          10-8-   An ordinance granting a conditional use for a physical culture and health
19-1947   2019    service, gymnasium and reducing salon at 125 Capista Drive (RISE Athletic Club
                  LLC).
19-1950   11-22-  An ordinance granting a conditional use for an automobile repair facility at
          2019    303 Amendodge, Units C and D (Diesel Truck Center).
          12-10-  An ordinance granting a conditional use for physical culture and health
19-1957   2019    services, gymnasium and reducing salons to operate a spa at 976-978 Brook
                  Forest Avenue (Hand and Stone Massage and Facial Spa).
20-1969   3-10-   An ordinance publishing the official zoning map of the Village of Shorewood,
          2020    Will County, Illinois.
20-1970   5-12-   An ordinance granting a conditional use for an internet auto sales facility at
          2020    207 Earl Road, Unit C (Zero Auto Warehouse).
          6-9-    An ordinance granting an amendment to the conditional use for a planned unit
20-1972   2020    development at 102 W. Jefferson Street and 150 brook Forest Avenue (Anderson’s
                  Crossroads Plaza).
20-1976   7-14-   An ordinance granting a conditi0nal use for a garage for the storage of motor
          2020    vehicles at 400 Earl Road, Unit D (Elite Ambulance.
20-1977   7-14-   An ordinance grating a conditional use for a planned unit development at 1006
          2020    Geneva Street (United Engineering/Hawkeye Energy Solutions).
20-1979   7-14-   An ordinance granting a conditional use for a truck and trailer repair facility
          2020    at 301 Amendodge Drive (Onsite Truck and Trailer Repair).
20-1980   8-11-   An ordinance granting a conditional use to operate a fitness and wellness
          2020    center at 312 Gregory Court (Rise Above, Unconditional Training).
20-1989   9-22-   An ordinance granting an amendment to the conditional use for the Shorewood
          2020    Crossing Planned Unit Development (Summit Creek Townhomes).
20-1991   - -2020 An ordinance granting an amendment to a conditional use for the Shorewood
                  Crossings Planned Unit Development (Lot 6 of Shorewood Crossings).
                  An ordinance granting a zoning map amendment to B-1, Neighborhood Convenience
20-1994   - -2020 Shopping Center District, for certain property commonly known as 102 Summer
                  Street.
20-1995   - -2020 An ordinance granted an amendment to a conditional use for the Brook Forest
                  Plaza Planned Unit Development (Guiding Light Academy - 247 Brook Forest Ave.).
                  An ordinance approving a minor amendment and clarifying the conditional use for
20-1996   - -2020 the River Woods Planned Unit Development approved by Ordinance No. 01-1027
                  (River Crossing Subdivision).
                  An ordinance granting an amendment to the conditional use for a planned unit
21-2005   4-13-   development, conditional use for personal care uses, and site plan approval to
          2021    operate a salon suites business at 25157 W. Jefferson Street (Salon Suites of
                  Shorewood).
21-2006   4-13-   An ordinance granting a conditional use to operate a drinking establishment at
          2021    1146 W. Jefferson Street (Mauve Nosh & Libations).
21-2010   5-11-   An ordinance granting a conditional use to operate a restaurant and approval of
          2021    a site plan for 19735 NE Frontage Road (Pizza Ranch Restaurant).
          6-22-   An ordinance approving a zoning map amendment to reclassify property to Office,
21-2014   2021    Research and Light Industrial (ORI) District, and a conditional use for a
                  planned unit development (25914, 26000 and 26010 W Mound Road).
                  An ordinance granting a second amendment to the conditional use for a planned
21-2018   8-10-   unit development to allow one massage therapy use for the salon suites business
          2021    at 25157 W Jefferson Street in the Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois
                  (Salon Suites of Shorewood).
                  An ordinance granting an amendment to the conditional use for the Shorewood
21-2024   10-12-  Commons II planned unit development, conditional use for a restaurant with
          2021    drive through, and site plan approval for 1007 Brook Forest Avenue, In the
                  village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (Raising Cane's Restaurant).
          10-26-  An ordinance extending a conditional use for a truck and trailer repair
21-2026   2021    facility at 301 Amendodge Drive in the Village of Shorewood, Will County,
                  Illinois (Onsite Truck and Trailer Repair).
                  An ordinance granting an amendment to the conditional use for a planned unit
21-2028   11-2-   development to relocate the police impound lot on the site plan for the public
          2021    works facility and for certain deviations to the Shorewood Zoning Ordinance
                  with respect thereto (25914, 26000 and 26010 W Mound Rd).
          3-22-   An ordinance amending a conditional use permit for a drive-thru at 1015 Brook
22-2038   2022    Forest Avenue in the Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (Biggby
                  Coffee).
          5-24-   An ordinance granting a conditional use for a health and fitness use in the
22-2041   2022    Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (Shorewood Fitness, 333-339 Vertin
                  Blvd, 05-06-04-401-013-0000).
                  An ordinance granting a conditional use for an amusement establishment in the
22-2042   5-24-   Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois
          2022    (Home Suite Home Event Venue, 707 W. Jefferson St. D, 05-06-16-223-003-0000 &
                  05-06-16-223-002-0000).
          6-14-   An ordinance granting a conditional use for general retail and services located
22-2045   2022    within a warehouse at 21460 SW Frontage Road in the Village of Shorewood, Will
                  County, Illinois (SliBuy Auction Corp, 05-06-21-402-006-0000).
          7-12-   An ordinance extending a conditional use for a planned unit development at 1006
22-2046   2022    Geneva Street In the Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (United
                  Engineering / Hawkeye Energy Solutions).
          11-7-   An ordinance granting a variance from section 10-10-6: “permitted signs” to
22-2056   2022    allow two additional primary wall signs for Pizza Ranch located at 19747 NE
                  Frontage Road in the Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
23-2067   4-11-   An ordinance publishing the official zoning map of the Village of Shorewood,
          2023    Will County, Illinois.
                  An ordinance granting a conditional use for a civic building (a fire station)
23-2069   4-25-   and a fire training facility (which will include a training building and a fire
          2023    tower) located at 748 Jones Road in Seward Township, Kendall County, Illinois
                  (Troy Fire Protection District, PIN #: 09-12-300-017).
                  An ordinance approving the final plat of planned unit development and final
23-2075   7-25-   site plan for the Hampons of Shorewood phase 1 in the Village of Shorewood,
          2023    Will County, Illinois (Part of: 05-06-08-305-002, 05-06-08-305-003, 05-06-08-
                  305-004 and 05-06-08-407-080).
                  An ordinance granting a conditional use for stained glass gifts, an art studio,
24-2095   - -2024 in the Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (700 W Jefferson Street 05-
                  06-09-409-024-0000).
          6-11-   An ordinance granting a conditional use for an amusement establishment in the
24-2106   2024    Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (We Rock the Spectrum, 345 Vertin
                  Blvd, 05-06-04-401-013-0000).
24-2108   - -     An ordinance granting a conditional use for an amusement establishment for X-
                  Golf Shorewood (1004 Brook Forest Ave, Shorewood, IL - 05-06-03-326-302-0000).
          10-8-   An ordinance granting a conditional use for a towing business for Anderson’s
24-2114   2024    Towing (300 Amendodge Drive, Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois, 05-
                  06-16-407-003-0000).
                  An ordinance granting a conditional use for a planned unit development, a
24-2115   10-8-   conditional use for a health and fitness center, and site plan approval for the
          2024    Village of Shorewood YMCA (1801 W Jefferson street, Shorewood, Will County,
                  Illinois, 05-06-17-100-006-0000).
                  An ordinance granting a conditional use for a towing business in conjunction
24-2116   10-22-  with an existing automobile repair business in the B-2 Zoning District for TLC
          2024    Towing at Shorewood Lube & Auto (722 Cottage Street, Village of Shorewood, Will
                  County, Illinois -05-06-15-111-021-0000).
          12-10-  An ordinance granting a conditional use permit for a planned unit development
24-2124   2024    for a final PUD plat for the Shorewood Veterinary Clinic at the Shorewood Towne
                  Center (Village of Shorewood, Will County Illinois, -05-06-08-309-004-0000).
                  An ordinance granting a major amendment to a conditional use for a planned unit
25-2126   1-14-   development and approving a preliminary PUD plat for Town Center II (Village of
          2025    Shorewood, Will County, Illinois --05-06-08-400-012-0000, 05-06-08-407-086-
                  0000).
25-2134   2-25-   An ordinance granting a zoning map amendment to the I-2 zoning district,
          2025    granting a conditional use for a commercial solar energy facility.
25-2137   3-11-   An ordinance granting a major amendment to a conditional use for a planned unit
          2025    development and approving a preliminary PUD plat for Auburn chase subdivision.
25-2142   5-13-   An ordinance granting a conditional use for a motor vehicle repair business in
          2025    the I-2 general industrial zoning district for Alpha Truck Services.
25-21-45  5-27-   An ordinance approving a final PUD plat for Town Center II.
          2025
25-2148   6-24-   An ordinance granting a conditional use permit for a planned unit development
          2025    final PUD plat for Auburn Chase.
                 
 
APPENDIX I
ANNEXATIONS
Ordinance Passage Date Description
Ordinance Passage Description
          Date
                  An Ordinance for the annexation of certain territory contiguous
12        5-20-59 to the Village of Shorewood, Illinois, to the Village of
                  Shorewood, Illinois.
14        8-12-59 An Ordinance for the annexation of certain territory contiguous
                  to the Village of Shorewood, Illinois.
15        9-20-59 An Ordinance for the annexation of certain territory contiguous
                  to the Village of Shorewood, Illinois.
21        7-12-61 An Ordinance for the annexation of certain territory contiguous
                  to the Village of Shorewood, Illinois.
25        11-13-  An Ordinance annexing certain territory to the Village of
          61      Shorewood, Illinois.
27        11-13-  An Ordinance for the annexation of certain territory contiguous
          61      to the Village of Shorewood, Illinois.
28        11-21-  An Ordinance annexing certain territory to the Village of
          61      Shorewood, Illinois.
29        12-12-  An Ordinance annexing certain territory to the Village of
          61      Shorewood, Illinois.
35        8-14-62 An Ordinance annexing certain territory to the Village of
                  Shorewood, Illinois.
39        2-12-63 An Ordinance annexing certain territory to the Village of
                  Shorewood, Illinois.
42        5-5-63  An Ordinance annexing certain territory to the Village of
                  Shorewood, Illinois.
47        7-23-63 An Ordinance annexing certain territory to the Village of
                  Shorewood, Illinois.
64        11-22-  An Ordinance annexing certain territory to the Village of
          66      Shorewood, Illinois.
65        2-14-67 An Ordinance annexing certain territory to the Village of
                  Shorewood, Illinois.
67        3-28-67 An Ordinance annexing certain territory to the Village of
                  Shorewood, Illinois.
83        4-9-68  An Ordinance annexing certain territory to the Village of
                  Shorewood, Illinois.
84        4-9-68  An Ordinance approving preliminary plat of Oakwood Manor
                  Subdivision, units numbered 2, 3 and 4.
86        5-14-68 An Ordinance annexing certain territory to the Village of
                  Shorewood, Illinois.
89        6-11-68 An Ordinance annexing certain territory to the Village of
                  Shorewood, Illinois.
90        6-11-68 An Ordinance annexing certain territory to the Village of
                  Shorewood, Illinois.
92        6-11-68 An Ordinance annexing certain territory to the Village of
                  Shorewood, Illinois.
96        10-8-68 An Ordinance annexing certain territory to the Village of
                  Shorewood, Illinois.
99        5-27-69 An Ordinance annexing certain territory to the Village of
                  Shorewood, Illinois.
104       7-8-69  An Ordinance annexing certain territory to the Village of
                  Shorewood, Illinois.
107       8-12-69 An Ordinance annexing certain territory to the Village of
                  Shorewood, Illinois.
116       4-14-70 An Ordinance annexing certain territory to the Village of
                  Shorewood, Illinois.
126       11-24-  An Ordinance annexing certain lands to the Village of Shorewood,
          70      Illinois.
128       1-12-71 An Ordinance annexing certain lands to the Village of Shorewood,
                  Illinois.
130       5-11-71 An Ordinance annexing certain lands to the Village of Shorewood,
                  Illinois.
134       7-27-71 An Ordinance annexing certain lands to the Village of Shorewood,
                  Illinois.
135       7-27-71 An Ordinance annexing certain lands to the Village of Shorewood,
                  Illinois.
136       7-27-71 An Ordinance annexing certain lands to the Village of Shorewood,
                  Illinois.
142       1-25-72 An Ordinance annexing certain lands to the Village of Shorewood,
                  Illinois.
155       9-12-72 An Ordinance annexing certain lands to the Village of Shorewood,
                  Illinois.
157       9-12-72 An Ordinance directing the execution of an annexation agreement
                  with Northern Illinois Gas Company.
158       9-12-72 An Ordinance directing the execution of an annexation agreement
                  with Russel Frangella and Shirley Frangella.
159       9-12-72 An Ordinance annexing certain lands to the Village of Shorewood,
                  Illinois.
163       10-10-  An Ordinance annexing certain lands to the Village of Shorewood,
          72      Illinois.
                  An Ordinance authorizing and directing the execution of an
166       1-9-73  annexation agreement with Edward F. Larkin and Investment
                  Development Company.
                  An Ordinance authorizing and directing the execution of an
167       1-9-73  amended annexation agreement with Shappell Industries, Inc., and
                  American National Bank of Chicago.
168       1-23-73 An Ordinance annexing certain lands to the Village of Shorewood,
                  Illinois.
                  An Ordinance annexing certain lands, commonly known as First
173       3-27-73 Addition to Brook Forest North Subdivision, to the Village of
                  Shorewood.
186       1-22-74 An Ordinance annexing certain lands to the Village of Shorewood,
                  Will County, Illinois.
                  An Ordinance directing the execution of a pre-annexation
188       3-29-74 agreement between the Village of Shorewood, Illinois, and P.H.W.
                  Service Corporation.
197       9-24-74 An Ordinance annexing certain lands to the Village of Shorewood,
                  Will County, Illinois.
198       11-12-  An Ordinance annexing certain lands to the Village of Shorewood,
          74      Will County, Illinois.
                  An Ordinance authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement
225       2-24-76 pertaining to the Bruno property, Village of Shorewood, Will
                  County, Illinois.
228       6-8-76  An Ordinance amending the Village of Shorewood Zoning Ordinance
                  reclassifying zoning of Lots 21 through 27 in Shorewood Beach.
                  An Ordinance for the annexation of certain territory contiguous
235       9-28-76 to the Village of Shorewood, Illinois, to the Village of
                  Shorewood, Illinois.
                  An Ordinance amending Ordinance 0-182 establishing fees relating
245       4-26-77 to annexation agreements, plats of subdivisions and planned unit
                  developments.
                  An Ordinance for the annexation of certain territory contiguous
246       4-26-77 to the Village of Shorewood, Illinois, to the Village of
                  Shorewood, Illinois.
247       4-26-77 An Ordinance annexing certain school lands to the Village of
                  Shorewood.
252       6-28-77 An Ordinance annexing a portion of the West Frontage Road of
                  Interstate Route No. 55.
257       8-23-77 An Ordinance annexing certain lands to the corporate limits of
                  the Village of Shorewood.
78-265    1-10-78 An Ordinance amending Zoning Ordinance 0-122 reclassifying zoning
                  of land at Northwest Corner of Black Road and Highway Route 59.
                  An Ordinance for the annexation of certain territory contiguous
78-268    4-11-78 to the Village of Shorewood, Illinois, to the Village of
                  Shorewood, Illinois.
                  An Ordinance for the annexation of certain territory contiguous
79-290    4-24-79 to the Village of Shorewood, Illinois, to the Village of
                  Shorewood, Illinois.
                  An Ordinance authorizing the execution of a annexation agreement
79-293    7-10-79 between the Village of Shorewood and Union National Bank and
                  Trust Company of Joliet, as trustee under Trust No. 1512.
79-294    7-24-79 An Ordinance annexing territory to the Village of Shorewood,
                  Illinois.
79-298    9-11-79 An Ordinance annexing lands of Marguerite Bruno to the Village of
                  Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
                  An Ordinance annexing certain surrounded territory situated in
80-310    6-24-80 the south half of Section 16, Troy Township, Will County,
                  Illinois.
                  An Ordinance annexing certain Municipally owned territory
80-312    7-8-80  situated in the south half of Section 16, Troy Township, Will
                  County, Illinois.
83-353    6-24-83 An Ordinance annexing certain lands of the Lutheran Church -
                  Missouri Synod to the Village of Shorewood.
85-388    2-26-85 An Ordinance authorizing an annexation agreement with Central
                  States Realty and Development, Inc.
                  An Ordinance annexing certain surrounded territory situated in
85-391    4-9-85  the south half of Section 16, Troy Township, Will County,
                  Illinois.
                  An Ordinance authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement
86-404    1-14-86 between the Village of Shorewood and Mary Lucille Berg also known
                  as Lucille Berg.
86-405    1-14-86 An Ordinance annexing land to the Village of Shorewood, Illinois.
                  An Ordinance authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement
86-407    2-11-86 between the Village of Shorewood and William Gregorich, Rosemary
                  Gregorich, and Juan Aguilar.
86-409    2-25-86 An Ordinance annexing land to the Village of Shorewood, Illinois.
87-430    4-14-87 An Ordinance authorizing an annexation agreement between Homewood
                  Beverage, Co., Inc., and the Village of Shorewood.
87-431    4-14-87 An Ordinance annexing lands of Homewood Beverage Co., Inc., to
                  the Village of Shorewood.
87-436    6-9-87  An Ordinance annexing lands of First Midwest Bank - Joliet, as
                  trustee Trust No. 4980 to the Village of Shorewood.
                  An Ordinance authorizing an annexation agreement between Chicago
87-451    12-8-87 Title and Trust Company, trustee under a trust agreement dated
                  August 31, 1972 and known as Trust No. 60533 and the Village of
                  Shorewood.
                  An Ordinance annexing lands of Chicago Title and Trust Company, a
87-452    12-8-87 corporation of Illinois, trustee under a trust agreement dated
                  August 31, 1972 and known as Trust No. 60533 to the Village of
                  Shorewood.
88-455    3-8-88  An Ordinance authorizing an annexation agreement with Peggy
                  Kubinski, et al.
88-456    3-8-88  An Ordinance annexing lands of Peggy Kubinski and Amerifed
                  Federal Saving Bank, as trustee, to the Village of Shorewood.
                  An Ordinance annexing Shorewood Territory on U.S. Highway 52.89-
                  4954-25-1989An Ordinance authorizing the execution of an
88-466    5-10-88 annexation agreement between the Village of Shorewood, Illinois
                  and First National Bank of Joliet, trustee under trust agreement
                  dated July 5, 1988, and known as Trust No. 3262.
          4-25-   An Ordinance annexing lands of First National Bank, trustee under
89-496    1989    trust agreement dated July 5, 1988, and known as Trust No. 3262
                  (The Hunt Club).
                  An Ordinance authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement
          6-13-   between the Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois and First
89-501    1989    Midwest Bank-Illinois, as trustee under a trust agreement dated
                  February 19, 1973 and known as Trust No. 126 (Kurtz-Brakur Custom
                  Cabinetry).
89-502    6-13-   An Ordinance annexing certain land into the Village of Shorewood,
          1989    Will County, Illinois (Kurtz-Brakur Custom Cabinetry).
                  An Ordinance authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement
89-504    6-13-   between the Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois and First
          1989    Midwest Bank - Illinois, as trustee under a trust agreement dated
                  December 19, 1985 and known as Trust No. 4715 (Mc Craney).
89-505    6-13-   An Ordinance annexing certain land into the Village of Shorewood,
          1989    Will County, Illinois (Mc Craney).
                  An Ordinance authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement
89-507    6-13-   between the Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois and First
          1989    American National Bank, as trustee under a trust agreement dated
                  November 11, 1980 and known as Trust No. 747-80 (Schmitz).
89-508    6-13-   An Ordinance annexing certain land into the Village of Shorewood,
          1989    Will County, Illinois (Schmitz).
90-564    12-11-  An Ordinance annexing certain territory to the Village of
          1990    Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (River Oaks West Addition).
90-565    12-11-  An Ordinance annexing certain territory to the Village of
          1990    Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (River Oaks Manors).
90-566    12-11-  An Ordinance annexing certain territory to the Village of
          1990    Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (River Oaks South).
91-587    6-25-   An Ordinance annexing territory to the Village of Shorewood.
          1991
          6-25-   An Ordinance amending Ordinance 564 entitled "An Ordinance
91-588    1991    annexing certain territory to the Village Of Shorewood, Will
                  County, Illinois (River Oaks West Addition)".
                  An Ordinance authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement
91-602    9-10-   between the Village of Shorewood, Illinois and First National
          1991    Bank of Joliet, Trustee under Trust Agreement dated July 5, 1988,
                  and known as Trust No. 3529 (Hunt Club-Annexation Agreement).
91-603    9-10-   An Ordinance annexing certain territory to the Village of
          1991    Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (Hunt Club-Annexation).
                  An Ordinance authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement
91-620    12-17-  between the Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois and
          1991    Robert A. Phillips and Lois L. Phillips (southwest corner of U.S.
                  Rte. 52 and River Road).
          12-17-  An Ordinance annexing certain territory to the Village of
91-621    1991    Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (southwest corner of U.S. Rte.
                  52 and River Road).
                  An Ordinance authorizing the execution of an amendment to the
                  annexation agreement between 1) the Village of Shorewood, a
          5-20-   Municipal corporation, Will County, Illinois, and 2) Kaco, Inc.,
93-691    1993    an Illinois corporation, First Midwest Trust Company, N.A.
                  (formerly known as First Midwest Bank/ Illinois) as trustee under
                  trust agreement dated May 31, 1987, and known as Trust No. 4980,
                  Charles Sharp, Larry Capista, Harry Mathers and Robert Schenk.
94-736    3-22-   An Ordinance authorizing the execution of an amendment to an
          1994    annexation agreement (The Hunt Club).
                  An Ordinance authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement
          8-8-    between Dirst Farms, Inc., Kipling Development Corporation, and
95-799    1995    the Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.95-8008-8-1995An
                  Ordinance annexing certain lands to the Village of Shorewood,
                  Will County, Illinois (P.I.N. 06-08-400-002).
                  An Ordinance authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement
95-809    8-12-   between James J. Policandriotes, Virginia Ryder, Joseph R.
          1995    Grobarcik, Katherine G. Grobarcik, and the Village of Shorewood,
                  Will County, Illinois (P.I.N. 06-16-400-006).
95-810    9-12-   An Ordinance annexing certain lands to the Village of Shorewood,
          1995    Will County, Illinois.
          11-14-  An Ordinance authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement
95-822    1995    between Shorewood Partners, and the Village of Shorewood, Will
                  County, Illinois.
          11-11-  An Ordinance authorizing the execution of the second amendment to
97-886    1997    the annexation agreement entered into on December 12, 1990 by
                  Ordinance 90-563 (The Vintage, The Manors and River Oaks South).
                  An Ordinance authorizing the execution of the first amendment to
          3-24-   an annexation agreement entered into by Ordinance 91-620 on
98-897    1998    December 17, 1991 between the Village of Shorewood, Will County,
                  Illinois, and Robert A. Phillips and Lois L. Phillips (Southwest
                  corner of U.S. Rt. 52 and River Road).
                  An Ordinance authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement
                  between the Village of Shorewood, an Illinois municipal
                  corporation, and Donald E. McCoy, Robert E. McCoy, Marjorie Jean
98-909    8-25-   Jacobson and First National Bank of Joliet, a national banking
          1998    association as trustee under a trust agreement dated April 25,
                  1989 and known as Trust No. 3212, Harold T. McCoy, Phyllis T.
                  McCoy and McCoy Farm L.L.C. (Wynstone, now known as Kipling
                  Estates).
                  An Ordinance authorizing the execution of the third amendment to
                  an annexation agreement between the Village of Shorewood, Will
                  County, Illinois, and Kaco, Inc., an Illinois corporation, First
          11-30-  Midwest Bank/Illinois as trustee under trust agreement dated May
98-918    1998    31, 1987, and known as Trust No. 4980, First Midwest Bank/
                  Illinois as trustee under trust agreement dated May 31, 1987, and
                  known as Trust No. 4981, Charles Sharp, Larry Capista, Harry
                  Mathers and Robert Schenk (River Oaks West, The Vintage, The
                  Manors & River Oaks South).
                  An Ordinance authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement
          1-26-   between the Village of Shorewood, an Illinois municipal
99-924    1999    corporation, and First National Bank of Joliet as trustee under
                  trust agreement dated February 16, 1998 and known as Trust No.
                  4987 (Rollingwood Subdivision).
99-925    1-26-   An Ordinance annexing certain lands into the Village of
          1999    Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (Rollingwood Subdivision).
          3-23-   An Ordinance authorizing the execution of the fourth amendment to
99-930    1999    the annexation agreement between the Village of Shorewood and
                  Kaco, Inc., et al.
                  An Ordinance authorizing the execution of the first amendment to
99-934    4-27-   the annexation agreement between the Village of Shorewood, Will
          1999    County, Illinois, Donald E. McCoy, et al. and McCoy Farm L.L.C.
                  (Wynstone, now known as Kipling Estates).
                  An Ordinance authorizing the execution of the first amendment to
99-935    4-27-   an annexation agreement between the Village of Shorewood, Will
          1999    County, Illinois, Dirst Farms, Inc., and Kipling Development
                  Corporation (Fox Bend).
          11-9-   An Ordinance authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement
99-961    1999    between the Village of Shorewood, an Illinois municipal
                  corporation, and William J. Ostermeyer.
          11-9-   An Ordinance annexing certain lands into the Village of
99-962    1999    Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (William J. Ostermeyer
                  Property).
                  An Ordinance annexing certain territory to the Village of
                  Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (Shorewood Four Seasons Park
99-964    11-9-   Property).00-9722-8-2000An ordinance authorizing the execution of
          1999    an annexation agreement between the village of Shorewood, an
                  Illinois municipal corporation, and the forest preserve district
                  of Will County for Hammel Woods property.
00-973    2-8-    An ordinance annexing certain lands into the village of
          2000    Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (Hammel Woods property).
          3-14-   An ordinance authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement
00-975    2000    between the village of Shorewood, an Illinois municipal
                  corporation, and Donald and Carol Kodrick.
00-976    3-14-   An ordinance annexing certain lands into the village of
          2000    Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (River Bluff development).
00-985    5-9-    An ordinance authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement
          2000    for the property known as the Troy Township office property.
          5-9-    An ordinance annexing certain territory to the village of
00-986    2000    Shorewood, Will County, Illinois, known as the Troy Township
                  office property and zoning of said property.
                  An ordinance authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement
                  between the village of Shorewood, an Illinois municipal
          6-27-   corporation of Will County, Illinois, and Lasalle Bank National
00-992    2000    association, as successor trustee under trust agreement dated
                  April 13, 1987, and known as trust no. 112308, Great Lakes
                  Principals, L.L.C., an Illinois limited liability company and
                  E.M.B. Shorewood, L.L.C., an Illinois limited liability company.
          6-27-   An ordinance annexing certain lands into the village of
00-993    2000    Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (Shorewood Crossings
                  development).
          8-22-   An ordinance authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement
00-1002   2000    for the property known as the Troy Township fire protection
                  district property.
                  An ordinance annexing certain territory to the village of
          8-22-   Shorewood, Will County, Illinois, known as the Troy Township fire
00-1003   2000    protection district property and zoning of said property.00-
                  101511-28-2000An ordinance annexing certain lands into the
                  village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (Costello property).
                  An ordinance authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement
                  between the village of Shorewood, a municipal corporation of Will
          12-12-  County, Illinois, and the Timothy D. Hunt and Diane L. Hunt
00-1018   2000    revocable living trust dated January 25, 1991, Timothy D. Hunt
                  and Diane L. Hunt, trustees, Kenneth L. Phelps, Phoenix
                  Landholdings, L.L.C. and the Timbers of Shorewood, L.L.C. (Phelps
                  farm).
                  An ordinance authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement
                  between the village of Shorewood, an Illinois municipal
00-1019   12-12-  corporation of Will County, Illinois, and Bernice A. Baltz, John
          2000    E. Baltz, Joseph D. Baltz, Gerald R. Baltz, and Judy I. Briscoe
                  of the county of Will, state of Illinois and Kipling Development
                  Corporation, an Illinois corporation.
00-1020   12-12-  An ordinance annexing certain lands into the village of
          2000    Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (Baltz farm).
01-1023   1-9-    An ordinance annexing certain lands into the village of
          2001    Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (Phelps farm).
                  An ordinance authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement
                  between the village of Shorewood, a municipal corporation of Will
          1-9-    County, Illinois, and Charleen Ryan, Mary Ann Ward, Kathleen M.
01-1025   2001    Ward, Carol L. Ward, Rosemary Harvey, Lawrence M. Ryan, Jr.,
                  Daniel R. Ward, John R. Ward, and Joseph P. Ward and Ward Farm
                  Development, L.L.C., Illinois limited liability company (River
                  Woods-Ward farm).
01-1026   1-9-    An ordinance annexing certain lands into the village of
          2001    Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (River Woods-Ward farm).
                  An ordinance authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement
                  between the village of Shorewood, a municipal corporation of Will
          1-9-    County, Illinois, and Charleen Ryan, Mary Ann Ward, Kathleen M.
01-1029   2001    Ward, Carol L. Ward, Rosemary Harvey, Lawrence M. Ryan, Jr.,
                  Daniel R. Ward, John R. Ward, and Joseph P. Ward (Ward
                  family).01-10301-9-2001An ordinance annexing certain lands into
                  the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (Ward family).
                  An ordinance authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement
01-1042   3-27-   between the village of Shorewood, an Illinois municipal
          2001    corporation of Will County, Illinois, and Lawrence J. Pubentz and
                  Margaret K. Pubentz.
01-1043   3-27-   An ordinance annexing certain lands into the village of
          2001    Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (Pubentz property).
          3-27-   An ordinance authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement
01-1044   2001    between the village of Shorewood, an Illinois municipal
                  corporation of Will County, Illinois, and Frank J. Ambrosic.
01-1045   3-27-   An ordinance annexing certain lands into the village of
          2001    Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (Ambrosic property).
                  An ordinance authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement
01-1058   7-24-   between the village of Shorewood, an Illinois municipal
          2001    corporation of Will County, Illinois, and Grace Bible Church, an
                  Illinois not for profit corporation.
01-1059   7-24-   An ordinance annexing certain lands into the village of
          2001    Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (Grace Bible Church).
          10-9-   An ordinance authorizing an amendment to the annexation agreement
01-1068   2001    between the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois, and Ward
                  Farm Development, L.L.C. (River Woods – Ward Farm).
                  An ordinance authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement
02-1094   4-9-    between the village of Shorewood, an Illinois municipal
          2002    corporation of Will County, Illinois, and Edward P. Larkin,
                  Lucille M. Vertin, Catherine A. Kuzma (Vertin homestead).
                  An ordinance annexing certain lands into the village of
                  Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (Vertin homestead).02-11208-27-
02-1095   4-9-    2002An ordinance authorizing the execution of an annexation
          2002    agreement between the village of Shorewood, a municipal
                  corporation of Will County, Illinois, and Heinz Milenkovic and
                  Linda J. Milenkovic.
02-1121   8-27-   An ordinance annexing certain lands into the village of
          2002    Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (Milenkovic).
          8-27-   An ordinance authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement
02-1122   2002    between the village of Shorewood, a municipal corporation of Will
                  County, Illinois, and Thomas J. Martin and Robert Nuetzman.
02-1123   8-27-   An ordinance annexing certain lands into the village of
          2002    Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (Martin and Nuetzman).
          1-14-   An ordinance authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement
03-1142   2003    between the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois, and Van
                  Arsdell and Kennedy Real Estate Development, LLC.
03-1143   1-14-   An ordinance annexing certain lands into the village of
          2003    Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (Van Arsdell).
          5-27-   An ordinance authorizing a second amendment to an annexation
03-1166   2003    agreement between the village of Shorewood, Will County,
                  Illinois, and Ward Farm Development, LLC.
                  An ordinance authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement
                  between the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois, and
03-1168   6-10-   First National Bank of Joliet trust no. 4827 (Kipling trust),
          2003    First Midwest Bank trust no. 6730, et. al. (Persico trust), J-I-
                  R Farm Partnership, L.P. Lake Forrest of Shorewood, LLC and McCoy
                  Farms, LLC.
03-1169   6-10-   An ordinance annexing certain lands into the village of
          2003    Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (Lake Forrest).
                  An ordinance authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement
          11-11-  between the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois, and
03-1184   2003    (Richards) and Kimball Hill.03-118611-11-2003An ordinance
                  annexing certain lands into the village of Shorewood, Will
                  County, Illinois (Ward property).
03-1187   11-25-  An ordinance annexing certain lands into the village of
          2003    Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (Richards Farm).
                  An ordinance authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement
                  between the village of Shorewood, an Illinois municipal
                  corporation of Will County, Illinois, Mary A. Haley, an
04-1207   3-9-    individual, Mary A. Haley as trustee under trust agreement dated
          2004    August 7, 1992, and known as Mary A. Haley trust, Jean M.
                  Pickering, Susan E. Haley, Joseph Haley and Michael Haley, First
                  Industrial Acquisitions, Inc., a Maryland corporation, and First
                  Industrial Developments Services, Inc., a Maryland corporation.
                  An ordinance authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement
04-1214   5-11-   between the village of Shorewood, an Illinois municipal
          2004    corporation of Will County, Illinois, and Distinctive Land
                  Development, Inc.
          5-11-   An ordinance annexing certain lands into the village of
04-1215   2004    Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (Distinctive Land Development,
                  Inc.).
                  An ordinance authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement
04-1235   8-24-   between the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois, Ingalls
          2004    Farm, LLC, James A. Ingalls family trust (J.A. trust), Lucille W.
                  Ingalls living trust (L.W. trust), and Kipling Homes, LLC.
04-1236   8-24-   An ordinance annexing certain lands into the village of
          2004    Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (Ingalls Farm).
                  An ordinance authorizing a first amendment to an annexation
                  agreement between the village of Shorewood, an Illinois municipal
                  corporation, and Lasalle Bank National Association, as successor
                  trustee under trust agreement dated April 13, 1987, and known as
                  trust no. 112308, Great Lakes Principals LLC an Illinois limited
04-1238   8-24-   liability company and EMB Shorewood, LLC and Illinois limited
          2004    liability company and EMB2 Shorewood Phase II, LLC an Illinois
                  limited liability company.04-124710-12-2004An ordinance
                  authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement between the
                  village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois, Lake Forrest of
                  Shorewood, LLC, Seil Road, LLC and Kipling Development
                  Corporation.
04-1248   10-12-  An ordinance annexing certain lands into the village of
          2004    Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (Stansberry Farm).
04-1260   11-23-  An ordinance annexing certain lands into the village of
          2004    Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (Whiteside property).
          7-26-   An ordinance authorizing the execution of an amended and restated
05-1304   2005    annexation agreement between the village of Shorewood and LIT
                  Industrial Limited Partnership.
05-1305   7-26-   An ordinance annexing certain lands into the village of
          2005    Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (LIT Industrial).
                  An ordinance authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement
05-1325   11-22-  between the village of Shorewood, an Illinois municipal
          2005    corporation of Will County, Illinois, First Classic Development
                  Group LLC, an Illinois limited liability company.
          1-10-   An ordinance annexing certain lands into the village of
06-1329   2006    Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (First Classic Development Group
                  LLC).
          1-24-   An ordinance annexing certain territory to the corporate limits
06-1344   2006    of the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (Lake of the
                  Woods property).
          2-28-   An ordinance annexing certain territory to the corporate limits
06-1352   2006    of the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (Lake of the
                  Woods property).
          3-28-   An ordinance authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement
06-1355   2006    between the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois, and
                  distinctive homes for Shorewood Towne Center II.
                  An ordinance annexing certain lands into the village of
          3-28-   Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (Distinctive Land Development,
06-1356   2006    Inc., Town Center II).06-13583-28-2006An ordinance annexing
                  certain territory to the corporate limits of the Village of
                  Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (Lake of the Woods property).
          6-27-   An ordinance annexing certain territory to the corporate limits
06-1368   2006    of the Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (Saddlebrook
                  Estates property).
          7-11-   An ordinance annexing certain territory to the corporate limits
06-1370   2006    of the Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (Saddlebrook
                  Estates property).
          9-26-   An ordinance annexing certain territory to the corporate limits
06-1378   2006    of the Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (Saddlebrook
                  Estates property).
          11-28-  An ordinance authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement
06-1391   2006    between the Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois, Beith
                  Farms, LLC, et al. (Waterstone Subdivision).
          11-28-  An ordinance annexing certain territory to the corporate limits
06-1392   2006    of the Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (Saddlebrook
                  Estates property).
06-1395   12-12-  An ordinance annexing certain lands into the Village of
          2006    Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (Kipling Homes, LLC).
          1-9-    An ordinance annexing certain territory to the corporate limits
07-1398   2007    of the Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (Saddlebrook
                  Estates property).
          8-14-   An ordinance authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement
07-1427   2007    between the Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois, and
                  Coldwell Banker.
07-1428   8-14-   An ordinance annexing certain lands into the Village of
          2007    Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (Coldwell Banker Honig-Bell).
                  An ordinance authorizing an amendment and restated annexation
07-1452   11-27-  agreement between the Village of Shorewood, an Illinois municipal
          2007    corporation of Will County, Illinois, and Charles Sharp and Alden
                  Realty Services, Inc.
                  An ordinance authorizing an amendment and restated annexation
                  agreement between the Village of Shorewood, an Illinois municipal
08-1486   7-8-    corporation of Will County, Illinois and First National Bank of
          2008    Illinois, as trustee under trust agreement dated December 4,
                  1998, and known as trust number 5152 and Alden Realty Services,
                  Inc.
                  An ordinance authorizing an amendment of certain annexation
08-1502   9-9-    agreements between the Village of Shorewood, an Illinois
          2008    municipal corporation and Distinctive Land Development, Inc.
                  (Towne Center I and II).
                  An ordinance authorizing a second amendment and restated
                  annexation agreement between the Village of Shorewood, an
09-1547   9-22-   Illinois municipal corporation of Will County, Illinois, and
          2009    First National Bank of Illinois, as trustee under trust agreement
                  dated December 14, 1998, and known as trust number 5152 and Alden
                  Realty Services, Inc.
          10-12-  An ordinance authorizing a first amendment to an annexation
10-1592   2010    agreement between the Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois
                  and Beith Farm, LLC et al.
          12-13-  An ordinance approving the first amendment to the amended and
11-1644   2011    restated annexation agreement dated as of July 26, 2005 between
                  the Village of Shorewood and LIT Industrial Limited Partnership.
          4-10-   An ordinance approving and authorizing the execution of an
18-1875   2018    annexation agreement between the Village of Shorewood, George
                  Kappos and HSA Acquisitions, Inc.
18-1876   4-10-   An ordinance annexing certain territory to the corporate limits
          2018    of the Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois ("HSA").
                  An ordinance authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement
                  between the Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois, and
          10-9-   Haley Farm, LLC, Harriette E. Haley, as trustee under the
18-1908   2018    Kankakee, IL 60901, Harriette E. Haley revocable trust dated
                  January 24, 2014, James F. Haley, Sr., Robert A. Haley, Jr., and
                  Gayle M. Haley, as joint tenants, John Haley, Sr., Kathryn Ann
                  McGee record owners and Restoration Christian Church.
          10-9-   An ordinance annexing certain territory to the corporate limits
18-1909   2018    of the Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois ("Restoration
                  Church").
          11-22-  An ordinance approving and authorizing an amendment to the
19-1951   2019    annexation agreement for Edgewater Subdivision for property owned
                  by Cal-Atlantic.
          9-8-    An ordinance authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement
20-1983   2020    between the Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois, and
                  Goproball, LLC.
          9-8-    An ordinance authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement
20-1984   2020    between the Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois, and Four
                  Seasons Storage, LLC.
          4-11-   An ordinance approving and authorizing the execution of an
23-2066   2023    annexation agreement between the Village of Shorewood and the
                  Troy Fire Protection District.
25-2125   1-14-   An ordinance approving and authorizing an amendment of annexation
          2025    agreement and development agreement for Towne Center II.
25-2133   2-25-   An ordinance approving and authorizing an annexation agreement
          2025    for RPIL 12, LLC.
          3-11-   An ordinance approving and authorizing an amendment of annexation
25-2136   2025    agreement and development agreement between the Village of
                  Shorewood and CalAtlantic Group LLC.
          8-12-   An ordinance approving and authorizing the first amendment to the
25-2150   2025    annexation agreement and a site plan amendment for Restoration
                  Christian Church.
          
 
APPENDIX J
VARIATIONS
Ordinance Passage Date Description
Ordinance Passage Date Description
75        8-22-67      An Ordinance granting a variation in building setback
                       lines established by Ordinance 0-63.
76        11-14-67     An Ordinance granting a variation in building setback
                       lines established by Ordinance 0-63.
85        4-9-68       An Ordinance granting a variation in minimum lot sizes
                       and minimum lot widths established by Ordinance 0-63.
78-280    8-22-78      An Ordinance granting a front yard setback variance to
                       Yellow Freight System.
                       An Ordinance to regulate the display of political
79-302    11-17-79     advertisement and the location and area of solicitation
                       of votes.
                       An Ordinance approving certain variances and preliminary
90-570    12-11-90     plats of subdivision for the River Oaks South, River
                       Oaks Manors and River Oaks West addition subdivisions.
                       An Ordinance granting a variation from Ordinance 122
91-591    7-9-91       known as the Revised Zoning Ordinance of the Village of
                       Shorewood.
                       An Ordinance granting a variation from Ordinance 122
91-597    8-13-91      known as the Revised Zoning Ordinance of the Village of
                       Shorewood.
                       An Ordinance granting a variation from Ordinance 122
91-605    9-10-91      known as the Revised Zoning Ordinance of the Village of
                       Shorewood (Outlot A in Hunt Club Subdivision).
                       An Ordinance granting a variance from the Shorewood
                       Zoning Ordinance and rezoning certain land located in
91-622    12-17-91     the Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois from A-
                       1 to B-3 (southwest corner of U.S. Route 52 and River
                       Road).
                       An Ordinance granting a variation from Ordinance 122,
92-634    4-14-92      known as the Revised Zoning Ordinance of the Village of
                       Shorewood (200 Amendodge Drive).
                       An Ordinance granting a variation from Ordinance 83-344,
92-636    4-14-92      an ordinance amending Ordinance 122, known as the
                       Revised Zoning Ordinance of the Village of Shorewood
                       (northeast corner of River Road and U.S. Rte. 52).
                       An Ordinance granting a variation from Ordinance 122,
92-640    5-12-92      known as the Revised Zoning Ordinance of the Village of
                       Shorewood (1200 and 1201 Hunter Drive).
                       An Ordinance granting a variation from Ordinance 122
92-649    7-14-92      amended by Ordinance 0-181 known as the Revised Zoning
                       Ordinance of the Village of Shorewood (108 DuPage
                       Street).
                       An Ordinance granting a variation from Ordinance 122
92-659    9-8-92       amended by Ordinance 83-348 known as the Revised Zoning
                       Ordinance of the Village of Shorewood (northwest corner
                       of Rte. 52 and 59).
                       An Ordinance granting a variation from Ordinance 122
92-671    11-24-92     known as the Revised Zoning Ordinance of the Village of
                       Shorewood (215 Amendodge Drive).
                       An Ordinance granting a variation from Ordinance 122 as
93-677    1-12-93      amended by Ordinance 181 known as the Revised Zoning
                       Ordinance of the Village of Shorewood (135 Turtle
                       Street).
                       An Ordinance granting a variation from Ordinance 122 as
93-678    1-12-93      amended by Ordinance 92-639 known as the Revised Zoning
                       Ordinance of the Village of Shorewood (1200 and 1201
                       Hunter Drive - entrance to Hunt Club).
                       An Ordinance granting a variation from Ordinance 122
93-689    4-27-93      known as the Revised Zoning Ordinance of the Village of
                       Shorewood as amended by Ordinance 83-344 (700 W.
                       Jefferson St. - Shorewood Plaza).
                       An Ordinance granting a variation from Ordinance 122
                       known as the Revised Zoning Ordinance of the Village of
                       Shorewood as amended by Ordinance 83-348 (Rte. 52 and I-
93-692    5-25-93      55 - Holladay Plumbing).95-7947-11-1995An ordinance
                       granting a variance from Shorewood village code, title
                       12 and concerning storm water detention at 400 E.
                       Frontage Road in the village of Shorewood, Will County,
                       Illinois.
                       An ordinance granting the classification of an I-
                       2 general industrial district for certain property
97-864    1-14-1997    located in the village of Shorewood, Will County,
                       Illinois. (Parcel located on Illinois Route 59 near I-55
                       and adjacent to the southern boundary of 904 Cottage
                       Street.)
                       An ordinance granting a variance from Shorewood village
99-939    5-11-1999    code, title 12 with regard to signage at 200 E. Black
                       Road in the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
                       An ordinance granting a variance from Shorewood village
00-974    2-22-2000    code, title 10 with regard to outside storage at 1002 W.
                       Jefferson Street in the village of Shorewood, Will
                       County, Illinois.
                       An ordinance granting a variance from Shorewood village
00-984    5-9-2000     code, title 10 with regard to signage at 700 W.
                       Jefferson Street in the village of Shorewood, Will
                       County, Illinois.
                       An ordinance granting a variance from Shorewood village
                       code, title 10, with regard to constructing homes on
00-988    5-23-2000    lots that are less than 12,000 square feet and less than
                       1,500 minimum square feet of livable area, but not less
                       than 1,200 square feet in the village of Shorewood, Will
                       County, Illinois.
                       An ordinance granting a variance from Shorewood village
00-1001   8-22-2000    code, title 10 with regard to signage at 401 S.W.
                       Frontage Road in the village of Shorewood, Will County,
                       Illinois.
                       An ordinance granting a variance from Shorewood village
01-1035   2-13-2001    code, title 10 with regard to signage at 904 Cottage
                       Street in the village of Shorewood, Will County,
                       Illinois.
                       An ordinance granting a variance from Shorewood village
                       code, title 10 with regard to signage at 800 Brookforest
                       Avenue in the village of Shorewood, Will County,
01-1039   3-13-2001    Illinois.01-10525-8-2001An ordinance granting a variance
                       from Shorewood village code, title 10, with regard to
                       signage at Sharp Commercial Center at 850 Brookforest in
                       the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
                       An ordinance granting a variance from Shorewood village
                       code, title 10 with regard to lot area coverage ratio
01-1061   7-24-2001    and the maximum height of a principal structure in the
                       village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (Grace Bible
                       Church of Shorewood, Inc.).
                       An ordinance granting a variance from Shorewood village
01-1071   10-23-2001   code, title 10, with regard to constructing a home on a
                       lot less than 12,000 square feet in the village of
                       Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
                       An ordinance granting a variance from Shorewood village
02-1086   3-12-2002    code, title 10-10-6A2a(1), (2) and 10-10-6B, with regard
                       to signage for First National Bank of Illinois in the
                       village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
                       An ordinance granting a variance from Shorewood village
02-1111   7-23-2002    code, 10-10-9D, with regard to signage for Huntington
                       Village subdivision.
                       An ordinance granting a variance from Shorewood village
02-1126   10-8-2002    code, title 8, chapter 5-4B3 with regard to plans and
                       contracts required in the village of Shorewood (506
                       Birch Drive).
                       An ordinance granting a variance from Shorewood village
02-1138   12-10-2002   code, title 10-10-6A2a with regard to signage for Fifth
                       Third Bank in the village of Shorewood, Will County,
                       Illinois.
                       An ordinance granting a variance from Shorewood village
03-1141   1-14-2003    code, title 10-10-6A2a(3) with regard to signage for 1st
                       National Bank of Illinois in the village of Shorewood,
                       Will County, Illinois.
                       An ordinance granting a variance from Shorewood village
                       code, title 10-10-7 with regard to signage for
                       Crossroads Retail Center in the village of Shorewood,
03-1149   2-11-2003    Will County, Illinois.03-11624-8-2003An ordinance
                       granting a variance from Shorewood village code, title
                       10-10-6 with regard to signage for Hope Lutheran Church
                       in the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
                       An ordinance granting a variance from Shorewood village
03-1175   8-12-2003    code, title 10-10-7B with regard to signage for Jewel
                       Food Stores, Inc. in the village of Shorewood, Will
                       County, Illinois.
                       An ordinance granting a variance from Shorewood village
03-1176   8-12-2003    code, title 10-10-7A2 with regard to signage for
                       Portillo's Hot Dogs, Inc. in the village of Shorewood,
                       Will County, Illinois.
                       An ordinance granting a variance from Shorewood village
03-1180   9-9-2003     code, title 10-10-7A2b(4) with regard to signage for
                       Shorewood Family Dental in the village of Shorewood,
                       Will County, Illinois.
                       An ordinance granting a variance from Shorewood village
03-1193   12-9-2003    code, title 10-10-7A2b(1) and 10-10-7-A2b(4) with regard
                       to signage for Troy fire protection district in the
                       village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
                       An ordinance granting a variance from Shorewood village
04-1197   1-13-2004    code, subsection
                       10-10-7A2a with regard to signage for Fifth Third Bank
                       in the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
                       An ordinance granting a variance from Shorewood village
                       code, section
04-1227   7-13-2004    10-5D-5, to allow construction of a home on a lot less
                       than 12,000 square feet in the village of Shorewood,
                       Will County, Illinois.
                       An ordinance granting a variance from Shorewood village
                       code, subsection
04-1243   10-12-2004   10-10-7A2 with regard to signage for Distinctive Land
                       Development in the village of Shorewood, Will County,
                       Illinois.
                       An ordinance granting a variance from Shorewood village
                       code, subsection
                       10-10-7A2 with regard to signage for National Tire and
04-1255   11-9-2004    Battery in the village of Shorewood, Will County,
                       Illinois.05-13016-28-2005An ordinance granting a
                       variance from Shorewood village code, subsection 10-10-
                       7A(2)a with regard to signage for TCF Bank in the
                       village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
                       An ordinance granting a variance from Shorewood village
                       code, subsection
07-1421   6-26-2007    10-3-11A with regard to accessory buildings less than
                       ten feet (10') of the nearest wall of the principal
                       building or structure (1007 S. Raven Road).
                       An ordinance granting a variance from Shorewood village
07-1434   9-11-2007    code, title 10 with regard to signage at 1 S.W. Frontage
                       Road in the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois
                       (Tyson Motors).
                       An ordinance granting a variance from Shorewood village
08-1465   3-11-2008    code, title 10 with regard to signage for 7-Eleven at
                       101 Cottage Road in the village of Shorewood, Will
                       County, Illinois.
                       An ordinance granting a variance from Shorewood village
08-1484   7-8-2008     code, title 10 with regard to signage for Peterbilt/
                       19521 NE Frontage Road in the village of Shorewood, Will
                       County, Illinois.
                       An ordinance granting a variance from Shorewood village
                       code, title 10 with regard to monument sign setback,
09-1527   3-10-2009    building setback and lot coverage at 251 Brook Forest
                       Avenue in the village of Shorewood, Will County,
                       Illinois.
                       An ordinance granting a variance from Shorewood village
09-1528   3-10-2009    code, title 10 with regard to monument sign size and
                       inclusion of a message board at 1000 Brook Forest Avenue
                       in the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
                       An ordinance granting a variance from Shorewood village
09-1535   6-9-2009     code, title 10 with regard to monument sign setback,
                       height and area at 900 Brook Forest Avenue in the
                       village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
                       An ordinance denying a variance from the zoning
                       regulations of the village of Shorewood.12-16472-28-
09-1554   11-10-2009   2012An ordinance granting a variance from Shorewood
                       Village Code, title 10 with regard to temporary flags
                       for Brakur Custom Cabinetry at 18656 S. Route 59 in the
                       Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
                       An ordinance granting a variance from Shorewood Village
                       Code, title 10 with regard to monument sign size,
12-1648   2-28-2012    location and inclusion of a message board at 700 West
                       Jefferson Street in the Village of Shorewood, Will
                       County, Illinois.
                       An ordinance granting a variance from Shorewood Village
13-1690   4-10-2013    Code, title 10 with regard to signage at 998 Brookforest
                       Ave. in the Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
                       An ordinance granting a variance from Shorewood Village
                       Code, title 10 with regard to monument sign size,
13-1706   7-23-2013    location and inclusion of a message board at 4303 West
                       Jefferson Street in the Village of Shorewood, Will
                       County, Illinois.
                       An ordinance granting a variance from Shorewood Village
16-1819   9-13-2016    Code, title 10 with regard to signage at 1007 West
                       Jefferson Street in the Village of Shorewood, Will
                       County, Illinois.
                       An ordinance granting a variance from Shorewood Village
17-1850   7-11-2017    Code, title 10 with regard to signage at 1000
                       Brookforest Avenue/Route 59 in the Village of Shorewood,
                       Will County, Illinois.
                       An ordinance granting a variance from Shorewood Village
17-1853   8-8-2017     Code, title 10 with regard to signage at 18656 S. Route
                       59 in the Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
                       An ordinance granting a variance from Shorewood Village
18-1911   10-9-2018    Code, title 10 with regard to signage at 712 Cottage
                       Street/Shorewood Car Wash in the Village of Shorewood,
                       Will County, Illinois.
                       An ordinance granting variances from Shorewood Village
19-1939   8-13-2019    Code, title 10 with regard to signage at 931 Brookforest
                       Ave./Shorewood Bank and Trust.
                       An ordinance granting a variance from title 10 Of the
20-1961   1-14-2020    Shorewood Village Code with regard to a reduced corner
                       side yard setback at 700 franklin road in the village of
                       Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
                       An ordinance granting a variance from Title 10 of the
20-1985   9-8-2020     Shorewood Village Code with regard to signage in the
                       Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
                       An ordinance granting a variance from Title 10 of the
20-2000   12-8-2020    Shorewood Village Code to allow the outdoor storage of
                       stone slabs on gravel at 200 Amendodge Drive.
                       An ordinance granting certain variances from Title 10 of
                       the Shorewood Village Code pertaining to accessory
21-2022   10-12-2021   structures and site and structure requirements in the
                       Mobile Home Park District at 106 E Jefferson Street in
                       the Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois
                       (Imperial Mobile Home Park).
                       An ordinance granting variances to allow a sign,
                       accessory structures in the front and side yard, and a
23-2070   4-25-2023    60 ft accessory structure for Troy Fire Protection
                       District at 748 Jones Road in Seward Township, Kendall
                       County, Illinois (Troy Fire Protection District, PIN #:
                       09-12-300-017).
                      
 
APPENDIX K
FLOOD CONTROL REGULATIONS, EXCEPTIONS AND WAIVERS
Ordinance Passage Date Description
Ordinance Passage Date Description
                       An ordinance granting an exception to Shorewood village
95-813    9-26-1995    code, title 12, chapter 2 (storm water management
                       regulations) for certain land in the village of
                       Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (Burger King).
                       An ordinance granting an exception to Shorewood village
                       code, title 12, chapter 2 (storm water management
96-857    11-12-1996   regulations) for certain land in the village of
                       Shorewood, Will County, Illinois. Serena concrete
                       construction (lot 8 - Amendodge industrial park).
                       An ordinance granting a partial waiver with a
                       contingency to Shorewood village code, title 12, chapter
96-861    11-26-1996   2, section 7 (storm water management regulations) for
                       certain land in the village of Shorewood, Will County,
                       Illinois (211 Amendodge Drive).
                       An ordinance authorizing the acquisition of certain
97-881    8-12-1997    flood hazard properties in the village of Shorewood,
                       Will County, Illinois.
                       An ordinance amending ordinance 97-881 with regard to
98-902    6-23-1998    acquisition of certain flood hazard properties in the
                       village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
                       An ordinance granting an exception to Shorewood village
                       code, title 12, chapter 2 (storm water management
00-979    3-28-2000    regulations) and approval of watershed management plan
                       for certain land in the village of Shorewood, Will
                       County, Illinois (River Bluff development).
                       An ordinance granting an exception to Shorewood village
                       code, title 12, chapter 2 (storm water management
                       regulations) and approval of watershed management plan
                       for certain land in the village of Shorewood, Will
01-1028   1-9-2001     County, Illinois (Ward development).03-11716-10-2003An
                       ordinance granting an exception to Shorewood village
                       code, title 12, chapter 2 (stormwater management
                       regulations) and approval of watershed management plan
                       for certain land in the village of Shorewood, Will
                       County, Illinois (Lake Forrest development).
 
APPENDIX L
ACQUISITIONS BY EMINENT DOMAIN
Ordinance Passage Date Description
Ordinance Passage Date Description
                       An Ordinance authorizing the acquisition by eminent
96-830    1-23-1996    domain of certain property for municipal purposes by the
                       Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (Black Road
                       Parcel 1 - First Midwest Trust No. 522).
                       An Ordinance authorizing the acquisition by eminent
96-831    1-23-1996    domain of certain property for municipal purposes by the
                       Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (Black Road
                       Parcel 2 - First Midwest Trust No. 1305).
                       An Ordinance authorizing the acquisition by eminent
96-832    1-23-1996    domain of certain property for municipal purposes by the
                       Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (Black Road
                       Parcel 3 - Kinzler).
                       An Ordinance authorizing the acquisition by eminent
96-833    1-23-1996    domain of certain property for municipal purposes by the
                       Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (Black Road
                       Parcel 4 - Kobe).
                       An Ordinance authorizing the acquisition by eminent
96-834    1-23-1996    domain of certain property for municipal purposes by the
                       Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (Black Road
                       Parcel 5 - Morris Trust No. 483).
                       An Ordinance authorizing the acquisition by eminent
96-835    1-23-1996    domain of certain property for municipal purposes by the
                       Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois (Black Road
                       Parcel 6 - Tri- County Stockdale Fertilizer Co.).
                       An Ordinance authorizing the acquisition of property for
24-2111   - -2024      roadway and bridge purposes pursuant to eminent domain
                       by the Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois
                       (Pubentz Seil Road).
                      
 
APPENDIX M
PERSONNEL RULES AND REGULATIONS
Ordinance Passage Date Description
Ordinance Passage Date Description
99-944    6-8-1999     An ordinance amending ordinance 93-713 (Shorewood
                       Village Code 1-5-3A) with respect to sick leave.
08-1476   5-27-2008    An ordinance adopting a Purchasing Manual for the
                       Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
                       An ordinance approving a salary pay scale for full time
09-1525   2-10-2009    employees for the Village of Shorewood, Will County,
                       Illinois.
                       An ordinance adopting an amendment to the Personnel
11-1613   3-22-2011    Manual for the Village of Shorewood, Will County,
                       Illinois.
                       An ordinance adopting an amendment to the Personnel
12-1670   9-25-2012    Manual for the Village of Shorewood, Will County,
                       Illinois.
13-1709   9-24-2013    An ordinance adopting an updated Personnel Manual for
                       the Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
14-1739   8-12-2014    An ordinance amending the Purchasing Manual for the
                       Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
15-1770   3-10-2015    An ordinance adopting an updated Personnel Manual for
                       the Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
                       An ordinance authorizing an addendum to the Personnel
16-1800   3-8-2016     Manual for the Village of Shorewood, Will County,
                       Illinois.
                       An ordinance authorizing an amendment to the Purchasing
16-1820   9-27-2016    Manual for the Village of Shorewood, Will County,
                       Illinois (emergency purchases).
                       An ordinance adopting the revised Safety Manual for
17-1832   1-10-2017    employees of the Village of Shorewood, Will County,
                       Illinois.
18-1870   1-9-2018     An ordinance amending the Village of Shorewood Personnel
                       Policy Manual prohibiting sexual harassment.
19-1942   8-27-2019    An ordinance adopting an updated personnel manual for
                       the Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
                      
 
APPENDIX Z
MISCELLANEOUS SPECIAL ORDINANCES
Ordinance Passage Date Description
Ordinance Passage Description
          Date
11        12-3-   That a census be taken in the Village of Shorewood, Illinois, for the
          1958    purpose of ascertaining the population of said Village.
19        5-9-    That a census be taken in the Village of Shorewood, Illinois, for the
          1961    purpose of ascertaining the population of said Village.
218       8-12-   An Ordinance regulating encroachment on public right of way in the Village
          1975    of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
244       3-22-   An Ordinance incorporating a portion of the west frontage road to Interstate
          1977    Route No. I-55 into the Municipal Street System of the Village of Shorewood.
303       12-11-  An Ordinance disconnecting the Village of Shorewood from the Will-South Cook
          1979    Soil and Water Conservation District.
86-408    2-11-   An Ordinance authorizing the execution of an easement between the Village of
          1986    Shorewood and the Forest Preserve District of Will County, Illinois.
          4-25-   An Ordinance authorizing the execution of a grant of right and easement to
89-498    1989    Commonwealth Edison Company by the Village of Shorewood, Will County,
                  Illinois.
91-574    1-8-    An Ordinance authorizing Wehling Well Works, Inc., to drill, case, and test
          1991    pump the Village of Shorewood's proposed well site number 6.
                  An Ordinance prohibiting the discharge of sanitary and industrial waste into
91-616    11-26-  any storm sewer or drainage facility constructed as a part of the Illinois
          1991    Route 59, also known as Cottage Street and Brookforest Avenue, and U.S.
                  Route 52, also known as Jefferson Street Improvement.
                  An Ordinance prohibiting encroachments with the State of Illinois right of
                  way along Illinois Route 59, also known as Cottage Street and Brookforest
91-617    11-26-  Avenue and U.S. Route 52, also known as Jefferson Street.92-6445-26-1992An
          1991    Ordinance authorizing the execution of a grant of easement to Commonwealth
                  Edison Company and Illinois Bell Telephone Company for Well #6, Lot 134 of
                  Brighton Lakes, Unit 3.
          6-9-    An Ordinance authorizing the execution of a release of easement to Brighton
92-646    1992    Lakes Corporation regarding Document No. R91-61620, an easement for a water
                  main for Well #6.
93-690    5-11-   An Ordinance vacating a certain grant of easement (Gabrielson Property -
          1993    Lift Station). Vacation of Document R77-46446.
          6-8-    An Ordinance prohibiting the discharge of sanitary and industrial waste into
93-694    1993    any storm sewer or drainage facility constructed as a part of the FAI Route
                  55 under U.S. 52 Improvement.
                  An Ordinance prohibiting the discharge of sanitary and industrial waste into
93-719    11-23-  any storm sewer or drainage facility constructed as a part of the Illinois
          1993    Route 59, also known as Cottage Street and Brookforest Avenue and Black Road
                  improvement.
          11-23-  An Ordinance prohibiting encroachments with the State of Illinois right of
93-720    1993    way along Illinois Route 59, also known as Cottage Street and Brookforest
                  Avenue and Black Road.
94-763    10-25-  An Ordinance electing participation in the Illinois Municipal Retirement
          1994    Fund.
95-775    1-24-   An Ordinance changing the name of a street in the Vintage Subdivision, in
          1995    the Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
95-795    7-11-   An Ordinance approving and authorizing execution of a Declaration of Trust.
          1995
97-882    8-26-   An Ordinance granting relief from the Village of Shorewood Building Code
          1997    (1222 Bristol Court).
                  An Ordinance vacating the Village of Shorewood's interest in a certain
98-899    4-11-   public utility easement.99-9507-27-1999An ordinance restricting parking
          1998    along U.S. Route 52 from Raven Road to Illinois Route 59 within the village
                  of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
                  An ordinance prohibiting the discharge of sanitary and industrial waste into
99-951    7-27-   any storm sewer or drainage facility constructed as part of U.S. Route 52
          1999    from Raven Road to Illinois Route 59 within the village of Shorewood, Will
                  County, Illinois.
99-952    7-27-   An ordinance prohibiting encroachments along U.S. Route 52 from Raven Road
          1999    to Illinois Route 59 within the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
          9-28-   An ordinance restricting parking along the south side of Channahon Street
99-956    1999    from Route 59 to Dante Court and the east side of Oak Court, excluding 109
                  Channahon Street, within the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
99-959    10-26-  An ordinance vacating Ward Lane in the village of Shorewood, Will County,
          1999    Illinois.
01-1037   2-27-   An ordinance changing the name of portions of Bieth/County Farm Road to Seil
          2001    Road.
01-1051   5-8-    An ordinance creating another position in the rank of sergeant in the
          2001    Shorewood police department.
01-1066   10-9-   An ordinance vacating William Street and a portion of Mary Street.
          2001
02-1109   7-9-    An ordinance adopting a donation policy for the village of Shorewood, Will
          2002    County, Illinois.
02-1130   10-22-  An ordinance granting the issuance of permit under section
          2002    7-2-4 of this code regarding street cut approval (624 Edgebrook Drive).
02-1139   12-10-  An ordinance granting an exception from the village of Shorewood BOCA code
          2002    with regard to a fire sprinkler system at "Louie's Chop House".
03-1156   2-25-   An ordinance vacating an easement in the village of Shorewood, Will County,
          2003    Illinois.
          10-14-  An ordinance restricting parking for a designated section of Deerwood Road
03-1183   2003    by the Shorewood Early Learning Center within the village of Shorewood, Will
                  County, Illinois.
04-1202   2-24-   An ordinance vacating an easement in the village of Shorewood, Will County,
          2004    Illinois (Shorewood Commons II).
04-1242   9-28-   An ordinance vacating an easement in the village of Shorewood, Will County,
          2004    Illinois (Shorewood Commons lot 10).
          12-14-  An ordinance providing for installation of no parking signs on Fieldstone
04-1265   2004    Circle to remove on street parking between the first driveways north and
                  south of the intersection on Fieldstone Circle.
05-1302   7-26-   An ordinance vacating an easement in the village of Shorewood, Will County,
          2005    Illinois.
05-1303   7-26-   An ordinance consolidating two lots in Lake Forrest Estates unit 2 in the
          2005    village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
07-1410   3-27-   An ordinance adopting an update and amendment to the park facility study and
          2007    land acquisition plan for the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
          10-9-   An ordinance restricting parking along the west side of Shorewood Drive from
07-1445   2007    Vertin Boulevard and Black Road, within the village of Shorewood, Will
                  County, Illinois.
          11-13-  An ordinance restricting parking along the east side of North Brookshore
07-1451   2007    Drive from Lancer Court to Deerwood Drive, within the village of Shorewood,
                  Will County, Illinois.
08-1477   5-27-   An ordinance authorizing the sale or delivery of alcoholic beverages at the
          2008    Shorewood Village Hall.
          7-8-    An ordinance authorizing Northern Illinois Gas Company (DBA Nicor Gas
08-1487   2008    Company) its successors and assigns, to construct, operate and maintain a
                  gas distributing system in and through the village of Shorewood, Illinois.
08-1493   8-12-   An ordinance restricting parking along Illinois Route 59 road within the
          2008    village of Shorewood.
          8-12-   An ordinance prohibiting the discharge of sanitary and industrial waste into
08-1494   2008    any storm sewer or drainage facility constructed as a part of the Illinois
                  Route 59 improvement.
08-1495   8-12-   An ordinance prohibiting encroachments within the state of Illinois right of
          2008    way along Illinois Route 59.
08-1497   8-12-   An ordinance restricting parking along Illinois Route 52 road within the
          2008    village of Shorewood.
          8-12-   An ordinance prohibiting the discharge of sanitary and industrial waste into
08-1498   2008    any storm sewer or drainage facility constructed as a part of the Illinois
                  Route 52 improvement.
08-1499   8-12-   An ordinance prohibiting encroachments within the state of Illinois right of
          2008    way along Illinois Route 59.
08-1518   11-25-  An ordinance authorizing the sale or delivery of alcoholic beverages at the
          2008    Shorewood Village Hall.
08-1519   12-9-   An ordinance amending the standard construction details of the village of
          2008    Shorewood code of ordinances title 11 regarding land subdivisions.
09-1533   5-12-   An ordinance amending the standard construction details of the village of
          2009    Shorewood code of ordinances title 11 regarding land subdivisions.
09-1534   5-26-   An ordinance changing the names of streets in the village of Shorewood.
          2009
09-1556   11-10-  An ordinance amending the standard construction details of the village of
          2009    Shorewood code of ordinances title 11 regarding land subdivisions.
10-1568   1-26-   An ordinance authorizing the sale or delivery of alcoholic beverages at the
          2010    Shorewood Village Hall.
10-1588   8-10-   An ordinance adopting a Riverfront master plan for the village of Shorewood,
          2010    Will County, Illinois.
11-1608   1-25-   An ordinance authorizing the sale or delivery of alcoholic beverages at the
          2011    Shorewood Village Hall.
11-1621   5-24-   An ordinance authorizing the sale or delivery of alcoholic beverages at
          2011    Towne Center Park.
11-1637   11-22-  An ordinance prohibiting video gaming in the village of Shorewood.
          2011
11-1645   12-13-  An ordinance authorizing the sale or delivery of alcoholic beverages at the
          2011    Shorewood Village Hall.
11-1646   1-23-   An ordinance authorizing the sale or delivery of alcoholic beverages at the
          2012    Shorewood Village Hall.
12-1657   5-8-    An ordinance adopting electric aggregation plan of governance.
          2012
12-1658   5-8-    An ordinance authorizing aggregation of electrical load.
          2012
12-1676   11-13-  An ordinance adopting an emerald ash borer management plan for the village
          2012    of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
13-1692   4-10-   An ordinance authorizing the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois to
          2013    borrow funds from the public water supply loan program.
13-1700   6-11-   An ordinance authorizing the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois to
          2013    borrow funds from the public water supply loan program.
14-1727   3-11-   An ordinance authorizing the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois to
          2014    borrow funds from the public water supply loan program.
          8-26-   An ordinance amending ordinance 14-1727 entitled "an ordinance authorizing
14-1742   2014    the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois to borrow funds from the
                  public water supply loan program".
          10-14-  An ordinance amending the standard construction details of the village of
14-1743   2014    Shorewood code of ordinances title 11 regarding land subdivisions (standard
                  details PVT-1, PVT-2, PVT-3, PVT-4, PVT-5, PVT-6, PVT-14 and WTR-6).
          2-10-   An ordinance amending the standard construction details of the village of
15-1765   2015    Shorewood code of ordinances title 11 regarding land subdivisions (standard
                  details MSC-3).
15-1773   5-14-   An ordinance adopting home rule.
          2015
15-1774   5-14-   An ordinance readopting, reaffirming, and ratifying the village of Shorewood
          2015    code of ordinances.
15-1777   6-9-    An ordinance restricting parking along a certain area of Summit Creed Drive,
          2015    within the village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
15-1784   7-28-   An ordinance vacating Mary Street and vesting title in an adjoining property
          2015    owner.
                  An ordinance amending the standard construction details of the village of
15-1797   11-10-  Shorewood code of ordinances title 11 regarding land subdivisions (standard
          2015    details MSC-5).16-18167-26-2016An ordinance establishing a moratorium on the
                  issuance of business licenses for "vape lounges".
          2-14-   An ordinance approving a tax increment redevelopment plan and redevelopment
17-1834   2017    project for the Jefferson Street/RT 59 redevelopment project area
                  ("Jefferson Street/RT 59 TIF").
                  An ordinance designating the Jefferson Street/RT 59 redevelopment project
17-1835   2-14-   area of said village a redevelopment project area pursuant to the tax
          2017    increment allocation redevelopment act, as amended ("Jefferson Street/RT 59
                  TIF").
          4-11-   An ordinance amending the standard construction details of the village of
17-1841   2017    Shorewood code of ordinances title 11 regarding land subdivisions standard
                  details STM-9, STM-10, WTR-7, PVT-12, PVT-13, PVT-13a, and MSC-3.
19-1949   10-8-   An ordinance changing the name of Louisa Street and Louisa Street East to
          2019    Louisa Street South and Louisa Street North.
                  An ordinance providing for temporary relief from the Village of Shorewood
20-1971   5-28-   Code of Ordinances with respect to off-premises outdoor dining/seating,
          2020    alcohol consumption and sales and setting forth interim regulations to
                  govern these matters.
                  An ordinance providing for temporary relief from the Village of Shorewood
20-1986   9-8-    Code of Ordinances with respect to off-premises outdoor dining/seating,
          2020    alcohol consumption and sales and setting forth interim regulations to
                  govern these matters.
20-1998   - -2020 An ordinance changing the name of West Shore Drive to Westshore Drive.
          12-8-   An ordinance establishing closing hours for certain classes of liquor
20-1999   2020    licensees in conformance to the executive order of the Governor of the State
                  of Illinois.
                  An ordinance repealing Ordinance No. 20-1999 entitled “An Ordinance of the
21-2002   1-26-   Village of Shorewood Establishing Closing Hours for Certain Classes of
          2021    Liquor Licensees in Conformance to the Executive Order of the Governor of
                  the State of Illinois.”
          6-22-   An ordinance providing for temporary relief from the Village of Shorewood
21-2015   2021    Code of Ordinances with respect to off-premises outdoor dining/seating,
                  alcohol consumption and sales.
22-2053   9-13-   An ordinance adopting River’s Edge Park Master Plan.
          2022
23-2061   2-14-   An ordinance naming Illinois Route 59, North of Jefferson Street as Brook
          2023    Forest Avenue.
          3-14-   An ordinance prohibiting the use on certain property of groundwater as
23-2063   2023    potable water supply by the installation or use of potable water supply
                  wells or by any other method.
          4-11-   An ordinance adopting a text amendment to the Shorewood Village Code Title 9
23-2068   2023    - Comprehensive Plan and Map, Park & Recreation Master Plan for the Village
                  of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois.
24-2099   - -2024 An ordinance authorizing the Village of Shorewood, Will County, Illinois, to
                  borrow funds from the Public Water Supply Loan Program.
24-2101   3-26-   An ordinance changing the names of portions of Towne Center Boulevard and
          2024    Hampton Lane.
                  An ordinance to establish the Grand Prairie Water Commission, approve an
24-2107   6-25-   Intergovernmental Agreement and a water supply agreement, appoint
          2024    representatives to the commission, and authorize approval of bylaws and a
                  program management agreement, and other related matters.
                 
 
