SOUTHERN VIEW, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-1 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 25-02-01, passed 2-25-2025
State legislation current through ILCS Pamphlet #6, 2024
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
      
11.   VILLAGE STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section headings
   
10.04   Rules of construction
   
10.05   Official time
   
10.06   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Conflicting provisions
   
10.09   Amendments to code
   
10.10   Severability
   
10.11   Reference to public office or officer
   
10.12   Errors and omissions
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Ordinances saved
   
10.16   Technical codes
   
10.17   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification by and for the Village of Southern View shall be
designated as the code of Southern View, and may be so cited.
(Prior Code, § 10.01)
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANOTHER. When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other owner of
property.
   BOARD or BOARD OF TRUSTEES. The Board of Trustees of the Village of Southern
View, Illinois.
   COUNTY. Sangamon County, Illinois.
   COUNTY BOARD. The County Board of Sangamon County, Illinois.
(5 ILCS 70/1.07)
   COURT. Construed to mean any court of competent jurisdiction.
   DECREE. Synonymous with JUDGMENT.
(5 ILCS 70/1.24)
   ELECTORS. Persons qualified to vote for elective officers at municipal
elections.
(65 ILCS 5/1-1-2)
   EXECUTIVE OFFICER. Words used for an executive or ministerial officer may
include any deputy or other person performing the duties of such officer,
either generally or in special cases.
(5 ILCS 70/1.08)
   HERETOFORE or HEREAFTER. HERETOFORE means any time previous to the day on
which the ordinance, resolution or statute takes effect; HEREAFTER means at any
time after that date.
(5 ILCS 70/1.17)
   HIGHWAY, ROAD or STREET. May include any road laid out by authority of the
United States, or of this state, or of any town or county of this state, and
all bridges thereupon.
(5 ILCS 70/1.16)
   ILCS. Illinois Compiled Statutes, 1992, as heretofore and hereafter amended.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves, or
as a servant, agent or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of an incorporeal nature.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
   MUNICIPAL CODE. The Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5.
   OATH. Includes affirmation, and SWEAR includes affirm.
(5 ILCS 70/1.12)
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner,
purchaser and seller under a contract and/or deed, or tenant in common of the
whole or part of the property, and includes any beneficiary of a land trust
which owns property.
   PERSON. Any legal person; includes associations, partnerships, corporations,
joint ventures and bodies politic and corporate as well as individuals.
(5 ILCS 70/1.05)
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   POLICE OFFICERS. Police officers employed and in the service of the Village
of Southern View. POLICE FORCE shall be construed to include such persons in
the employ of a village as members of the Department of Police, who are or
shall hereafter be appointed and sworn as POLICE OFFICERS.
(5 ILCS 70/1.20)
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PRESIDENT. The President of the Village of Southern View.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and other interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes school districts; units of legal government; the
village, city, county, state or federal governments, officers and agencies
thereof, or any commissions or committees thereof; or any duly authorized
public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance or any other place for the sale
of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail and CERTIFIED MAIL includes
registered mail.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for use of
pedestrians.
(625 ILCS 5/1-188)
   SPECIAL DISTRICTS. The meaning ascribed in Article VII of the Constitution
of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(5 ILCS 70/1.29)
   STATE. The State of Illinois.
   STREET. Where the context admits, includes alleys, lanes, courts,
boulevards, squares and other public thoroughfares.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. The village code hereby adopted, and
as hereinafter modified by amendment, revision and by the adoption of new
titles, chapters or sections.
   UNITS OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT. The meaning established in § 1 of Article VII of
the Constitution of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(5 ILCS 70/1.28)
   VILLAGE, MUNICIPALITY or MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. The Village of Southern
View, irrespective of its population or legal classification.
   WEEK. Seven consecutive days.
   WHOEVER. Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners; principals,
agents and employees; and all officials, public or private.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. Includes printing, electronic and any other mode of
representing words and letters; but when the written signature of any person is
required by law on any official or public writing or bond, required by law, it
shall be:
      (1)   In the proper handwriting of that person, or in case he or she is
unable to write, his or her proper mark; or
      (2)   An electronic signature, as defined in the Uniform Electronic
Transactions Act, being 815 ILCS 333/1 et seq., except as otherwise provided by
law.
(5 ILCS 70/1.15)
   YEAR. A calendar year unless otherwise expressed; and the word YEAR alone is
equivalent to the expression “Year of Our Lord”.
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
(Prior Code, § 10.02)
§ 10.03 SECTION HEADINGS.
   Headings and captions used in this code are employed for reference purposes
only, and shall not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
(Prior Code, § 10.03)
§ 10.04 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Words and phrases shall be read in context and construed according to
the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and phrases that have acquired a
technical or particular meaning, whether by legislative or judicial definition
or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
   (B)   As used in this code, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following rules will be followed.
      (1)   The singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall include
the singular.
(5 ILCS 70/1.03)
      (2)   Words of one gender shall include the other genders.
(5 ILCS 70/1.04)
      (3)   Words in the present tense shall include the future.
(5 ILCS 70/1.02)
      (4)   AND may be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the context admits.
   (C)   The time within which any act provided by law is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last unless the last day
is Saturday or Sunday or is a holiday, as defined or fixed in any statute now
or hereafter in force in this state, and then it shall also be excluded. If the
day succeeding Saturday, Sunday or a holiday is also a holiday or a Saturday or
Sunday, then the succeeding day shall also be excluded.
(5 ILCS 70/1.11)
   (D)   When the law requires an act to be done which may, by law, as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (E)   Words purporting to give joint authority to three or more municipal
officers or other persons shall be construed as giving authority to a majority
of the officers or persons.
(5 ILCS 70/1.09)
   (F)   These rules of construction shall not apply to any provision of this
code which shall contain any express provision excluding that construction, or
when the subject matter or context of this code may be repugnant thereto.
   (G)   All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions shall be
liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the Mayor and
Board of Trustees may be fully carried out.
(5 ILCS 70/1.01)
   (H)   The provisions of any ordinance, in so far as they are the same as
those of any prior ordinance, shall be construed as a continuation of the prior
provisions, and not as a new enactment.
(5 ILCS 70/2)
(Prior Code, § 10.04)
§ 10.05 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time for the village shall be as set by federal law.
(Prior Code, § 10.05)
§ 10.06 REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing ordinance does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed, nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
   (B)   The reenactment, amendment or repeal of an ordinance does not do any
of the following, except as provided in division (C) below:
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder;
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded or incurred thereunder;
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal; or
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment. The
investigation, proceeding or remedy may be instituted, continued or enforced,
and the penalty, forfeiture or punishment imposed, as if the ordinance had not
been repealed or amended.
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture or punishment for any offense is reduced by
a reenactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended.
(Prior Code, § 10.06)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in this code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of this code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision and the context clearly
indicates that the reference to the section as amended or revised was not
intended.
(Prior Code, § 10.07)
§ 10.08 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters or sections of these codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be construed so as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
(Prior Code, § 10.08)
§ 10.09 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal or in any
way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of
this code and printed for inclusion herein, or in the case of repealed
chapters, sections and divisions, or any part thereof, by subsequent
ordinances, the repealed portions may be excluded from the code by the omission
from reprinted pages affected thereby, and the subsequent ordinances as
numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie
evidence of subsequent ordinances until this code of ordinances and subsequent
ordinances numbered or omitted are re-adopted as a new code of ordinances by
the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 10.09)
§ 10.10 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of these codified ordinances or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of the section or
related sections which can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application, and to this end the provisions are severable.
(Prior Code, § 10.10)
§ 10.11 REFERENCE TO PUBLIC OFFICE OR OFFICER.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the village exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary. Such references
shall also include the designee or agent of any such officer or office unless
the law or the context clearly requires otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 10.11)
§ 10.12 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
(Prior Code, § 10.12)
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   (A)   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced.
   (B)   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 10.13)
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature (including, but not limited
to, tax levy ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to
boundaries and annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting
special rights to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances
authorizing the execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the village; and all special ordinances), as well as any
other ordinances pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this
code of ordinances, shall remain in full force and effect unless herein
repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
(Prior Code, § 10.14)
§ 10.15 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance, by its nature, either authorizes or enables the Board
of Trustees or a certain village officer or employee to make additional
regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
regulations of a similar nature serving that purpose effected prior to the
codification and not inconsistent thereto shall remain in effect and are saved.
(Prior Code, § 10.15)
§ 10.16 TECHNICAL CODES.
   (A)   Whenever any technical codes are incorporated herein by reference, any
subsequent amendments or revisions to such technical codes shall automatically
become a part of this code and shall be made available for public inspection by
the village.
   (B)   Further, to the extent of any conflict between the technical
provisions of this code and any technical codes adopted by reference, the most
restrictive provision shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 10.16)
§ 10.17 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   An “ILCS” cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads either verbatim or substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-2-1)
      (2)   An “ILCS” cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
§ 38.04 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         The village shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying
      all public records, as provided in the Illinois Freedom of Information
Act.
      Statutory reference:
         Freedom of Information Act, see 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 10.17)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this code or other ordinance of this
village for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall be fined
not more than $750 for each and every violation thereof, and every day the
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 10.99) (Ord. 10-09-01, passed 9-28-2010)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to imprison for certain ordinance violations, see 65 ILCS 5/1-2-
1.1
   Limitations on penalties and collection upon default in payment, see 65 ILCS
5/1-2-1
CHAPTER 11: VILLAGE STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Village Seal described
   
11.02   Custodian of Seal; use of Seal
   
11.03   Fiscal year
§ 11.01 VILLAGE SEAL DESCRIBED.
   The corporate seal of the village shall be a circular disc, two inches in
diameter, with the words, “Corporate Seal” surrounded by a scroll inscribed
with the words “The Village of Southern View, Sangamon Co., Ill.” in Sans
Serif, Gothic capitals.
(Prior Code, § 11.01)
§ 11.02 CUSTODIAN OF SEAL; USE OF SEAL.
   The Clerk shall be the custodian of the Village Seal and shall affix its
impression on documents as required.
(Prior Code, § 11.02)
§ 11.03 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the village shall begin on June 1 of each year and end on
May 31 of the year following.
(Prior Code, § 11.03)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   VILLAGE GOVERNMENT
      
31.   OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   LEGISLATION
      
33.   VILLAGE ORGANIZATIONS
      
34.   PUBLIC SAFETY
      
35.   POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
      
36.   ELECTIONS
      
37.   TAXATION AND FINANCE
CHAPTER 30: VILLAGE GOVERNMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Powers and duties of Board
   
30.02   Time for elections
   
30.03   Regular meetings
   
30.04   Special meetings
   
30.05   Adjourned meetings
   
30.06   Legal holidays
   
30.07   Open meetings
   
30.08   Quorum
   
30.09   Vacancy of the office of President
   
30.10   Presiding officer
   
30.11   Destruction of verbatim records
Village President
   
30.25   Duties
   
30.26   Power to appoint
   
30.27   Power to remove
   
30.28   Committees, power to appoint, membership
   
30.29   Bond
   
30.30   Compensation
   
30.31   Local state of emergency
Village Trustees
   
30.45   Duties of Trustees
   
30.46   Compensation
 
   
30.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Elections, see
Chapter 36
   Legislation, see
Chapter 32
   Officials and Employees, see
Chapter 31
   Policies and Procedures, see
Chapter 35
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 POWERS AND DUTIES OF BOARD.
   The Village Board of Trustees shall be the governing body of the village and
shall have the powers and duties prescribed by state law.
(Prior Code, § 30.01)
§ 30.02 TIME FOR ELECTIONS.
   Elections for village offices shall be held as provided by statute and at
the time prescribed by statute.
(Prior Code, § 30.02)
Cross-reference:
   Elections, see
Chapter 36
§ 30.03 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Village Board of Trustees shall hold one regular meeting each
month, and such meeting shall be held on the second and fourth Tuesday of each
month. The meeting will commence at 6:00 p.m. at the Village Hall unless
otherwise noted.
   (B)   The following rules and procedures are adopted.
      (1)   The use of vulgar or profane language or the interruption of an
individual recognized by the Village President to speak will not be tolerated.
A member of the Board of Trustees or member of the audience that engages in
such behavior will first be asked to refrain from their comments. Any
individual who continues such behavior after being warned may be removed from
the meeting by order of the Village President following a vote of the Board of
Trustees authorizing such action.
      (2)   Each meeting’s agenda shall include a period where members of the
public may address the Board with their concerns. Comments shall be limited to
five minutes unless the Village President grants additional time. The Clerk
shall provide a sign-in sheet at each meeting for those that wish to speak.
While it is not a requirement to sign in to address the Board during the
allotted period, those individuals that sign in will be allowed to address the
Board first.
      (3)   The Village President may make his or her position known regarding
issues before the Board, but a vote of the President will not be counted except
as required by law.
      (4)   The Village Clerk shall be responsible for notifying each Trustee
of meetings or other pertinent information. Each Trustee shall also regularly
check the village office for notices.
      (5)   Issues discussed at a meeting shall be assigned to a committee of
the Board of Trustees. No matter how small the issue may seem, it was important
enough to someone to bring it to the Board’s attention. All matters brought
before the Board shall be included on the ensuing agendas as “Old Business”
until such time as they are resolved.
      (6)   Robert’s Rules of Order (Tenth Edition) shall govern meetings of
the Board of Trustees to the extent they do not conflict with the ordinances or
resolutions of the Board.
      (7)   Each Trustee shall be provided a copy of or shared access to the
following items:
         (a)   Village code of ordinances;
         (b)   Ordinance synopsis;
         (c)   Open Meetings Act booklet;
         (d)   Freedom of Information Act booklet;
         (e)   Zoning ordinance;
         (f)   Village employee manual;
         (g)   Illinois Municipal League handbook;
         (h)   Current financial documents;
         (i)   Current list of all employees, including addresses and phone
numbers; and
         (j)   Current list of committee assignments.
      (8)   Members of the Board of Trustees shall be provided sufficient
information regarding matters to be considered at least 48 hours prior to any
regular or special meeting.
(Prior Code, § 30.03) (Ord. 75-4, passed 7-14-1975; Ord. 92-07-03, passed 7-13-
1992; Res. 07-05-01, passed 5-21-2007; Ord. 09-05-01, passed 5-11-2009; Ord.
21-11-01, passed 11-23-2021)
§ 30.04 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   Special meetings of the Board of Trustees may be called, from time to time,
by the President or any three Trustees, but written notice of such special
meeting must be served upon the President, Village Clerk and each member of the
Board of Trustees by posting a notice at the village office at least 48 hours
in advance of the special meeting. The notice must state the purpose for which
the special meeting is called. No business, except that for which it is called,
may be transacted at the special meeting.
(Prior Code, § 30.04)
§ 30.05 ADJOURNED MEETINGS.
   A regular or special meeting may be adjourned to a later date; provided it
is not beyond the date of the next regular meeting of the Board of Trustees.
Any subject may be considered at an adjourned regular meeting that might have
been considered at the original regular meeting.
(Prior Code, § 30.05) (Ord. 75-4, passed 7-14-1975)
§ 30.06 LEGAL HOLIDAYS.
   No meeting shall be held on a legal holiday unless the regular meeting day
falls on that holiday.
(Prior Code, § 30.06) (Ord. 75-4, passed 7-14-1975)
§ 30.07 OPEN MEETINGS.
   All meetings of the Board of Trustees shall be open to the public, except
that matters pertaining to the following may be held behind closed doors with
the public excluded:
   (A)   The appointment, employment, compensation, discipline, performance or
dismissal of specific employees of the village, including hearing testimony on
a complaint lodged against an employee to determine its validity;
   (B)   Collective negotiating matters between the village and its employees
or their representatives, or deliberations concerning salary schedules for one
or more classes of employees;
   (C)   The selection of a person to fill a public office, as defined in the
Open Meetings Act, being 5 ILCS 120, including a vacancy in a public office,
when the village is given power to appoint under law or ordinance, or the
discipline, performance or removal of the occupant of a public office, when the
village is given power to remove the occupant under law or ordinance;
   (D)   Evidence or testimony presented in open hearing, or in closed hearing
where specifically authorized by law, to a quasi-adjudicative body, as defined
in the Open Meetings Act, being 5 ILCS 120; provided that the body prepares and
makes available for public inspection a written decision setting forth its
determinative reasoning;
   (E)   The purchase or lease of real property for the use of the village,
including meetings held for the purpose of discussing whether a particular
parcel should be acquired;
   (F)   The setting of a price for sale or lease of property owned by the
village;
   (G)   The sale or purchase of securities, investments or investment
contracts;
   (H)   Security procedures and the use of personnel and equipment to respond
to an actual, a threatened or a reasonable potential danger to the safety of
employees, staff or public property;
   (I)   Litigation, when an action against, affecting or on behalf of the
village has been filed and is pending before a court or administrative
tribunal, or when the village finds that an action is probable or imminent, in
which case the basis for the finding shall be recorded and entered into the
minutes of the closed meeting;
   (J)   The establishment of reserves or settlement of claims, as provided in
the Local Government and Governmental Employees Tort Immunity Act, being 745
ILCS 10/1-101 et seq.; if otherwise, the disposition of a claim or potential
claim might be prejudiced, or the review or discussion of claims, loss or risk
management information, records, data, advice or communications from or with
respect to any insurer of the public body or any intergovernmental risk
management association or self insurance pool of which the village is a member;
and
   (K)   Discussion of minutes of meetings lawfully closed under the Open
Meetings Act, being 5 ILCS 120, whether for purposes of approval by the body of
the minutes or semi-annual review of the minutes as mandated by § 2.06 of the
Open Meetings Act, being 5 ILCS 120.
(Prior Code, § 30.07) (Ord. 75-4, passed 7-14-1975)
§ 30.08 QUORUM.
   The majority of the Mayor and Board of Trustees shall constitute a quorum,
but no ordinance shall be passed, except upon favorable vote of a majority of
the Trustees and the Mayor, as is provided by statute.
(Prior Code, § 30.08)
§ 30.09 VACANCY OF THE OFFICE OF PRESIDENT.
   (A)   In a vacancy of the office of President, when the unexpired term shall
be for one year or over from the date when it occurs, the unexpired term shall
be filled by election. If less than one year, the Trustees shall elect one of
their members to serve as President Pro Tem.
   (B)   If the President, during his or her term of office, shall remove from
the limits of the village, his or her office shall be deemed to be vacant.
(Prior Code, § 30.09)
§ 30.10 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   The President shall be the presiding officer at all regular and
special meetings.
   (B)   In the temporary absence of the President, but not a vacancy in the
office, the Board of Trustees shall elect one of its members to act as
President Pro Tem, who shall perform the duties and possess all the rights and
powers of the President.
(Prior Code, § 30.10)
§ 30.11 DESTRUCTION OF VERBATIM RECORDS.
   (A)   (1)   The Open Meetings Act requires the village to create a verbatim
record of each closed session of the Village Board.
      (2)   The Act provides: the verbatim record may be destroyed without
notification to or the approval of a records commission or the State Archivist
under the Local Records Act, being 50 ILCS 205/1 et seq., or the State Records
Act, being 5 ILCS 160/1 et seq., no less than 18 months after the completion of
the meeting recorded but only after:
         (a)   The public body approves the destruction of a particular
recording; and
         (b)   The public body approves minutes of the closed meeting that meet
the written minutes requirements of 5 ILCS 120/2.06(a).
   (B)   The Clerk is authorized to destroy any verbatim record older than 18
months; provided that the Board has approved minutes of that meeting.
   (C)   The Clerk is also authorized to destroy the tape, if any, of any open
session of the Board; provided the Board has approved the minutes of that open
session.
(Res. 19-06-003, passed 6-25-2019)
VILLAGE PRESIDENT
§ 30.25 DUTIES.
   (A)   The Village President shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the
village and shall perform such duties as may be required of him or her by
statute or ordinance.
   (B)   He or she shall have supervision over all executive officers and
employees of the village and shall have the power and authority to inspect all
books and records pertaining to the village at any reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 30.25)
§ 30.26 POWER TO APPOINT.
   The President shall appoint, by and with the consent of the Trustees, all
officers of the village, whose election or appointment is not otherwise
provided in this code. Any vacancies occurring in an appointive office shall be
filled in the same manner. The President shall be responsible for any dispute
as to the duties of the respective appointed officers.
(Prior Code, § 30.26)
§ 30.27 POWER TO REMOVE.
   The President shall have the power to remove any officer appointed by him or
her for good cause shown; provided that such removal is approved by a majority
of the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 30.27)
§ 30.28 COMMITTEES, POWER TO APPOINT, MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The President shall appoint such committees as shall appear to him or
her to be necessary to conduct the affairs of the village or as may be directed
by a majority of the Trustees.
   (B)   All committees shall consist of three members, including the
Chairperson, unless the Trustees shall provide otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 30.28)
§ 30.29 BOND.
   Before entering upon his or her duties as President, the President shall
execute a bond in such amount and with such sureties as may be required of the
Trustees, conditioned upon his or her faithful performance of his or her
duties.
(Prior Code, § 30.29)
§ 30.30 COMPENSATION.
   For any individual elected to the office of Village President on or after
April 1, 2015, said Village President shall receive a yearly salary, payable
monthly, at the rate as set from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 30.30) (Ord. 75-2, passed 2-10-1975; Ord. 81-3, passed 3-9-1981;
Ord. 13-06-02, passed 6-25-2013)
§ 30.31 LOCAL STATE OF EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DISASTER. An occurrence or threat of widespread or severe damage, injury
or loss of life or property resulting from any natural or technological cause,
including, but not limited to, fire, food, earthquake, wind, storm, hazardous
materials spill or other water contamination requiring emergency action to
avert danger or damage, epidemic, air contamination, blight, extended periods
of severe and inclement weather, drought, infestation, critical shortages of
essential fuels and energy, explosion, riot, hostile military or paramilitary
action, public health emergencies, acts of domestic terrorism, other acts
defined as a “disaster”, pursuant to § 4 of the Illinois Emergency Management
Agency Act (20 ILCS 3305/4), or other acts giving rise to a state of emergency
as contemplated by § 11-1-6 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/11-1-6).
      CURFEW. A prohibition against any person walking, running, loitering,
standing or motoring upon any alley, street, highway, public property or vacant
premises within the corporate limits of the village except officials of any
governmental unit and persons officially designated to duty with reference to
said civil emergency.
      LOCAL STATE OF EMERGENCY. A written declaration or proclamation of the
Village President, under oath, setting forth the facts which constitute a
disaster, describing the nature of the disaster and declaring that a local
state of emergency exists in accordance with the definitions set forth in this
division (A).
   (B)   Declaration.
      (1)   Whenever a disaster, as defined in division (A) above, exists, the
Village President is authorized to declare the existence of a local state of
emergency. This declaration must be filed with the Municipal Clerk as soon as
practicable after issuance.
      (2)   Such declaration(s) of a local state of emergency shall constitute
a declaration of a local disaster, pursuant to 20 ILCS 3305/11, the effect of
which is to activate the emergency operations plan of the village and to
authorize the furnishing of aid and assistance under that plan or any other
applicable plan.
   (C)   Orders authorized. After the proclamation of a local state of
emergency, the Village President may, in the interest of public safety and
welfare and to address issues threatened by the emergency, take any or all of
the following actions by executive order during the state of emergency:
      (1)   All actions reasonably necessary to respond to the disaster;
      (2)   A general curfew applicable to such geographical areas of the
village or to the village as a whole, as the Village President deems reasonable
and advisable, and applicable during such hours of the day or night as the
Village President deems necessary in the interest of the public safety and
welfare;
      (3)   Approve previously appropriated expenditures of the village for the
purpose of continuing the operations of the municipality;
      (4)   In the event the local state of emergency extends beyond the
current fiscal year and a new budget has not been approved, approve new
spending by the village during the existence of the local state of emergency;
      (5)   Order the discontinuance of the sale of alcoholic liquor by any
wholesaler or retailer; or
      (6)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing or giving away
gasoline or other liquid flammable or combustible products in any container
other than a gasoline tank properly affixed to a motor vehicle.
   (D)   Duration. The declaration of a local state of emergency shall be
effective for the earlier of a period of up to seven days or upon the
adjournment of the first regular meeting of the corporate authorities after the
state of emergency is declared unless sooner terminated by a proclamation of
the Village President, or his or her interim emergency successor, indicating
that the disaster no longer exists. A declaration may be continued or renewed
beyond seven days by or with the consent of the Village Board of Trustees.
   (E)   Notice. Upon issuing the proclamation herein authorized, the Village
Clerk shall notify the news media situated within the village, and shall cause
at least four copies of the proclamation declaring the existence of the
emergency and any curfew to be posted at the following places within the
village: the Village Hall, the police station, the post office and in the area
of any curfew.
(Ord. 20-11-05, passed 11-24-2020) Penalty, see §
30.99
VILLAGE TRUSTEES
§ 30.45 DUTIES OF TRUSTEES.
   The Trustees shall be the legislative division of the village government and
shall perform such duties and have such powers as may be authorized by statute.
(Prior Code, § 30.45)
§ 30.46 COMPENSATION.
   For any individual elected to the office of Village Trustee on or after
April 1, 2015, said Village Trustee shall receive a yearly salary, payable
monthly, at the rate as set from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 30.46) (Ord. 75-2, passed 2-10-1975; Ord. 81-3, passed 3-9-1981;
Ord. 86-12-1, passed 12-8-1986; Ord. 13-06-02, passed 6-25-2013)
§ 30.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the executive orders issued pursuant to §
30.31 shall be guilty of an offense against the village and shall be punished
as provided by village code.
(Ord. 20-11-05, passed 11-24-2020)
CHAPTER 31: OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   President’s power to appoint
   
31.02   Village Attorney
   
31.03   Village Treasurer
   
31.04   Accounts
   
31.05   Bond of Treasurer
   
31.06   Provisions relating to other appointive officers
   
31.07   Termination of office
   
31.08   Oath
   
31.09   Bond
   
31.10   Appointive officers to hold over
   
31.11   Application of provisions
   
31.12   Village office hours
   
31.13   Joining the IMRF pension system for employees
   
31.14   Paid leave for all workers
Officers
   
31.25   Officers delineated
   
31.26   Term of office
   
31.27   Time of election
   
31.28   Qualifications
   
31.29   Village Clerk
Expense Reimbursement
   
31.40   Recitals incorporated
   
31.41   Definitions
   
31.42   Reimbursements allowed
   
31.43   Reimbursement form required
   
31.44   Approval
   
31.45   Entertainment activities not reimbursed
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 PRESIDENT’S POWER TO APPOINT.
   (A)   Generally. The President shall have the power to appoint a Village
Attorney and a Village Treasurer, each to serve for one year and such other
special officers as the Trustees may designate. The compensation of such
officers shall be fixed by the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Appointment of Village Clerk. The position of Village Clerk shall be
appointive, with such Clerk being appointed by the Village President with the
concurrence of the Village Board. The term of appointment for the Village Clerk
shall be one year, but with no limitation on the number of terms which a person
may serve as Clerk. The compensation of the appointive Clerk shall be as fixed
by the corporate authorities.
(Prior Code, § 31.01) (Res. 87-1-1, passed 1-12-1987)
§ 31.02 VILLAGE ATTORNEY.
   It shall be the duty of the Village Attorney to draft or supervise the
phraseology of contracts, leases, ordinances or other documents to which the
village is an interested party, to represent the village in suits which the
village may be interested and to act as legal advisor to the village, whenever
requested to do so.
(Prior Code, § 31.02)
§ 31.03 VILLAGE TREASURER.
   (A)   The Village Treasurer shall receive all money paid into the village,
and he or she shall pay out the same only on orders properly signed by him or
her and either the Village Clerk or the Village President, except that inter-
fund transfers and transfers for the purpose of investment may be made on
orders signed solely by the Treasurer, when made with the prior approval of the
Village Board. He or she shall deposit the village funds in such depositories
as may be selected by the Board of Trustees, and he or she shall keep all
village monies in a special account(s) and separate from his or her own. He or
she shall keep such records showing all money received by him or her, the
source from which it was received and the purpose for which it was paid out. He
or she shall keep a record showing, at all times, the financial status of the
village. All bills shall be paid by him or her within ten days from the date of
approval providing funds are available.
   (B)   The Treasurer shall make monthly reports to the Board of Trustees
showing the state of finances of the village, the amounts received and paid out
during the month and the balances in the various funds. He or she shall further
make an annual report at the end of the fiscal year showing all transactions
during the preceding year. All reports shall be under oath.
(Prior Code, § 31.03)
§ 31.04 ACCOUNTS.
   The Village Treasurer shall keep such accounts and separation of funds as
the Board of Trustees shall designate.
(Prior Code, § 31.04)
§ 31.05 BOND OF TREASURER.
   (A)   The Treasurer shall give bond in such amount as required by the Board
of Trustees.
   (B)   The bond shall be conditioned upon the faithful performance by the
Treasurer of his or her duties of office and to indemnify the village for any
loss due to the neglect of duty or wrongful act on the part of the Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 31.05)
§ 31.06 PROVISIONS RELATING TO OTHER APPOINTIVE OFFICERS.
   (A)   Terms of office.
      (1)   Every appointive officer or employee of the village shall hold
office for a term of one year or until his or her successor is appointed and
qualified unless it is otherwise provided by ordinance or this code.
      (2)   Employees selected shall serve so long as their services are
desired.
   (B)   Assignment of duties. The President shall have the power to assign to
any appointive officer any duty which is not assigned by ordinance of this code
to some other specific officer and shall determine disputes or questions
relating to the respective powers or duties of officers.
   (C)   Records. All records kept by any officer of the village shall be open
to inspection by the President, or any member of the Board of Trustees, at
reasonable times, whether or not such records are required to be kept by
ordinance, this code or statute.
   (D)   Monies received. Every officer of the village shall, at least once
each month, turn over all monies received by turn or her in his or her official
capacity to the Clerk with a statement showing the source from which the same
was received.
   (E)   Salaries.
      (1)   All officers and employees of the village shall receive such
salaries as may be provided, from time to time, by ordinance.
      (2)   No officer or employee receiving a salary from the village shall be
entitled to retain any portion of any fees collected by him or her in the
performance of his or her duties as a municipal officer or employee in the
absence of a specific ordinance to that effect.
(Prior Code, § 31.06)
§ 31.07 TERMINATION OF OFFICE.
   Every officer of the village, upon the termination of his or her office, for
any cause whatsoever, shall deliver to his or her successor all books and
records which may be the property of the village; and if no successor has been
appointed within one week after the termination of office, such property shall
be delivered to either the Clerk or the Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 31.07)
§ 31.08 OATH.
   Every officer of the village shall, before entering upon the duties of
office, take the oath prescribed by statute.
(Prior Code, § 31.08)
§ 31.09 BOND.
   (A)   Every officer shall, if required by the Board, before entering upon
the duties of his or her office, give a bond in such amount as may be
determined by the Board and with such sureties as it may approve, conditioned
upon the faithful performance of the duties of his or her office or position.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever in this code a bond is required of an officer or
employee, premiums for such bond shall be paid by the village government from
the Village Treasury.
      (2)   (a)   The officers listed below shall be required to furnish a bond
in accordance with this section and other applicable sections.
         (b)   Such bond shall be in the amounts specified below:
            1.   Village President: $5,000;
            2.   Village Clerk: $5,000; and
            3.   Village Treasurer: $30,000.
(Prior Code, § 31.09) (Ord. 81-2, passed 3-9-1981)
§ 31.10 APPOINTIVE OFFICERS TO HOLD OVER.
   All appointive officers shall hold office for one year or until his or her
successor is appointed and qualified unless it is otherwise provided by
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 31.10)
§ 31.11 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply alike to all officers or
employees of the village, regardless of the time of creating the office or of
the time of the appointment of the officer.
(Prior Code, § 31.11)
§ 31.12 VILLAGE OFFICE HOURS.
   The Village Board shall approve, from time to time, the hours of operation
of the Village Hall. Said hours of operation shall be posted in the display
case on the exterior of the Village Hall.
(Prior Code, § 31.12) (Ord. 05-10-01, passed 10-17-2005; Ord. 09-03-01, passed
3-9-2009)
§ 31.13 JOINING THE IMRF PENSION SYSTEM FOR EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The Village Board has reviewed information relating to providing IMRF
pensions for the employees of the village. IMRF staff have provided the village
with information related to the expenditures necessary to be made by the
village, and information on the employee contributions which will be required.
   (B)   The Board believes that providing IMRF pensions to village employees
is in the long-term best interests of the village. Current village employees
will be provided an incentive to stay with the village, providing the fine
services to residents as they have in the past, and when it is necessary to
replace an employee, the village will attract a more qualified pool of
applicants because of the pension system
   (C)   On or before December 1, 2020, the President and Treasurer are
authorized to execute all documents necessary to allow for village
participation in IMRF and thereafter to make all contributions to IMRF as may
be required by IMRF for participation of village employees in the Fund, and the
Treasurer is also authorized to make deductions from employees payroll to be
forwarded to IMRF. The officers of the village are authorized to execute all
documents necessary to accomplish this goal and are authorized to take all
other measures to accomplish this goal.
(Ord. 20-11-01, passed 11-24-2020)
§ 31.14 PAID LEAVE FOR WORKERS.
   Pursuant to Section 15(p) of the Paid Leave for Workers Act, the village
hereby adopts its current paid leave policy for all village employees as set
forth in this code, the Employee Handbook, Annual Salary Ordinance, and any
collective bargaining agreements to which the village is a party and all other
binding legislative actions governing paid leave adopted by the President and
Board of Trustees of the village, as the same may be amended from time to time.
However, in no event shall the village, as an employer, provide less than one
day of paid leave per year to any village employee.
(Ord. 23-12-02, passed 12-19-2023)
OFFICERS
§ 31.25 OFFICERS DELINEATED.
   The elective officers of the village shall be a President of the Board of
Trustees and six Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 31.25) (Res. 87-1-1, passed 1-12-1987)
§ 31.26 TERM OF OFFICE.
   All officers shall be elected for four-year terms.
(Prior Code, § 31.26)
§ 31.27 TIME OF ELECTION.
   The President and three Trustees shall be elected on alternate years from
the other three Trustees. All shall serve until his, her or their successor is
elected and qualified as provided by village ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 31.27) (Ord. 03-04-02, passed 4-14-2003)
Cross-reference:
   Elections, see
Chapter 36
§ 31.28 QUALIFICATIONS.
   The elected officers shall be citizens of the United States, shall be
qualified electors and shall reside within the village limits.
(Prior Code, § 31.28)
§ 31.29 VILLAGE CLERK.
   (A)   Duties. The duties of the Village Clerk include the following.
      (1)   Minutes. The Village Clerk shall keep complete minutes and records
of all meetings of the Board of Trustees.
      (2)   Signatures. The Clerk shall seal and attest all contracts of the
village, all its licenses, permits and such other documents as the Board of
Trustees shall designate.
      (3)   Money collected. The Clerk shall turn over all money collected by
him or her on behalf of the village to the Treasurer promptly on receipt of the
same, and with such money, he or she shall give a statement of its source.
      (4)   Accounts. The Clerk shall keep accounts showing all money received
by him or her on behalf of the village and the source and disposition thereof
and such other accounts as may be required of him or her by either statute or
ordinance.
      (5)   Records. The Clerk shall keep a complete register of all licenses
and permits issued and the payments thereon, a record of all employees, of work
done by contract and such other records as the Board of Trustees shall
designate.
      (6)   Documents. The Clerk shall be the custodian of all documents
belonging to the village and shall especially keep all ordinances passed by the
Board of Trustees.
      (7)   Indexes. The Clerk shall keep and maintain a proper index to all
ordinances and records kept by him or her, so that ready access thereto and use
thereof may be had.
      (8)   Ordinances. The Clerk shall publish, record and certify ordinances
in the manner required by special ordinances and by statute.
      (9)   Village Collector. The Clerk shall act as Village Collector.
      (10)   Other duties. The Clerk shall have such other and additional
duties as the Board of Trustees may designate.
   (B)   Bond. The Clerk, before entering upon the duties of that office, shall
execute a bond in such amount as the Trustees shall designate.
   (C)   Compensation. The compensation of the appointive Clerk shall be as
fixed by the corporate authorities.
(Prior Code, § 31.29) (Ord. 75-2, passed 2-10-1975; Ord. 81-3, passed 3-9-1981;
Res. 87-1-1, passed 1-12-1987)
EXPENSE REIMBURSEMENT
§ 31.40 RECITALS INCORPORATED.
   (A)   Recitals.
      (1)   The Illinois General Assembly has recently enacted Public Act 99-
0604, known as the “Local Government Travel Expense Control Act”, being 50 ILCS
150/1 et seq., which Act becomes effective on January 1, 2017.
      (2)   Pursuant to the Act, non-home rule units of local government are
required to establish regulations with respect to allowable travel, meal and
lodging expenses.
   (B)   Incorporation. The recitals set forth in division (A) above shall be
and are hereby incorporated as findings of fact as if said recitals were fully
set forth herein.
(Ord. 16-12-02, passed 12-13-2016)
§ 31.41 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ENTERTAINMENT. Includes, but is not limited to, shows, amusements, theaters,
circuses, sporting events or any other place of public or private entertainment
or amusement unless ancillary to the purpose of the program or event.
   PUBLIC BUSINESS. Expenses incurred in the performance of a public purpose
which is required or useful for the benefit of the village to carry out the
responsibilities of village business.
   TRAVEL. Any expenditure directly incidental to official travel by employees
and officers of the village or by wards or charges of the village involving
reimbursement to travelers or direct payment to private agencies providing
transportation or related services.
(Ord. 16-12-02, passed 12-13-2016)
§ 31.42 REIMBURSEMENTS ALLOWED.
   The village shall only reimburse the following types of travel, meal and
lodging expenses incurred by its employees and officers up to the following
maximum allowable amounts:
   (A)   One hundred fifty percent of published federal GSA allowable per diem
rates; and
   (B)   Alcohol is specifically excluded from reimbursement.
(Ord. 16-12-02, passed 12-13-2016)
§ 31.43 REIMBURSEMENT FORM REQUIRED.
   No reimbursement of travel, meal or lodging expenses incurred by a village
employee or officer shall be authorized unless the “Travel, Meal and Lodging
Expense Reimbursement Request Form”, attached to the ordinance incorporated
herein, has been submitted and approved. All documents and information
submitted with the form shall be subject to disclosure under the Freedom of
Information Act (5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.).
(Ord. 16-12-02, passed 12-13-2016)
§ 31.44 APPROVAL.
   (A)   Expenses for travel, meals and lodging of:
      (1)   Any officer or employee that exceeds the maximum reimbursement
allowed under the regulations adopted under §
31.42; or
      (2)   Any member of the corporate authorities of the village may only be
approved by roll call vote at an open meeting of the corporate authorities of
the village.
   (B)   However, in the event of an emergency or other extraordinary
circumstances, the corporate authorities may approve more than the maximum
allowable expenses set forth above.
(Ord. 16-12-02, passed 12-13-2016)
§ 31.45 ENTERTAINMENT ACTIVITIES NOT REIMBURSED.
   The village shall not reimburse any elected official, employee or officer
for any activities which would be considered entertainment. Activities which
would otherwise be considered entertainment, but which are excluded from the
prohibition on reimbursement due to being ancillary to the purpose of the
program or event, may be reimbursed in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 16-12-02, passed 12-13-2016)
CHAPTER 32: LEGISLATION
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Recording of ordinances
   
32.02   Clerk may correct errors
   
32.03   Clerk shall publish
   
32.04   Clerk shall certify passage
   
32.05   Repeal shall not affect suits already begun
   
32.06   May elect when prosecuting
Amendments to Code
   
32.20   Reference to code
   
32.21   Recording amendments
   
32.22   Language
   
32.23   Repeal
   
32.24   Subject to general penalty
   
32.25   Supplementation of code
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 RECORDING OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the Village President and the Village Board of
Trustees shall be deposited in the office of the Village Clerk and shall be
duly recorded by the Village Clerk in the record book of ordinances and
appropriately be indexed by their titles or subjects.
(Prior Code, § 32.01)
§ 32.02 CLERK MAY CORRECT ERRORS.
   The Village Clerk shall file and carefully preserve the originals of all
ordinances deposited in his or her office, and he or she may correct any errors
in the numbering of any chapter, subchapter, division or section of any
ordinance by inserting the proper numbers, and he or she may omit words
inserted or supplied with brackets, words omitted by clerical mistake or
incorrect spelling of words.
(Prior Code, § 32.02)
§ 32.03 CLERK SHALL PUBLISH.
   The Village Clerk shall cause every ordinance of the President and Board of
Trustees making an appropriation, imposing any fine, penalty or forfeiture to
be published at least in a newspaper published in the village within one month
after the passage thereof, and in case no newspaper is published in the
village, then he or she shall cause the ordinance to be posted as required by
law; provided that nothing in this section shall be deemed to apply to any
ordinance included in any revision or complication that may be published in
book or pamphlet form, that may be published by authority of the President and
Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 32.03)
§ 32.04 CLERK SHALL CERTIFY PASSAGE.
   The Village Clerk shall make a foot record of each ordinance recorded as
aforesaid, and the memorandum of the date of its passage and the publication of
the ordinances, when required to be published, which record or memorandum or a
certified copy thereof shall be prima facie evidence of the passage and legal
passage of said ordinance for all purposes whatsoever.
(Prior Code, § 32.04)
§ 32.05 REPEAL SHALL NOT AFFECT SUITS ALREADY BEGUN.
   No suit, proceeding, penalty, forfeiture, debt, writ or other liability
whatsoever instituted, incurred, created, given or provided by or under any
ordinance of the village prior to its repeal or modification shall be annulled,
released, destroyed or in any way affected by the passage of such repealing or
modifying ordinance, but the same may be prosecuted, recovered, completed and
enjoyed as fully in all respects as if such ordinances or any part thereof
shall have remained in full force unless otherwise expressly provided in the
ordinance making such repeal.
(Prior Code, § 32.05)
§ 32.06 MAY ELECT WHEN PROSECUTING.
   When any fine or penalty shall have been provided by the different
ordinances or by the different sections of ordinances or code of the village
for the same offense, the officer or person prosecuting the same may elect
under which ordinance or section of the code to prosecute and not more than one
recovery shall be had against the same person for the same offense.
(Prior Code, § 32.06)
AMENDMENTS TO CODE
§ 32.20 REFERENCE TO CODE.
   Any additions or amendments to this code, when passed in such form as to
indicate the intention of the Board to make the same part of this code, shall
be deemed to be incorporated in this code so that a reference to the village
code shall be understood to include them.
(Prior Code, § 32.20)
§ 32.21 RECORDING AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Village Clerk to keep at least one copy of
the village code, which he or she shall mark in the following manner: whenever
an ordinance which amends or makes an addition to the code is passed and
approved, he or she shall note on the margin that such amendment has been made
with a reference to the place in the amendment book, hereinafter described
where the amendment may be found; and in case of an addition, he or she shall
mark, in the appropriate place, a notation that such addition has been made,
with a reference to the aforementioned amendment book.
   (B)   The Clerk shall also keep a separate book containing every amendment
or addition to this code, with a reference on each copy of such amendment or
addition as to the place in the record of ordinances where the original
ordinance may be found.
   (C)   The above mentioned records shall be kept in addition to the record of
ordinances which the Clerk is required to keep by statute.
(Prior Code, § 32.21)
§ 32.22 LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Amendments to any of the provisions of this code should be made by
amending such provisions by specific reference to the section of this code in
substantially the following language: “That section _____ of this Code of the
Village of Southern View, Illinois, is hereby amended to read as follows: (Set
out new provisions in full)”.
   (B)   In lieu of division (A) above, when the Village Board desires to enact
an ordinance of a general and permanent nature embracing a subject not
previously existing in the code, which the Board desires to incorporate into
the code, a provision in substantially the following language may be made part
of such ordinance: “It is the intention of the Village Board, and it is hereby
ordained, that the provisions of this ordinance shall become and be made part
of the Code of the Village of Southern View, Illinois, and the sections of this
ordinance may be renumbered to accomplish such intention”.
(Prior Code, § 32.22)
§ 32.23 REPEAL.
   All sections, divisions, chapters or other provisions of this code desired
to be repealed should be specifically repealed by section number, division
number, chapter or other number, as the case may be.
(Prior Code, § 32.23)
§ 32.24 SUBJECT TO GENERAL PENALTY.
   In case of the amendment by the Village Board of any section of this code
for which a penalty is not provided, the general penalty, as provided in §
10.99, shall apply to the section as amended, or in case such amendment
contains provisions for which a penalty other than the aforementioned general
penalty is provided in another section in the same chapter, the penalty so
provided in such other section shall be held to relate to the section so
amended unless such penalty is specifically repealed therein.
(Prior Code, § 32.24)
§ 32.25 SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE.
   By contract or by village personnel, supplements to this code shall be
prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 32.25)
CHAPTER 33: VILLAGE ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Board of Local Improvements
   
33.02   Departments of village government
Code Hearing Department
   
33.15   Definitions
   
33.16   Code Hearing Department established
   
33.17   Hearing procedure not exclusive
   
33.18   Hearing Officer
   
33.19   Instituting code hearing proceedings
   
33.20   Subpoenas; defaults
   
33.21   Continuances; representation at code hearings
   
33.22   Hearing; evidence
   
33.23   Findings, decision and order
   
33.24   Review under administrative review law
   
33.25   Judgment on findings, decision and order
   
33.26   Adoption by reference of code hearing provisions of municipal code
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 BOARD OF LOCAL IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   There is established the Board of Local Improvements for the village,
which shall consist of the President and all of the members of the Board of
Trustees.
   (B)   The Board of Local Improvements shall have the powers and perform the
duties assigned to it by statute or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 33.01) (Ord. 63-6, passed 12-9-1963; Ord. 07-03-03, passed 3-12-
2007)
§ 33.02 DEPARTMENTS OF VILLAGE GOVERNMENT.
   (A)   The several departments of the village governmental shall be:
      (1)   Department of Accounts and Finance;
      (2)   Department of Health and Safety;
      (3)   Department of Streets and Alleys;
      (4)   Department of Public Property and Fire Prevention;
      (5)   Department of Public Recreation and Relations; and
      (6)   Department of Building and Building Inspection.
   (B)   (1)   A member of the Village Board of Trustees shall be responsible
for each department.
      (2)   Superintendents shall be as assigned from time to time.
   (C)   (1)   Department heads shall be responsible for any and all business
and activities which may come under their department jurisdiction.
      (2)   All department heads are directly responsible to the Village
President.
(Ord. 40-14, passed 10-3-1940)
CODE HEARING DEPARTMENT
§ 33.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CODE. Any and all ordinances of the village except for:
      (1)   Building code violations that must be adjudicated, pursuant 65 ILCS
5/11-31.1 et seq., pertaining to demolition of unsafe buildings; and
      (2)   Any offense under the Illinois Vehicle Code or a similar offense
that is a traffic regulation governing the movement of vehicles and except for
any reportable offense under 625 ILCS 5/6-204.
(Ord. 19-07-001, passed 7-9-2019)
§ 33.16 CODE HEARING DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   The village hereby establishes a Code Hearing Department as a separate and
independent agency in the municipal government. The function of the Hearing
Department is to expedite the prosecution and correction of code violations in
the manner set forth in this subchapter. The Code Hearing Department may
adjudicate any violation of the code. The Code Hearing Department shall be
supervised by the Village President, and staff assistance shall be given by the
Office Manager.
(Ord. 19-07-001, passed 7-9-2019)
§ 33.17 HEARING PROCEDURE NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   This subchapter does not preclude the village from using other methods to
enforce the provisions of its code.
(Ord. 19-07-001, passed 7-9-2019)
§ 33.18 HEARING OFFICER.
   (A)   The position of hearing officer is hereby created. The Hearing Officer
shall be appointed by the Village President with the advice and consent of the
Village Board and shall serve at the pleasure of the Village President. The
Hearing Officer shall be compensated at an hourly rate, as set from time to
time, plus expenses, and shall be an independent contractor.
   (B)   The Hearing Officer shall be an attorney licensed to practice law in
the state for at least three years. Prior to conducting proceedings under this
subchapter, the Hearing Officer shall successfully complete a formal training
program, as prescribed by 65 ILCS 5/1-2.2-1.
   (C)   The Hearing Officer shall have the duty to:
      (1)   Preside at an administrative hearing called to determine whether or
not a code violation exists;
      (2)   Hear testimony and accept evidence from all interested parties
relevant to the existence of a code violation;
      (3)   Preserve and authenticate the transcript, if any, and record of the
hearing and all exhibits and evidence introduced at the hearing; and
      (4)   Issue and sign a written finding, decision and order stating
whether a code violation exists.
(Ord. 19-07-001, passed 7-9-2019)
§ 33.19 INSTITUTING CODE HEARING PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   When a police officer or other individual authorized to issue a code
violation finds a code violation to exist, he or she shall note the violation
on a multiple copy violation notice and report form that indicates:
      (1)   The name and address of the defendant;
      (2)   The type and nature of the violation;
      (3)   The date and time the violation was observed; and
      (4)   The names of witnesses to the violation.
   (B)   The violation report form shall be forwarded to the Code Hearing
Department where a docket number shall be stamped on all copies of the report
and a hearing date shall be noted in the blank spaces provided for that purpose
on the form. The hearing date shall not be less than 30 nor more than 40 days
after the violation is reported.
   (C)   One copy of the violation report form shall be maintained in the files
of the Code Hearing Department and shall be part of the record of hearing, one
copy of the report form shall be returned to the individual representing the
municipality in the case so that he or she may prepare evidence of the code
violation for presentation at the hearing on the date indicated, and one copy
of the report form shall be served by first class mail to the defendant along
with a summons commanding the defendant to appear at the hearing. If the
violation report form requires the respondent to answer within a certain amount
of time, the village shall reply to the answer within the same amount of time
afforded to the respondent.
(Ord. 19-07-001, passed 7-9-2019)
§ 33.20 SUBPOENAS; DEFAULTS.
   At any time prior to the hearing date, the Hearing Officer may, at the
request of either party, direct witnesses to appear and give testimony at the
hearing. If, on the date set for hearing, the defendant or his or her attorney
fails to appear, the Hearing Officer may find the defendant in default and
shall proceed with the hearing and accept evidence relevant to the existence of
a code violation.
(Ord. 19-07-001, passed 7-9-2019)
§ 33.21 CONTINUANCES; REPRESENTATION AT CODE HEARINGS.
   No continuances shall be authorized by the Hearing Officer in proceedings
under this subchapter, except in cases where a continuance is absolutely
necessary to protect the rights of the defendant. Lack of preparation shall not
be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance authorized by a Hearing Officer
under this subchapter shall not exceed 25 days. The case for the municipality
may be presented by an attorney designated by the village. The case for the
defendant may be presented by the defendant, or his or her attorney.
Corporations, limited liability companies and other legal persons other than
natural persons shall be represented by an attorney.
(Ord. 19-07-001, passed 7-9-2019)
§ 33.22 HEARING; EVIDENCE.
   At the hearing, the Hearing Officer shall preside, shall hear testimony and
shall accept any evidence relevant to the existence or non-existence of a code
violation. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall not apply to hearings authorized by this subchapter. The proceedings
shall be electronically recorded, and any party to the proceedings may, at his,
her or its discretion, have the proceedings transcribed by a court reporter.
(Ord. 19-07-001, passed 7-9-2019)
§ 33.23 FINDINGS, DECISION AND ORDER.
   (A)   At the conclusion of the hearing, the Hearing Officer shall make a
determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the hearing as to
whether or not a code violation exists. The determination shall be in writing
and shall be designated as findings, decision and order.
   (B)   The findings, decision and order shall include:
      (1)   The hearing officer’s findings of fact;
      (2)   A decision of whether or not a code violation exists based upon the
findings of fact; and
      (3)   An order that states the sanction or dismisses the case if a
violation is not proved.
   (C)   A monetary sanction for a violation under this subchapter shall not
exceed $750 or the amount specified in the relevant section of this code
governing the offense, whichever is the lesser. A copy of the findings,
decision and order shall be served on the defendant within five days after it
is issued. Service shall be in the same manner that the report form and summons
are served under §
33.19. Payment of any penalty or fine and the disposition of fine money shall
be by payment to the Village Clerk or to the village office, which is
authorized to receive fine money on behalf of the Village Clerk.
(Ord. 19-07-001, passed 7-9-2019)
§ 33.24 REVIEW UNDER ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW LAW.
   The findings, decision and order of the Hearing Officer shall be subject to
review in the circuit court of the county in which the municipality is located.
The provisions of the Administrative Review Law, and the rules adopted pursuant
thereto, shall apply to and govern every action for the judicial review of the
findings, decision and order of a hearing officer under this subchapter.
(Ord. 19-07-001, passed 7-9-2019)
§ 33.25 JUDGMENT ON FINDINGS, DECISION AND ORDER.
   (A)   Any fine, other sanction or costs imposed, or part of any fine, other
sanction or costs imposed, remaining unpaid after the exhaustion of, or the
failure to exhaust, judicial review procedures under the Administrative Review
Law, being 735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq., shall be a debt due and owed the
municipality and, as such, may be collected in accordance with applicable law.
   (B)   (1)   After expiration of the period within which judicial review
under the Administrative Review Law may be sought for a final determination of
the code violation, the village may commence a proceeding in the Circuit Court
of the county for purpose of obtaining a judgment on the findings, decision and
order. The village may consolidate multiple findings, decisions and orders
against a person in such a proceeding. Upon commencement of the action, the
village shall file a certified copy of the findings, decision and order, which
shall be accompanied by a certification that recites facts sufficient to show
that the findings, decision and order was issued in accordance with this
subchapter and the applicable provision of this code. Service of the summons
and a copy of the petition may be by any method provided for by 735 ILCS 5/2-
203 or by certified mail, return receipt requested; provided that the total
amount of fines, other sanctions and costs imposed by the findings, decision
and order does not exceed $2,500.
      (2)   If the court is satisfied that the findings, decision and order was
entered in accordance with the requirements of this subchapter and the
applicable provision of the code and that the defendant had an opportunity for
a hearing under this subchapter and for judicial review as provided in this
subchapter.
         (a)   The court shall render judgment in favor of the village and
against the defendant for the amount indicated in the findings, decision and
order, plus costs. The judgment shall have the same effect and may be enforced
in the same manner as other judgments for the recovery of money.
         (b)   The court may also issue any other orders and injunctions that
are requested by the municipality to enforce the order of the hearing officer
to correct a code violation.
(Ord. 19-07-001, passed 7-9-2019)
§ 33.26 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE OF CODE HEARING PROVISIONS OF MUNICIPAL CODE.
   Division 2.2 of Article 1 of the Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5/1-2.2-
1 et seq. is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference. In the event of a
conflict between Division 2.2 and this subchapter, Division 2.2 shall control.
(Ord. 19-07-001, passed 7-9-2019)
CHAPTER 34: PUBLIC SAFETY
Section
Police Department
   
34.01   Establishment and purpose
   
34.02   Organization
   
34.03   Appointments
   
34.04   Oath
   
34.05   Exemption from jury duty
   
34.06   Qualifications
   
34.07   Duties of police officers
   
34.08   Duties of Police Chief
   
34.09   Qualifications for Police Chief
   
34.10   Duties of the Police Trustee
   
34.11   Salaries
   
34.12   Agreement with county for police protection
   
34.13   Police Department Policy and Procedure Manual
   
34.14   Police Code adopted
   
34.15   Towing procedures
   
34.16   Rules, regulations adopted
   
34.17   Ordinance violation notice
   
34.18   Part-time police officers
   
Appendix A: Receipt of Policy and Procedure Manual Form
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 34.01 ESTABLISHMENT AND PURPOSE.
   A police department is established to provide for the preservation of the
peace and enforcement of all municipal ordinances and applicable state and
federal statutes within the corporate limits of this municipality.
(Prior Code, § 33.15) (Ord. 07-03-03, passed 3-12-2007)
§ 34.02 ORGANIZATION.
   The municipal Police Department shall consist of a Police Trustee, who shall
head the Department; a Police Chief; and such other officers as may be provided
for, from time to time, by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 33.16) (Ord. 07-03-03, passed 3-12-2007)
§ 34.03 APPOINTMENTS.
   (A)   The Police Trustee shall be appointed from the Board of Trustees by
the President with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   The Police Chief and officers of this municipality shall be appointed
by the President with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 33.17) (Ord. 07-03-03, passed 3-12-2007)
§ 34.04 OATH.
   Before entering upon the duties of his or her office, every member of the
Police Department shall subscribe to the oath for municipal officers.
(Prior Code, § 33.18) (Ord. 07-03-03, passed 3-12-2007)
§ 34.05 EXEMPTION FROM JURY DUTY.
   Every police officer employed by this municipality is no longer exempt from
jury duty.
(Prior Code, § 33.19) (Ord. 07-03-03, passed 3-12-2007)
§ 34.06 QUALIFICATIONS.
   Every police officer of this municipality shall meet the following
qualifications:
   (A)   He or she shall be at least 21 years of age;
   (B)   Shall possess a high school diploma and be able to produce evidence of
their ability to communicate in the English language in both the spoken and
written word;
   (C)   Shall be physically and psychologically healthy and be willing to
submit to a physical and psychological evaluation;
   (D)   Shall be of good character and shall not have been convicted of a
felony or a crime involving moral turpitude;
   (E)   Shall have such qualifications as required by state law or by the
Board of Trustees;
   (F)   Shall have, as a full-time officer, successfully completed the State
Law Enforcement Training Standards Board initial minimum basic training
requirements within six months of his or her employment date;
   (G)   Shall have, as a part-time officer, successfully completed the State
Law Enforcement Training Standards Board initial minimum part-time training
requirements within 18 months of his or her employment date; and
   (H)   Part-time police shall meet the following qualifications.
      (1)   Employment. The village may employ part-time police officers, from
time to time, as they deem necessary.
      (2)   Duties. A part-time police officer shall have all the
responsibilities of a full-time police officer and such specific duties as
delineated in the general orders of the Village Police Department, but the
number of hours a part-time officer may work within a calendar year is
restricted. Part-time police officers shall not be assigned to supervise or
direct full-time police officers. Part-time police officers shall be trained in
accordance with the Illinois Police Training Act (50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.) and
the rules and requirements of the ILETSB.
      (3)   Hiring standards. Any person employed as a part-time police officer
must meet the following standards:
         (a)   Be of good moral character, of temperate habits, of sound health
and physically and mentally able to perform assigned duties;
         (b)   Be at least 21 years of age;
         (c)   Pass a medical examination;
         (d)   Possess a high school diploma or GED certificate;
         (e)   Possess a valid state driver’s license;
         (f)   Possess no prior felony convictions; and
         (g)   Any individual who has served in the United States military must
have been honorably discharged.
      (4)   Discipline. Part-time officers shall be under the disciplinary
jurisdiction of the Chief of Police. Part-time police officers serve at the
discretion of the village authorities, shall not have any property rights in
said employment and may be removed by the village authorities at any time.
Part-time police officers shall comply with all applicable rules and general
orders issued by the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 33.20) (Ord. 07-03-03, passed 3-12-2007; Ord. 14-08-04, passed
8-26-2014)
§ 34.07 DUTIES OF POLICE OFFICERS.
   Every police officer of this municipality is authorized and obliged to
perform the following duties:
   (A)   To serve and execute all warrants for violation of municipal
ordinances or the State Criminal Code (720 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.);
   (B)   To arrest, or cause to be arrested, all persons who break the peace or
are found violating any municipal ordinance or any state or federal criminal
law;
   (C)   If necessary, to transport arrested persons to the county jail;
   (D)   To direct, control and regulate vehicular and pedestrian traffic in a
manner consistent with the provisions of state law and the municipal traffic
ordinances;
   (E)   To remove any unattended, abandoned or disabled vehicle from the
public roadways of this municipality if such vehicle is obstructing normal
traffic flow; and
   (F)   To exercise all other powers as conservators of the peace that the
Board of Trustees may prescribe.
(Prior Code, § 33.21) (Ord. 07-03-03, passed 3-12-2007)
§ 34.08 DUTIES OF POLICE CHIEF.
   (A)   Position purpose. The position of Chief of Police is established for
the purpose of delegating the administrative function to a sworn officer who
shall be responsible for the daily administration and operations of the Village
Police Department.
   (B)   Compensation. The Chief of Police shall be compensated as established
by the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Appointment. The Police Trustee shall submit the name of the officer
to be appointed to the position of Chief of Police to the Village Board for
nomination. The Village President, with majority consent of the Board, shall
appoint the officer to the position of Chief of Police. The Chief of Police is
an at-will employee of the village.
   (D)   Probation. The Chief of Police shall serve a probationary period of
six months. The Chief of Police successfully completing the probationary period
shall then be confirmed as the Chief of Police.
   (E)   Reporting responsibility. The Chief of Police shall report directly to
the Police Trustee, or his or her designee, in the event of the Police
Trustee’s absence.
   (F)   Duties of Police Chief. The Police Chief, under the direction of the
Police Trustee, of this municipality shall have the following powers and
duties:
      (1)   He or she shall keep the Police Trustee informed of all activities
of the police officers, including, but not limited to, use of firearms,
personnel injuries, automobile accidents, disciplinary problems, crimes
occurring within the village and equipment breakdowns and repairs that require
expenditure approval by the Board of Trustees;
      (2)   (a)   Submit a monthly police activity report to the Village Board.
         (b)   The activity report shall include, but not be limited to:
            1.   Activity within the village;
            2.   Assistance to the county (and other police agencies);
            3.   Traffic enforcement activity;
            4.   Neighborhood watch contacts;
            5.   Number of vacation checks;
            6.   Number of tavern checks; and/or
            7.   Number of miles driven.
      (3)   He or she shall conduct a monthly meeting with the police officers
to develop a monthly shift schedule for all shifts designated by the Police
Trustee. He or she shall establish the work schedules of all municipal police
officers. He or she shall be in command of all municipal police officers, and
shall see that discipline and conduct of every officer conforms to the policies
and procedures of the manual approved by the Village Board;
      (4)   Shall make rules consistent with the provisions of applicable
municipal ordinances and state laws as needed for the detailed operation of the
Police Department, subject to the approval of the Police Trustee. Such rules
shall cover off-duty and on-duty conduct of officers, the wearing and care of
uniforms, the use and practice with side arms and other police weapons, the use
of police radio and other communications and such other matters as he or she
determines to be necessary for the operation of the department, as specified in
the Southern View Policy and Procedure Manual, as approved by the Village
Board;
      (5)   Shall perform the duties of a police officer, as necessary, and
shall coordinate shift changes to ensure that the shifts are filled on a daily
basis and officers are working the full duration of their assigned shifts;
      (6)   Shall monitor daily police reports to ensure that reports are
complete, accurate, available to all police officers for review and that follow
up action is taken by the assigned officer and/or the oncoming shift officer;
      (7)   Shall serve as the court liaison officer to ensure that officers
report for scheduled court appearances, obtain police reports and other
correspondence from county and village police offices;
      (8)   Shall ensure that all officers maintain mandated range
qualifications and ensure that all officers stay current with the changing
requirements of the Law Enforcement Training and Standards Board of the state;
      (9)   Shall maintain a current equipment inventory and ensure that
officers maintain professional appearances. This inventory shall include all
police equipment within the Department and ensure the equipment is in good,
working condition before tour of duty;
      (10)   Shall be responsible for the care, maintenance and use of all
vehicles and equipment for the Department and make an annual report of the
Police Department inventory;
      (11)   Shall coordinate with the Village Clerk all responses to police
correspondence, all shift schedules, monthly police reports and any additions
to police officers’ personnel files;
      (12)   Shall cause all nuisances to be abated;
      (13)   Shall coordinate requests for the participation of the Village
Police Department to represent the village in community-wide parades and
programs. This responsibility includes representation of the village police at
funerals and ceremonies approved by the Police Trustee; and
      (14)   Shall work and coordinate with the Neighborhood Watch Chairperson
on any activities planned by the Neighborhood Watch Committee in cooperation
with the Police Committee.
(Prior Code, § 33.22) (Ord. 07-03-03, passed 3-12-2007)
§ 34.09 QUALIFICATIONS FOR POLICE CHIEF.
   It is highly recommended that the following criteria be followed when the
need to hire a new Chief of Police arises, that he or she is:
   (A)   (1)   A law enforcement professional with 20 or more years experience,
having served a significant portion of the time in executive leadership with
preference given to a graduate of the FBI National Academy in Quantico,
Virginia; or
      (2)   As an alternate consideration a college graduate with a degree in
criminal justice with a minimum of ten to 15 years of law enforcement
experience with a significant portion of the time spent in executive
leadership.
   (B)   The candidate considered should be someone who comes highly
recommended with good letters of recommendations from past employers;
   (C)   Whose qualities stand out after a rigorous interview and background
check; and
   (D)   A person who is as apolitical as possible.
(Prior Code, § 33.23) (Ord. 07-03-03, passed 3-12-2007)
§ 34.10 DUTIES OF THE POLICE TRUSTEE.
   The Police Trustee of this municipality shall have the following powers and
duties:
   (A)   He or she shall aid municipal officers in the execution of their
official duties upon request;
   (B)   He or she shall make a quarterly report to the Board of Trustees on
the state of the Police Department;
   (C)   He or she shall be in command of all municipal police officers and
shall see that the discipline and conduct of every officer conforms to the
rules of the Department;
   (D)   He or she shall make rules consistent with the provisions of
applicable municipal ordinances and state laws as needed for the detailed
operation of the Police Department, subject to the approval of the Board of
Trustees. Such rules shall cover off-duty and on-duty conduct of officers, the
wearing and care of uniforms, the use and practice with side arms and other
police weapons, the use of police radio and other communications and such other
matters as he or she determines to be necessary for the operation of the
Department, according to the Village Police Department Policy and Procedure
Manual; and
   (E)   He or she shall ensure that the Chief of Police is faithfully
discharging the duties assigned to him or her, as specified in §
34.08, and consistent with the rules and regulations of the Village Police
Department and such other instructions as he or she deems necessary for the
orderly operation of the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 33.24) (Ord. 07-03-03, passed 3-12-2007)
§ 34.11 SALARIES.
   Police officers of this municipality shall be compensated in an amount to be
determined, from time to time, as necessary by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 33.25) (Ord. 07-03-03, passed 3-12-2007)
§ 34.12 AGREEMENT WITH COUNTY FOR POLICE PROTECTION.
   The Village President, with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees,
may enter into an agreement with the county law enforcement officials and Board
of Trustees to provide police protection when village police officers are not
on duty.
(Prior Code, § 33.26) (Ord. 07-03-03, passed 3-12-2007)
§ 34.13 POLICE DEPARTMENT POLICY AND PROCEDURE MANUAL.
   (A)   Police officers employed by the village will be provided a
Departmental Policy and Procedure Manual, outlining procedures necessary to
increase officer safety, standardize police operations and provide direction
for the officer performing their assigned duties. Police officers will be
responsible for familiarizing themselves with the Departmental Policy and
Procedure Manual and must sign a receipt, in the form in Appendix A of this
chapter, acknowledging that the police officer received said manual.
   (B)   As needed, changes to the Policy and Procedure Manual may be made with
the approval of the Police Trustee in concert with the Police Committee and
approved by the Village Board of Trustees.
   (C)   In addition, police officers will be provided with a Village
Employment Manual. Said officers shall sign a receipt certifying they have
received this manual and are required to become familiar with its content.
(Prior Code, § 33.27) (Ord. 07-03-03, passed 3-12-2007)
§ 34.14 POLICE CODE ADOPTED.
   The Village Police Department is established to protect the lives and
property of the citizens of the village. One of the primary responsibilities of
the police officers is to patrol the village streets effectively and shall only
leave the environs of the village when called upon by the County Sheriff’s
office to do so.
(Prior Code, § 33.28) (Ord. 07-03-03, passed 3-12-2007)
§ 34.15 TOWING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   It is the policy of this Department that no cars will be towed, except
under the following circumstances:
      (1)   If the vehicle is a road hazard requiring immediate attention where
a reasonable attempt has been made to contact the registered owner;
      (2)   If the vehicle is positioned or located in such a manner as to
restrict or hinder authorized emergency personnel in the performance of their
duties;
      (3)   If the vehicle is the instrumentality or contains the evidence of a
criminal offense, and the towing is done to protect or preserve evidence;
      (4)   If the vehicle does not conform to legal guidelines for usage on
public highways, as prescribed by the State Vehicle Code, being 625 ILCS 5,
where a citation is issued for the violation;
      (5)   If the vehicle meets statutory guidelines which describe the
removal of abandoned vehicles;
      (6)   If the driver of a disabled vehicle or its registered owner refuses
to accept responsibility for its safety or the safety of personal property
contained therein, the vehicle may be towed with the approval of the driver or
registered owner of the vehicle. If, however, the disabled vehicle is not
removed within the time limits prescribed by village ordinance, the officer may
remove said vehicle from the roadway; or
      (7)   If there is a valid court order authorizing the towing of a
specific vehicle.
   (B)   If a vehicle is properly parked and is not a road hazard, and if the
driver or registered owner of the vehicle accepts the responsibility for its
welfare, the vehicle should not be towed as long as it does not violate village
ordinances for abandoned, unlicensed or inoperable motor vehicles. Before
towing the vehicle, the officer will attempt to notify the registered owner of
intent to tow.
(Prior Code, § 33.29) (Ord. 07-03-03, passed 3-12-2007)
§ 34.16 RULES, REGULATIONS ADOPTED.
   The formal (written) rules and regulations of the Village Police Department,
dated July 9, 1984, are hereby approved and adopted.
(Prior Code, § 33.30) (Res. 84-7-2, passed 7-9-1984)
§ 34.17 ORDINANCE VIOLATION NOTICE.
   (A)   The issuance of an ordinance violation notice by a village police
officer, or by a village inspector, is hereby authorized when any police
officer or village inspector sees, or has reasonable cause to suspect, that a
person has violated any ordinance of the village, except any violation of the
motor vehicle code or traffic ordinance.
   (B)   The ordinance violation notice shall be in the form prescribed by the
Board of Trustees, and shall set forth the name and address of the person
suspected of violating the ordinance, as well as the time and place of the
violation, a description of the offense and the citation to the ordinance
violated. The notice shall provide for a date to correct the violation, and a
warning that failure to correct the violation will result in prosecution to
collect a fine.
(Prior Code, § 33.31) (Ord. 85-10-1, passed 10-14-1985)
§ 34.18 PART-TIME POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   Employment. The village may employ part-time police officers, from
time to time, as they deem necessary.
   (B)   Duties. A part-time police officer shall have all the responsibilities
of a full-time police officer and such specific duties as delineated in the
general orders of the Village Police Department, but the number of hours a
part-time officer may work within a calendar year is restricted. Part-time
police officers, except part-time police officers of the rank of lieutenant or
above, shall not be assigned to supervise or direct full-time police officers.
Part-time police officers shall be trained in accordance with the Illinois
Police Training Act (50 ILCS 705) and the rules and requirements of the ILETSB.
   (C)   Hiring standards. Any person employed as a part-time police officer
must meet the following standards:
      (1)   Be of good moral character, of temperate habits, of sound health
and physically and mentally able to perform assigned duties;
      (2)   Be at least 21 years of age;
      (3)   Pass a medical examination;
      (4)   Possess a high school diploma or GED certificate;
      (5)   Possess a valid state driver’s license;
      (6)   Possess no prior felony convictions; and
      (7)   Any individual who has served in the United States military must
have been honorably discharged.
   (D)   Discipline. Part-time officers shall be under the disciplinary
jurisdiction of the Chief of Police. Part-time police officers serve at the
discretion of the village authorities, shall not have any property rights in
said employment and may be removed by the village authorities at any time.
Part-time police officers shall comply with all applicable rules and general
orders issued by the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 33.32) (Ord. 15-06-01, passed 6-9-2015; Ord. 24-05-02, passed 5-
28-2024)
APPENDIX A: RECEIPT OF POLICY AND PROCEDURE MANUAL FORM
RECEIPT OF THE POLICE POLICY AND PROCEDURE MANUAL OF THE VILLAGE OF SOUTHERN
VIEW
   I,___________________, employed by the Village of Southern View Police
Department, received a copy of the Police Policy and Procedure Manual from the
Chief of Police on (date)______________. I understand it is my responsibility
to familiarize myself with the Southern View Policy and Procedure Manual.
_______________________________            _______________________________
Chief of Police                           Officer
(Prior Code, Ch. 33, App. A) (Ord. 07-03-03, passed 3-12-2007)
CHAPTER 35: POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
Section
   
35.01   Payment of garage expenses incurred in the maintenance of vehicles
   
35.02   Prevailing wage for workers engaged in construction of public works
   
35.03   Usage of village vehicles
   
35.04   National Incident Management System (NIMS)
   
35.05   State Gift Ban Act
   
35.06   Officials and Employees Ethics Act
   
35.07   Sexual harassment policy
   
35.08   Forfeited property
   
35.09   Surplus property program
   
35.10   Diversity, equity and inclusion policy
   
35.11   Nepotism policy
   
35.12   Capitalization policy
   
35.13   Compensatory time in personnel policy
   
35.14   Affirmation of shared principles
   
35.15   Natural hazards mitigation plan
§ 35.01 PAYMENT OF GARAGE EXPENSES INCURRED IN THE MAINTENANCE OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   The appropriate village officers are authorized to pay recurring
billings, as received and upon the officer’s determination of the propriety of
such billings resulting from the repair and maintenance of vehicles owned and
operated by the village.
   (B)   Payment of the described billings shall not exceed, in total, $750 per
month, and any billings in excess of said amount shall be specifically approved
by the Village Board at a regular or special meeting.
   (C)   Billings paid pursuant to this blanket authority shall, nevertheless,
remain fully subject to the review of the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 34.01) (Ord. 94-07-01, passed 7-11-1994)
§ 35.02 PREVAILING WAGE FOR WORKERS ENGAGED IN CONSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC WORKS.
   (A)   (1)   To the extent and as required by the Act, the general prevailing
rate of wages in this locality for laborers, mechanics and other workers
engaged in construction of public works coming under the jurisdiction of the
village is hereby ascertained to be the same as the prevailing rate of wages
for construction work in the county area effective July 1, 2003, as determined
by the Department of Labor, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit A to
the ordinance codified herein and incorporated herein by reference as if set
out in full herein.
      (2)   The definition of any terms appearing in this section which are
also used in the Act shall be the same as in the Act.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to apply the general
prevailing rate of wages as herein ascertained to any work or employment,
except public works construction of the village to the extent required by the
Act.
   (C)   The Village Clerk shall publicly post or keep available for inspection
by any interested party in the main office of the village this determination or
any revisions of the prevailing rate of wages. A copy of this determination or
of any revised determination of prevailing rate of wages then in effect shall
be attached to all contract specifications.
   (D)   The Village Clerk shall mail a copy of this determination to any
employer and to any association of employers and to any person or association
of employees who have filed their names and addresses, requesting copies of any
determination stating the particular rates and the particular class of workers
whose wages will be affected by the rates.
(Prior Code, § 34.02) (Ord. 03-07-02, passed 7-14-2003)
§ 35.03 USAGE OF VILLAGE VEHICLES.
   (A)   Village-owned vehicles are generally available, subject to the needs
of the village, for usage by village residents.
   (B)   Residents must reserve a vehicle by submitting a written request
therefor to the Village Clerk not less then three days in advance of the date
needed and pay a fee of $20 to the Village Clerk with the reservation request.
   (C)   If the vehicle reservation request is approved, the requested vehicle
will be driven at the close of a business day by a village employee to an
address within the village as directed by the resident who has reserved the
vehicle, parked and driven from that site by a village employee at the start of
the next business day.
   (D)   The village resident who has reserved the vehicle shall be responsible
for all damage, whether caused by negligence or an intentional act, to the
vehicle during the period the vehicle is at the site directed by the resident
and shall reimburse the village for all costs incurred as a result of such
damage.
   (E)   The village resident who has reserved the vehicle shall be responsible
for all fees incurred relating to the use of the village vehicle, including,
but not limited to, dump fees.
(Prior Code, § 34.03) (Ord. 01-07-04, passed 7-9-2001)
§ 35.04 NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (NIMS).
   The village hereby adopts the National Incident Management System (NIMS) as
its system of preparing for and responding to disaster incidents.
(Prior Code, § 34.04) (Ord. 10-11-02, passed 11-23-2010)
§ 35.05 STATE GIFT BAN ACT.
   (A)   Adoption of the Act.
      (1)   The State Gift Ban Act (5 ILCS 430/10-10 et seq.) is hereby adopted
as required by 5 ILCS 430/70-5.
      (2)   The solicitation or the acceptance of gifts prohibited to be
solicited or accepted under the Act is prohibited by any elected or appointed
official or any employee of the village.
   (B)   Ethics Officer. To the extent authorized by law and to the extent
required by 5 ILCS 430/20-23, the Village President shall appoint an adult
resident of the village to serve as the “Ethics Officer” of the village. The
Ethics Officer’s duties shall be as provided in 5 ILCS 430/20-23.
   (C)   State Legislative Ethics Commission; complaints. All complaints for
violations of the Act and this section shall be filed with the State
Legislative Ethics Commission (created by 5 ILCS 430/25).
   (D)   Future amendments to State Gift Ban Act. Any amendment to the State
Gift Ban Act (5 ILCS 430/10-10 et seq.) that becomes effective after the
passage of this section shall be incorporated into this section by reference
and shall be applicable to the solicitation and acceptance of gifts; however,
any amendment that makes its provisions optional for adoption by municipalities
shall not be incorporated into this section by reference without formal action
by the corporate authorities of the village.
   (E)   Future declaration of unconstitutionally of State Gift Ban Act.
      (1)   If the State Supreme Court declares the State Gift Ban Act (5 ILCS
430/10-10 et seq.) unconstitutional in its entirety, then this section shall be
repealed as of the date that the Supreme Court’s decision becomes final and not
subject to any further appeals or rehearings. This section shall be deemed
repealed without further action by the corporate authorities of the village if
the Act is found unconstitutional by the State Supreme Court.
      (2)   If the State Supreme Court declares part of the State Gift Ban Act
(5 ILCS 430/10- 10 et seq.) unconstitutional, but upholds the constitutionality
of the remainder of the Act or does not address the remainder of the Act, then
the remainder of the Act, as adopted by this section, shall remain in full
force and effect; however, that part of this section relating to the part of
the Act found unconstitutional shall be deemed repealed without further action
by the corporate authorities of the village.
(Prior Code, § 34.05) (Ord. 99-06-02, passed 6-14-1999)
§ 35.06 OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES ETHICS ACT.
   (A)   The regulations of §§ 5-15 (5 ILCS 430/5 through 15) and Article 10 (5
ILCS 430/10-10 through 10-40) of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act,
5 ILCS 430/1-1 et seq. (hereinafter referred to as the “Act” in this section)
are hereby adopted by reference and made applicable to the officers and
employees of the village to the extent required by 5 ILCS 430/70-5.
   (B)   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited or
accepted under the Act, by any officer or any employee of the village, is
hereby prohibited.
   (C)   The offering or making of gifts prohibited to be offered or made to an
officer or employee of the village under the Act is hereby prohibited.
   (D)   The participation in political activities prohibited under the Act, by
any officer or employee of the village, is hereby prohibited.
   (E)   For purposes of this section, the terms OFFICER and EMPLOYEE shall be
defined as set forth in 5 ILCS 430/70-5(c).
   (F)   Persons violating this section shall be subject to a fine of up to
$750 per offense. Violations shall be prosecuted by the Village Attorney at the
specific request of a majority of corporate authorities upon motion duly made,
seconded and adopted. In any case where a member of the corporate authority is
accused of a violation of this section, such member shall abstain from any such
vote. In any case of an alleged violation of this division (F) by the Village
Attorney, the village shall obtain separate counsel to handle the prosecution.
In a case where the corporate authorities believe a criminal act has occurred,
the corporate authorities may direct the Village Attorney to refer the matter
to the State’s Attorney for prosecution.
   (G)   This section does not repeal or otherwise amend or modify any existing
ordinances or policies which regulate the conduct of village officers and
employees. To the extent that any such existing ordinances or policies are less
restrictive than this section, however, the provisions of this section shall
prevail in accordance with the provisions of 5 ILCS 430/70-5(a).
   (H)   Any amendment to the Act that becomes effective after the effective
date of this section shall be incorporated into this section by reference and
shall be applicable to the solicitation, acceptance, offering and making of
gifts and to prohibited political activities; however, any amendment that makes
its provisions optional for adoption by municipalities shall not be
incorporated into this section by reference without formal action by the
corporate authorities of the village.
   (I)   If the State Supreme Court declares the Act unconstitutional in its
entirety, then this section shall be repealed as of the date that the State
Supreme Court’s decision becomes final and not subject to any further appeals
or rehearings. This section shall be deemed repealed without further action by
the corporate authorities of the village if the Act is found unconstitutional
by the State Supreme Court.
   (J)   If the State Supreme Court declares part of the Act unconstitutional
but upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of the Act, or does not
address the remainder of the Act, then the remainder of the Act as adopted by
this section shall remain in full force and effect; however, that part of this
section relating to the part of the act found unconstitutional shall be deemed
repealed without further action by the corporate authorities of the village.
(Prior Code, § 34.06) (Ord. 04-05-01, passed 5-10-2004)
§ 35.07 SEXUAL HARASSMENT POLICY.
   (A)   The village hereby determines that the preambles hereto are true and
correct and are incorporated herein by reference as if fully set forth.
   (B)   Attached to the ordinance codified herein, as Exhibit A, which is
fully incorporated herein by reference as if set out in full herein, is a
document entitled “Village of Southern View, Illinois, Sexual Harassment
Policy”, dated January 11, 1999.
   (C)   Exhibit A is, and shall be hereafter until modified as and when
necessary, the Sexual Harassment Policy of the village.
   (D)   The Village Clerk shall provide a copy of Exhibit A to employees of
the village upon their request.
(Prior Code, § 34.07) (Ord. 99-01-02, passed 1-11-1999)
§ 35.08 FORFEITED PROPERTY.
   (A)   Forfeited property or the funds of forfeited property, sometimes
hereinafter referred to as “forfeited funds”, are not intended to be an
alternative funding for the administration of criminal justice and such
property or funds are to be used solely for narcotics enforcement purposes.
   (B)   Forfeited funds received must be deposited in a separate, interest-
bearing account in a bank which qualifies for insurance protection under the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The balance of any bank account
established for the receipt of forfeited funds and interest thereon shall not
exceed $100,000 and separate accounts shall be established as required.
Signatures of the Village Treasurer and Village Clerk are required for
withdrawals from such accounts. Advance approval must be given by the Police
Trustee and Chief of Police for all expenditures from such accounts.
   (C)   The village accounting system must separately account for, and show
the detail of, forfeited property, the proceeds of forfeited property, interest
earned and recording of expenditures and must, at a minimum, document the
following:
      (1)   Date of receipt or disbursement of checks;
      (2)   Source or description of receipts or disbursement; and
      (3)   Court order or case number and associated check number, if any.
   (D)   Any assets, plus interest thereon, acquired which are subject to this
section, are subject to annual audit.
   (E)   Any non-cash asset acquired by forfeiture and subject to this section
must be utilized by the village for at least one year, from the date of
acquisition, prior to disposal and must be used for narcotics enforcement only.
If said asset is thereafter liquidated, all proceeds from disposal of the asset
are subject to the other provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 34.08) (Ord. 98-07-02, passed 7-13-1998)
§ 35.09 SURPLUS PROPERTY PROGRAM.
   The village and its necessary elected officials and employees are hereby
authorized to take such action as is necessary or advisable for the village to
participate in the State Federal Surplus Property Program.
(Prior Code, § 34.09) (Res. 10-01-01, passed 1-12-2010)
§ 35.10 DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND INCLUSION POLICY.
   (A)   The Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Policy, included in division (B)
below, is hereby adopted.
   (B)   (1)   Statement of policy.
         (a)   The village is committed to fostering, cultivating and
preserving a culture of diversity, equity and inclusion.
         (b)   Our human capital is the most valuable asset we have. The
collective sum of individual differences, life experiences, knowledge,
inventiveness, innovation, self-expression, unique capabilities and talent that
our employees invest in their work represents a significant part of not only
our culture, but our reputation and community’s achievements as well.
         (c)   We embrace and encourage our employees’ differences in age,
color, ethnicity, family or marital status, gender identity or expression,
language, national origin, physical and mental ability, political affiliation,
race, religion, sexual orientation, socio-economic status, veteran status and
all other characteristics that make our employees unique.
         (d)   The village diversity initiatives are applicable, but not
limited to, our practices and policies on: recruitment and selection;
compensation and benefits; professional development and training; promotions;
transfers; social and recreational programs; layoffs; terminations; and the
ongoing development of a work environment built on the premise of gender and
diversity equity that encourages and enforces:
            1.   Respectful communication and cooperation between all
employees;
            2.   Teamwork and employee participation, permitting the
representation of all groups and employee perspectives; and
            3.   Employer and employee contributions to the community we serve
to promote a greater understanding and respect for diversity.
      (2)   Standards on diversity, equity and inclusion for employees. All
employees of the village have a responsibility to treat others with dignity and
respect at all times. All employees are expected to exhibit conduct that
reflects inclusion during work, at work functions on or off the work site and
at all other village-sponsored and participative events. All employees are also
required to complete diversity awareness training to enhance their knowledge to
fulfill this responsibility.
      (3)   Consequences of violation of the policy on diversity, equity and
inclusion. Any employee found to have exhibited any inappropriate conduct or
behavior against others such that violates this policy may be subject to
disciplinary action.
      (4)   Reporting violations of the diversity, equity and inclusion policy.
Employees who believe they have been subjected to any kind of discrimination
that conflicts with this policy or its supported initiatives should seek
assistance from a supervisor or a human resources representative, in accordance
with personnel guidelines or the employee handbook.
(Ord. 20-11-08, passed 11-24-2020)
§ 35.11 NEPOTISM POLICY.
   (A)   Neither the Village President shall appoint, as an employee or
officer, to receive any compensation from the village, any person who is a
relative by blood or marriage within the third degree of the President or any
one or more of the members of the Board, nor shall any Village Administrator or
any other appointing authority appoint to any such position any relative of his
or her or of the President or any member of the Board within such degree of
kinship. Relatives to the third degree include parents, children, siblings,
aunts, uncles, nieces, nephews, grandparent and first cousins.
   (B)   This restriction does not apply to the Village Police Department.
   (C)   The employment of any existing village employee as of the effective
date of this section shall not be impacted.
   (D)   In the future, the election of a relative (defined in division (A)
above) to the office of President or the Village Board shall not impact any
person who is an employee at the time petitions for election are submitted, or
the President or a Trustee is appointed to fill a vacancy.
(Ord. 20-09-01, passed 9-22-2020)
§ 35.12 CAPITALIZATION POLICY.
   (A)   Adoption.
      (1)   The village has received a recommendation that it adopt a
capitalization policy in order to be in compliance with applicable accounting
standards. The Board has reviewed the Village Capitalization Policy, attached
to the ordinance incorporated herein and in division (B) below, and approves
the adoption of that policy.
      (2)   The President is authorized and directed to execute said policy,
and the proper officers of the village are directed to carry out and apply the
terms of that policy to all future audits.
   (B)   Policy.
      (1)   Purpose.
         (a)   This capitalization policy is intended to provide guidance for
the capitalization and depreciation of capital assets to comply with the
requirements of Governmental Accounting Standard Board Statement 34, Basic
Financial Statements and Management’s Discussion and Analysis for State and
Local Governments. This statement requires the reporting of the village capital
assets and depreciation in their annual audited financial statement.
         (b)   This policy includes capital asset classes, descriptions,
capitalization threshold levels, estimated useful lives, methods of
depreciation and the procedures to be used in effectively identifying,
recording and reporting the village’s capital assets.
      (2)   Asset classification. Village capital assets are used to support
two major criteria of the business:
         (a)   General Administration; and
         (b)   Infrastructure.
      (3)   General administration.
         (a)   General administration is the activity that the village
employees conduct to run the day-to-day operations.
         (b)   Capital assets that support these activities can include, but
are not limited to, office furniture, fixtures, equipment, information and
computer systems and the like, where the following two conditions are met:
            1.   Each individual item has a cost of $5,000 or more; and
            2.   Useful life of at least three years.
      (4)   Infrastructure. Activities related to infrastructure include new
construction, replacement due to expansion or new technology, replacement due
to the end of normal life cycle, major repairs or refurbishment and acceptance
of assets through the contribution by other agencies. Capital assets that are
in this group can include, but are not limited to, land, land improvement,
buildings, building improvements, facilities, facility improvements and
renovations.
      (5)   Determination of cost. GASB Statement 34 states that purchased or
village constructed capital assets should be reported at historical cost. The
total cost of the capital asset is the cash outlay or its equivalent that is
necessary to acquire the asset and put it in operating condition. These costs
include contract price, freight, licensing fees, handling and assembling,
installation and testing, direct labor and material, indirect labor and
materials, benefit and overhead allocations as well as any construction period
interest cost as required by GASB Statement No. 34. In addition, it is the
village’s policy to capitalize any cost that is specifically identifiable with
a planned capital project (or asset acquisition), including public information
costs and costs incurred to obtain financing for the project. Contributed
capital assets will be recorded at their estimated fair market value at the
date of the asset was contribution to the village.
      (6)   Estimated useful life. The village uses Internal Revenue Tax Law
requirements, general guidelines obtained from professional or industry
organizations and information for comparable assets of other governments as the
guidelines when estimating the useful lives of the capital assets.
      (7)   Depreciation method. The village uses the straight-line method with
no salvage value for all depreciable capital assets.
      (8)   Summary. The following table summarizes the depreciation schedule.
Asset Class Description Threshold Useful Life (Years)
Asset Class       Description          Threshold          Useful Life (Years)
Building          Buildings            $25,000            40
improvement
Infrastructure    Roads, drainage,     $50,000            3-40
                  resurfacing
Land              Land                 N/A capitalize all N/A
Land improvement  Sidewalks, fences,   $25,000            20
                  landscape shrubbery
Office furniture, Desk, chair, file
equipment         cabinets, telephone  $5,000             3-10
                  printers
Police equipment  Radars, lidars,      $5,000             3-10
                  mobile equipment
Vehicles          Car, truck, tractor, $15,000            5
                  trailer, lawn mowers
 
      (9)   Glossary. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         CAPITAL ASSETS. Are acquired for use in operations and not for resale.
They are long-term in nature and subject to depreciation. They possess physical
substance.
         COMPONENT UNIT. Individual identifiable pieces of a capital asset or a
group of capital assets.
         DEPRECIATION. The systematic and rational allocation of the estimated
historical cost of a capital asset (or if donated, the fair value of the
capital asset at the time of donation), over its estimated useful service life.
         ESTIMATED USEFUL LIFE. The period of time over which an asset’s cost
will be depreciated.
         FAIR MARKET VALUE. An estimate of what a willing buyer would pay to a
willing seller, both in a free market, for an asset or any piece of property.
         GASB 34. The Governmental Accounting Standards Board’s (GASB)
Statement No. 34, Basic Financial Statements and Management’s Discussion and
Analysis require state and local governments depreciate their exhaustible
capital asset, including infrastructure.
         HISTORICAL COST. The actual exchange value in dollars at the time the
asset was acquired. It is measured by cash or cash equivalent price of
obtaining the asset and charges necessary to bring it to its intended location
and to place the asset in its intended condition for use.
         INFRASTRUCTURE. The structures that support a society, such as roads,
flood management systems, telecommunications, drainage and so forth.
         REPLACEMENT. The substitution of a new facility or component of an
existing facility.
         SALVAGE VALUE. An estimate of the amount that will be realized at the
end of the useful life of a depreciable asset.
         STRAIGHT-LINE DEPRECIATION METHOD. Determined by the formula: (cost-
salvage vale)/estimated useful life=depreciation per period.
(Ord. 20-10-01, passed 10-27-2020)
§ 35.13 COMPENSATORY TIME IN PERSONNEL POLICY.
   (A)   Adoption.
      (1)   The Village Board established a personnel policy relating to the
accumulation, use and payment for compensatory time, and has now determined
that amendments are necessary to that policy. The amendments set forth in
Exhibit A are hereby adopted.
      (2)   The Clerk is directed to include Exhibit A in the Personnel Policy,
and to provide all employees with a copy of these amendments and obtain a
receipt therefor.
   (B)   Policy.
      (1)   Compensatory time in lieu of cash overtime.
         (a)   The Federal Fair Labor Standards Act, being 29 U.S.C. §§ 201 et
seq., allows public employers to compensate non-exempt employees for hours
worked in excess of 80 with compensatory time off (“comp time”) in lieu of cash
overtime compensation for the Public Works Department and 84 hours for the
Police Department. Such comp time must be credited at a rate not less than one
and one-half hours for each hour of employment.
         (b)   Employees may only be compensated with comp time in lieu of cash
overtime if the employee agrees, prior to performing the work in question, to
be compensated with comp time instead of cash overtime, either in a collective
bargaining agreement or other agreement. Employees may only accrue up to 80
hours of comp time.
         (c)   Employees will be permitted to use their accrued comp time
within a reasonable period after making a request so long as the use of the
comp time does not unduly disrupt the operations of the employee’s department.
An employee who has accrued compensatory time off shall, upon termination of
employment, be paid for the unused compensatory time at a rate of compensation
not less than either the average regular rate received by the employee during
the last three years of the employee’s employment or the final regular rate
received by the employee, whichever is higher.
         (d)   The ability to earn comp time in lieu of cash overtime may only
be available to certain employees, job titles or assignments. Any questions or
concerns regarding comp time should be directed to the employee’s supervisor
and/or the appropriate member of management.
         (e)   There are restrictions on the accumulation of comp time, which
include the following.
            1.   Comp time can not be accumulated in any pay period in which an
employee also uses an already accumulated comp time.
            2.   Comp time can not be used in conjunction with holidays.
Holiday hours cannot be compensated in comp time.
            3.   Comp time can not be used in conjunction with vacation or
personal days.
            4.   In no event, except in the instance when an employee actually
works on a holiday, will any employee be paid more than one and one-half times
the usual hourly rate.
      (2)   Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund. The Illinois Municipal
Retirement Fund (“IMRF”) provides retirement benefits, disability benefits and
death benefits for qualified employees. Employees may be covered under the IMRF
if they work more than 1,000 hours per year and were hired prior to February 3,
2014. Employees hired after February 3, 2014 may be covered under the IMRF if
they work more than 1,000 hours per year. Information regarding IMRF benefits
may be obtained by contacting IMRF at 1-800-ASK-IMRF.
(Ord. 20-11-06, passed 12-22-2020)
§ 35.14 AFFIRMATION OF SHARED PRINCIPLES.
   (A)   Adoption. The Affirmation of Shared Principles, attached to the
resolution incorporated herein as if set out in full herein, are hereby adopted
by the village.
   (B)   Policy.
      (1)   (a)   The Illinois NAACP State Conference is part of the National
Association for the Advancement of Colored People, established in 1909
following race riots in Springfield, Illinois, and the Illinois Association of
Chiefs of Police was established in 1941.
         (b)   The NAACP “advocates for smarter, results-based criminal justice
policies to keep our communities safe, including...an end to racial disparities
at all levels of the system”.
         (c)   The NAACP’s principal objective “is to ensure the political,
educational, social and economic equality of rights of all persons and to
eliminate racial hatred and racial discrimination”.
         (d)   The Illinois Chiefs declare in their Vision Statement that the
association values “Compassion, Integrity, Accountability, Farness,
Professionalism, Innovation, Continuous Improvement, Diversity (and)
Inclusion”.
         (e)   Both organizations acknowledge that there are historical reasons
for some mistrust between police and communities of color.
         (f)   Both organizations have a mutual passion for defending and
protecting the civil rights of all citizens end in keeping our communities and
citizens safe.
         (g)   The associations conducted four joint leadership-level
gatherings, called “World Cafes”, in 2016 and 2017 in Bloomington, Lake County,
the Quad-Cities and Champaign, where a total of 97 leaders from law enforcement
and communities of color discussed common concerns are “what most needs our
attention going forward”.
         (h)   The associations conducted four joint leadership-level
gatherings called “Let’s Talk” in 2016 in Tinley Park and Bloomingdale, and
2017 in Tinley Park and Mt. Vernon, where a total of 177 leaders from law
enforcement and communities of color discusses common concerns and “where do we
go from here”.
      (2)   We affirm the following principles regarding the relationship
between law enforcement and the communities and people they serve in the state.
         (a)   We value the life of every person and consider life to be the
highest value.
         (b)   All persons should be treated with dignity and respect. This is
another foundational value.
         (c)   We reject discrimination toward any person that is based on
race, ethnicity, religion, color, nationality, immigrant status, sexual
orientation, gender, disability or familial status.
         (d)   We endorse the six pillars in the report of the President’s Task
Force on 21st Century Policing. The first pillar is to build and rebuild trust
through procedural justice, transparency, accountability and honest recognition
of past and present obstacles.
         (e)   We endorse the four pillars of procedural justice, which are
fairness, voice (i.e., an opportunity for citizens and police to believe they
are heard), transparency and impartiality.
         (f)   We endorse the values inherent in community policing, which
includes community partnerships involving law enforcement, engagement of police
officers with residents outside of interaction specific to enforcement of laws
and problem-solving that is collaborative, not one-sided.
         (g)   We believe that developing strong ongoing relationships between
law enforcement and communities of color at the leadership level and street
level will be the keys to diminishing and eliminating racial tension.
         (h)   We believe that law enforcement and community leaders have a
mutual responsibility to encourage all citizens to gain a better understanding
and knowledge of the law to assist them in their interactions with law
enforcement officers.
         (i)   We support diversity in police departments and in the law
enforcement profession. Law enforcement and communities have a mutual
responsibility and should work together to make a concerted effort to recruit
diverse police departments.
         (j)   We believe de-escalation training should be required to ensure
the safety of community members and officers. We endorse using de-escalation
tactics to reduce the potential for confrontations that endanger law
enforcement officers and community members; and the principle that human life
should be taken only as a last resort.
      (3)   We vow by mutual affirmation to work together and stand together in
our communities and at the state level to implement these values and
principles, and to replace mistrust with mutual trust wherever, whenever and
however we can.
      (4)   We work collaboratively to publicize widely the adoption of this
policy throughout the state.
(Res. 19-03-01, passed 3-12-2019)
§ 35.15 NATURAL HAZARDS MITIGATION PLAN.
   The Village Board adopts the 2022 Sangamon County Multi-Jurisdictional
Natural Hazards Mitigation Plan Update as this jurisdiction’s Multi-Hazard
Mitigation Plan and resolves to execute the actions in the Plan.
(Res. 23-04-01, passed 4-25-2023)
CHAPTER 36: ELECTIONS
Section
   
36.01   Voting places
   
36.02   Time of village elections
   
36.03   Qualifications of voters
   
36.04   Board shall appoint election officials
   
36.05   Manner of conducting
   
36.06   Filling vacancies and making returns
   
36.07   In case of tie vote
   
36.08   Clerk shall notify those elected
   
36.09   When Village Clerk may call special election
   
36.10   Failure to elect
Statutory reference:
   Elections, see 10 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.
§ 36.01 VOTING PLACES.
   The place of holding village elections in the village shall be at such place
as the Village President Village and Board of Trustees shall direct.
(Prior Code, § 35.01)
§ 36.02 TIME OF VILLAGE ELECTIONS.
   The general election of elective officers of the village shall be held on
the third Tuesday of April every other year.
(Prior Code, § 35.02)
§ 36.03 QUALIFICATIONS OF VOTERS.
   All persons entitled to vote at any general election for state offices
within the village having resided therein 30 days next preceding the election
may vote at any election of village officers.
(Prior Code, § 35.03)
§ 36.04 BOARD SHALL APPOINT ELECTION OFFICIALS.
   (A)   The Village President and Village Board of Trustees shall biannually,
at least 20 days before the regular municipal election, appoint the judges and
clerks for the election for the year for which they are appointed.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall, within three days after such an appointment,
make out and deliver, to each person so appointed, a certificate of his or her
appointment as Judge or Clerk.
   (C)   No person holding an office under the village or who is a candidate
therefor shall act as Judge or Clerk at any village election.
(Prior Code, § 35.04)
§ 36.05 MANNER OF CONDUCTING.
   The manner of giving notice of election, conducting and voting at elections
to be held in the village, keeping the poll list, canvassing the votes and
contesting the election shall be the same (as nearly as may be) as in the case
of election of county officers under the general laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 35.05)
§ 36.06 FILLING VACANCIES AND MAKING RETURNS.
   The judges of election shall appoint clerks when necessary to fill
vacancies, and the judges and clerks of the village election shall take the
same oath and have the same power and authority as the judges and clerks of
general state elections. After the closing of the polls, the ballots shall be
counted and returns shall be made out and returned to the Village Clerk, under
seal, within two days after the election and, thereupon, the President and
Board of Trustees shall examine and canvass such returns and declare the result
of the election and cause a statement thereof to be entered on its journal.
(Prior Code, § 35.06)
§ 36.07 IN CASE OF TIE VOTE.
   The person having the highest number of votes for any office shall be
declared elected. In case of a tie vote in the election of any village officer,
it shall be determined by lot in the presence of the President and Board of
Trustees, in any manner as they may elect, which candidate or candidates shall
hold the office.
(Prior Code, § 35.07)
§ 36.08 CLERK SHALL NOTIFY THOSE ELECTED.
   It shall be the duty of the Village Clerk, within five days after the result
of the election is declared or appointment is made, to notify all persons
elected or appointed of their election or appointment, and unless such persons
shall respectively qualify within ten days after such notice, the office shall
become vacant.
(Prior Code, § 35.08)
§ 36.09 WHEN VILLAGE CLERK MAY CALL SPECIAL ELECTION.
   If, for any cause, there shall not be a quorum in the office of the
President and Board of Trustees, the Village Clerk or any Trustee may appoint
the time and place for holding a special election to supply such vacancy and
give notice and appoint the judges thereof.
(Prior Code, § 35.09)
§ 36.10 FAILURE TO ELECT.
   If there is a failure to elect any officer herein required to be elected, or
the person elected should fail to qualify, the President and Board of Trustees
may forthwith order a new election and in all cases where necessary for the
purposes of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 35.10)
CHAPTER 37: TAXATION AND FINANCE
Section
General Provisions; Fees
   
37.01   Claims
   
37.02   Purchasing
   
37.03   Investment of funds
   
37.04   Administrative towing fees
   
37.05   Fee for hearings before Zoning Board of Appeals
   
37.06   Fee for furnishing copies of police reports
   
37.07   Fee schedule for village buildings
Taxation
   
37.20   Municipal retailers’ occupational tax
   
37.21   Municipal service occupational tax
   
37.22   Municipal leasing occupational tax
   
37.23   Municipal use tax
   
37.24   Service occupational tax
   
37.25   Municipal utility tax
   
37.26   Municipal telecommunications tax rate
   
37.27   Electricity tax
   
37.28   Municipal cannabis retailers’ occupation tax
   
37.29   Hotel use tax
   
37.30   Locally imposed and administered tax rights and responsibility
   
37.31   Municipal grocery taxes
Funds
   
37.45   Fund for Friends of Southern View Park
   
37.46   Fund for Friends of Southern View Police
 
   
37.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS; FEES
§ 37.01 CLAIMS.
   (A)   Manner of filing. No account or claims exceeding $10 against the
village, except for the salaries of village officers or for the contract price
of a specific contract made by the President and Board of Trustees, or by some
officer or committee authorized by the Board to make the same, shall be
considered or allowed, nor shall any warrant be issued for the payment thereof
unless the person presenting such claim shall file it with the affidavit of
himself, herself or some other credible person that the account or claim is
just, correct, reasonable and wholly unpaid.
   (B)   Manner of allowing. No claim or account against the village upon any
contract made by any officer or committee of the President or Board of Trustees
shall be considered or allowed, nor shall any warrant be issued for the payment
thereof unless the officer or committee by whom the said contract was made
shall first certify that he or she has examined the said account or claim and
has examined the work done or materials furnished and that same is in
accordance with the contract; that the same is just, correct, reasonable and
wholly unpaid.
   (C)   Warrants. All warrants issued for the payments of money shall be
issued by order of the Board of Trustees and signed by the President of the
Board of Trustees and the Village Clerk. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
President of the Board of Trustees, with the concurrence of the Village Clerk,
may authorize the issuance of a warrant for the payment of money up to, and
including, the amount of $2,000 without prior Board of Trustees approval. Any
such payment shall be presented for ratification at the next regular meeting of
the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 36.01) (Ord. 08-03-01, passed 3-10-2008)
§ 37.02 PURCHASING.
   The village is authorized to participate in joint purchasing with the state,
pursuant to regulations established by the State Department of Administrative
Services.
(Prior Code, § 36.02)
§ 37.03 INVESTMENT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   Policy. It is the policy of the village to invest public funds in a
manner which will provide the highest investment return with the maximum
security while meeting the daily cash flow demands of the entity and conforming
to all state and local statutes governing the investment of public funds.
   (B)   Scope. This policy includes all funds governed by the Board of
Trustees.
   (C)   Prudence. Investments shall be made with judgment and care, under
circumstances then prevailing, which persons of prudence, discretion and
intelligence exercise in the management of their own affairs, not for
speculation, but for investment, considering the probable safety of their
capital, as well as the probable income to be derived. The standard of prudence
to be used by investment officials shall be the “prudent person” standard and
shall be applied in the context of managing an overall portfolio.
   (D)   Objective.
      (1)   The primary objective, in order of priority, shall be:
         (a)   Legality: conformance with federal, state and other legal
requirements;
         (b)   Safety: preservation of capital and protection of investment
principal;
         (c)   Liquidity: maintenance of sufficient liquidity to meet operating
requirements; and
         (d)   Yield: attainment of market rates of return.
      (2)   The portfolio should be reviewed periodically as to its
effectiveness in meeting the entity’s needs for safety, liquidity, rate of
return, diversification and its general performance.
   (E)   Delegation of authority. Management and administrative responsibility
for the investment program is delegated to the Village Treasurer who, under the
delegation of the Board of Trustees, shall establish written procedures for the
operation of the investment program.
   (F)   Ethics and conflicts of interest. Officers and employees involved in
the investment process shall refrain from personal business activity that could
conflict with the proper execution and management of the investment program or
that could impair their ability to make impartial decisions.
   (G)   Authorized financial dealers and institutions. The Village Treasurer
will maintain a list of financial institutions authorized to provide investment
services. In addition, a list will also be maintained of approved security
brokers/dealers selected by credit worthiness.
   (H)   Authorized and suitable investments. Investments may be made in any
type of security allowed for in state statutes regarding the investment of
public funds. Investments shall be made that reflect the cash flow needs of the
fund type being invested. The village has heretofore, and shall continue,
investing its surplus funds in the State Public Treasurer Investment Pool
created under 15 ILCS 505/17 (“IPTIP”) and it determines that the requirements
are met by its usage of IPTIP.
   (I)   Collateralization. Funds on deposit (checking accounts, certificates
of deposit and the like) in excess of FDIC limits must be secured by some form
of collateral, witnessed by a written agreement and held at an independent,
third-party institution in the name of the village.
   (J)   Safekeeping and custody. All security transactions, including
collateral for repurchase agreements, entered into by the village shall be
conducted on a delivery-versus-payment (DVP) basis. Securities will be held by
an independent third-party custodian designated by the Village Treasurer and
evidenced by safekeeping receipts and a written custodial agreement.
   (K)   Diversification. The village shall diversify, when it determines
further diversification is in its best interest, its investments to the best of
its ability based on the type of funds invested and the cash flow needs of
those funds. Diversification can be by type of investment, number of
institutions invested in and length of maturity.
   (L)   Maximum maturities. To the extent possible, the village shall attempt
to match its investments with anticipated cash flow requirements. Unless
matched to a specific cash flow, the village will not directly invest in
securities maturing more than three years from the date of purchase. Reserve
funds may be invested in securities exceeding three years if the maturity of
such investments are made to coincide as nearly as practicable with the
expected use of the funds.
   (M)   Internal control. The Village Treasurer is responsible for
establishing and maintaining an internal control structure designed to ensure
that the assets of the entity are protected from loss, theft or misuse.
      (1)   The internal control structure shall be designed to provide
reasonable assurance that these objectives are met.
      (2)   The internal controls shall address the following points:
         (a)   Control of collusion;
         (b)   Separation of transaction authority from accounting;
         (c)   Custodial safekeeping; and
         (d)   Written confirmation of telephone transactions for investments
and wire transfers.
   (N)   Performance standards. This investment portfolio will be managed in
accordance with the parameters specified within this policy. The portfolio
should obtain a comparable rate of return during a market/economic environment
of stable interest rates. Portfolio performance should be compared to the rate
of return provided by IPTIP.
   (O)   Reporting. The Village Treasurer shall prepare an investment report at
least monthly. The report should be provided to the Board of Trustees and
available on request. The report should be in a format suitable for review by
the general public. An annual report should also be provided to the Board.
   (P)   Marking to market. A statement of the market value of the portfolio
shall be issued to the Board of Trustees quarterly.
   (Q)   Investment policy adoption. The investment policy shall be adopted by
the Board of Trustees. The policy shall be reviewed on an annual basis by the
Village Treasurer and any modifications made thereto must be approved by the
Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 36.03) (Ord. 99-12-01, passed 12-13-1999)
§ 37.04 ADMINISTRATIVE TOWING FEES.
   (A)   The owner of record of a motor vehicle impounded by the Village Police
Department, pursuant to any state or federal law, shall be liable to the
village for such administrative tow fees as provided herein.
   (B)   Any motor vehicle seized by the Village Police Department, pursuant to
any state of federal law, shall not be released to the owner of record, or the
owner’s authorized agent, without an administrative towing fee of $250 being
paid to the village. Said administrative fee is in addition to all applicable
towing and storage fees.
   (C)   If an individual tried for a violation of a state or federal law
resulting in a motor vehicle’s impoundment receives a judgment of “not guilty”
in a court of competent jurisdiction, said administrative fee shall be refunded
to the owner of record. A disposition of court supervision is not a judgment of
“not guilty”.
(Prior Code, § 36.04) (Ord. 11-07-01, passed 7-12-2011)
§ 37.05 FEE FOR HEARINGS BEFORE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   The fee for hearing appeals from decisions of the Building Inspector
or for variations of the terms of Ord. 95-11-01 by the Zoning Board of Appeals
shall be $350.
   (B)   The fee of $350 shall be paid to the Village Clerk simultaneously with
an application for an appeal from a decision of the Building Inspector or
filing of a petition describing the variation sought to be made from the terms
of Ord. 95-11-01.
(Prior Code, § 36.05) (Ord. 01-10-01, passed 10-8-2001)
§ 37.06 FEE FOR FURNISHING COPIES OF POLICE REPORTS.
   (A)   Copies of accident or incident reports prepared by the Police
Department may be furnished to any person requesting such reports.
   (B)   A fee of $5 shall be charged for furnishing any person with a copy of
an accident or incident report prepared by the Police Department. This fee
shall not be charged to any law enforcement agency requesting such report.
(Prior Code, § 36.06) (Ord. 89-04-05, passed 4-10-1989)
§ 37.07 FEE SCHEDULE FOR VILLAGE BUILDINGS.
   (A)   The village, from time to time, rents the Village Hall for use by
residents and non-residents for receptions, parties and similar events. The
village also allows interested groups to reserve the pavilions in the village
park. The village has not amended the rates for either the Village Hall or the
park shelters in some time.
   (B)   Effective January 1, 2020, the rates for rental at the Village Hall
shall be as follows.
      (1)   For a one day rental, except on major holidays (see division (D)
below):
 
Resident Non-Resident
$100     $250
 
      (2)   All rentals will pay a $100 security deposit, and will be
responsible for returning the Village Hall in the same condition as when it was
rented to them.
      (3)   For an annual rental, allowing use of the Village Hall one day a
week for a year, the rental for the year 2020 will be $2,500. Effective January
1, 2021, without further action by the Board, the annual rental will be $5,000.
Annual renters shall also pay a $100 deposit, and will be advised of any
charges against that deposit for cleaning, damages and the like. When the $100
is depleted, the tenant must deposit another $100.
      (4)   Not for profit entities will be charged the one day resident rate
($100). Commercial entities shall be charged the one day non-resident rate
($250).
   (C)   For the Martin pavilion in the Village Park, the rate is as follows.
      (1)   For a one day reservation, except on major holidays (see division
(D) below):
 
Resident Non-Resident
$50      $100
 
      (2)   For the east and west pavilions in the park, the rate is as
follows: for a one day reservation, except on major holidays (see division (D)
below):
 
Resident Non-Resident
$25      $60
 
      (3)   All rentals will pay a $100 security deposit and will be
responsible for any damage to the park or any cleaning required in the
pavilions.
      (4)   It must be stressed that the rate in the park pavilions is a
reservation rate. If the pavilions are not reserved, they are available, at no
cost, on a first come, first served basis.
   (D)   On all major holidays, any rental rate is increased by $50.
(Res. 19-12-01, passed 12-10-2019)
TAXATION
§ 37.20 MUNICIPAL RETAILERS’ OCCUPATIONAL TAX.
   (A)   Tax imposed. A tax is imposed upon all persons engaged in the business
of selling tangible personal property at retail in this village at the rate of
1% of the gross receipts from such sales made in the course of such business
while this section is in effect, in accordance with the provisions of 65 ILCS
5/8-11-1.
   (B)   Filing dates and requirements. Every such person engaged in such
business in the village shall file all reports as required by 35 ILCS 120/3, as
amended.
   (C)   Method of payment. At the time such report is filed, there shall be
paid, to the State Department of Revenue, the amount of tax imposed on account
of the receipts from sales of tangible personal property during the preceding
month.
(Prior Code, § 36.20)
§ 37.21 MUNICIPAL SERVICE OCCUPATIONAL TAX.
   (A)   Tax imposed. A tax is imposed upon all persons engaged in this
municipality in the business of making sales of service at the rate of 0.75% of
the gross receipts received from such business, in accordance with the
provisions of 65 ILCS 5/8-11-5.
   (B)   Filing dates and requirements. Every person required to account for
municipal service occupation tax for the benefit of this municipality shall
file all reports on or before the last day of each calendar month, to the State
Department of Revenue, required by 35 ILCS 115/9, as amended, of the Service
Occupation Tax Act.
   (C)   Method of payment. At the time such report is filed, there shall be
paid to the State Department of Revenue the amount of tax imposed.
(Prior Code, § 36.21)
§ 37.22 MUNICIPAL LEASING OCCUPATIONAL TAX.
   (A)   Tax imposed. A tax is imposed upon all persons engaged in the business
of renting or leasing tangible personal property to the users thereof at the
rate of 0.5% of the gross receipts from such renting or leasing made in the
course of such business while this section is in effect, in accordance with the
provisions of 65 ILCS 5/8-11-1.3.
   (B)   Filing dates and requirements. Every person engaged in such business
in the village shall file, with the State Department of Revenue, the return in
the manner as required by state law.
   (C)   Method of payment. At the time such return is filed, there shall be
paid to the State Department of Revenue the amount of tax imposed on account of
the receipts from renting or leasing tangible personal property during the
preceding month.
(Prior Code, § 36.22)
§ 37.23 MUNICIPAL USE TAX.
   (A)   Tax imposed. A tax is imposed in accordance with provisions of 65 ILCS
5/8-11-1.5, upon the privilege of using in the municipality, any item of
tangible personal property which is purchased outside the state at retail from
a retailer and which is titled or registered with an agency of the state
government. The tax shall be at a rate of 1% of the selling price of such
tangible property with selling price to have the meaning as defined in the Use
Tax Act, being 35 ILCS 105/1 et seq., approved July 14, 1955.
   (B)   Method of payment. Such tax shall be collected by the State Department
of Revenue for all municipalities imposing the tax and shall be paid before the
title or certificate of registration for the personal property is issued.
(Prior Code, § 36.23)
§ 37.24 SERVICE OCCUPATIONAL TAX.
   (A)   Tax imposed. A tax is imposed upon all persons engaged in this
municipality in the business of making sales of service at the rate of 0.5% of
the cost price of all tangible personal property transferred by the
serviceperson, either in the form of tangible personal property, or in the form
of real estate as an incident to a sale of service, in accordance with the
provisions of 65 ILCS 5/8-11-5, enacted by the 72nd General Assembly.
   (B)   Filing dates and requirements. Every supplier or serviceperson
required to account for municipal service occupational tax for the benefit of
this municipality shall file, on or before the last day of each calendar month,
the report to the State Department of Revenue required by § 9 of the Service
Occupation Tax Act, being 35 ILCS 115/9, enacted by the 72nd General Assembly.
   (C)   Method of payment. At the time such report is filed, there shall be
paid to the State Department of Revenue the amount of tax imposed.
(Prior Code, § 36.24)
§ 37.25 MUNICIPAL UTILITY TAX.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      GROSS RECEIPTS. The consideration received for the transmission of
messages or for distributing, supplying, furnishing or selling gas, electricity
or water for use or consumption and not for resale, as the case may be, and for
all services rendered in connection therewith valued in money, whether received
in money or otherwise, including cash, credit, services and property of every
kind and material and for all services rendered therewith, and shall be
determined without any deduction on account of the cost of transmitting said
messages without any deduction on account of the cost of the service, product
or commodity supplied; the cost of materials used; labor or service cost; or
any other expenses whatsoever.
      PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint adventure, corporation, municipal
corporation or political subdivision of this state or a receiver, trustee,
conservator or other representative appointed by order of any court.
      TRANSMITTING MESSAGES. In addition to the usual and popular meaning of
person-to-person communication, shall include the furnishing, for a
consideration, of services or facilities (whether owned or leased), or both, to
persons in connection with the transmission of messages where such persons do
not, in turn, receive any consideration in connection therewith, but shall not
include such furnishing of services or facilities for the transmission of
messages are furnished, for a consideration, by such persons to other persons,
for the transmission of messages.
   (B)   Tax imposed. Persons engaged in the business of transmitting messages
by means of electricity or radio magnetic waves, or fiber optics, at the rate
of 5% of the gross receipts from such business originating within the corporate
limits of the village.
   (C)   Exemptions. No tax is imposed by this subchapter with respect to any
transaction in interstate commerce or otherwise to the extent to which such
business may not, under the Constitution and statutes of the United States, be
made subject to taxation by this state or any political subdivision thereof;
nor shall any persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
finishing or selling gas, water or electricity or engaged in the business of
transmitting messages be subject to taxation under the provisions of this
chapter for such transactions as are or may become subject to taxation under
the provisions of the Municipal Retailers’ Occupation Tax Act, being 35 ILCS
120/1 et seq., authorized by the Illinois Municipal Code, being 65 ILCS 5.
   (D)   Scope of tax. Such tax shall be in addition to the payment of money,
or value of products or services furnished to this municipality by the taxpayer
as compensation for the use of its streets, alleys or other public places or
installation and maintenance therein, thereon or thereunder of poles, wires,
pipes or other equipment used in the operation of the taxpayers’ business.
   (E)   Effective date. This section shall take effect after publication and
the tax provided for herein shall be based on the gross receipts, as herein
defined, actually paid to the taxpayer for services billed on or after November
1, 1958.
(Prior Code, § 36.25) (Ord. 98-03-02, passed 3-9-1998)
§ 37.26 MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX RATE.
   (A)   The rate of the simplified municipal telecommunications tax imposed
under the provisions of §§ 5-25 and 5-30 of the Simplified Municipal
Telecommunications Tax Act (35 ILCS 636/5-25 and 5-30) is changed to 2%.
   (B)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage and approval and publication in pamphlet form as required by law;
provided, however, that division (A) above shall take effect for all gross
charges billed by telecommunications retailers on and after January 1, 2003.
The Village Clerk is directed to file a certified copy of the ordinance set
forth in this section with the State Department of Revenue on or before
September 30, 2002.
(Prior Code, § 36.26) (Ord. 02-09-02, passed 9-9-2002)
§ 37.27 ELECTRICITY TAX.
   (A)   Recitals. The facts and statements contained in the preamble to the
ordinance set forth in this section are found to be true and correct and are
hereby adopted as part of this section.
   (B)   Adoption of method of collecting taxes for the privilege of using
electricity. The municipal code of the village shall be amended by the addition
of this section.
   (C)   Tax imposed.
      (1)   A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the following
occupations or privileges: the privilege of using or consuming electricity
acquired in a purchase at retail and used or consumed within the corporate
limits of the municipality at the following rates, calculated on a monthly
basis for each purchaser:
            1.   For the first 2,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a
month: $0.0033 per kilowatt-hour;
            2.   For the next 48,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a
month: $0.0022 per kilowatt-hour;
            3.   For the next 50,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a
month: $0.0020 per kilowatt-hour;
            4.   For the next 400,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a
month: $0.0019 per kilowatt-hour;
            5.   For the next 500,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a
month: $0.0019 per kilowatt-hour; and
            6.   For the next 2,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a
month: $0.0017 per kilowatt-hour.
      (2)   Pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2, the rates set forth in division (C)
(1) above shall be effective:
         (a)   On August 1, 1999 for residential customers; and
         (b)   On the earlier of:
            1.   The last bill issued prior to December 31, 2000; or
            2.   The date of the first bill issued pursuant to 220 ILCS 5/16-
104 for non-residential customers.
      (3)   Pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2, §
37.25 shall specifically remain in effect:
         (a)   For receipts attributable to residential customers, until July
31, 1999; and
         (b)   For receipts attributable to non-residential customers, the
earlier of:
            1.   Through the last bill issued prior to November 30, 2000; or
            2.   The date of the first bill issued to such non-residential
customer, pursuant to 220 ILCS 5/16-104.
      (4)   The provisions of this section shall not be effective until August
1, 1999.
   (D)   Exceptions. None of the taxes authorized by this chapter may be
imposed with respect to any transaction in interstate commerce or otherwise to
the extent to which the business or privilege may not, under the Constitution
and United States statutes, be made the subject of taxation by this state or
any political subdivision thereof; nor shall any persons engaged in the
business of distributing, supplying, furnishing or selling or transmitting gas,
water or electricity or engaged in the business of transmitting messages or
using or consuming electricity acquired in a purchase at retail be subject to
taxation under the provisions of this chapter for those transactions that are
or may become subject to taxation under the provisions of the Municipal
Retailers’ Occupation Tax Act, as authorized by 65 ILCS 5/8-11-1; nor shall any
tax authorized by this chapter be imposed upon any person engaged in a business
or on any privilege unless the tax is imposed in like manner and at the same
rate upon all persons engaged in businesses of the same class in the
municipality, whether privately or municipally owned or operated or exercising
the same privilege within the municipality.
   (E)   Additional taxes. Such tax shall be in addition to other taxes levied
upon the taxpayer or its business.
   (F)   Collection.
      (1)   The tax authorized by this chapter shall be collected from the
purchaser by the person maintaining a place of business in this state who
delivers the electricity to the purchaser. This tax shall constitute a debt of
the purchaser to the person who delivers the electricity to the purchaser and,
if unpaid, is recoverable in the same manner as the original charge for
delivering the electricity. Any tax required to be collected pursuant to this
chapter and any such tax collected by a person delivering electricity shall
constitute a debt owed to the municipality by such person delivering the
electricity.
      (2)   Persons delivering electricity shall collect the tax from the
purchaser by adding such tax to the gross charge for delivering the
electricity. Persons delivering electricity shall also be authorized to add to
such gross charge an amount equal to 3% of the tax to reimburse the person
delivering electricity for the expense incurred in keeping records, billing
customers, preparing and filing returns, remitting the tax and supplying data
to the municipality upon request. If the person delivering electricity fails to
collect the tax from the purchaser, then the purchaser shall be required to pay
the tax directly to the municipality in the manner prescribed by the
municipality. Persons delivering electricity who file returns pursuant to this
section shall, at the time of filing such return, pay the municipality the
amount of the tax collected pursuant to this chapter.
      (3)   Returns, which shall contain not less than the information required
as provided in divisions (G)(1)(a) through (G)(1)(e) below, shall be filed with
the Village Treasurer on or before the last day of March, June, September and
December of each year for the three-month period ending on the last day of the
immediately preceding month.
   (G)   Reports to municipality.
      (1)   On or before the last day of March, June, September and December of
each year, each taxpayer who has not paid the tax imposed by this chapter to a
person delivering electricity, as set forth in division (F) above, and who is
not otherwise exempted from paying such tax shall make a return to the Village
Treasurer for the three-month period ending on the last day of the immediately
preceding month stating:
         (a)   His or her name;
         (b)   His or her principal place of business;
         (c)   His or her gross receipts and/or kilowatt-hour usage during the
month upon the basis of which the tax is imposed;
         (d)   Amount of tax; or
         (e)   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
      (2)   The taxpayer making the return herein provided for shall, at the
time of making such return, pay to the village the amount of tax herein
imposed; provided that in connection with any return, the taxpayer may, if he
or she so elects, report and pay an amount based upon his or her total billings
of business subject to the tax during the period for which the return is made
(exclusive of any amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of later
payments based upon any differences between such billings and the taxable gross
receipts.
   (H)   Credit for over-payment.
      (1)   If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid which was
not due under the provisions of this chapter, whether as the result of a
mistake of fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be credited against
any tax due, or to become due, under this chapter from the taxpayer who made
the erroneous payment; provided that no amounts erroneously paid more than
three years prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be so credited.
      (2)   No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of
this chapter shall be commenced more than three years after the due date of
such amount.
   (I)   Effect. In the event that Public Act 90-561 is declared
unconstitutional, or if division (C) above is voided by court action, the
provisions of §
37.25 shall remain in effect in all respects as if it had never been amended by
this section and any amounts paid to the village by any person delivering
electricity pursuant to this amendatory section shall be deemed to have been
paid pursuant to the municipal utility tax as it existed prior to the passage
of this amendatory section.
(Prior Code, § 36.27) (Ord. 99-04-03, passed 4-12-1999) Penalty, see §
37.99
§ 37.28 MUNICIPAL CANNABIS RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   Recitals. The facts and statements contained in the preamble to this
section are found to be true and correct and are hereby adopted as part of this
section.
   (B)   Adoption of tax.
      (1)   Tax imposed; rate.
         (a)   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business
of selling cannabis, other than cannabis purchased under the Compassionate Use
of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act, being 410 ILCS 130/1 et seq., at retail
in the village at the rate of 3% of the gross receipts from these sales made in
the course of that business.
         (b)   The imposition of this tax is in accordance with the provisions
of § 8-11-22 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-23).
      (2)   Collection of tax by retailers.
         (a)   1.   The tax imposed by this section shall be remitted by such
retailer to the State Department of Revenue (Department). Any tax required to
be collected pursuant to or as authorized by this section and any such tax
collected by such retailer and required to be remitted to the Department shall
constitute a debt owed by the retailer to the state.
            2.   Retailers may reimburse themselves for their seller’s tax
liability hereunder by separately stating that tax as an additional charge,
which charge may be stated in combination, in a single amount, with any state
tax that sellers are required to collect.
         (b)   The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be
assessed as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the
Department. The Department shall have full power to administer and enforce the
provisions of this division (B)(2).
(Ord. 19-09-05, passed 9-10-2019)
§ 37.29 HOTEL USE TAX.
   (A)   Pursuant to the powers granted by the Illinois Municipal Code, namely
65 ILCS 5/8-3-14a, a municipal hotel use tax of 5% is imposed on the amount
paid by a patron to rent or lease rooms in a hotel within the corporate
boundaries of the village. Tax receipts collected by any hotel within the
village shall be remitted to the village no less than quarterly.
   (B)   Tax receipts, if not received as set forth in division (A) above, will
incur a 5% late fee, on the first day of the month after the due date for the
tax payment. In addition, interest shall accrue on any unpaid balance at the
rate of 2% per month.
   (C)   PERMANENT RESIDENT includes all persons who reside at the hotel for 90
consecutive days, beginning on March 1, 2020.
(Ord. 18-11-1, passed 11-13-2018; Ord. 19-02-01, passed 2-12-2019; Ord. 20-02-
01, passed 2-11-2020)
§ 37.30 LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Title. This section shall be known as, and may be cited as, the
“Locally Imposed and Administered Tax Rights and Responsibility Ordinance”.
   (B)   Scope. The provisions of this section shall apply to the village’s
procedures in connection with all of the village’s locally imposed and
administered taxes.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ACT. The “Local Government Taxpayers’ Bill of Rights Act”, being 50 ILCS
45/1 et seq.
      CORPORATE AUTHORITIES. The Village President and Board of Trustees.
      LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR. The Village President is charged with the
administration and collection of the locally imposed and administered taxes,
including staff, employees or agents to the extent they are authorized by the
local tax administrator to act in the local tax administrator’s stead. The
LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR shall have the authority to implement the terms of this
section to give full effect to this section. The exercise of such authority by
the local tax administrator shall not be inconsistent with this section and the
Act.
      LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX OR TAX. Each tax imposed by the
village that is collected or administered by the village not an agency or
department of the state. It does not include any taxes imposed upon real
property under the Property Tax Code, being 35 ILCS 200/1-1 et seq., or fees
collected by the village other than infrastructure maintenance fees.
      NOTICE. Each audit notice, collection notice or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the village’s locally imposed and
administered taxes.
      TAX ORDINANCE. Each ordinance adopted by the village that imposes any
locally imposed and administered tax.
      TAXPAYER. Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered
tax and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax
is placed and with respect to consumer taxes includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
village.
      VILLAGE. The Village of Southern View, Illinois.
   (D)   Notices.
      (1)   Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given,
the notice is to be in writing and mailed not less than seven calendar days
prior to the day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit or other scheduled act
of the local tax administrator.
      (2)   The notice shall be sent by the local tax administrator as follows:
         (a)   First class or express mail, or overnight mail, addressed to the
persons concerned at the person’s last known address; or
         (b)   Personal service or delivery.
   (E)   Late payment. Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required
to be made to the village pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered
late unless it is:
      (1)   Physically received by the village on or before the due date; or
      (2)   Received in an envelope or other container displaying a valid,
readable United States postmark dated on or before the due date, properly
addressed to the village, with adequate postage prepaid.
   (F)   Payment. Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be
applied in the following order:
      (1)   First, to the tax due for the applicable period;
      (2)   Second, to the interest due for the applicable period; and
      (3)   Third, to the penalty for the applicable period.
   (G)   Certain credits and refunds.
      (1)   The village shall not refund or credit any taxes voluntarily paid
without written protest at the time of payment in the event that a locally
imposed and administered tax is declared invalidly enacted or unconstitutional
by a court of competent jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer shall not be deemed
to have paid the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked knowledge of the facts
upon which to protest the taxes at the time of payment or if the taxpayer paid
the taxes under duress.
      (2)   The statute of limitations on a claim for credit or refund shall be
four or less years after the end of the calendar year in which payment in error
was made. The village shall not grant a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest or penalties to a person who has not paid the
amount directly to the village.
      (3)   The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally imposed
and administered taxes, interest or penalties paid in error shall be as
follows:
         (a)   The taxpayer shall submit to the local tax administrator in
writing a claim for credit or refund together with a statement specifying:
            1.   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject
to the claim;
            2.   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
            3.   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the
cancelled check or receipt for the payment;
            4.   The taxpayer’s recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
            5.   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with
the claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest and penalties overpaid,
and, as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however,
that there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer
owes any monies to the village.
         (b)   Within ten days of the receipt by the local tax administrator of
any claim for a refund or credit, the local tax administrator shall either:
            1.   Grant the claim; or
            2.   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement
as to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
         (c)   In the event the local tax administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate of 8% per annum, based on a year of 365
days and the number of days elapsed, from the date of the overpayment to the
date of mailing of a refund check or the grant of a credit.
   (H)   Audit procedure. Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any local
administered tax shall comply with the notice requirements of this section.
      (1)   Each notice of audit shall contain the following information:
         (a)   The tax;
         (b)   The time period of the audit; and
         (c)   A brief description of the books and records to be made
available for the auditor.
      (2)   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours and if
the date and time selected by the local tax administrator is not agreeable to
the taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer within 30
days after the originally designated audit and during normal business hours.
      (3)   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted not less than seven days nor more than
30 days from the date the notice is given unless the taxpayer and the local tax
administrator agreed to some other convenient time. In the event the taxpayer
is unable to comply with the audit on the date in question, the taxpayer may
request another date within the 30 days, approved in writing, that is
convenient to the taxpayer and the local tax administrator.
      (4)   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the
taxpayer’s business or activities, including original source documents and
books of entry denoting the transactions, which had given rise or may have
given rise to any tax liability, exemption or deduction. All books shall be
kept in the English language and shall be subject to and available for
inspection by the village.
      (5)   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make
available its books and records for inspection by the village. If the taxpayer
or tax collector fails to provide the documents necessary for the audit within
the time provided, the local tax administrator may issue a tax determination
and assessment based on the tax administrator’s determination of the best
estimate of the taxpayer’s tax liability.
      (6)   If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a locally
imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice of the
amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within 30 days of the
village’s determination of the amount of overpayment.
      (7)   In the event a tax payment was submitted to the incorrect local
government entity, the local tax administrator shall notify the local
governmental entity imposing such tax.
   (I)   Appeal.
      (1)   (a)   The local tax administrator shall send written notice to a
taxpayer upon the local tax administrator’s issuance of a protestable notice of
tax due, a bill, a claim denial or a notice of claim reduction regarding any
tax.
         (b)   The notice shall include the following information:
            1.   The reason for the assessment;
            2.   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
            3.   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
            4.   The obligations of the village during the audit, appeal,
refund and collection process.
      (2)   A taxpayer who receives written notice from the local tax
administrator of a determination of tax due or assessment may file, with the
local tax administrator, a written protest and petition for hearing, setting
forth the basis of the taxpayer’s request for a hearing. The written protest
and petition for hearing must be filed with the local tax administrator within
45 days of receipt of the written notice of the tax determination and
assessment.
      (3)   If a timely written notice and petition for hearing is filed, the
local tax administrator shall fix the time and place for hearing and shall give
written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be scheduled for a date
within 14 days of receipt of the written protest and petition for hearing
unless the taxpayer requests a later date convenient to all parties.
      (4)   If a written protest and petition for hearing is not filed within
the 45-day period, the tax determination, audit or assessment shall become a
final bill due and owing without further notice.
      (5)   Upon the showing of reasonable cause by the taxpayer and the full
payment of the contested tax liability along with interest accrued as of the
due date of the tax, the local tax administrator may reopen or extend the time
for filing a written protest and petition for hearing. In no event shall the
time for filing a written protest and petition for hearing be reopened or
extended for more than 90 days after the expiration of the 45-day period.
   (J)   Hearing.
      (1)   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under division (I) above, the local tax
administrator shall conduct a hearing regarding any appeal.
      (2)   No continuances shall be granted except in cases where a
continuance is absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack
of preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted
shall not exceed 14 days.
      (3)   At the hearing, the local tax administrator shall preside and shall
hear testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax determination, audit
or assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall not apply.
      (4)   At the conclusion of the hearing, the local tax administrator shall
make a written determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the
hearing. The taxpayer or tax collector shall be provided with a copy of the
written decision.
   (K)   Interest and penalties. In the event a determination has been made
that a tax is due and owing, through audit, assessment or other bill sent, the
tax must be paid within the timeframe otherwise indicated.
      (1)   Interest. The village hereby provides for the amount of interest to
be assessed on a late payment, underpayment or nonpayment of the tax to be 8%
per annum, based on a year of 365 days and the number of days elapsed.
      (2)   Late filing and payment penalties. If a tax return is not filed
within the time and manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance, a late
filing penalty of 5% of the amount of tax required to be shown as due on a
return shall be imposed; and a late payment penalty of 5% of the tax due shall
be imposed. If no return is filed within the time or manner provided by the
controlling tax ordinance and prior to the village issuing a notice of tax
delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a failure to file penalty shall be
assessed equal to 25% of the total tax due for the applicable reporting period
for which the return was required to be filed. A late filing or payment penalty
shall not apply if a failure to file penalty is imposed by the controlling
ordinance.
   (L)   Abatement. The local tax administrator shall have the authority to
waive or abate any late filing penalty, late payment penalty or failure to file
penalty if the local tax administrator shall determine reasonable cause exists
for delay or failure to make a filing.
   (M)   Installment contracts. The village may enter into an installment
contract with the taxpayer for the payment of taxes under the controlling tax
ordinance. The local tax administrator may not cancel any installment contract
so entered unless the taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing. Upon
written notice by the local tax administrator that the payment is 30 days
delinquent, the taxpayer shall have 14 working days to cure any delinquency. If
the taxpayer fails to cure the delinquency within the 14-day period or fails to
demonstrate good faith in restructuring the installment contract with the local
administrator, the installment contract shall be cancelled without further
notice to the taxpayer.
   (N)   Statute of limitations. The village, through the local tax
administrator, shall review all tax returns in a prompt and timely manner and
inform taxpayers of any amounts due and owing. The taxpayer shall have 45 days
after receiving notice of the reviewed tax returns to make any request for
refund or provide any tax still due and owing.
      (1)   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than four
years after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later.
      (2)   If any tax return is not filed or if, during any four-year period
for which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the
village, the tax paid was less than 75% of the tax due, the statute of
limitations shall be six years maximum after the end of the calendar year in
which return for the applicable period was due or end of the calendar year in
which the return for the applicable period was filed.
      (3)   No statute of limitations shall not apply if a fraudulent tax
return was filed by the taxpayer.
   (O)   Voluntary disclosure. For any locally imposed and administered tax for
which a taxpayer has not received a written notice of an audit, investigation
or assessment from the local tax administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file
an application with the local tax administrator for a voluntary disclosure of
the tax due. A taxpayer filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to
pay the amount of tax due, along with interest of 1% per month, for all periods
prior to the filing of the application but not more than four years before the
date of filing the application. The taxpayer filing a valid voluntary
disclosure application may not be liable for any additional tax, interest or
penalty for any period before the date the application was filed. However, if
the taxpayer incorrectly determined and underpaid the amount of tax due, the
taxpayer is liable for the underpaid tax along with applicable interest on the
underpaid tax unless the underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of
the taxpayer, in which case the application shall be deemed invalid and void.
The payment of tax and interest must be made by no later than 90 days after the
filing of the voluntary disclosure application or the date agreed to by the
local tax administrator. However, any additional amounts owed as a result of an
underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under this division (O) must
be paid within 90 days after a final determination and the exhaustion of all
appeals of the additional amount owed or the date agreed to by the local tax
administrator, whichever is longer.
   (P)   Publication of tax ordinance. Any locally administered tax ordinance
shall be published via normal or standard publishing requirements. The posting
of a tax ordinance on the Internet shall satisfy the publication requirements.
Copies of all tax ordinances shall be made available to the public upon request
at the Village Clerk’s office.
   (Q)   Review procedure.
      (1)   The local tax administrator shall establish an internal review
procedure regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for unpaid taxes.
Upon a determination by the local tax administrator that the lien is valid, the
lien shall remain in full force and effect.
      (2)   If the lien is determined to be improper, the local tax
administrator shall:
         (a)   Timely remove the lien at the village’s expense;
         (b)   Correct the taxpayer’s credit report; and
         (c)   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien.
   (R)   Application. This section shall be liberally construed and
administered to supplement all of the village’s tax ordinances. To the extent
that any tax ordinance is in conflict with or inconsistent with this section,
this section shall be controlling.
(Ord. 00-12-02, passed 12-11-2000)
§ 37.31 MUNICIPAL GROCERY TAXES.
   (A)   Municipal Grocery Retailers’ Occupation Tax imposed. A tax is hereby
imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of selling groceries at retail
in this municipality at the rate of 1% of the gross receipts from such sales
made in the course of such business while this section is in effect. The
imposition of this tax is in accordance with and subject to provisions of
Section 8-11-24 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-24).
   (B)   Municipal Grocery Service Occupation Tax. A tax is hereby imposed upon
all persons engaged in this municipality in the business of making sales of
service, who, as an incident to making those sales of service, transfer
groceries as an incident to a sale of service. The rate of this tax shall be
the same rate identified in division (A) above. The imposition of this tax is
in accordance with and subject to the provisions of Section 8-11-24 of the
Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-24).
   (C)   Illinois Department of Revenue to administer both taxes. The taxes
hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be assessed as an incident
thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the Department of Revenue of the
State of Illinois. The Illinois Department of Revenue shall have full power to
administer and enforce the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 24-10-03, passed 10-22-2024)
FUNDS
§ 37.45 FUND FOR FRIENDS OF SOUTHERN VIEW PARK.
   (A)   The village owns and operates Southern View Park, which provides many
opportunities for village residents to enjoy the grounds, the lake, the
pavilions and all the amenities of the park.
   (B)   Several members of the community have asked if there is an opportunity
to make financial donations to the village for the purpose of maintaining the
park and adding to the opportunities for outdoor recreation offered at the
park.
   (C)   In order to provide that opportunity to assist the village in the
maintenance and expansion of the opportunities presented by the park, the Board
hereby authorizes the President and Treasurer to establish a Fund to be known
as the “Friends of Southern View Park” at Heartland Credit Union (also located
in the village). Contributions to the Fund will be tax deductible contributions
to the village, and the funds will be used as determined by the Village Board,
but will be dedicated to the maintenance and improvement of the park.
(Ord. 21-01-02, passed 1-26-2021)
§ 37.46 FUND FOR FRIENDS OF SOUTHERN VIEW POLICE.
   (A)   The village maintains a Police Department for the protection of the
residents and property of the village. That Department, through its dedicated
full- and part-time officers, provides full-time protection to the village. The
costs of maintaining that Department, and the officers and equipment to allow
the Department to operate continue to grow year and after year. The mandates
imposed by state and federal governments on local police departments have also
continued to increase, despite the lack of funding to fulfill those mandates.
   (B)   Several members of the community have asked if there is an opportunity
to make financial donations to the village for the purpose of purchasing
vehicles and equipment for the Police Department, to allow the Department to
continue to provide the excellent service to the village and its residents.
   (C)   In order to provide that opportunity to assist the village in
providing the best equipment to the Police Department, the Board hereby
authorizes the President and Treasurer to establish a Fund to be known as the
“Friends of Southern View Police” at Heartland Credit Union (also located in
the village). Contributions to the Fund will be tax deductible contributions to
the village, and the funds will be used as determined by the Village Board, but
will be dedicated to the improvement of the Police Department.
(Ord. 21-01-03, passed 1-26-2021)
§ 37.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any taxpayer who fails to make a return, who makes a fraudulent return
or who willfully violates any other provision of §
37.27 is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined
not less than $100 nor more than $200 and, in addition, shall be liable in a
civil action for the amount of tax due.
(65 ILCS 5/8-11-2)
(Prior Code, § 36.99) (Ord. 99-04-03, passed 4-12-1999)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   ELECTRICITY
      
51.   GARBAGE DISPOSAL
      
52.   SEWERS
      
53.   WATER CONSERVATION
CHAPTER 50: ELECTRICITY
Section
   
50.01   Purpose
   
50.02   Adoption of Electrical Code
   
50.03   Definitions
   
50.04   Modification
   
50.05   Administration and enforcement
   
50.06   Copies for inspection
§ 50.01 PURPOSE.
   The NFPA 70, National Electrical Code contains standards to safeguard
persons and property from hazards arising from the use of electricity. This
chapter is intended to adopt the code by reference in order to make it legally
enforceable in this municipality.
(Prior Code, § 50.01)
§ 50.02 ADOPTION OF ELECTRICAL CODE.
   As authorized by 65 ILCS 5/1-3-2, the most recent edition of the NFPA 70,
National Electrical Code, 2014, published by the National Fire Protection
Association, as amended from time to time, is adopted as the Electrical Code of
the village, as if fully set out in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 50.02)
§ 50.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CORPORATION COUNSEL or VILLAGE ATTORNEY. The Village Attorney.
   MUNICIPALITY or VILLAGE. The Village of Southern View, Illinois.
(Prior Code, § 50.03)
§ 50.04 MODIFICATION.
   The Trustee charged with the administration of this code shall have the
authority, with the ratification of the Village Board, to modify any section of
the Electrical Code. Modifications are only to be made when an application for
the same is made, in writing, by the owner or lessee of the property on which
the modification is to be made. Requests for modification shall be made and
accepted on the grounds that compliance with the letter of the code would be
impractical; however, any modification shall comply with the spirit of the code
in that the public safety is to be preserved.
(Prior Code, § 50.04)
§ 50.05 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The adopted Electrical Code shall be administered in all essential
respects as provided for in the adopted Building Code, being the 2018
International Building Code.
   (B)   The Administrator of this code shall be the Trustee charged with the
administration of the Building Code, being the 2018 International Building
Code.
(Prior Code, § 50.05)
§ 50.06 COPIES FOR INSPECTION.
   As required by state law, the Village Clerk is directed to keep at least
three copies of the adopted Electrical Code on file in his or her office for
public use, inspection and examination.
(Prior Code, § 50.06)
CHAPTER 51: GARBAGE DISPOSAL
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Removal required
   
51.03   Burning of garbage
   
51.04   Garbage receptacles required; location
   
51.05   Diffusion of waste material
   
51.06   Deposit of offensive matter prohibited
   
51.07   Burning combustible material regulated
   
51.08   Removal of garbage prior to collection
   
51.09   Tipping or removing garbage receptacle covers
   
51.10   Brush and weeds
   
51.11   Method of giving notice
   
51.12   Owner or tenant to pay costs
Garbage Hauling
   
51.25   Vehicles transporting garbage, rubbish or refuse
   
51.26   Time of collection
   
51.27   Obstruction of traffic
   
51.28   License required
   
51.29   License fee and display
Dumping of Rubbish
   
51.40   Dumping of garbage, rubbish
   
51.41   Dumping of weeds, limbs
   
51.42   Drainage and obstruction
 
   
51.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned Vehicles, see
Chapter 93
   Health and Sanitation; Nuisances, see
Chapter 91
   Sewers, see
Chapter 52
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASHES. The residue from the combustion of fuel used for heating.
   GARBAGE. All organic household or kitchen wastes, such as rejected or unused
food and food residue and paper necessarily used for wrapping.
   RUBBISH. Inorganic, incombustible household waste, such as tin cans,
metalware, bottles, broken glass, crockery, stoneware and similar refuse,
resulting from the regular operation of a household, and also includes
combustible material, such as papers, boxes, brush and leaves and any other
rubbish or waste resulting from the operation of a domestic or business
establishment, such as grass cuttings, tree trimmings, debris from building
construction, repair or remodeling, discarded equipment and similar waste.
(Prior Code, § 51.01) (Ord. 76-3, passed 8-9-1976)
§ 51.02 REMOVAL REQUIRED.
   The owner of any premises in the village shall remove from such premises or
otherwise dispose of all garbage, ashes, refuse and rubbish of every
description whatsoever at least once every week and shall keep such premises,
at all times, free and clear of any accumulation of garbage, ashes, refuse and
rubbish of every description whatsoever.
(Prior Code, § 51.02) (Ord. 76-3, passed 8-9-1976; Ord. 08-01-01, passed 1-14-
2008) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.03 BURNING OF GARBAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to burn or set fire
to, or cause to be burned or cause to be set fire, to any garbage, as defined
in §
51.01.
(Prior Code, § 51.03) (Ord. 76-3, passed 8-9-1976) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.04 GARBAGE RECEPTACLES REQUIRED; LOCATION.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every owner or his or her agent or the
occupant of any house, building, store or apartment where persons reside,
board, lodge or conduct business of any kind whatsoever, or where animal or
vegetable food is prepared or served, to provide for such house, building,
store or apartment, and at all times to maintain in good order and repair one
or more receptacles with caps or covers of a capacity sufficient to contain the
accumulations of such garbage and other materials for a period of at least
seven days.
   (B)   All receptacles for garbage, ashes and rubbish shall be placed outside
and to the rear of the residence or other main building. Such receptacles may
be moved adjacent to the street on days scheduled for collection of refuse, but
must be removed to the rear of such residence or other main building as soon as
possible after such collection is made.
(Prior Code, § 51.04) (Ord. 76-3, passed 8-9-1976) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05 DIFFUSION OF WASTE MATERIAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cast, place, sweep or deposit
anywhere within the corporate limits of the village any garbage, rubbish,
refuse or waste material in such a manner that it may be carried or deposited
by the sun, wind, rain or snow into or upon any street, sidewalk, alley, sewer,
parkway, stream or other public place or into any occupied premises.
(Prior Code, § 51.05) (Ord. 76-3, passed 8-9-1976) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.06 DEPOSIT OF OFFENSIVE MATTER PROHIBITED.
   No pile or deposit of manure, garbage or waste of any kind whatsoever, nor
accumulation of any offensive or nauseous substance, shall be made within the
corporate limits of the village, nor shall any person or corporation unload,
discharge or put upon or along the line of any railroad, street or highway or
public place within the village any manure, garbage or waste of any kind
whatsoever or other offensive or nauseous substance, nor shall any cars or
trucks loaded with or having in or upon them any such substance or substances
be allowed to remain or stand on or along any railroad, street or highway
within the corporate limits of the village.
(Prior Code, § 51.06) (Ord. 76-3, passed 8-9-1976) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.07 BURNING COMBUSTIBLE MATERIAL REGULATED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall hereafter burn or ignite any
combustible material within the corporate limits of the village unless such
material shall be burned in an incinerator that is sufficiently screened to
prevent the escape of ignited particles, soot and ashes; provided, however,
that this section shall not apply to the burning of leaves, which may be burned
upon the premises of the person burning same; provided, however, that all such
fires shall be carefully supervised and watched, at all times, by the person or
persons lighting the same so as to prevent the spread of fire or injuries to
person or property.
(Prior Code, § 51.07) (Ord. 76-3, passed 8-9-1976) Penalty, see §
51.99
Cross-reference:
   Restrictions on outdoor burning, see §
91.10
§ 51.08 REMOVAL OF GARBAGE PRIOR TO COLLECTION.
   The removal, without replacement, of garbage, refuse or waste material from
any can, container or other receptacle in which same is placed by any resident
of the village or by a public official or employee pending or awaiting its
collection and disposal is forbidden and declared to be a public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 51.08) (Ord. 76-3, passed 8-9-1976) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.09 TIPPING OR REMOVING GARBAGE RECEPTACLE COVERS.
   The tipping over of any can, container or receptacle provided by any
resident of the village, or by any public official or employee, for the
placement or storage of garbage, refuse or waste material or the removal of any
cap or cover therefrom without replacement in its original condition or
position is forbidden and is declared to be a public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 51.09) (Ord. 76-3, passed 8-9-1976) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.10 BRUSH AND WEEDS.
   (A)   Public nuisance. The presence upon land within the corporate limits of
the village of brush, weeds, dead and dying trees, stumps, roots, obnoxious
growth, filth, garbage, trash and debris is declared to be detrimental to
public health and is declared to be a public nuisance.
   (B)   Removal of brush and weeds required. The owner of land within the
corporate limits of the village is required to remove, or cause to be removed,
from such land any brush, weeds, dead and dying trees, stumps, roots, obnoxious
growth, filth, garbage, ashes, refuse, rubbish, trash and debris within seven
days after receipt by such owner or tenant of written notice from the Board of
Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 51.10) (Ord. 76-3, passed 8-9-1976; Ord. 08-01-01, passed 1-14-
2008; Ord. 10-08-01, passed 8-24-2010) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.11 METHOD OF GIVING NOTICE.
   (A)   Notice to the owner and tenant to cause the removal of the substance
referred to in §
51.10 shall be given by the Board of Trustees and may be served upon such owner
and tenant either personally or by registered or certified mail, and, if by the
latter method, the ten-day period from which such removal shall be accomplished
shall be deemed to run from the date of the return receipt of such registered
or certified mail obtained by the postal authority for the delivery of such
mail.
   (B)   Every such notice shall, in addition to requiring the removal
aforesaid, warn the owner and tenant of the land to which the notice refers
that failure to accomplish such removal within the time stated therein will
result in removal by or under the direction of the Board of Trustees, and the
cost of such removal by the village shall be charged to the owner of such land
and shall be payable to the village within 30 days after the date of submission
of the charges.
   (C)   In addition to the cost of removal, the Board of Trustees may assess a
penalty, pursuant to §
10.99. Each day in which the violation continues shall constitute a separate
and distinct offense for purposes of calculating the penalty amount.
(Prior Code, § 51.11) (Ord. 76-3, passed 8-9-1976; Ord. 08-01-01, passed 1-14-
2008) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.12 OWNER OR TENANT TO PAY COSTS.
   (A)   Whenever the owner and tenant of such land within the village,
receiving the notice provided for by §
51.11 to remove from such land any of the substances hereinbefore mentioned,
shall fail and neglect, within the time prescribed in the notice, to effect
removal of such substances, such removal shall be accomplished by or under the
direction of the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   An accurate record of the cost to the village of such removal shall be
determined by the Board of Trustees, who shall certify the cost thereof, and,
if found correct, shall cause the cost as shown thereon to be charged against
the owner.
(Prior Code, § 51.12) (Ord. 76-3, passed 8-9-1976; Ord. 08-01-01, passed 1-14-
2008)
GARBAGE HAULING
§ 51.25 VEHICLES TRANSPORTING GARBAGE, RUBBISH OR REFUSE.
   No garbage, rubbish or refuse of any kind shall be transported over any of
the streets or alleys in the village, except in vehicles so constructed so as
to prevent the dropping or falling of any part of the contents therefrom during
transportation. All vehicles used in the collection of garbage, rubbish or
refuse of any kind shall have a tight cover for that portion of the vehicle in
which the load is contained. Such cover may be of metal or canvas or similar
material and shall be so designed and constructed as to prevent odor from
escaping from the garbage and flies from entering that portion of the truck
where the garbage is contained. Such cover shall be closed at all times while
the vehicle is in transit anywhere within the limits of the village.
(Prior Code, § 51.25) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.26 TIME OF COLLECTION.
   No collection of garbage, rubbish or refuse of any kind shall be made upon
any of the streets or alleys in the village during the period from 6:00 p.m. to
7:00 a.m.
(Prior Code, § 51.26) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.27 OBSTRUCTION OF TRAFFIC.
   No vehicle used for the purpose of collection of garbage, rubbish or refuse
of any kind shall be parked or operated upon any of the streets or alleys in
the village in such a manner as to unduly obstruct or impede the vehicular or
pedestrian traffic.
(Prior Code, § 51.27) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.28 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall engage in the business of collecting or
transporting garbage, rubbish or refuse of any kind upon any of the streets or
alleys in the village without first obtaining an annual license from the
Village Clerk and paying the requisite fee therefor.
(Prior Code, § 51.28) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.29 LICENSE FEE AND DISPLAY.
   Any person desiring a license for the purpose of collecting garbage, rubbish
or refuse of any kind shall make a written application therefor upon a form
provided by the Village Clerk, and the application shall be accompanied by a
license fee in the amount of $15. All licenses shall be issued on forms
provided by the Village Clerk and shall be effective for a period of one year
from January 1 through December 31. All licenses shall be kept in the vehicles
used for collecting garbage, rubbish or refuse and shall be affixed to the
windshield and shall be available for inspection at all times when the vehicle
is in use in the village.
(Prior Code, § 51.29) (Ord. 74-1, passed 5-13-1974)
DUMPING OF RUBBISH
§ 51.40 DUMPING OF GARBAGE, RUBBISH.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, place, deposit, leave, cause
or permit to be thrown, placed, deposited or left any rubbish, filth or garbage
in or upon any portion of any street, alley or sidewalk within the limits of
the village.
(Prior Code, § 51.40) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.41 DUMPING OF WEEDS, LIMBS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, deposit, place, leave, cause
or permit to be thrown, placed, deposited or left any accumulation of cut
grass, cut weeds, tree leaves, tree limbs or similar matter in or upon any
portion of any street, alley or sidewalk or to burn the same in or upon any
portion of any street, alley or sidewalk; however, no person shall be required
to remove any natural accumulation of such matter.
(Prior Code, § 51.41) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.42 DRAINAGE AND OBSTRUCTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, place, deposit, leave, cause
or permit to be thrown, placed, deposited or left any object or any
accumulation of any matter of any kind in any street, alley, ditch, culvert or
storm sewer so as to interfere with or obstruct the drainage of surface water
within the village limits.
(Prior Code, § 51.42) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §§
51.01 through
51.12 shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by fine not to exceed $500.
Any such penalty shall be in addition to the costs of removing the substances
hereinbefore referred to from the land described in the notice given by the
Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 76-3, passed 8-9-1976)
CHAPTER 52: SEWERS
Section
   
52.01   Unlawful to connect to storm water drain
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01 UNLAWFUL TO CONNECT TO STORM WATER DRAIN.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to connect, or
cause to be connected, any drain carrying, or to carry, any toilet, sink,
septic tank, cesspool, industrial water or any fixture or device discharging
polluting substances to any storm water drain in the village.
(Prior Code, § 52.01) (Ord. 62-1, passed 3-12-1962) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating this chapter shall be fined not
less than $25, nor more than $200 for each offense, and a separate offense
shall be deemed committed for each and every day during which a violation
continues or exists.
(Ord. 62-1, passed 3-12-1962)
CHAPTER 53: WATER CONSERVATION
Section
   
53.01   Regulations
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      LANDSCAPE. Includes sodded and seeded lawns, gardens, trees, shrubs and
other living plants.
      PERMITTED HOURS OF WATER USE. A time period of 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 a.m.
and a time period of 7:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m.
   (B)   Landscape irrigation prohibited. The use of water from the City of
Springfield water supply for landscape irrigation by retail water service
customers is hereby prohibited, except for the following.
      (1)   Designated irrigation days.
         (a)   Irrigation utilizing individual sprinklers or sprinkler systems
for landscape is permitted during the following times:
 
Street Address Designated Day Permitted Hours of Water Use
Even number    Sunday         7:00 a.m. to 10:00 a.m.
                              and 7:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m.
Odd number     Saturday       7:00 a.m. to 10:00 a.m.
                              and 7:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m.
 
         (b)   Notwithstanding the above, irrigation of lawns, gardens,
landscaped areas, trees, shrubs or other plants is permitted at anytime, except
on Mondays, if:
            1.   A hand-held hose is used;
            2.   A hand-held, faucet-filled bucket of five gallons or less is
used; or
            3.   A drip irrigation system is used, which is a soaker-type hose
that when in use does not result in an aerial dissipation of water.
      (2)   Landscape permits. Upon issuance of a permit by the Village Clerk,
the following uses of water shall be permitted, except on Mondays:
         (a)   The watering of new landscape for no more than 21 consecutive
days during permitted hours of water use. The permit fee shall be $25; and
         (b)   The watering of landscape when required for chemical application
for no more than three consecutive days during permitted hours of water use.
The permit fee shall be $10.
      (3)   Commercial exceptions. The use of water is permitted for
irrigation, except on Mondays, by commercial nurseries, commercial sod farmers
and such similar landscape businesses during permitted hours of water use.
   (C)   Washing vehicles prohibited. The use of water from the City of
Springfield water supply for washing vehicles, including automobiles, trucks,
trailers, boats and other types of mobile equipment by retail water service
customers is hereby prohibited except for the following: washing vehicles on
designated days; the washing of vehicles and other types of mobile equipment on
designated weekend days during permitted hours of water use. Such washing shall
be done with a hand-held bucket or a handheld hose equipped with a positive
shutoff nozzle for quick rinses.
   (D)   Swimming pool restrictions. The use of water from the City of
Springfield water supply for swimming pools is hereby prohibited, except for
the following:
      (1)   Residential use. The refilling or adding of water to residential
swimming and/or wading pools on designated weekend days during permitted hours
of water use; or
      (2)   Commercial exception. The refilling or adding of water, except on
Mondays, to commercial or club swimming and/or wading pools; provided that
watering is conducted Tuesday through Sunday during permitted hours of water
use.
   (E)   Commercial and other water use restrictions. The following uses of
water shall be prohibited:
      (1)   Water used for street sweeping, routine sewer cleaning or flow
testing of hydrants, except where protection of the public health and safety
require;
      (2)   Water used to serve restaurant customers at any time except when
specifically requested by the customer;
      (3)   Water used for public and private building air conditioning systems
where the building temperature is maintained below 78°F whenever the cooling
system is operational. Buildings requiring cooler temperatures may be exempted
upon the approval of the Director of Public Utilities of the City of
Springfield;
      (4)   Water used for consolidation of backfill, dust control or other
nonessential uses associated with construction if suitable alternatives exist;
      (5)   Water used for irrigation on golf courses, except for the
irrigation of tees and greens between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
Notwithstanding this provision, golf courses shall reduce consumption of water
for irrigation by 50% during the effective period of this section; and
      (6)   Monday is designated as a “dry day” during which all outdoor water
use that may otherwise be permitted is prohibited as provided in this chapter.
   (F)   Waste of water prohibited.
      (1)   Generally. The following uses of water are defined as WASTE of
water, and are prohibited:
         (a)   Allowing water to run off to a gutter, ditch or drain during
irrigation;
         (b)   Failure to repair a controllable leak within a customer’s
property;
         (c)   Washing buildings, sidewalks, driveways, parking areas, tennis
courts, patios or other paved areas, except to alleviate immediate fire
hazards; and
         (d)   Operation of any ornamental fountain or other structure making
similar use of water. The use of treated water to fill, refill or maintain the
level of any fountain is prohibited.
      (2)   Commercial exceptions.
         (a)   The use of water to clean buildings by a commercial cleaning
business is permitted upon issuance of a permit from the Village Clerk.
         (b)   The permit fee shall be $10.
(Prior Code, § 53.01) (Ord. 88-8-3, passed 8-18-1988) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine of $50 per
occurrence for the first offense, and $100 per occurrence for the second
offense, and $500 per occurrence for any third or subsequent offense.
(Prior Code, § 53.99) (Ord. 88-8-3, passed 8-18-1988)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   RULES OF OPERATION
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   MOTORCYCLES AND BICYCLES
      
74.   PEDESTRIANS
      
75.   EQUIPMENT; LOADS
      
76.   MOTOR VEHICLE OFFENSES
      
77.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Scene of fire
   
70.03   Signs and signals
   
70.04   Exemptions
   
70.05   Through streets
   
70.06   One-way streets or alleys
   
70.07   Stop streets
   
70.08   Posting signs
   
70.09   Arrests
   
70.10   Tickets
Obedience to and Effect of Traffic Laws
   
70.25   Obedience to police officers
   
70.26   Public officers and employees to obey traffic code; exceptions
   
70.27   Traffic laws apply to persons riding animals or driving animal-drawn
vehicles
   
70.28   Fleeing or attempting to elude police officer
Traffic Signs, Signals and Markings
   
70.40   Obedience to traffic-control devices
   
70.41   Traffic-control signal legend
   
70.42   Pedestrian-control signals
   
70.43   Lane-control signals
   
70.44   Flashing signals
   
70.45   Display of unauthorized signs, signals, markings or advertising signs
   
70.46   Interference with official traffic-control devices or railroad signs or
signals
   
70.47   Unlawful use or damage to highways, appurtenances and structures
   
70.48   Unlawful possession of highway sign or marker
   
70.49   Zones of quiet
   
70.50   No-turning signs and turning markers
   
70.51   Stop and yield signs
   
70.52   Location of village traffic-control signs
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A public way within a block, generally giving access to the rear of
lots or buildings, and not used for general traffic circulation.
(625 ILCS 5/1-102)
   ARTERIAL STREET. Any United States or state numbered route, controlled-
access highway or other major radial or circumferential street or highway
designated by local authorities within their respective jurisdictions as part
of a major arterial system of streets or highways.
(70 ILCS 1205/3-9)
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Emergency vehicles of municipal departments or
public service corporations as are designated or authorized by proper state,
county, or local authorities; police vehicles; vehicles of the Fire Department;
vehicles of a HazMat or technical rescue team authorized by a county board
under 55 ILCS 5/5-1127; ambulances; vehicles of the State Emergency Management
Agency; mine rescue and explosives emergency response vehicles of the
Department of Natural Resources; vehicles of the State Department of Public
Health; and vehicles of a municipal or county emergency services and disaster
agency, as defined by the Illinois Emergency Management Act, 20 ILCS 3305/1 et
seq.
(625 ILCS 5/1-105)
   BICYCLE. Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may
ride, having two tandem wheels, except scooters and similar devices.
(625 ILCS 5/1-106)
   BUS. Every motor vehicle, other than a commuter van, designed for carrying
more than ten persons.
(625 ILCS 5/1-107)
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway when
within 600 feet along the highway there are buildings in use for business or
industrial purposes, including, but not limited to, hotels, banks or office
buildings, railroad stations and public buildings which occupy at least 300
feet of frontage on one side, or 300 feet collectively on both sides of the
highway.
(625 ILCS 5/1-108)
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Any vehicle operated for the transportation of persons
or property in the furtherance of any commercial or industrial enterprise, for-
hire or not-for-hire, but not including a commuter van, a vehicle used in a
ridesharing arrangement when being used for that purpose or a recreational
vehicle not being used commercially.
(625 ILCS 5/1-111.8)
   CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY. Every highway, street or roadway in respect to
which owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal
right of access to or from the same, except at such points only and in such
manner as may be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over
the highway, street or roadway.
(625 ILCS 5/1-112)
   CROSSWALK.
      (1)   That part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
highway measured from the curbs or, in the absence of curbs, from the edges of
the traversable roadway, and in the absence of a sidewalk on one side of a
highway, that part of the highway included within the extension of the lateral
line of the existing sidewalk to the side of the highway without the sidewalk,
with the extension forming a right angle to the centerline of the highway.
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface,
placed in accordance with the provisions in the manual adopted by the
Department of Transportation, as authorized in 625 ILCS 5/11-301.
(625 ILCS 5/1-113)
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
(625 ILCS 5/1-116)
   ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE. A self-balancing, two non-
tandem wheeled device designed to transport only one person with an electric
propulsion system that limits the maximum speed of the device to 15 mph or
less.
(625 ILCS 5/1-117.7)
   FARM TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily as a farm
implement for drawing wagons, plows, mowing machines and other implements of
husbandry, and every implement of husbandry which is self-propelled.
(625 ILCS 5/1-120)
   FIRE DEPARTMENT VEHICLE. Any vehicle, bicycle or electric personal assistive
mobility device that is designated or authorized by proper local authorities
for Fire Department use.
(625 ILCS 5/1-120.7)
   GROSS WEIGHT. The weight of a vehicle, whether operated singly or in
combination, without load, plus the weight of the load thereon.
(625 ILCS 5/1-125)
   HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular travel or located on public school property.
(625 ILCS 5/1-126)
   IMPLEMENT OF HUSBANDRY. Every vehicle designed and adapted exclusively for
agricultural, horticultural or livestock raising operations, including farm
wagons, wagon trailers or like vehicles used in connection therewith, or for
lifting or carrying an implement of husbandry; provided that no farm wagon,
wagon trailer or like vehicle having a gross weight of more than 36,000 pounds,
shall be included hereunder.
(625 ILCS 5/1-130)
   IMPROVED HIGHWAY. Any roadway of concrete, brick, asphalt, macadam and
crushed stone, or gravel.
(625 ILCS 5/1-131)
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two highways which join one another at, or approximately at, right
angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different roadways
joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
      (2)   Where a highway includes two roadways 40 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of each roadway of the divided highway by an intersecting
highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection.
      (3)   The junction of an alley with a street or highway does not
constitute an intersection.
(625 ILCS 5/1-132)
   LANE-CONTROL SIGNAL. An official traffic-control device consisting of an
electrically controlled and illuminated signal of a square or rectangular
design, and employing distinctive colors or symbols used to control the
direction of vehicular flow on the particular lane to which the indication
applies.
(625 ILCS 5/1-135)
   LANED ROADWAY. A roadway which is divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
(625 ILCS 5/1-136)
   LEASE. A written document vesting exclusive possession, use, control and
responsibility of the lessee during the periods the vehicle is operated by or
for the lessee for a specific period of time.
(625 ILCS 5/1-137)
   LICENSE TO DRIVE. Any driver’s license or any other license or permit to
operate a motor vehicle issued under the laws of this state, including:
      (1)   Any temporary license or instruction permit;
      (2)   The privilege of any person to drive a motor vehicle, whether or
not the person holds a valid license or permit; and
      (3)   Any non-resident’s driving privilege as defined herein.
(625 ILCS 5/1-138)
   LIMOUSINE. Any privately-owned first division vehicle intended to be used
for the transportation of persons for-hire when the payment is not based on a
meter charge but is prearranged for a designated destination.
(625 ILCS 5/1-139.1)
   LOCAL AUTHORITIES. Every county, city, village and other local board or body
having authority to enact laws relating to traffic under the constitution and
laws of this state and each road district Highway Commissioner having that
authority.
(625 ILCS 5/1-140)
   LOW-SPEED ELECTRIC BICYCLE. Has the same meaning ascribed to it by § 38 of
the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. § 2085).
(625 ILCS 5/1-140.10)
   LOW-SPEED GAS BICYCLE. A two-wheeled or three-wheeled device with fully
operable pedals and a gasoline motor of less than one horsepower or 15 cubic
centimeter displacement that is operated at speeds of less than 20 miles per
hour.
(625 ILCS 5/1-140.15)
   MAIL. To deposit in the United States mail, properly addressed and with
postage prepaid.
(625 ILCS 5/1-141)
   MOPED. A motor-driven cycle, with or without optional power derived from
manually operated pedals, whose speed attainable in one mile is at least 20 mph
but not greater than 30 mph, and is equipped with a motor that produces two
brake horsepower or less. If an internal combustion engine is used, the
displacement shall not exceed 50 cubic centimeter displacement and the power
drive system shall not require the operator to shift gears.
(625 ILCS 5/1-148.2)
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which
is propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but not
operated upon rails, except for vehicles moved solely by human power, motorized
wheelchairs, low-speed electric bicycles and low-speed gas bicycles. For this
section, MOTOR VEHICLES are divided into two divisions:
      (1)   First division: MOTOR VEHICLES designed for carrying not more than
ten persons; and
      (2)   Second division: MOTOR VEHICLES designed for carrying more than ten
persons, those designed or used for living quarters, and those motor vehicles
which are designed for pulling or carrying freight or cargo, and those motor
vehicles of the first division remodeled for use and used as MOTOR VEHICLES of
the second division.
(625 ILCS 5/1-146)
   MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLE. Every motorcycle and every motor scooter with less than
150 cubic centimeter piston displacement, including motorized pedalcycles.
(625 ILCS 5/1-145.001)
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of the
rider and designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the
ground, but excluding a tractor.
(625 ILCS 5/1-147)
   MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIR. Any self-propelled vehicle, including a three-wheeled
vehicle, designed for and used by a person with disabilities, that is incapable
of a speed in excess of eight mph on level ground.
(625 ILCS 5/1-148.3)
   MULTIFUNCTION SCHOOL ACTIVITY BUS (MFSAB). A school bus manufactured for the
purpose of transporting 11 to 15 persons, including the driver, whose purposes
do not include transporting students to and from home or school bus stops. A
MFSAB is prohibited from meeting the special requirements for school buses in
625 ILCS 5/12-801, 12-802(a), 12-803 and 12-805.
(625 ILCS 5/1-148.3a-5)
   NONCOMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Any vehicle that is not a commercial vehicle.
(625 ILCS 5/1-148.6)
   NOT-FOR-HIRE. Operation of a commercial vehicle in furtherance of any
commercial or industrial enterprise, but not-for-hire.
(625 ILCS 5/1-153)
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, markings and devices
which conform with the state manual, and not inconsistent with this title,
placed or erected by authority of a public body or official having
jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating, warning or guiding traffic.
(625 ILCS 5/1-154)
   OWNER. A person who holds legal title of a motor vehicle, or in the event a
motor vehicle is the subject of an agreement for the conditional sale or lease
thereof with the right of purchase upon performance of the conditions stated in
the agreement, and with an immediate right of possession vested in the
conditional vendee or lessee, or in the event a mortgagor of the motor vehicle
is entitled to possession, then the conditional vendee or lessee or mortgagor
shall be deemed the owner for the purpose of this title.
(625 ILCS 5/1-155)
   PARK or PARKING. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than when temporarily and actually engaged in loading or unloading
merchandise or passengers.
(625 ILCS 5/1-156)
   PARKWAY. The portion of a dedicated public street between the sidewalk and
the curb of the street, but if there shall be no sidewalk or curb constructed
on a street, then the term PARKWAY shall include the space between the lot line
and the surfaced portion of the roadway on any street.
   PASSENGER CAR. A motor vehicle of the first division, including a
multipurpose passenger vehicle, that is designed for carrying not more than ten
persons.
(625 ILCS 5/1-157)
   PEACE OFFICER. Any person who, by virtue of his or her public employment, is
vested by law with a duty to maintain public order or to make arrests for
offenses, whether that duty extends to all offenses or is limited to specific
offenses.
(625 ILCS 5/1-157.5)
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot or wearing in-line speed skates or riding a
skaeboard, including a person with a physical, hearing or visual disability.
(625 ILCS 5/1-158)
   PERSON WITH DISABILITIES. A natural person who, as determined by a licensed
physician, by a physician assistant who has been delegated the authority to
make this determination by his or her supervising physician or by an advanced
practice nurse who has a written collaborative agreement with a collaborating
physician that authorizes the advanced practice nurse to make this
determination:
      (1)   Cannot walk without the use of, or assistance from, a brace, cane,
crutch, another person, prosthetic device, wheelchair or other assistive
device;
      (2)   Is restricted by lung disease to such an extent that his or her
forced (respiratory) expiratory volume for one second, when measured by
spirometry, is less than one liter, or the arterial oxygen tension is less than
60 mm/hg on room air at rest;
      (3)   Uses portable oxygen;
      (4)   Has a cardiac condition to the extent that the person’s functional
limitations are classified in severity as Class III or Class IV, according to
standards set by the American Heart Association;
      (5)   Is severely limited in the person’s ability to walk due to an
arthritic, neurological or orthopedic condition;
      (6)   Cannot walk 200 feet without stopping to rest because of one of the
above five conditions; or
      (7)   Is missing a hand or arm or has permanently lost the use of a hand
or arm.
(625 ILCS 5/1-159.1)
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic, or
to make arrests and issue citations for violations of traffic regulations.
(625 ILCS 5/1-162)
   POLICE VEHICLE. Any vehicle, bicycle or electric personal assistive mobility
device that is designated or authorized by proper state, county, or local
authorities for police use.
(625 ILCS 5/1-162.3)
   PRINCIPAL PLACE OF BUSINESS. The place where any person transacts his or her
principal business, or where he or she makes up and approves his or her
payroll, maintains a central file of records and maintains his or her principal
executive offices. In the event that not all of these functions are performed
in one place, then that place where a majority of these functions are
performed, or the place where the person does in fact principally transact and
control his or her business affairs, shall be considered as the PRINCIPAL PLACE
OF BUSINESS.
(625 ILCS 5/1-162.5)
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private ownership, and used
for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied
permission from the owner, but not by other persons.
(625 ILCS 5/1-163)
   RAILROAD. A carrier of persons or property upon cars, other than streetcars,
operated upon stationary rails.
(625 ILCS 5/1-166)
   RAILROAD-HIGHWAY GRADE CROSSING. The intersection of stationary rails owned
or used in the operation of a railroad corporation across a highway.
(625 ILCS 5/1-166.1)
   RAILROAD SIGNS OR SIGNAL. Any sign, signal or device, other than an official
traffic- control signal or device, erected in accordance with the laws
governing the same and intended to give notice of the presence of railroad
tracks or the approach of a railroad train or railroad track equipment.
(625 ILCS 5/1-167)
   RAILROAD TRACK EQUIPMENT. All vehicles operated upon rails for the purpose
of the maintenance of railroads, including, but not limited to, all hi-rail
vehicles and on-track roadway maintenance machines, as defined in 49 C.F.R.
Part 214.7.
(625 ILCS 5/1-167.5)
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine, electric or other motor, with or without
cars coupled thereto, operated upon rails, except streetcars.
(625 ILCS 5/1-168)
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Every camping trailer, motor home, mini motor home,
travel trailer, truck camper or van camper used primarily for recreational
purposes, and not used commercially nor owned by a commercial business.
(625 ILCS 5/1-169)
   REGISTRATION. The registration certificate or certificates and registration
plates issued under the laws of this state pertaining to the registration of
vehicles.
(625 ILCS 5/1-171)
   REGISTRATION STICKER. A device to be attached to a registration plate that
will renew the registration and registration plate or plates for a
predetermined period, not to exceed one registration year.
(625 ILCS 5/1-171)
   REMOVE. Includes removing, defacing, covering or destroying.
   RESCUE SQUAD. A voluntary association of individuals, or a Fire Department,
dedicated to saving lives through the rescue of persons entrapped in wrecked
vehicles or other hazardous circumstances, and associated with some unit of
government.
(625 ILCS 5/1-171.6)
   RESCUE VEHICLE. Any publicly- or privately-owned vehicle which is
specifically designed, configured and equipped for the performance of access
and extrication of persons from hazardous or life-endangering situations, as
well as for the emergency transportation of persons who are sick, injured,
wounded or otherwise incapacitated or helpless.
(625 ILCS 5/1-171.8)
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
      (1)   The territory contiguous to and including a highway, not comprising
a business district, when the property on the highway for a distance of 300
feet or more is in the main improved with residences or residences and
buildings in use for business.
      (2)   For purposes of establishing maximum speed limits, a RESIDENCE
DISTRICT shall be at least a quarter of a mile long with residences or
residences and buildings in use for businesses spaced no more than 500 feet
apart.
(625 ILCS 5/1-172)
   RETAIL SALE. The act, or attempted act, of selling vehicles or otherwise
disposing of a vehicle to a person for use as a consumer.
(625 ILCS 5/1-174)
   REVOCATION OF DRIVER’S LICENSE. The termination by formal action of the
Secretary of a person’s license or privilege to operate a motor vehicle on the
public highways, which termination shall not be subject to renewal or
restoration, except that an application for a new license may be presented and
acted upon by the Secretary after the expiration of at least one year after the
date of revocation.
(625 ILCS 5/1-176)
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The right of one vehicle or pedestrian to proceed in a lawful
manner in preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching under such
circumstances of direction, speed and proximity as to give rise to danger of
collision unless one grants precedence to the other.
(625 ILCS 5/1-177)
   ROAD TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used for drawing other
vehicles, and not so constructed as to carry any load thereon, either
independently or any part of the weight of a vehicle or load so drawn.
(625 ILCS 5/1-178)
   ROADWAY. The portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event a highway
includes two or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY as used herein shall
refer to any such roadway separately, but not to all the ROADWAYS collectively.
(625 ILCS 5/1-179)
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians, and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible, at all times, while set
apart as a SAFETY ZONE.
(625 ILCS 5/1-181)
   SCHOOL BUS.
      (1)   Every motor vehicle, except as provided in division (2) below,
owned or operated by or for any of the following entities for the
transportation of persons regularly enrolled as students in grade 12 or below
in connection with any activity of the entity:
         (a)   A public or private primary or secondary school;
         (b)   A primary or secondary school operated by a religious
institution; or
         (c)   Any public, private or religious nursery school.
      (2)   This definition does not include the following:
         (a)   A bus operated by a public utility, village corporation or
common carrier authorized to conduct local or interurban transportation of
passengers when the bus is not traveling a specific school bus route but is:
            1.   On a regularly scheduled route for the transportation of other
fare- paying passengers;
            2.   Furnishing charter service for the transportation of groups on
field trips or other special trips or in connection with special events; or
            3.   Being used for shuttle service between attendance centers or
other educational facilities.
         (b)   A motor vehicle of the First Division; or
         (c)   A multi-function school-activity bus.
(625 ILCS 5/1-182)
   SEMITRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power, other than a pole trailer,
designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a motor
vehicle, and so constructed its weight and that of its load rests upon or is
carried by another vehicle.
(625 ILCS 5/1-187)
   SHOULDER. The portion of the highway adjacent to the roadway for
accommodating stopped vehicles or for emergency use.
(625 ILCS 5/1-187.1)
   SIDEWALK. That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of roadway and the adjacent property lines, intended for use of
pedestrians.
(625 ILCS 5/1-188)
   SPEED-CHANGE LANE. An auxiliary lane, including tapered areas, primarily for
the acceleration or deceleration of vehicles entering or leaving the through
traffic lanes.
(625 ILCS 5/1-193)
   STAND or STANDING. The halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than when temporarily and actually engaged in receiving or
discharging passengers.
(625 ILCS 5/1-194)
   STATE. A state, territory or possession of the United States, the District
of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico or a province of the Dominion of
Canada.
(625 ILCS 5/1-195)
   STATE HIGHWAYS. Defined in the Illinois Highway Code as the same may, from
time to time, be amended.
(625 ILCS 5/1-196)
   STATE POLICE. The Illinois State Police.
(625 ILCS 5/1-197)
   STOP. The complete cessation from movement.
(625 ILCS 5/1-199)
   STOP or STOPPING. Any halting, even momentarily, of a vehicle, whether
occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or
in compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic-control sign
or signal.
(625 ILCS 5/1-200)
   STREET. The entire width between boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular travel.
(625 ILCS 5/1-201)
   SUBURBAN DISTRICT. The portion of any city, village or incorporated town,
other than the business and residence districts.
(625 ILCS 5/1-203)
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. Every highway or portion thereof on which vehicular traffic
is given preferential right-of-way, and at the entrances to which vehicular
traffic from intersecting highways is required by law to yield the right-of-way
to vehicles on the through highway in obedience to either a stop sign or a
yield sign, when those signs are erected as provided in this title.
(625 ILCS 5/1-205)
   TOW TRUCK. Every truck designed or altered and equipped for and used to
push, tow or draw vehicles by means of a crane, hoist, towbar, towline or
auxiliary axle, or to render assistance to disabled vehicles, except for any
truck tractor temporarily converted to a tow truck by means of a portable
wrecker unit attached to the fifth wheel of the truck tractor and used only by
the owner to tow a disabled vehicle also owned by him or her and never used for
hire.
(625 ILCS 5/1-205.1)
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars and
other conveyances either singly or together while using any highway for
purposes of travel.
(625 ILCS 5/1-207)
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL. Any official traffic-control device other than a
railroad sign or signal, whether manually, electrically or mechanically
operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and permitted to
proceed.
(625 ILCS 5/1-208)
   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS. Any provision of this code or other regulatory
ordinance the purpose of which is to directly control or improve traffic and
safety of both vehicles and pedestrians.
   TRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power in operation, other than a pole
trailer, designed for carrying persons or property, and for being drawn by a
motor vehicle, and so constructed that no part of its weight rests upon the
towing vehicle.
(625 ILCS 5/1-209)
   TRAVEL TRAILER. A trailer, not used commercially, designed to provide living
quarters for recreational, camping or travel use, and of a size or weight not
requiring an over-dimension permit when towed on a highway.
(625 ILCS 5/1-210.01)
   TRUCK. Every motor vehicle designed, used or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property.
(625 ILCS 5/1-211)
   TRUCK CAMPER. A truck, not used commercially, when equipped with a portable
unit designed to be loaded onto the bed which is constructed to provide
temporary living quarters for recreational, travel or camping use.
(625 ILCS 5/1-211.01)
   TRUCK TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing
other vehicles, and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a part of
the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn.
(625 ILCS 5/1-212)
   URBAN AREA. An urban area is any incorporated or unincorporated area
developed primarily for residential or business purposes.
(625 ILCS 5/1-214.8)
   URBAN DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including any street which
is built up with structures devoted to business, industry or dwelling houses,
and situated at intervals of less than 100 feet for a distance of one-quarter
mile or more.
(625 ILCS 5/1-214)
   VEHICLE.
      (1)   Every device, in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway or requiring a certificate of title
under 625 ILCS 5/3-101(d), except devices moved by human power, devices used
exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks and snowmobiles, as defined in the
Snowmobile Registration and Safety Act (625 ILCS 40).
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, unless otherwise prescribed, a
device shall be considered to be a VEHICLE until such time it either comes
within the definition of a JUNK VEHICLE, as defined under this section, or a
junking certificate is issued for it.
      (3)   For this section, VEHICLES are divided into two divisions:
         (a)   First division: those motor VEHICLES which are designed for the
carrying of not more than ten persons; and
         (b)   Second division: those VEHICLES which are designed for carrying
more than ten persons; those designed or used for living quarters; those which
are designed for pulling or carrying property, freight or cargo; those VEHICLES
of the first division remodeled for use and used as VEHICLES of the second
division; and those VEHICLES of the first division used and registered as
school buses.
(625 ILCS 5/1-217)
(Prior Code, § 70.01) (Ord. 64-2, passed 6-8-1964)
§ 70.02 SCENE OF FIRE.
   The Fire Department officer in command, or any firefighter designated by him
or her, may exercise the powers and authority of a police officer in directing
traffic at the scene of any fire or where the Fire Department has responded to
an emergency call for so long as Fire Department equipment is on the scene, in
the absence of or in assisting the police.
(Prior Code, § 70.02)
§ 70.03 SIGNS AND SIGNALS.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
instructions of any traffic sign or signal placed in view by authority of the
Village Board or in accordance with the laws of the state, except on direction
of a police officer. All signs and signals established by direction of the
governing body shall conform to the state’s Manual of Uniform Traffic Control
Devices for Streets and Highways.
(Prior Code, § 70.03) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this title regulating the movement or parking of
vehicles shall not apply to the driver of any authorized emergency vehicle when
responding to an emergency call, but such driver, upon approaching a red or
stop signal or any stop sign, shall slow down as necessary for safety but may
proceed cautiously past such red or stop sign or signal. At other times,
drivers of authorized emergency vehicles shall stop in obedience to a stop sign
or signal.
   (B)   No driver of any authorized emergency vehicle shall assume any special
privileges under the act, except when such vehicle is operated in response to
an emergency call or in the immediate pursuit of an actual or suspected
violator of the law.
   (C)   The provisions of this title regulating the movement and parking of
vehicles shall not apply to equipment or vehicles while actively engaged in
installing, repairing or otherwise improving streets or street pavement.
(Prior Code, § 70.04)
§ 70.05 THROUGH STREETS.
   (A)   The streets and parts of streets of the village designated by
ordinance as through streets are declared to be through streets.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle shall stop at the entrance to a through street
and shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles which have entered the
intersection or which are approaching so close on a through street as to
constitute an immediate hazard unless directed otherwise by the traffic officer
or a traffic-control signal.
(Prior Code, § 70.05)
§ 70.06 ONE-WAY STREETS OR ALLEYS.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle on any street or alley
designated as a one-way street or alley by ordinance in any direction other
than that so designated.
(Prior Code, § 70.06) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.07 STOP STREETS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall stop in obedience to a stop sign at an
intersection where a stop sign is erected at one or more entrances thereto and
shall proceed cautiously yielding to the vehicles not so obliged to stop which
are within the intersection or approaching so close as to constitute an
immediate hazard unless traffic at such intersection is controlled by a police
officer on duty, in which event the directions of the police officer shall be
complied with.
(Prior Code, § 70.07)
§ 70.08 POSTING SIGNS.
   The Chief of Police, or any other person designated by the President or
Village Board, shall post, or cause to be posted, suitable signs for all such
through streets, one-way streets or alleys and stop intersections.
(Prior Code, § 70.08)
§ 70.09 ARRESTS.
   Any person arrested for a violation of any provision of this title shall be
released upon proper bail being furnished as required by statute.
(Prior Code, § 70.09)
§ 70.10 TICKETS.
   For offenses other than driving while intoxicated or reckless driving,
police officers, after making note of the license number of the vehicle (and
name of the offender where possible), may issue a traffic violation ticket
notifying the offender to appear in court at the time designated for hearing
such cases. Such officer may sign a complaint for the issuance of a warrant if
the offender does not appear at the time and place so specified.
(Prior Code, § 70.10)
OBEDIENCE TO AND EFFECT OF TRAFFIC LAWS
§ 70.25 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE OFFICERS.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of any police officer, firefighter or school crossing guard invested
by law with authority to direct, control or regulate traffic.
(Prior Code, § 70.25) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-203
§ 70.26 PUBLIC OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES TO OBEY TRAFFIC CODE; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this traffic code applicable to the drivers of
vehicles upon the highways shall apply to the drivers of all vehicles owned or
operated by the United States, this state or any county, city, town, district
or any other political subdivision of the state, except as provided in this
section, and subject to specific exceptions as set forth in this title with
reference to authorized emergency vehicles.
   (B)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call, or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of
the law, or when responding to but not upon returning from a fire alarm, may
exercise the privileges set forth in this section, but subject to the
conditions herein stated.
   (C)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
      (1)   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this traffic code;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be required and necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as he or she does not
endanger life or property; and
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing the direction of movement or
turning in specified directions.
   (D)   The exceptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle,
other than a police vehicle, shall apply only when the vehicle is making use of
either an audible signal when in motion, or visual signals meeting the
requirements of 625 ILCS 5/12-215.
   (E)   The foregoing provisions do not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty of driving with due regard for the safety of
all persons, nor do these provisions protect the driver from the consequences
of his or her reckless disregard for the safety of others.
   (F)   Unless specifically made applicable, the provisions of this traffic
code shall not apply to persons, motor vehicles and equipment while actually
engaged in work upon the highway, but shall apply to such persons and vehicles
when traveling to or from work.
(Prior Code, § 70.26) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-205
§ 70.27 TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY TO PERSONS RIDING ANIMALS OR DRIVING ANIMAL-DRAWN
VEHICLES.
   Every person riding an animal or driving an animal-drawn vehicle upon a
roadway shall be granted all of the rights, and shall be subject to all of the
duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by this chapter, except those
provisions of this chapter which by their very nature can have no application.
(Prior Code, § 70.27) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-206
§ 70.28 FLEEING OR ATTEMPTING TO ELUDE POLICE OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any driver or operator of a motor vehicle who,
having been given a visual or audible signal by a police officer directing the
driver or operator to bring his or her vehicle to a stop, willfully fails or
refuses to obey that direction, increases his or her speed, extinguishes his or
her lights or otherwise flees or attempts to elude the officer. The signal
given by the police officer may be by hand, voice, siren or a red or blue
light. However, the officer giving the signal shall be in police uniform and,
if driving a vehicle, the vehicle shall be marked showing it to be an official
police vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 70.28) Penalty, see §
70.99
TRAFFIC SIGNS, SIGNALS AND MARKINGS
§ 70.40 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic-control device in accordance with this chapter, unless otherwise
directed by a police officer, subject to the exceptions granted the driver of
an authorized emergency vehicle in this traffic code.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to leave the roadway and travel across
private property to avoid an official traffic-control device.
   (C)   No provision of this traffic code, for which official traffic-control
devices are required, shall be enforced against an alleged violator if, at the
time and place of the alleged violation, an official device is not in proper
position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person.
Whenever a particular section does not state that official traffic-control
devices are required, the section shall be effective even though no devices are
erected or in place.
   (D)   Whenever any official traffic-control device is placed or held in
position approximately conforming to the requirements of this traffic code, the
device shall be presumed to have been so placed or held by the official act or
direction of lawful authority, and comply with the requirements of this traffic
code unless the contrary shall be established by competent evidence.
   (E)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a traffic-control signal on which
no signal light facing the vehicle is illuminated shall stop before entering
the intersection, in accordance with rules applicable in making a stop at a
stop sign.
(Prior Code, § 70.40) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-305
§ 70.41 TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting
different colored lights or color lighted arrows, successively one at a time or
in combination, only the colors green, red and yellow shall be used, except for
special pedestrian signals carrying a word legend, and the lights shall
indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles and pedestrians as follows.
   (A)   Green indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a circular green signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at that place prohibits
either turn. Vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left, shall
yield the right-of-way to other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the
intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the time such signal is exhibited.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a green arrow signal, shown alone or in
combination with another indication, may cautiously enter the intersection only
to make the movement indicated by the arrow, or such other movement as is
permitted by other indications shown at the same time. This vehicular traffic
shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within an adjacent
crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (3)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal, as
provided in §
70.42, pedestrians facing any green signal, except when the sole green signal
is a turn arrow, may proceed across the roadway within any marked or unmarked
crosswalk.
   (B)   Steady yellow indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow
signal is thereby warned that the related green movement is being terminated or
that a red indication will be exhibited immediately thereafter.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow signal,
unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal as provided in §
70.42, are thereby advised that there is insufficient time to cross the roadway
before a red indication is shown, and no pedestrian shall then start to cross
the roadway.
   (C)   Steady red indication.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(3) below, vehicular traffic
facing a steady circular red signal alone shall stop at a clearly marked stop
line, but if there is no such stop line, before entering the crosswalk on the
near side of the intersection; or if there is no such crosswalk, then before
entering the intersection; and shall remain standing until an indication to
proceed is shown.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (C)(3) below, vehicular traffic
facing a steady red arrow signal shall not enter the intersection to make the
movement indicated by the arrow and, unless entering the intersection to make a
movement permitted by another signal, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line,
but if there is no such stop line, before entering the crosswalk on the near
side of the intersection, or if there is no such crosswalk, then before
entering the intersection; and shall remain standing until an indication
permitting the movement indicated by the red arrow is shown.
      (3)   Except when a sign is in place prohibiting a turn and the village
authorities by ordinance or state authorities by rule or regulation prohibit
any such turn, vehicular traffic facing any steady red signal may cautiously
enter the intersection to turn right, or to turn left from a one-way street
into a one-way street, after stopping as required by divisions (C)(1) or (C)(2)
above. After stopping, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle
in the intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to
constitute an immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or
within the intersection or junction or roadways. The driver shall yield the
right-of-way to pedestrians within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk.
      (4)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal as
provided in §
70.42, pedestrians facing a steady circular red or red arrow signal alone shall
not enter the roadway.
   (E)   Non-intersection. In the event an official traffic-control signal is
erected and maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of
this section shall be applicable except as to provisions which by their nature
can have no application. Any stop required shall be at a traffic sign or a
marking on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made or, in the
absence of such sign or marking, the stop shall be made at the signal.
(Prior Code, § 70.41) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-306
§ 70.42 PEDESTRIAN-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever special pedestrian-control signals exhibiting the words “Walk” or
“Don’t Walk” or the illuminated symbols of a walking person or an upraised palm
are in place, these signals shall indicate as follows.
   (A)   “Walk” or walking person symbol. Pedestrians facing this signal may
proceed across the roadway in the direction of the signal, and shall be given
the right-of-way by the drivers of all vehicles.
   (B)   “Don’t Walk” or upraised palm signal. No pedestrian shall start to
cross the roadway in the direction of this signal, but any pedestrian who has
partly completed his or her crossing on the “Walk” signal or upraised palm
symbol shall proceed to a sidewalk or safety island while the “Don’t Walk”
signal or upraised palm symbol is illuminated, steady or flashing.
(Prior Code, § 70.42) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-307
§ 70.43 LANE-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever lane-control signals are used in conjunction with official signs,
they shall have the following meanings.
   (A)   Downward-pointing green arrow. A driver facing this indication is
permitted to drive in the lane over which the arrow signal is located.
Otherwise, he or she shall obey all other traffic-controls present and follow
normal safe driving practices.
   (B)   Red X symbol. A driver facing this indication shall not drive in the
lane over which the signal is located, and this indication shall modify
accordingly the meaning of all other traffic-controls present. Otherwise, he or
she shall obey all other traffic-controls, and follow normal safe driving
practices.
   (C)   Yellow X (steady). A driver facing this indication should prepare to
vacate the lane over which the signal is located, in a safe manner, to avoid,
if possible, occupying that lane when a steady red X is displayed.
   (D)   Flashing yellow arrow. A driver facing this indication may use the
lane only for the purpose of approaching and making a left turn.
(Prior Code, § 70.43) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-308
§ 70.44 FLASHING SIGNALS.
   (A)   Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow signal is used in
conjunction with a traffic-control device, it shall require obedience by
vehicular traffic as follows.
      (1)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated with
rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop at a clearly marked
stop line, but, if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection, or, if none, then at a point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway
before entering the intersection, and the right to proceed shall be subject to
the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
      (2)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past the signal only with caution.
   (B)   This section does not apply at railroad grade crossings.
(Prior Code, § 70.44) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-309
§ 70.45 DISPLAY OF UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS, MARKINGS OR ADVERTISING SIGNS.
   (A)   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of any
highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which purports to be,
or is an imitation of, or resembles an official traffic-control device or
railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic,
or which hides from view or interferes with the movement of traffic or the
effectiveness of an official traffic-control device or any railroad sign or
signal.
   (B)   No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit, upon any highway, any traffic sign or signal bearing thereon any
commercial advertising.
   (C)   Every such prohibited sign, signal or marking is hereby declared to be
a public nuisance, and the authority having jurisdiction over the highway is
hereby empowered to remove the same, or cause it to be removed without notice.
   (D)   No person shall sell or offer for sale any traffic-control device to
be used on any street or highway in the village which does not conform to the
requirements of this chapter.
   (E)   This section shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection upon private
property adjacent to highways of signs giving useful directional information,
and of a type that cannot be mistaken for official signs.
   (F)   This section shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection of Illinois
Adopt-A-Highway signs by the village as provided in 605 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 70.45) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-310
§ 70.46 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES OR RAILROAD SIGNS OR
SIGNALS.
   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down or remove any official traffic-control device, or
any railroad sign or signal or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or
any other part thereof.
(Prior Code, § 70.46) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-311
§ 70.47 UNLAWFUL USE OR DAMAGE TO HIGHWAYS, APPURTENANCES AND STRUCTURES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully injure or damage any public
highway or street, or any bridge or culvert, or to willfully damage, injure or
remove any sign, signpost or structure upon or used or constructed in
connection with any public highway or street for the protection thereof, or for
the protection or regulation of traffic thereon, by any willfully unusual,
improper or unreasonable use thereof, or by willfully careless driving or use
of any vehicle thereon, or by willful mutilation, defacing, destruction or
removal thereof.
(Prior Code, § 70.47) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-312
§ 70.48 UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OF HIGHWAY SIGN OR MARKER.
   The Village Street Department, with reference to traffic-control signs,
signals or markers owned by the village, is authorized to indicate the
ownership of the signs, signals or markers in letters not less than three-
eighths inch, or more than three-fourths inch in height, by use of a metal
stamp, etching or other permanent means. Except for employees of the Village
Street Department, police officers, contractors and their employees engaged in
a highway construction contract or work on the highway approved by the village,
it is unlawful for any person to possess a sign, signal or marker so
identified.
(Prior Code, § 70.48) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-313
§ 70.49 ZONES OF QUIET.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating a zone of quiet, no person
operating a motor vehicle within the zone shall sound the horn or other warning
device except in an emergency.
(Prior Code, § 70.49) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.50 NO-TURNING SIGNS AND TURNING MARKERS.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left or U-
turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of the
sign. When authorized marks, buttons or other indications are placed within an
intersection indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles, no driver of a
vehicle shall disobey the directions of the indications.
(Prior Code, § 70.50)
§ 70.51 STOP AND YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   Preferential right-of-way at an intersection may be indicated by stop
signs or yield signs, as authorized in 625 ILCS 5/11-302.
   (B)   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic-control
signal, every driver of a vehicle and every motorist of a streetcar approaching
a stop intersection indicated by a stop sign shall stop before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or, in the event there is no
crosswalk, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but, if none, then at the
point nearest the intersection roadway where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering the
intersection.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign, if required for
safety to stop, shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of
the intersection or, in the event there is no crosswalk, at a clearly marked
stop line, but, if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway.
(Prior Code, § 70.51) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1204
§ 70.52 LOCATION OF VILLAGE TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNS.
   The locations of authorized traffic-control signs in the village are set
forth in Chapter 77.
(Prior Code, § 70.52)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   General penalty. Any person who violates any provision of this chapter
for which no penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   Traffic violations. Whoever violates any provision of this traffic
code for which another penalty is not already otherwise provided by ordinance
or by appropriate statutory penalty, as generally set forth in 625 ILCS 5/16-
101 et seq., shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of not more than
$750.
   (C)   Parking violations. Any person accused of a violation of any provision
of this traffic code prohibiting parking a vehicle in a designated area, or
restricting the length of time a vehicle may be there parked, or parking in a
metered area without putting a coin in the meter to cover the required time,
may settle and compromise the claim against him or her for the illegal parking
by paying to the village $25 for each such offense if paid within five days, or
$50 if paid after five days. This payment may be made at the police station, a
receipt shall be issued for all money so received and the money shall be
promptly turned over to the Village Treasurer to be credited to the General
Fund. The members of the Police Department are hereby authorized to refrain
from instituting a prosecution for the alleged offense of any place where
Police or Fire Department apparatus or other emergency equipment is kept or
housed, or so as to block an emergency entrance in a hospital; nor shall this
section apply to any person charged with parking a vehicle so as to entirely
obstruct traffic in any street or alley, or parking in such a way as to reduce
traffic on an arterial street to one-way traffic only; nor to any person who
refuses to move a vehicle illegally parked at the request of any member of the
Police Department.
   (D)   Obedience to police officers. Any person convicted of violating §
70.25 is guilty of a petty offense and shall be subject to a mandatory fine of
$150.
   (E)   Interference with devices, signs and signals. Every person who is
convicted of a violation of §
70.46 shall be punished by a fine of at least $250, in addition to any other
penalties which may be imposed.
   (F)   Damage to highways, appurtenances and structures. Every person who is
convicted of a violation of §
70.47 shall be punished by a fine of at least $250 in addition to any other
penalty which may be imposed.
(Prior Code, § 70.99) (Ord. 21-04-01, passed 4-27-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-203, 625 ILCS 5/11-311 and 625 ILCS 5/
11-312
CHAPTER 71: RULES OF OPERATION
Section
Speed Restrictions
   
71.001   Speed limits
   
71.002   Special speed limits while passing schools and while traveling through
highway construction or maintenance zones
   
71.003   Maximum attainable operating speed
   
71.004   Minimum speed regulation
Turning and Starting; Signals
   
71.015   Required position and method of turning at intersections
   
71.016   Limitations on U-turns
   
71.017   Starting parked vehicle
   
71.018   When signal required
   
71.019   Signal by hand and arm or signal device
   
71.020   Method of giving hand and arm signals
Overtaking and Passing
   
71.035   Driving on right side of roadway; exceptions
   
71.036   Passing vehicles proceeding in opposite directions
   
71.037   Overtaking vehicles on the left
   
71.038   When overtaking on the right is permitted
   
71.039   Limitations on overtaking on the left
   
71.040   Meeting or overtaking school bus
   
71.041   One-way roadways and rotary traffic islands
   
71.042   No-passing zones
   
71.043   Driving on roadways laned for traffic
Right-of-Way
   
71.055   Vehicles approaching or entering intersection
   
71.056   Vehicle turning left
   
71.057   Vehicles entering stop crosswalk
   
71.058   Vehicle entering stop or yield intersection
   
71.059   Merging traffic
   
71.060   Vehicle entering highway from private road or driveway
   
71.061   Operation of vehicles on approach of authorized emergency vehicles
   
71.062   Funeral processions
Special Stops Required
   
71.075   Obedience to signal indicating approach of train or railroad track
equipment
   
71.076   Certain vehicles must stop at all railroad grade crossings
   
71.077   Emerging from alley, building, private road or driveway
   
71.078   Stop when traffic obstructed
Prohibitions
   
71.090   Backing
   
71.091   Following vehicle too closely
   
71.092   Obstruction of driver’s view or driving mechanism
   
71.093   Opening vehicle doors
   
71.094   Coasting
   
71.095   Following fire apparatus; driving over fire hose
   
71.096   Driving upon sidewalk
   
71.097   Use of roller skates, coasters or similar devices
   
71.098   Putting glass or other hazardous materials on highway prohibited
   
71.099   Obstructing person in highways
   
71.100   Farm tractor operation
   
71.101   Driving on controlled-access highway
Parades
   
71.115   Definitions
   
71.116   Permit required
   
71.117   Application for permit
   
71.118   Standards for issuance of permit
   
71.119   Notice of rejection of permit application
   
71.120   Appeal procedure when permit denied
   
71.121   Alternative permit
   
71.122   Notice to village and other officials when permit issued
   
71.123   Contents of permit
   
71.124   Duties of permittee
   
71.125   Public conduct during parades
   
71.126   Revocation of permit
Miscellaneous Regulations
   
71.140   U-turns
   
71.141   No left turn
   
71.142   Fire Department vehicles; fires
   
71.143   Traffic not to be obstructed
   
71.144   Unattended vehicles
   
71.145   Unattended animals
   
71.146   Riding on running boards
   
71.147   Restricted access
   
71.148   Trucks prohibited on certain streets
   
71.149   Limited load streets
   
71.150   School buses
   
71.151   Pedestrian signals
   
71.152   Pedestrians standing on sidewalk
   
71.153   Liquor or drugs
 
   
71.999   Penalty
SPEED RESTRICTIONS
§ 71.001 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   No vehicle may be driven upon any highway of this village at a speed
which is greater than is reasonable and proper with regard to traffic
conditions and the use of the highway, or which endangers the safety of any
person or property. The fact that the speed of a vehicle does not exceed the
applicable maximum speed limit does not relieve the driver from the duty to
decrease speed when approaching and crossing an intersection, when approaching
and going around a curve, when approaching a hill crest, when traveling upon
any narrow or winding roadway or when special hazard exists with respect to
pedestrians or other traffic or by reason of weather or highway conditions.
Speed must be decreased as may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person
or vehicle on or entering the highway in compliance with legal requirements and
the duty of all persons to use due care.
   (B)   No person may drive a vehicle upon any street at a speed which is
greater than the applicable statutory maximum speed limit established by
divisions (C) and (D) below, by §
71.002 or by a regulation or ordinance made under this subchapter.
   (C)   Unless some other speed restriction is established under this
subchapter, the maximum speed limit in an urban district (as defined in §
70.01) for all vehicles is:
      (1)   Thirty mph; and
      (2)   Fifteen mph in an alley.
   (D)   Unless some other speed restriction is established under this
subchapter, the maximum speed limit in a non-urban district shall be as
determined under 625 ILCS 5/11-601.
(Prior Code, § 71.001) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate speed, see 65 ILCS 5/11-40-1 and 625 ILCS 5/11-604
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-601(a) - (c)
§ 71.002 SPECIAL SPEED LIMITS WHILE PASSING SCHOOLS AND WHILE TRAVELING THROUGH
HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION OR MAINTENANCE ZONES.
   (A)   School zones.
      (1)   For the purpose of this section, a SCHOOL DAY shall begin at 7:00
a.m. and shall conclude at 4:00 p.m.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, SCHOOL means the following
entities:
         (a)   A public or private primary or secondary school;
         (b)   A primary or secondary school operated by a religious
institution; or
         (c)   A public, private or religious nursery school.
      (3)   On a school day when school children are present and so close
thereto that a potential hazard exists because of the close proximity of the
motorized traffic, no person shall drive a motor vehicle at a speed in excess
of 20 mph while passing a school zone, or while traveling on a roadway on
public school property or upon any public thoroughfare where children pass
going to and from school.
      (4)   This section shall not be applicable unless appropriate signs are
posted upon streets and maintained by the village wherein the school zone is
located. With regard to the special speed limit while passing schools, the
signs shall give proper due warning that a school zone is being approached, and
shall indicate the school zone and the maximum speed limit in effect during
school days when school children are present.
      (5)   Nothing in this subchapter shall prohibit the use of electronic
speed-detecting devices within 500 feet of signs within a special school speed
zone indicating the zone, as defined in this section, nor shall evidence
obtained thereby be inadmissible in any prosecution for speeding; provided the
use of the device shall apply only to the enforcement of the speed limit in the
special school speed zone.
   (B)   Special limit while traveling through highway construction or
maintenance speed zones.
      (1)   A person may not operate a motor vehicle in a construction or
maintenance speed zone at a speed in excess of the posted speed limit.
      (2)   Nothing in this subchapter prohibits the use of electronic speed-
detecting devices within 500 feet of signs within a construction or maintenance
speed zone indicating the zone, as defined in this section, nor shall evidence
obtained by use of those devices be inadmissible in any prosecution for
speeding; provided the use of the device shall apply only to the enforcement of
the speed limit in the construction or maintenance speed zone.
      (3)   (a)   As used in this section, a CONSTRUCTION OR MAINTENANCE SPEED
ZONE is an area in which the Department, Toll Highway Authority or a local
agency has determined that the pre-existing established speed limit through a
highway construction or maintenance project is greater than is reasonable or
safe with respect to the conditions expected to exist in the construction or
maintenance speed zone and has posted a lower speed limit with a highway
construction or maintenance speed zone special speed limit sign.
         (b)   Highway construction or maintenance speed zone special speed
limit signs shall be of a design approved by the Department. The signs must
give proper due warning that a construction or maintenance speed zone is being
approached and must indicate the maximum speed limit in effect. The signs must
also state the amount of the minimum fine for a violation.
      (4)   The Transportation Safety Highway Hire-Back Fund, which was created
by Public Act § 92-619, shall continue to be a special fund in the State
Treasury. Subject to appropriation by the General Assembly and approval by the
Secretary, the Secretary of Transportation shall use all monies in the
Transportation Safety Highway Hire-Back Fund to hire off-duty Department of
State Police Officers to monitor construction or maintenance zones.
      (5)   For a second or subsequent violation of this division (B) within
two years of the date of the previous violation, the Secretary of State shall
suspend the driver’s license of the violator for a period of 90 days.
(Prior Code, § 71.002) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-605(a) and (c) and 625 ILCS 5/11-605.1
§ 71.003 MAXIMUM ATTAINABLE OPERATING SPEED.
   (A)   No person shall drive or operate any motor vehicle on any street or
highway in the village where the minimum allowable speed on that street or
highway, as posted, is greater than the maximum attainable operating speed of
the vehicle.
   (B)   Maximum attainable operating speed shall be determined by the
manufacturer of the vehicle and clearly published in the manual of
specifications and operation, or it shall be determined by applicable rule and
regulation promulgated by the Secretary of State.
(Prior Code, § 71.003) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-611
§ 71.004 MINIMUM SPEED REGULATION.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to impede or
block the normal and regular movement of traffic except when reduced speed is
necessary for safe operation of his or her vehicle or in compliance with law.
(Prior Code, § 71.004) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-606(a)
TURNING AND STARTING; SIGNALS
§ 71.015 REQUIRED POSITION AND METHOD OF TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do
so as follows.
      (1)   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made
as close as practical to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
      (2)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at any intersection
shall approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand lane lawfully
available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of such vehicle, and
after entering the intersection, the left turn shall be made so as to leave the
intersection in a lane lawfully available to traffic moving in such direction
upon the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable, the left turn shall be
made in that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the
intersection.
      (3)   The State Department of Transportation and local authorities, in
their respective jurisdictions, may cause official traffic-control devices to
be placed within or adjacent to intersections and thereby require and direct
that a different course from that specified in this section be traveled by
vehicles turning at an intersection, and when such devices are so placed no
driver of a vehicle shall turn a vehicle at an intersection other than as
directed and required by those devices.
   (B)   Where a special lane for making left turns by drivers proceeding in
opposite directions has been indicated by official traffic-control devices:
      (1)   A left turn shall not be made from any other lane; and
      (2)   A vehicle shall not be driven in the lane, except when preparing
for or making a left turn from or into the roadway or when preparing for or
making a U-turn when otherwise permitted by law.
(Prior Code, § 71.020) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-801
§ 71.016 LIMITATIONS ON U-TURNS.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall not turn the vehicle so as to proceed
in the opposite direction unless the movement can be made in safety and without
interfering with other traffic.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction
upon any curve, or upon the approach to or near the crest of a grade, where the
vehicle cannot be seen by the driver of any other vehicle approaching from
either direction within 500 feet.
(Prior Code, § 71.021) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-802
§ 71.017 STARTING PARKED VEHICLE.
   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing or parked, unless
and until the movement can be made with reasonable safety.
(Prior Code, § 71.022) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-803
§ 71.018 WHEN SIGNAL REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person may turn a vehicle at an intersection unless the vehicle is
in proper position upon the highway as required in §
71.015, or turn a vehicle to enter a private road or driveway, or otherwise
turn a vehicle from a direct course, or move right or left upon a roadway
unless and until the movement can be made with reasonable safety. No person may
so turn any vehicle without giving an appropriate signal in the manner
hereinafter provided.
   (B)   A signal of intention to turn right or left, when required, must be
given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the
vehicle before turning within a business or residence district, and the signal
must be given continuously during not less than the last 200 feet traveled by
the vehicle before turning outside a business or residence district.
   (C)   No person may stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle without
first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided in this subchapter to
the driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is opportunity to
give a signal.
   (D)   The electric turn signal device required in 625 ILCS 5/12-208 must be
used to indicate an intention to turn, change lanes or start from a parallel
parked position, but must not be flashed on one side only on a parked or
disabled vehicle, or flashed as a courtesy or “do pass” signal to operators of
other vehicles approaching from the rear; however, signal devices may be
flashed simultaneously on both sides of a motor vehicle to indicate the
presence of a vehicular traffic hazard requiring unusual care in approaching,
overtaking and passing.
(Prior Code, § 71.023) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-804
§ 71.019 SIGNAL BY HAND AND ARM OR SIGNAL DEVICE.
   Any stop or turn signal, when required herein, shall be given either by
means of the hand and arm or by an electric turn signal device conforming to
the requirements provided in 625 ILCS 5/12-208.
(Prior Code, § 71.024) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-805
§ 71.020 METHOD OF GIVING HAND AND ARM SIGNALS.
   All signals given by hand and arm shall be given from the left side of the
vehicle in the following manner, and the signals shall indicate as follows:
   (A)   Left turn. Hand and arm extended horizontally;
   (B)   Right turn. Hand and arm extended upward, except that a person
operating a bicycle may extend the right-hand and arm horizontally and to the
right side of the bicycle; and
   (C)   Stop or decrease of speed. Hand and arm extended downward.
(Prior Code, § 71.025) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-806
OVERTAKING AND PASSING
§ 71.035 DRIVING ON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing those movements;
      (2)   When an obstruction exists making it necessary to drive to the left
of the center of the roadway; provided any person so doing shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon the
unobstructed portion of the roadway within such distance as to constitute an
immediate hazard;
      (3)   Upon a roadway divided into three marked lanes for traffic under
the rules applicable thereon;
      (4)   Upon a roadway restricted to one-way traffic; or
      (5)   Whenever there is a single-track paved road on one side of the
public highway and two vehicles meet thereon, the driver on whose right is the
wider shoulder shall give the right-of-way on the pavement to the other
vehicle.
   (B)   Upon a two-lane roadway, providing for two-way movement of traffic, a
vehicle shall be driven in the right-hand lane available for traffic, or as
close as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway, except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction, or
when preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private road or
driveway.
   (C)   Upon any roadway having four or more lanes for moving traffic, and
providing for two- way movement of traffic, no vehicle shall be driven to the
left of the center line of the roadway, except when authorized by official
traffic-control devices designating certain lanes to the left side of the
center of the roadway for use by traffic not otherwise permitted to use the
lanes, or except as permitted under division (A)(2) above. However, this
division shall not be construed as prohibiting the crossing of the center line
in making a left turn into or from an alley, private road or driveway.
   (D)   (1)   Upon an interstate highway or fully access-controlled freeway, a
vehicle may not be driven in the left lane, except when overtaking and passing
another vehicle.
      (2)   Division (D)(1) above does not apply:
         (a)   When no other vehicle is directly behind the vehicle in the left
lane;
         (b)   When traffic conditions and congestion make it impractical to
drive in the right lane;
         (c)   When snow and other inclement weather conditions make it
necessary to drive in the left lane;
         (d)   When obstructions or hazards exist in the right lane;
         (e)   When a vehicle change lanes to comply with 625 ILCS 5/11-907 and
11-908;
         (f)   When, because of highway design, a vehicle must be driven in the
left lane when preparing to exit;
         (g)   On toll highways when necessary to use I-Pass, and on toll and
other highways when driving in the left lane is required to comply with an
official traffic-control device; or
         (h)   To law enforcement vehicles, ambulances and other emergency
vehicles engaged in official duties an vehicles engaged in highway maintenance
and construction operation.
(Prior Code, § 71.040) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-701
§ 71.036 PASSING VEHICLES PROCEEDING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS.
   Drivers of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass each other
to the right and upon roadways having width for not more than one line of
traffic in each direction, each driver shall give to the other at least one-
half of the main traveled portion of the roadway as nearly as possible.
(Prior Code, § 71.041) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-702
§ 71.037 OVERTAKING VEHICLES ON THE LEFT.
   The following rules govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles proceeding
in the same direction, subject to those limitations, exceptions and special
rules otherwise stated in this chapter.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe distance, and shall not
again drive to the right side of the roadway until safely clear of the
overtaken vehicle. In no event shall the movement be made by driving off the
pavement or the main traveled portion of the roadway.
   (B)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle on audible signal, and shall not increase the speed of his
or her vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
   (C)   The driver of a two-wheeled vehicle may not, in passing upon the left
of any vehicle proceeding in the same direction, pass upon the right of any
vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless there is an unobstructed lane
of traffic available to permit the passing maneuver safely.
   (D)   The operator of a motor vehicle overtaking a bicycle or individual
proceeding in the same direction on a highway shall leave a safe distance, but
not less than three feet, when passing the bicycle or individual and shall
maintain that distance until safely past the overtaken bicycle or individual.
   (E)   A person driving a motor vehicle shall not, in a reckless manner,
drive the motor vehicle unnecessarily close to, toward or near a bicyclist,
pedestrian or a person riding a horse or driving an animal-drawn vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 71.042) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-703(a) - (e)
§ 71.038 WHEN OVERTAKING ON THE RIGHT IS PERMITTED.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle with three or more wheels may overtake and
pass upon the right of another vehicle only under the following conditions:
      (1)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn;
      (2)   Upon a roadway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient width for
two or more lines of vehicles moving lawfully in the direction being traveled
by the overtaking vehicle; and
      (3)   Upon a one-way street, or upon any roadway on which traffic is
restricted to one direction of movement, where the roadway is free from
obstructions and of sufficient width for two or more lines of moving vehicles.
   (B)   The driver of a two-wheeled vehicle may not pass upon the right of any
other vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless the unobstructed pavement
to the right of the vehicle being passed is of a width of not less than eight
feet.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle upon the
right only under conditions permitting the movement in safety. This movement
shall not be made by driving off the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 71.043) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-704
§ 71.039 LIMITATIONS ON OVERTAKING ON THE LEFT.
   (A)   Passing on the left.
      (1)   No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of the
roadway in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction unless authorized by the provisions of this chapter, and unless the
left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a sufficient
distance ahead to permit the overtaking and passing to be completely made
without interfering with the safe operation of any vehicle approaching from the
opposite direction, or any vehicle overtaken.
      (2)   In every event, the overtaking vehicle must return to an authorized
lane of travel as soon as practicable, and in the event the passing movement
involves the use of a lane authorized for vehicles approaching from the
opposite direction, before coming within 200 feet of any vehicle approaching
from the opposite direction.
   (B)   Conditions where passing on the left is prohibited.
      (1)   No vehicle shall be driven on the left side of the roadway under
the following conditions:
         (a)   When approaching or upon the crest of a grade or a curve in the
highway where the driver’s view is obstructed within a distance as to create a
hazard in the event another vehicle might approach from the opposite direction;
         (b)   When approaching within 100 feet of or traversing any
intersection or railroad grade crossing; and
         (c)   When the view is obstructed upon approaching within 100 feet of
any bridge, viaduct or tunnel.
      (2)   The limitations in division (B)(1) above do not apply upon a one-
way roadway, nor upon a roadway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient width
for two or more lanes of moving traffic in each direction, nor to the driver of
a vehicle turning left into or from an alley, private road or driveway when the
movements can be made with safety.
(Prior Code, § 71.044) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-705 and 625 ILCS 5/11-706
§ 71.040 MEETING OR OVERTAKING SCHOOL BUS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall stop the vehicle before meeting or
overtaking, from either direction, any school bus stopped at any location for
the purpose of receiving or discharging pupils. The stop is required before
reaching the school bus when there is in operation on the school bus, the
visual signals, as specified in 625 ILCS 5/12-803 and 12-805. The driver of the
vehicle shall not proceed until the school bus resumes motion or the driver of
the vehicle is signaled by the school bus driver to proceed or the visual
signals are no longer actuated.
   (B)   The stop signal arm required by 625 ILCS 5/12-803 shall be extended
after the school bus has come to a complete stop for the purpose of loading or
discharging pupils and shall be closed before the school bus is placed in
motion again. The stop signal arm shall not be extended at any other time.
   (C)   The alternately flashing red signal lamps of an eight-lamp flashing
signal system required by 625 ILCS 5/12-805 shall be actuated after the school
bus has come to a complete stop for the purpose of loading or discharging
pupils and shall be turned off before the school bus is placed in motion again.
The red signal lamps shall not be actuated at any other time except as provided
in division (D) below.
   (D)   (1)   The alternately flashing amber signal lamps of an eight-lamp
flashing signal system required by 625 ILCS 5/12-805 shall be actuated
continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the school bus
before stopping for the purpose of loading or discharging pupils within an
urban area, and during not less than the last 200 feet traveled by the school
bus outside an urban area. The amber signal lamps shall remain actuated until
the school bus is stopped. The amber signal lamps shall not be actuated at any
other time.
      (2)   The alternately flashing headlamps permitted by 625 ILCS 5/12-805
may be operated while the alternately flashing red or amber signal maps
required by that section are actuated.
   (E)   The driver of a vehicle upon a highway having four or more lanes which
permits at least two lanes of traffic to travel in opposite directions need not
stop the vehicle upon meeting a school bus which is stopped in the opposing
roadway; and need not stop the vehicle when driving upon a controlled- access
highway when passing a school bus traveling in either direction that is stopped
in a loading zone adjacent to the surfaced or improved part of the controlled-
access highway where pedestrians are not permitted to cross.
(Prior Code, § 71.045) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1414(a) - (e)
§ 71.041 ONE-WAY ROADWAYS AND ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS.
   (A)   Upon a roadway designated for one-way traffic, a vehicle shall be
driven only in the direction designated at all or such times as shall be
indicated by official traffic-control devices.
   (B)   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island must be driven only
to the right of the island.
   (C)   Whenever any highway has been divided into two or more roadways by
leaving an intervening space or by a physical barrier or a clearly indicated
dividing section so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle
must be driven only upon the right-hand roadway unless directed or permitted to
use another roadway by official traffic-control devices or police officers. No
vehicle may be driven over, across or within any dividing space, barrier or
section except through an opening in the physical barrier, or dividing section,
or space, or at a cross-over or intersection as established by public
authority.
   (D)   The driver of a vehicle may turn left across a paved, noncurbed
dividing space unless prohibited by an official traffic-control device.
(Prior Code, § 71.046) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-708
§ 71.042 NO-PASSING ZONES.
   (A)   The Village Board of Trustees is authorized to determine those
portions of any highway within the village where overtaking and passing or
driving on the left of the roadway would be especially hazardous, and may by
appropriate signs or markings on the roadway indicate the beginning and end of
the zones, and when signs or markings are in place and clearly visible to an
ordinarily observant person, every driver of a vehicle shall obey the
directions thereof.
   (B)   Where signs or markings are in place to define a no-passing zone as
set forth in division (A) above, no driver may, at any time, drive on the left
side of the roadway within the no-passing zone or on the left side of any
pavement striping designed to mark the no-passing zone throughout its length.
   (C)   This section does not apply under the conditions described in §§
71.035(A)(2) nor to the driver of a vehicle turning left into or from an alley,
private road or driveway. The pavement striping designed to mark the no-passing
zone may be crossed from the left-hand lane for the purpose of completing a
pass that was begun prior to the beginning of the zone in the driver’s
direction of travel.
(Prior Code, § 71.047) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-707
§ 71.043 DRIVING ON ROADWAYS LANED FOR TRAFFIC.
   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly marked lanes
for traffic, the following rules in addition to all others consistent herewith
shall apply.
   (A)   A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practicable entirely within a
single lane and shall not be moved from that lane until the driver has first
ascertained that the movement can be made with safety.
   (B)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes and provides for two-
way movement of traffic, a vehicle shall not be driven in the center lane
except when overtaking and passing another vehicle traveling in the same
direction when the center lane is clear of traffic within a safe distance, or
in preparation for making a left turn or where the center lane is at the time
allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the same direction that the vehicle
is proceeding and the allocation is designated by official traffic-control
devices.
   (C)   Official traffic-control devices may be erected directing specific
traffic to use a designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by
traffic moving in a particular direction regardless of the center of the
roadway and drivers of vehicles shall obey the directions of every such device.
Drivers must obey lane designation signing, except when it is necessary to use
a different lane to make a turning maneuver.
   (D)   Official traffic-control devices may be installed prohibiting the
changing of lanes on sections of roadway and drivers of vehicles shall obey the
directions of every such device.
(Prior Code, § 71.048) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-709
RIGHT-OF-WAY
§ 71.055 VEHICLES APPROACHING OR ENTERING INTERSECTION.
   When two vehicles approach or enter an intersection from different roadways
at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left must
yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right. This rule may be modified
at through highways or streets and where otherwise inconsistent with the
provisions of this traffic code.
(Prior Code, § 71.060) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-901
§ 71.056 VEHICLE TURNING LEFT.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the left within an intersection
or into an alley, private road or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to any
vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which is so close as to
constitute an immediate hazard, but the driver, having so yielded, may proceed
as soon as a safe interval occurs.
(Prior Code, § 71.061) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-902
§ 71.057 VEHICLES ENTERING STOP CROSSWALK.
   Where stop signs or flashing red signals are in place at an intersection, or
flashing red signals are in place at a plainly marked crosswalk between
intersections, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the nearest
crosswalk, and pedestrians within or entering the crosswalk at either edge of
the roadway shall have the right-of-way over vehicles so stopped. Drivers of
vehicles having so yielded the right-of-way to pedestrians entering or within
the nearest crosswalk at an intersection shall also yield the right-of-way to
pedestrians within any other crosswalk at the intersection.
(Prior Code, § 71.062) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-903
§ 71.058 VEHICLE ENTERING STOP OR YIELD INTERSECTION.
   (A)   Preferential right-of-way at an intersection may be indicated by stop
or yield signs.
   (B)   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic-control
signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection indicated by
a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop line but, if none, before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or, if none, then
at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering the
intersection. After having stopped, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to
any vehicle which has entered the intersection from another roadway, or which
is approaching so closely on the roadway as to constitute an immediate hazard
during the time when the driver is moving across or within the intersection,
but the driver, having so yielded, may proceed as soon as a safe interval
occurs.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall, in obedience
to the sign, slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing conditions, and,
if required for safety to stop, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but,
if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection,
or, if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the
driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway. After
slowing or stopping, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in
the intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to constitute
an immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or within the
intersection.
   (D)   If a driver is involved in a collision at an intersection or
interferes with the movement of other vehicles after driving past a yield
right-of-way sign, the collision or interference shall be deemed prima facie
evidence of the driver’s failure to yield right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 71.063) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-904
§ 71.059 MERGING TRAFFIC.
   Notwithstanding the right-of-way provision in §
71.055, at an intersection where traffic lanes are provided for merging
traffic, the driver of each vehicle on the converging roadways is required to
adjust his or her vehicular speed and lateral position so as to avoid a
collision with another vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 71.064) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-905
§ 71.060 VEHICLE ENTERING HIGHWAY FROM PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY.
   The driver of a vehicle about to enter or cross a highway from an alley,
building, private road or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles
approaching on the highway to be entered.
(Prior Code, § 71.065) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-906
§ 71.061 OPERATION OF VEHICLES ON APPROACH OF AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle making
use of audible and visual signals meeting the requirements of this chapter, or
a police vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an audible or visual
signal, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right-of-way and
shall immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to,
the right-hand edge or curb of the highway clear of any intersection, and
shall, if necessary to permit the safe passage of the emergency vehicle, stop
and remain in that position until the authorized emergency vehicle has passed
unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   This section shall not operate to relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons using the highway.
(Prior Code, § 71.066) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Additional offenses; statutory penalties, see 625 ILCS 5/11-907
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-907(a)(1) and (b)
§ 71.062 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   (A)   Funeral processions have the right-of-way at intersections when
vehicles comprising the procession have their headlights and hazard lights
lighted, subject to the following conditions and exceptions:
      (1)   Operators of vehicles in a funeral procession shall yield the
right-of-way upon the approach of an authorized emergency vehicle giving an
audible or visible signal;
      (2)   Operators of vehicles in a funeral procession shall yield the
right-of-way when directed to do so by a traffic officer; and
      (3)   The operator of the leading vehicle in a funeral procession shall
comply with stop signs and traffic-control signals but when the leading vehicle
has proceeded across an intersection in accordance with the signal or after
stopping as required by the stop sign, all vehicles in the procession may
proceed, without stopping, regardless of the sign or signal, and the leading
vehicle and the vehicles in procession shall proceed with due caution.
   (B)   The operator of a vehicle not in the funeral procession shall not
drive his or her vehicle in the funeral procession, except when authorized to
do so by a traffic officer or when the vehicle is an authorized emergency
vehicle giving audible or visible signal.
   (C)   Operators of vehicles not a part of a funeral procession may not form
a procession or convoy and have their headlights or hazard lights or both
lighted for the purpose of securing the right-of- way granted by this section
to funeral processions.
   (D)   The operator of a vehicle not in a funeral procession may overtake and
pass the vehicles in the procession if the overtaking and passing can be
accomplished without causing a traffic hazard or interfering with such
procession.
   (E)   The lead vehicle in the funeral procession may be equipped with a
flashing amber light which may be used only when the vehicle is used as a lead
vehicle in the procession. Vehicles comprising a funeral procession may utilize
funeral pennants or flags or windshield stickers or flashing hazard warning
signal flashers to identify the individual vehicles in such a procession.
   (F)   In the absence of law enforcement traffic-control assistance for a
funeral procession, a funeral director, or his or her designee, may direct
traffic during a funeral procession.
(Prior Code, § 71.067) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1420
SPECIAL STOPS REQUIRED
§ 71.075 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNAL INDICATING APPROACH OF TRAIN OR RAILROAD TRACK
EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a
railroad grade crossing where the driver is not always required to stop, the
person must exercise due care and caution as the existence of a railroad track
across a highway is a warning of danger, and, under any of the circumstances
stated in this section, the driver shall stop within 50 feet but not less than
15 feet from the nearest rail of the railroad, and shall not proceed until the
tracks are clear and he or she can do so safely.
         (b)   The foregoing requirements shall apply when:
            1.   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a railroad train or railroad track
equipment;
            2.   A crossing gate is lowered or a human flagger gives, or
continues to give, a signal of the approach or passage of a railroad train or
railroad track equipment;
            3.   A railroad train or railroad track equipment approaching a
highway crossing emits a warning signal and the train or railroad track
equipment, by reason of its speed or nearness to the crossing, is an immediate
hazard;
            4.   An approaching railroad train or railroad track equipment is
plainly visible and is in hazardous proximity to the crossing; or
            5.   A railroad train or railroad track equipment is approaching so
closely that an immediate hazard is created.
      (2)   Whenever a person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad grade
crossing where the driver is not always required to stop but must slow down,
the person must exercise due care and caution as the existence of a railroad
track across a highway is a warning of danger, and, under any of the
circumstances stated in this section, the driver shall slow down within 50 feet
but not less that 15 feet from the nearest rail of the railroad and shall not
proceed until he or she checks that the tracks are clear of an approaching
train or railroad track equipment.
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while the gate or barrier is
closed or is being opened or closed.
   (C)   When stop signs are erected at railroad grade crossings, the driver of
any vehicle shall stop within 50 feet but not less than 15 feet from the
nearest rail of the railroad, and shall proceed only upon exercising due care.
   (D)   At any railroad grade crossing provided with railroad crossbuck signs,
without automatic, electric or mechanical signal devices, crossing gates or a
human flagger giving a signal of the approach or passage of a train or railroad
track equipment, the driver of a vehicle shall, in obedience to the railroad
crossbuck sign, yield the right-of-way and slow down to a speed reasonable for
the existing conditions and shall stop, if required for safety, at a clearly
marked stopped line, or, if no stop line, within 50 feet but not less than 15
feet from the nearest rail of the railroad and shall not proceed until he or
she can do so safely. If a driver is involved in a collision at a railroad
crossing or interferes with the movement of a train or railroad track equipment
after driving past the railroad crossbuck sign, the collision or interference
is prima facie evidence of the driver’s failure to yield right-of-way.
   (E)   No person shall, while driving a commercial motor vehicle, fail to
negotiate a railroad- highway grade railroad crossing because of insufficient
undercarriage clearance.
   (F)   It is unlawful to violate any part of this section.
(Prior Code, § 71.080) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1201(a) - (e)
§ 71.076 CERTAIN VEHICLES MUST STOP AT ALL RAILROAD GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (A)   The driver of any of the following vehicles shall, before crossing a
railroad track or tracks at grade, stop that vehicle within 50 feet but not
less than 15 feet from the nearest rail, and, while so stopped, shall listen
and look for the approach of a train or railroad track equipment, and shall not
proceed until that movement can be made with safety:
      (1)   Any second division vehicle carrying passengers for hire;
      (2)   Any bus that meets all of the special requirements for school buses
in 625 ILCS 5/12-801, 12-803 and 12-805. The driver of the bus, in addition to
complying with all other applicable requirements of this division (A), must
also turn off all noise-producing accessories, including heater blowers,
defroster fans, auxiliary fans and radios, and open the service door and
driver’s window, before crossing a railroad track or tracks; and
      (3)   Any other vehicle which is required by federal or state law to be
placarded when carrying as a cargo or part of a cargo “hazardous material”, as
defined in the Illinois Hazardous Materials Transportation Act (430 ILCS 30/3).
After stopping as required in this section, the driver shall proceed only in a
gear not requiring a change of gears during the crossing, and the driver shall
not shift gears while crossing the track or tracks.
   (B)   This section shall not apply:
      (1)   At any railroad grade crossing where traffic is controlled by a
police officer or a human flagger;
      (2)   At any railroad grade crossing controlled by a functioning traffic-
control signal transmitting a green indication which, under law, permits the
vehicle to proceed across the railroad tracks without slowing or stopping,
except that division (A) above shall apply to any school bus;
      (3)   At any streetcar grade crossing within a business or residence
district; or
      (4)   At any abandoned industrial or spur track railroad grade crossing
designated as exempt by the Illinois Commerce Commission and marked with an
official sign as authorized in the State Manual of Uniform Traffic Control
Devices for Streets and Highways.
(Prior Code, § 71.081) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1202
§ 71.077 EMERGING FROM ALLEY, BUILDING, PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY.
   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, building, private road or
driveway within an urban area shall stop the vehicle immediately prior to
driving into the sidewalk area extending across the alley, building entrance,
road or driveway, or, in the event there is no sidewalk area, shall stop at the
point nearest the street to be entered where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic thereon, and shall yield the right-of-way to any
pedestrians as may be necessary to avoid collision, and, upon entering the
roadway, shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the
roadway.
(Prior Code, § 71.082) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1205
§ 71.078 STOP WHEN TRAFFIC OBSTRUCTED.
   (A)   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk, or drive
onto any railroad grade crossing unless there is sufficient space on the other
side of the intersection, crosswalk or railroad grade crossing to accommodate
the vehicle he or she is operating without obstructing the passage of other
vehicles, pedestrians or railroad trains, notwithstanding any traffic-control
signal indication to proceed.
   (B)   No driver shall enter a highway rail grade crossing unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the highway rail grade crossing to
accommodate the vehicle being operated without obstructing the passage of a
train or other railroad equipment using the rails, notwithstanding any traffic-
control signal indication to proceed.
(Prior Code, § 71.083) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1425
PROHIBITIONS
§ 71.090 BACKING.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless the movement
can be made with safety and without interfering with other traffic.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same upon any shoulder or
roadway of any controlled-access highway.
(Prior Code, § 71.095) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1402
§ 71.091 FOLLOWING VEHICLE TOO CLOSELY.
   The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely
than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of the vehicles
and the traffic upon and conditions of the street or highway.
(Prior Code, § 71.096) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-710
§ 71.092 OBSTRUCTION OF DRIVER’S VIEW OR DRIVING MECHANISM.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there
are in the front seat such number of persons, exceeding three, as to obstruct
the view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle, or as to interfere
with the driver’s control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (B)   No passenger in a vehicle or streetcar shall ride in a position as to
interfere with the driver’s or motorist’s view ahead or to the sides, or to
interfere with his or her control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle or
streetcar.
   (C)   No passenger on a school bus may ride or stand in a position as to
interfere with the driver’s view ahead or to the side or to the rear, or to
interfere with his or her control of the driving mechanism of the bus.
(Prior Code, § 71.097) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1406
§ 71.093 OPENING VEHICLE DOORS.
   No person shall open the door of a vehicle on the side available to moving
traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, and can be done
without interfering with the movement of other traffic, nor shall any person
leave a door open on the side of a vehicle available to moving traffic for a
period of time longer than necessary to load or unload passengers.
(Prior Code, § 71.098) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1407
§ 71.094 COASTING.
   (A)   The driver of any motor vehicle, when traveling upon a down grade,
shall not coast with the gears or transmission of the vehicle in neutral.
   (B)   The driver of a truck or bus, when traveling upon a down grade, shall
not coast with the clutch disengaged.
(Prior Code, § 71.099) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1410
§ 71.095 FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS; DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle other than one on official business shall
not follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than
500 feet or stop the vehicle within 500 feet of any fire apparatus stopped in
answer to a fire alarm.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of the Fire
Department when laid down on any street, private road or driveway to be used at
any fire or alarm of fire, without the consent of the Fire Department official
in command.
(Prior Code, § 71.100) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1411 and 625 ILCS 5/11-1412
§ 71.096 DRIVING UPON SIDEWALK.
   (A)   No person shall drive any vehicle upon a sidewalk or sidewalk area,
except upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary driveway.
   (B)   (1)   This section does not apply to any vehicle moved exclusively by
human power, to any electric personal assistive mobility device nor to any
motorized wheelchair.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to limit or preempt the
authority of any home rule or non-home rule unit of the village from regulating
or prohibiting the use of electric personal assistive mobility devices.
   (C)   A person may not operate an electric personal assistive mobility
device upon a public sidewalk at a speed greater than eight mph.
(Prior Code, § 71.101) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1412.1 and 625 ILCS 5/11-1412.2
§ 71.097 USE OF ROLLER SKATES, COASTERS OR SIMILAR DEVICES.
   No person upon roller skates or riding in or by means of any coaster, toy
vehicle, skateboard or similar device shall go upon any roadway, except while
crossing a street on a crosswalk and except upon streets set aside as play
streets when authorized by the traffic authority.
(Prior Code, § 71.102) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.098 PUTTING GLASS OR OTHER HAZARDOUS MATERIALS ON HIGHWAY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall throw, spill or deposit upon any highway any bottle,
glass, nails, tacks, wire, cans or any litter, as defined in the Litter Control
Act, 415 ILCS 105/3.
   (B)   Any person who violates division (A) above, upon any highway, shall
immediately remove the material, or cause it to be removed.
   (C)   Any person removing a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a highway shall
remove any glass or other debris, except any hazardous substance, as defined in
415 ILCS 5/3.215; hazardous waste, as defined in 415 ILCS 5/3.220; and
potentially infectious medical waste, as defined in 415 ILCS 5/3.360, dropped
upon the highway from such vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 71.103) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1413
§ 71.099 OBSTRUCTING PERSON IN HIGHWAYS.
   No person shall willfully and unnecessarily hinder, obstruct or delay, or
willfully and unnecessarily attempt to delay, hinder or obstruct, any other
person in lawfully driving or traveling along or upon any highway within the
village, or offer for barter or sale merchandise on the highway so as to
interfere with the effective movement of traffic.
(Prior Code, § 71.104) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1416
§ 71.100 FARM TRACTOR OPERATION.
   (A)   No person shall operate a farm tractor on a highway in the village
unless the tractor is being used as an implement of husbandry in connection
with farming operations.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the use of a farm tractor as an
implement of husbandry in connection with farming operations shall be deemed to
include use of the tractor in connection with the transportation of
agricultural products and of farm machinery, equipment and supplies, as well as
the transportation of the implement of husbandry from its place of purchase to
its place of storage, in connection with the obtaining of repairs of the
implement of husbandry, and the towing of a registered truck of not more than
8,000 pounds for use as return transportation after the tractor is left at the
place of work or repair.
(Prior Code, § 71.105) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1418
§ 71.101 DRIVING ON CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY.
   No person may drive a vehicle onto or from any controlled-access highway
except at entrances and exits established by public authority.
(Prior Code, § 71.106) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-711
PARADES
§ 71.115 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CRUISING. The repeated operation of two or more vehicles in a continuous or
nearly continuous flow through a parking lot.
   PARADE. Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant or procession
of any kind, or any similar display in or on any street, sidewalk, park or
other public place in the village, or CRUISING, as defined above.
   PARADE PERMIT. A permit required by this subchapter.
   PARKING LOT. Any paved or unpaved area used by a place of business or
shopping center for the parking of vehicles of their customers, but shall not
include those operated for hire.
(Prior Code, § 71.120)
§ 71.116 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person or persons shall engage or participate in, aid, form or
start any parade unless a parade permit has been obtained from the Chief of
Police or other authorized village official.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions;
      (2)   Students going to and from school classes or participating in
educational activities; provided the conduct is under the immediate direction
and supervision of the proper school authorities; and
      (3)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
(Prior Code, § 71.121) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.117 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Procedure. A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an
application with the Chief of Police, or other authorized village official, on
forms provided by the officer.
   (B)   Filing period. The application for a parade permit shall be filed not
less than five days or not more than 60 days before the date on which it is
proposed to conduct the parade.
   (C)   Contents. The application for a parade permit shall set forth the
following information:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of or by
an organization, the name, address and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization and of the authorized and responsible heads of the
organization;
      (3)   The name, address and telephone number of the person who will be
the parade chairperson and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point and the termination
point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons, animals and vehicles which will
constitute the parade; the type of animals, if any; and the description of the
vehicles;
      (7)   The hours when the parade will start and terminate;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets, sidewalk, park or other public place
proposed to be traversed;
      (9)   The location by street of any assembly area for the parade;
      (10)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at
the assembly area or areas;
      (11)   The interval of space to be maintained between units of the
parade;
      (12)   If the parade is designed to be held by, and on behalf of or for,
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for the permit shall file a
communication in writing from the person authorizing the applicant to apply for
the permit on his or her behalf; and
      (13)   Any additional information reasonably necessary to a fair
determination as to whether a permit should be issued.
   (D)   Fee. There shall be paid at the time of filing an application for a
parade permit a fee in an amount as established by the Village Board of
Trustees from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 71.122)
§ 71.118 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police, or other authorized village official, shall issue a
permit when, from a consideration of the application and from other information
obtained, he or she finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the village to properly police the line of
movement and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police
protection to the village;
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of the
village other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and areas
contiguous thereto;
   (D)   The concentration of persons, animals and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (E)   The conduct of the parade will not interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment en route to a fire;
   (F)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays en route;
   (G)   The parade is not to be held for the sole purpose of advertising any
product, goods or event, and is not designated to be held purely for private
profit; or
   (H)   The parade, if it takes the form of cruising, has the approval, in
writing, of the owner, or an authorized agent of the owner, for the use of the
parking lot which is the site of the parade.
(Prior Code, § 71.123) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.119 NOTICE OF REJECTION OF PERMIT APPLICATION.
   The Chief of Police, or other authorized village official, shall act on the
application for a parade permit within three days, Saturdays, Sundays and
holidays excepted, after filing thereof. If he or she disapproves the
application, he or she shall mail to the applicant within the three days,
Saturdays, Sundays and holidays excepted, after the date on which the
application was filed, a notice of his or her action stating the reasons for
his or her denial of the permit.
(Prior Code, § 71.124)
§ 71.120 APPEAL PROCEDURE WHEN PERMIT DENIED.
   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a parade
permit to the Village Board of Trustees. The appeal shall be taken within 30
days after notice of denial. The Village Board of Trustees shall act on the
appeal within 30 days after its receipt.
(Prior Code, § 71.125)
§ 71.121 ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police, or other authorized village official, in denying an
application for a parade permit, shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of
the parade on a date, at a time or over a route different than that named by
the applicant. An applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall file a
written notice of his or her acceptance. An alternate parade permit shall
conform to the requirements of, and shall have the effect of, a parade permit
under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 71.126)
§ 71.122 NOTICE TO VILLAGE AND OTHER OFFICIALS WHEN PERMIT ISSUED.
   Immediately on the issuance of a parade permit, a copy thereof shall be sent
to the President and the Fire Chief.
(Prior Code, § 71.127)
§ 71.123 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   Starting time;
   (B)   Minimum speed;
   (C)   Maximum speed;
   (D)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade;
   (E)   The portions of the street, sidewalk, park or other public place to be
traversed that may be occupied by the parade;
   (F)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof; and
   (G)   Such other information as is reasonably necessary to the enforcement
of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 71.128) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.124 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and conditions
and with all applicable laws and ordinances. The parade chairperson, or other
person heading or leading the activity, shall carry the parade permit on his or
her person during the conduct of the parade.
(Prior Code, § 71.129) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.125 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   Interference. No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede or
interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle or
animal participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   Driving through parades. No driver of a vehicle, except a police car
or other emergency vehicle, shall drive between the vehicles or persons
comprising a parade when those vehicles or persons are in motion and are
conspicuously designated as a parade.
   (C)   Parking on parade route.
      (1)   The Chief of Police, or other authorized village official, shall
have the authority, when reasonably necessary, to prohibit or restrict the
parking of vehicles along a street or other public thoroughfare or part thereof
constituting a part of the route of a parade.
      (2)   Signs shall be posted to that effect, and it shall be unlawful for
any person to park or leave unattended any vehicle in violation thereof.
      (3)   No person shall be liable for parking on a street or other public
thoroughfare unless signs have been posted in accordance with this section.
(Prior Code, § 71.130) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.126 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The village shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit issued
hereunder on application of the standards for issuance as herein set forth.
(Prior Code, § 71.131)
MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS
§ 71.140 U-TURNS.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to make a U-turn at any
place where such turns are prohibited by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 71.145) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.141 NO LEFT TURN.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any motor vehicle to turn left at
any place where such turns are prohibited by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 71.146) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.142 FIRE DEPARTMENT VEHICLES; FIRES.
   (A)   Upon the approach of a Fire Department vehicle, drivers of vehicles
shall comply with the provisions of this title relating to the approach of
authorized emergency vehicles.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle, other than one on
official business, to follow any fire apparatus in response to a fire alarm,
closer than one block or to park any vehicle within the block where a fire
apparatus has stopped to answer a fire alarm.
   (C)   It shall be further unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to drive
over any unprotected hose of the Fire Department without the consent of the
Fire Chief or the assistant in command.
(Prior Code, § 71.147) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.143 TRAFFIC NOT TO BE OBSTRUCTED.
   No vehicle shall be operated or allowed to remain upon the street in such a
manner as to form an unreasonable obstruction to the traffic thereon.
(Prior Code, § 71.148) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.144 UNATTENDED VEHICLES.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be left unattended while the motor of such vehicle is
running, and no vehicle shall be left without a driver on any hill or incline
unless the vehicle is secured against moving.
   (B)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle unattended upon any street
where such vehicle constitutes an obstruction to traffic, such officer is
authorized to provide for the removal of such vehicle to the nearest garage or
other place of safety.
(Prior Code, § 71.149) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.145 UNATTENDED ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful to leave any horse or other draft animal unattended in
any street without having such animal securely fastened.
(Prior Code, § 71.150) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.146 RIDING ON RUNNING BOARDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride upon the fenders, running board
or outside step of any vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 71.151) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.147 RESTRICTED ACCESS.
   No person shall drive a vehicle on, to or from any controlled or limited
controlled-access roadway except at such entrances and exits as are established
by public authority.
(Prior Code, § 71.152) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.148 TRUCKS PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful to drive any truck, except for the purpose of making a
delivery and then for one block only, on any street so designated by ordinance
and properly sign posted.
(Prior Code, § 71.153) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.149 LIMITED LOAD STREETS.
   Whenever the weight of vehicles permitted on a street is limited by
ordinance and signs indicating such limitations are posted, it shall be
unlawful to operate a vehicle in excess of such weight on such street, except
for the purpose of making delivery or picking up a load, in which case such
vehicle may be driven on such street for not more than the minimum distance
necessary for the purpose.
(Prior Code, § 71.154) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.150 SCHOOL BUSES.
   The driver of a vehicle on a street or highway upon meeting or overtaking
from either direction any school bus which has stopped on the highway for the
purpose of receiving or discharging any school children shall stop the vehicle
before reaching such school bus when there is in operation on the bus a visual
signal as required by the statute for operation while the bus in transporting
pupils; provided that the driver of a vehicle upon a street or highway of which
the roadway for traffic moving in opposite directions are separated by a strip
of ground which is not surfaced or suitable for vehicle traffic need not stop
his or her vehicle upon meeting or passing a school bus which is on the
opposite roadway.
(Prior Code, § 71.155)
§ 71.151 PEDESTRIAN SIGNALS.
   At intersections where traffic is directed by a police officer or by a stop
and go signal, it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to cross the roadway
other than with released traffic, if such crossing interferes with the lawful
movement of traffic.
(Prior Code, § 71.156)
§ 71.152 PEDESTRIANS STANDING ON SIDEWALK.
   It shall be unlawful for a pedestrian to stand upon any sidewalk, except as
near as reasonably possible to the building line or curb line, if such standing
interfered with the use of said sidewalk by other pedestrians.
(Prior Code, § 71.157) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.153 LIQUOR OR DRUGS.
   It shall be unlawful for the habitual user of narcotic drugs to operate any
motor vehicle on any street, and it shall be unlawful for any intoxicated
person, or any person under the influence of alcohol or of a narcotic drug, to
operate or attempt to operate any motor vehicle on any street.
(Prior Code, § 71.158) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is otherwise provided shall be fined as set forth in §
70.99.
   (B)   A first violation of §
71.001 is a petty offense with a minimum fine of $150. A second or subsequent
violation of this section is a petty offense with a minimum fine of $300.
   (C)   (1)   A first violation of §
71.002(A) is a petty offense with a minimum fine of $150. A second or
subsequent violation of §
71.002(A) is a petty offense with a minimum fine of $300.
      (2)   When a fine for a violation of §
71.002(A) is $150 or greater, the person who violates §
71.002(A)(1) and (A)(2) shall be charged an additional $50 to be paid to the
unit school district where the violation occurred for school safety purposes.
If the violation occurred in a dual school district, $25 of the surcharge shall
be paid to the elementary school district for school safety purposes and $25 of
the surcharge shall be paid to the high school district for school safety
purposes. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the entire $50 surcharge
shall be paid to the appropriate school district or districts.
      (3)   For purposes of this division (C), SCHOOL SAFETY PURPOSES include
the costs associated with school zone safety education; the Safe Routes to
School Program under § 2705-317 of the Department of Transportation Law of the
Civil Administrative Code of Illinois; safety programs within the School Safety
and Educational Improvement Block Grant Program under § 2-3.51.5 of the School
Code, being 105 ILCS 5/2-3.51.5; and the purchase, installation and maintenance
of caution lights which are mounted on school speed zone signs.
   (D)   (1)   A first violation of §
71.002(B) is a petty offense with a minimum fine of $250. A second or
subsequent violation of §
71.002(B) is a petty offense with a minimum fine of $750.
      (2)   If a fine or violation of §
71.002(B) above is $250 or greater, the person who violated §
71.002(B) shall be charged an additional $125, which shall be deposited into
the Transportation Safety Highway Hire-Back Fund. In the case of a second or
subsequent violation of §
71.002, if the fine is $750 or greater, the person who violated §
71.002(B) shall be charged an additional $250, which shall be deposited into
the Transportation Safety Highway Hire-Back Fund.
   (E)   In addition to the suspensions authorized by 625 ILCS 5/11-1414, any
person convicted of violating §
71.040 shall be subject to a mandatory fine of $150, or upon a second or
subsequent violation $500.
   (F)   Every person convicted of §
71.037(E) shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor if the violation does not
result in great bodily harm or permanent disability or disfigurement to
another.
   (G)   (1)   A violation of §
71.075 is a petty offense, for which a fine of $250 shall be imposed for a
first violation, and a fine of $500 shall be imposed for a second or subsequent
violation. The court may impose 25 hours of community service in place of the
$250 fine for the first violation.
      (2)   For a second or subsequent violation, the Secretary of State may
suspend the driving privileges of the offender for a minimum of six months.
   (H)   Any person found in violation of §
71.078(B) shall be subject to a mandatory fine of $500 or 50 hours of community
service.
   (I)   Beginning January 1, 2009, the Secretary of State shall suspend for a
period of one month the driving privileges of any person convicted of a
violation of §
71.078(B) or a similar provision of a local ordinance; the Secretary shall
suspend for a period of three months the driving privileges of any person
convicted of a second or subsequent violation of §
71.078(B) or a similar provision of a local ordinance if the second or
subsequent violation occurs within five years of a prior conviction for the
same offense. In addition to the suspensions authorized by this section, any
person convicted of violating §
71.078(B) or a similar provision of a local ordinance shall be subject to a
mandatory fine of $500 or 50 hours of community service. Any person given a
disposition of court supervision for violating §
71.078(B) or a similar provision of a local ordinance shall also be subject to
a mandatory fine of $500 or 50 hours of community service. Upon a second or
subsequent violation, in addition to the suspensions authorized by this
section, the person shall be subject to a mandatory fine of $500 and 50 hours
of community service. The Secretary may also grant, for the duration of any
suspension issued under this division (I), a restricted driving permit granting
the privilege of driving a motor vehicle between the driver’s residence and
place of employment or within other proper limits that the Secretary of State
shall find necessary to avoid any undue hardship. A restricted driving permit
issued hereunder shall be subject to cancellation, revocation and suspension by
the Secretary of State in like manner and for like cause as a driver’s license
may be cancelled, revoked or suspended; except that a conviction upon one or
more offenses against laws or ordinances regulating the movement of traffic
shall be deemed sufficient cause for the revocation, suspension or cancellation
of the restricted driving permit. The Secretary of State may, as a condition to
the issuance of a restricted driving permit, require the applicant to
participate in a designated driver remedial or rehabilitative program. Any
conviction for a violation of this division (I) shall be included as an offense
for the purposes of determining suspension action under any other provision of
the Vehicle Code; provided, however, that the penalties provided under this
division (I) shall be imposed unless those penalties imposed under other
applicable provisions are greater.
(Prior Code, § 71.999)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-601, 625 ILCS 5/11-605(e) and (f), 625
ILCS 5/11-605.1, 625 ILCS 5/11-1414, 625 ILCS 5/11-703(f), 625 ILCS 5/11-1201
and 625 ILCS 5/11-1425
   Violation of §
71.037(E) resulting in great bodily harm or permanent disability or
disfigurement to another, a Class 3 felony, see 625 ILCS 5/11-703
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Method of Parking
   
72.01   General parking regulations
   
72.02   Unattended motor vehicles
Restrictions on Stopping, Standing and Parking
   
72.15   Stopping, standing or parking prohibited in specified places
   
72.16   Stopping, standing or parking outside business or residence district
   
72.17   Unauthorized use of parking spaces reserved for persons with
disabilities
Snow Emergencies
   
72.30   Announcement of snow emergency
   
72.31   Termination of emergency
   
72.32   Snow emergency routes
Violations
   
72.45   Officers authorized to remove vehicles
   
72.46   Duty of lessor of vehicle on notice of violation of this chapter
Miscellaneous Provisions
   
72.60   Parking at curb
   
72.61   Vehicles for sale
   
72.62   Loading zone
   
72.63   Parking in alleys
   
72.64   Prima facie proof
 
   
72.99   Penalty
METHOD OF PARKING
§ 72.01 GENERAL PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, every vehicle stopped or
parked upon a two- way roadway shall be so stopped or parked with the right-
hand wheels parallel to and within 12 inches of the right-hand curb or as close
as practicable to the right edge of the right-hand shoulder.
   (B)   Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a one-way roadway shall be so
stopped or parked parallel to the curb or edge of the roadway, in the direction
of authorized traffic movement, with its right-hand wheels within 12 inches of
the right-hand curb or as close as practicable to the right edge of the right-
hand shoulder, or with its left-hand wheels within 12 inches of the left-hand
curb or as close as practicable to the left edge of the left-hand shoulder.
   (C)   No angle parking shall be permitted, except as set forth by the
Village Board of Trustees from time to time.
   (D)   No person shall park in violation of signs placed by and under the
jurisdiction of the State Department of Transportation which prohibit, limit or
restrict the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles on any highway.
(Prior Code, § 72.01) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1304
§ 72.02 UNATTENDED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit it to stand
unattended without stopping the engine, locking the ignition, removing the key
from the ignition, effectively setting the brake thereon and, when standing
upon any perceptible grade, turning the front wheels to the curb or side of the
highway.
(Prior Code, § 72.02) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1401
RESTRICTIONS ON STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
§ 72.15 STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES.
   (A)   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in
compliance with law or the directions of a police officer, or an official
traffic-control device, no person shall:
      (1)   Stop, stand or park a vehicle:
         (a)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
         (b)   On a sidewalk;
         (c)   Within an intersection;
         (d)   On a crosswalk;
         (e)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone unless a
different length is indicated by signs or markings;
         (f)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
         (g)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure, upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel;
         (h)   On any railroad tracks;
         (i)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping;
         (j)   On any controlled-access highway;
         (k)   In the area between roadways of a divided highway, including
crossovers; or
         (l)   In a public parking area if the vehicle does not display a
current annual registration sticker or current temporary permit pending
registration.
      (2)   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except
momentarily to pick up or discharge passengers:
         (a)   In front of a public or private driveway;
         (b)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
         (c)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
         (d)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing signal, stop
sign, yield sign or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
         (e)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and
on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75
feet of the entrance (when properly sign- posted); or
         (f)   At any place where official signs prohibit standing.
      (3)   Park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for the
purpose of, and while actually engaged in, loading or unloading property or
passengers:
         (a)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing; or
         (b)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any prohibited area or away from a curb a distance as is unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 72.15) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1303
§ 72.16 STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING OUTSIDE BUSINESS OR RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Outside a business or residence district, no person shall stop, park
or leave standing any vehicle, whether attended or unattended, upon the roadway
when it is practicable to stop, park or so leave the vehicle off the roadway,
but in every event an unobstructed width of the highway opposite a standing
vehicle shall be left for the free passage of other vehicles, and a clear view
of the stopped vehicle shall be available from a distance of 200 feet in each
direction upon the highway.
   (B)   (1)   The village, with respect to highways under its jurisdiction or
for the maintenance of which it is responsible, may place signs prohibiting or
restricting the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles on any highway where,
in its opinion, stopping, standing or parking is dangerous to those using the
highway, or where stopping, standing or parking vehicles would unduly interfere
with the free movement of traffic thereon.
      (2)   Any regulations adopted by the village regarding the stopping,
standing or parking of vehicles upon any specific street, streets or highways
become effective at the time of the erection of appropriate signs indicating
the regulations. Such regulations shall be set forth in
Chapter 77.
   (C)   This section and §
72.15 and 625 ILCS 5/11-1304 shall not apply to the driver of any vehicle which
is disabled in such manner and to such extent that it is impossible to avoid
stopping and temporarily leaving the vehicle in that position.
   (D)   (1)   Any second division vehicle used exclusively for the collection
of garbage, refuse or recyclable material may stop or stand on the road in a
business, rural or residential district for the sole purpose of collecting
garbage, refuse or recyclable material.
      (2)   The vehicle, in addition to having its hazard lights lighted at all
times that it is engaged in stopping or standing, shall also use its amber
oscillating, rotating or flashing light or lights, as authorized under 625 ILCS
5/12-215(b)(12), if so equipped.
(Prior Code, § 72.16) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1301
§ 72.17 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF PARKING SPACES RESERVED FOR PERSONS WITH
DISABILITIES.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be prohibited to park any motor vehicle which is not
properly displaying registration plates or decals issued to a person with
disabilities, as defined by §
70.01, pursuant to 625 ILCS 5/3-616, 11-1301.1 or 11-1301.2, or to a disabled
veteran pursuant to 625 ILCS 5/3-609, as evidence that the vehicle is operated
by or for a person with disabilities or disabled veteran, in any parking place,
including any private or public off-street parking facility, specifically
reserved, by the posting of an official sign as designated under 625 ILCS 5/11-
301, for motor vehicles displaying such registration plates. It shall be
prohibited to park any motor vehicle in a designated access aisle adjacent to
any parking place specifically reserved for persons with disabilities, by the
posting of an official sign as designated under 625 ILCS 5/11-301, for motor
vehicles displaying such registration plates. When using the parking privileges
for persons with disabilities, the parking decal or device must be displayed
properly in the vehicle where it is clearly visible to law enforcement
personnel, either hanging from the rearview mirror or placed on the dashboard
of the vehicle in clear view. Disability license plates and parking decals and
devices are not transferable from person to person. Proper usage of the
disability license plate or parking decal or device requires the authorized
holder to be present and enter or exit the vehicle at the time the parking
privileges are being used. It is a violation of this section to park in a space
reserved for a person with disabilities if the authorized holder of the
disability license plate or parking decal or device does not enter or exit the
vehicle at the time the parking privileges are being used. Any motor vehicle
properly displaying a disability license plate or a parking decal or device
containing the international symbol of access issued to persons with
disabilities by any local authority, state, district, territory or foreign
country shall be recognized as a valid license plate or device and receive the
same parking privileges as residents of the village.
      (2)   An individual with a vehicle displaying disability license plates
or a parking decal or device issued to a qualified person with a disability
under 625 ILCS 5/3-616, 11-1301.1 or 11-1301.2 or to a disabled veteran under
625 ILCS 5/3-609 is in violation of this section, if:
         (a)   The person using the disability license plate or parking decal
or device is not the authorized holder of the disability license plate or
parking decal or device or is not transporting the authorized holder of the
disability license plate or parking decal or device to or from the parking
location; and
         (b)   The person uses the disability license plate or parking decal or
device to exercise any privileges granted through the disability license plate
or parking decals or devices under this code.
   (B)   Any person or local authority owning or operating any public or
private off-street parking facility may, after notifying the Police Department,
remove, or cause to be removed, to the nearest garage or other place of safety
any vehicle parked within a stall or space reserved for use by a person with
disabilities which does not display person with disabilities registration
plates or a special decal or device as required under this section.
   (C)   (1)   Any person found guilty of violating the provisions of division
(A)(1) above shall be fined as set forth in §
72.99 in addition to any costs or charges connected with the removal or storage
of any motor vehicle authorized under this section. The village shall display
signs indicating the fine imposed, and if the amount of the fine is
subsequently changed, the village shall change the sign to indicate the current
amount of the fine. It shall not be a defense to a charge under this section
that either the sign posted pursuant to this section or the intended accessible
parking place does not comply with the technical requirements of 625 ILCS 5/11-
301, Department regulations or local ordinance if a reasonable person would be
made aware by the sign or notice on or near the parking place that the place is
reserved for a person with disabilities.
      (2)   Any person found guilty of violating the provisions of division (A)
(2) above shall be fined as set forth in §
72.99. The Circuit Clerk shall distribute 50% of the fine imposed on any person
who is found guilty of or pleads guilty to violating division (A)(2) above,
including any person placed on court supervision for violating this section, to
the law enforcement agency that issued the citation or made the arrest. If more
than one law enforcement agency is responsible for issuing the citation or
making the arrest, the 50% shall be shared equally.
   (D)   As used in this section, AUTHORIZED HOLDER means an individual issued
a disability license plate under 625 ILCS 5/3-616, an individual issued a
parking decal or device under 625 ILCS 5/11-1301.2 or an individual issued a
disabled veteran’s license plate under 625 ILCS 5/3-609.
   (E)   Any police officer may seize the parking decal or device from any
person who commits a violation of this section. Any police officer may seize
the disability license plate upon authorization from the Secretary of State.
Any police officer may request that the Secretary of State revoke the parking
decal or device or the disability license plate of any person who commits a
violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 72.17) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(a) - (a-2), (b), (d), (e) and
(g)
SNOW EMERGENCIES
§ 72.30 ANNOUNCEMENT OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Village President finds that falling snow, sleet or freezing
rain will create a condition which makes it necessary that the parking of motor
vehicles on snow emergency routes be prohibited, or whenever he or she finds,
on the basis of a firm forecast of snow, sleet or freezing rain, that the
weather conditions so forecasted may create a condition making it necessary
that such parking be prohibited, he or she is authorized to announce the
prohibition, to become effective at a time specified by him or her. After the
effective time of the prohibition, no person shall park any vehicle or permit
any vehicle to remain parked on a snow emergency route. However, if a fall of
snow, sleet or freezing rain occurs after 11:00 p.m. and prior to 6:00 a.m.,
and the Village President has not announced prior to 11:00 p.m. that parking on
snow emergency routes is to be prohibited after a specified time, a vehicle
parked on a snow emergency route may remain so parked until 7:00 a.m. following
the fall. The prohibition of parking announced by the Village President under
the authority of this section shall remain in effect until he or she announces
the termination of the snow emergency, in part or in whole, after which the
prohibition of parking authorized by this section shall no longer be in effect.
(Prior Code, § 72.30) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.31 TERMINATION OF EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Village President shall find that some or all of the conditions
which gave rise to the snow emergency prohibition no longer exist, he or she is
authorized to declare the termination of the emergency, in part or in whole,
effective immediately on announcement. If the announcement is made other than
between 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m., it shall be repeated between those hours.
(Prior Code, § 72.31)
§ 72.32 SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   The term SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE shall mean any route designated by the Village
President. On a street or highway designated as a snow emergency route, special
signs shall be posted to this effect.
(Prior Code, § 72.32)
VIOLATIONS
§ 72.45 OFFICERS AUTHORIZED TO REMOVE VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle in violation of any of the
provisions of §
72.16 or any other applicable section of this traffic code or ordinance of the
village, the officer is authorized to move the vehicle, or require the driver
or other person in charge of the vehicle to move the same, to a position off
the roadway.
   (B)   Any police officer is authorized to remove, or cause to be removed, to
a place of safety any unattended vehicle illegally left standing upon any
highway, bridge, causeway or in a tunnel, or in a position or under
circumstances as to obstruct the normal movement of traffic.
   (C)   Any police officer is authorized to remove, or cause to be removed, to
the nearest garage or other place of safety any vehicle found upon a highway
when:
      (1)   Report has been made that the vehicle has been stolen or taken
without the consent of its owner;
      (2)   The person or persons in charge of the vehicle are unable to
provide for its custody or removal; or
      (3)   When the person driving or in control of the vehicle is arrested
for an alleged offense for which the officer is required by law to take the
person arrested before a proper magistrate without unnecessary delay.
(Prior Code, § 72.45)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1302
§ 72.46 DUTY OF LESSOR OF VEHICLE ON NOTICE OF VIOLATION OF THIS CHAPTER.
   Every person in whose name a vehicle is registered pursuant to law and who
leases the vehicle to others, after receiving written notice of a violation of
this chapter involving the vehicle shall, upon request, provide the police
officers as have authority of the offense, and the court having jurisdiction
thereof, with a written statement of the name and address of the lessee at the
time of the offense and the identifying number upon the registration plates and
registration sticker or stickers of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 72.46)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1305
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
§ 72.60 PARKING AT CURB.
   No vehicle shall be parked with the left side of such vehicle next to the
curb, except on one-way streets, and it shall be unlawful to stand or park any
vehicle in a street other than parallel with the curb and with the two right
wheels of the vehicle within 12 inches of the regularly established curb line,
except that upon those streets that have been marked for angle parking,
vehicles shall be parked at the angle to the curb indicated by such marks.
(Prior Code, § 72.60) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.61 VEHICLES FOR SALE.
   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle upon any street for the purpose of
displaying it for sale or to park any vehicle upon any business street from
which vehicle merchandise is peddled.
(Prior Code, § 72.61) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.62 LOADING ZONE.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a vehicle to stand a passenger
vehicle for a period of time longer than is necessary for the loading or
unloading of passengers, not to exceed three minutes, and for the driver to
stand any freight carrying vehicles for a period of time longer than is
necessary to load, unload and deliver materials, not to exceed 30 minutes in
any place designated by the Village Board as a loading zone and marked as such.
(Prior Code, § 72.62) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.63 PARKING IN ALLEYS.
   No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a manner or under
such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of the width of the
roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person shall stop,
stand or park a vehicle within an alley in such a position as to block the
driveway entrance to any abutting property.
(Prior Code, § 72.63) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.64 PRIMA FACIE PROOF.
   The fact that an automobile which is illegally parked is registered in the
name of a person shall be considered prima facie proof that such person was in
control of the automobile at the time of such parking.
(Prior Code, § 72.64)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is otherwise provided shall be fined as set forth in §
70.99.
   (B)   A violation of any part of §
72.15(A)(1)(h) shall result in a mandatory fine of $500 or 50 hours of
community service.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates §
72.17(A)(1) shall be fined $250 in addition to any costs or charges connected
with the removal or storage of the motor vehicle, but municipalities, by
ordinance, may impose a fine up to $350 and shall display signs indicating the
fine imposed.
      (2)   (a)   1.   Any person found guilty of violating the provisions of §
72.17(A)(2) shall be fined $500 for a first offense.
            2.   Any person who commits a second violation of §
72.17(A)(2) shall be fined $750.
            3.   Any person found guilty of violating division (A)(2) a third
or subsequent time shall be fined $1,000.
         (b)   Any person who commits a violation of §
72.17(A)(2) may have his or her driving privileges suspended or revoked by the
Secretary of State for a period of time determined by the Secretary of State.
The Secretary of State may also suspend or revoke the disability license plates
or parking decal or device for a period of time determined by the Secretary of
State.
(Prior Code, § 72.99)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1303 and 625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(c), (c-
1) and (f)
CHAPTER 73: MOTORCYCLES AND BICYCLES
Section
Bicycles
   
73.01   Traffic laws apply to persons riding bicycles
   
73.02   Riding on bicycles
   
73.03   Clinging to vehicles
   
73.04   Riding on roadways and bicycle paths
   
73.05   Carrying articles
   
73.06   Lamps and other equipment on bicycles
Motorcycles and Mopeds
   
73.20   Riding on motorcycles
   
73.21   Special equipment for persons riding motorcycles
   
73.22   Required equipment on motorcycles
   
73.23   Operating motorcycle on one wheel
   
73.24   Lamps on mopeds
   
73.25   Riding on mopeds
BICYCLES
§ 73.01 TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY TO PERSONS RIDING BICYCLES.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a highway shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by this traffic code, except as to special regulations in this traffic
code and except as to those provisions of this traffic code which by their
nature can have no application.
(Prior Code, § 73.01) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1502
§ 73.02 RIDING ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than upon or
astride a permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped, except that an adult rider may
carry a child securely attached to his or her person in a backpack or sling.
(Prior Code, § 73.02) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1503
§ 73.03 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled or toy
vehicle shall attach the same or himself or herself to any vehicle upon a
roadway.
(Prior Code, § 73.03) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1504
§ 73.04 RIDING ON ROADWAYS AND BICYCLE PATHS.
   (A)   Any person operating a bicycle or motorized pedalcycle upon a roadway
at less than the normal speed of traffic at the time and place and under the
conditions then existing shall ride as close as practicable and safe to the
right-hand curb or edge of the roadway, except under the following situations:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another bicycle, motorized pedalcycle
or vehicle proceeding in the same direction;
      (2)   When preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private
road or driveway;
      (3)   When reasonably necessary to avoid conditions, including, but not
limited to, fixed or moving objects, parked or moving vehicles, bicycles,
motorized pedalcycles, pedestrians, animals, surface hazards or substandard
width lanes that make it unsafe to continue along the right-hand curb or edge.
For purposes of this division (A)(3), a SUBSTANDARD WIDTH LANE means a lane
that is too narrow for a bicycle or motorized pedalcycle and a vehicle to
travel safely side by side within the lane; or
      (4)   When approaching a place where a right turn is authorized.
   (B)   Any person operating a bicycle or motorized pedalcycle upon a one-way
highway with two or more marked traffic lanes may ride as near the left-hand
curb or edge of the roadway as practicable.
   (C)   Persons riding bicycles or motorized pedalcycles upon a roadway shall
not ride more than two abreast, except on paths or parts of roadways set aside
for their exclusive use. Persons riding two abreast shall not impede the normal
and reasonable movement of traffic and, on a laned roadway, shall ride within a
single lane, subject to the provisions of divisions (A) and (B) above.
(Prior Code, § 73.04) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1505 and 625 ILCS 5/11-1505.1
§ 73.05 CARRYING ARTICLES.
   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle or article
which prevents the use of both hands in the control and operation of the
bicycle. A person operating a bicycle shall keep at least one hand on the
handlebars at all times.
(Prior Code, § 73.05) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1506
§ 73.06 LAMPS AND OTHER EQUIPMENT ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be equipped with a lamp
on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least
500 feet to the front, and with a red reflector on the rear of a type approved
by the State Department of Transportation which shall be visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet to the rear when directly in front of
lawful lower beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light
visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear may be used in addition to the
red reflector.
   (B)   A bicycle shall not be equipped with, nor shall any person use upon a
bicycle, any siren. This division (B) does not apply to a bicycle that is a
police vehicle or Fire Department vehicle.
   (C)   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will adequately
control movement of and stop and hold the bicycle.
   (D)   No person shall sell a new bicycle or pedal for use on a bicycle that
is not equipped with a reflex reflector conforming to specifications prescribed
by the State Department of Transportation, on each pedal, visible from the
front and rear of the bicycle during darkness from a distance of 200 feet.
   (E)   (1)   No person shall sell, or offer for sale, a new bicycle that is
not equipped with side reflectors. The reflectors shall be visible from each
side of the bicycle from a distance of 500 feet, and shall be essentially
colorless or red to the rear of the center of the bicycle and essentially
colorless or amber to the front of the center of the bicycle.
      (2)   The requirements of this division may be met by reflective
materials which shall be at least three-sixteenths inch wide on each side of
each tire or rim to indicate as clearly as possible the continuous circular
shape and size of the tires or rims of the bicycle, and which reflective
materials may be of the same color on both the front and rear tire or rim. The
reflectors shall conform to specifications prescribed by the State Department
of Transportation.
   (F)   No person shall sell, or offer for sale, a new bicycle that is not
equipped with an essentially colorless front-facing reflector.
(Prior Code, § 73.06) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1507
MOTORCYCLES AND MOPEDS
§ 73.20 RIDING ON MOTORCYCLES.
   (A)   A person operating a motorcycle shall ride only upon the permanent and
regular seat attached thereto, and the operator shall not carry any other
person nor shall any other person ride on a motorcycle unless the motorcycle is
designed to carry more than one person, in which event a passenger may ride
upon the permanent and regular seat if designed for two persons, or upon
another seat firmly attached to the motorcycle at the rear or side of the
operator.
   (B)   A person shall ride upon a motorcycle only while sitting astride the
seat, facing forward, with one leg on each side of the motorcycle.
   (C)   No person shall operate any motorcycle with handlebars higher than the
height of the shoulders of the operator when the operator is seated in the
normal driving position astride that portion of the seat or saddle occupied by
the operator.
(Prior Code, § 73.20) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1403
§ 73.21 SPECIAL EQUIPMENT FOR PERSONS RIDING MOTORCYCLES.
   (A)   Requirement. The operator and every passenger of a motorcycle, motor-
driven cycle or moped and every passenger thereon shall be protected by
glasses, goggles or a transparent shield.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      GLASSES. Ordinary eye pieces, such as spectacles or sunglasses worn
before the eye, made of shatter-resistant material.
      GOGGLES. A device worn before the eyes, the predominant function of which
is protecting the eyes without obstructing peripheral vision. GOGGLES shall
provide protection from the front and sides and may or may not form a complete
seal with the face.
      SHATTER-RESISTANT MATERIAL. Material so manufactured, fabricated or
created that it substantially prevents shattering or flying when struck or
broken.
      TRANSPARENT SHIELD. A windshield attached to the front of a motorcycle
that extends above the eyes when an operator is seated in the normal, upright
riding position, made of shatter-resistant material, or a shatter-resistant
protective face shield that covers the wearer’s eyes and face at least to a
point approximately above the tip of the nose.
(Prior Code, § 73.21) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1404
§ 73.22 REQUIRED EQUIPMENT ON MOTORCYCLES.
   Any motorcycle carrying a passenger, other than in a sidecar or enclosed
cab, shall be equipped with footrests for the passenger.
(Prior Code, § 73.22) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1405
§ 73.23 OPERATING MOTORCYCLE ON ONE WHEEL.
   Any person who operates a motorcycle, motor driven cycle or moped on one
wheel is guilty of reckless driving, as defined in §
76.01.
(Prior Code, § 73.23) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Operating on one wheel prohibited, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1403.2
§ 73.24 LAMPS ON MOPEDS.
   Every moped, when in use at nighttime, shall be equipped with a lamp on the
front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least 500
feet to the front, and with a red reflector on the rear of a type approved by
the State Department of Transportation which shall be visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet to the rear when in front of lawful, low-
powered beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light
visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear may be used in addition to the
red reflector.
(Prior Code, § 73.24) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1507.1
§ 73.25 RIDING ON MOPEDS.
   (A)   The operator of a moped shall ride only astride the permanent and
regular seat attached thereto, and shall not permit two persons to ride thereon
at the same time, unless the moped is designed to carry two persons. Any moped
designed for two persons must be equipped with a passenger seat and footrests
for use of a passenger.
   (B)   Neither the operator nor any passenger on a moped shall be required to
wear any special goggles, shield, helmet or glasses.
   (C)   The provisions of §§
73.01 through
73.06 shall be applicable to the operation of mopeds, except for those
provisions which by their nature can have no application to moped.
(Prior Code, § 73.25) Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   Operating on one wheel, see §
73.23
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1403.1
CHAPTER 74: PEDESTRIANS
Section
   
74.01   Pedestrian obedience to traffic-control devices and traffic regulations
   
74.02   Pedestrian right-of-way at crosswalks; school zones
   
74.03   Crossing at other than crosswalks
   
74.04   Drivers to avoid colliding with pedestrians
   
74.05   Pedestrian with disabilities; right-of-way
   
74.06   Pedestrians to use right half of crosswalks
   
74.07   Pedestrians soliciting rides or business
   
74.08   Pedestrians walking on highways
   
74.09   Right-of-way on sidewalks
   
74.10   Pedestrians yield to authorized emergency vehicles
   
74.11   Pedestrians under influence of alcohol or drugs
   
74.12   Bridge and railroad signals
   
74.13   Motorized wheelchairs
   
74.14   Electric personal assistive mobility devices
 
   
74.99   Penalty
§ 74.01 PEDESTRIAN OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES AND TRAFFIC
REGULATIONS.
   (A)   A pedestrian shall obey the instructions of any official traffic-
control device specifically applicable to him or her unless otherwise directed
by a police officer.
   (B)   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic and pedestrian-control signals
provided in §§
70.41,
70.42 and
70.43 of this traffic code; but at all other places, pedestrians shall be
accorded the privileges and shall be subject to the restrictions stated in this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 74.01) Penalty, see §
74.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1001
§ 74.02 PEDESTRIAN RIGHT-OF-WAY AT CROSSWALKS; SCHOOL ZONES.
   (A)   (1)   When traffic-control signals are not in place, or not in
operation, the driver of a vehicle shall stop and yield the right-of-way to a
pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk when the pedestrian is upon
the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is traveling, or when the
pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite half of the roadway as
to be in danger.
      (2)   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety,
and walk or run into the path of a moving vehicle which is so close as to
constitute an immediate hazard.
      (3)   Division (A)(1) above shall not apply under the condition stated in
§
74.03(B).
      (4)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass the stopped vehicle.
      (5)   Whenever stop signs or flashing red signals are in place at an
intersection or at a plainly marked crosswalk between intersections, drivers
shall yield right-of-way to pedestrians as set forth in §
71.057.
   (B)   For the purpose of this division (B), SCHOOL has the meaning ascribed
to that term in 625 ILCS 5/11-605.
      (1)   On a school day when school children are present and so close
thereto that a potential hazard exists because of the close proximity of the
motorized traffic and when traffic-control signals are not in place or not in
operation, the driver of a vehicle shall stop and yield the right-of-way to a
pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk when the pedestrian is upon
the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is traveling, or when the
pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite half of the roadway as
to be in danger.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (B), a school day shall begin at
7:00 a.m. and shall conclude at 4:00 p.m.
      (3)   This division (B) shall not be applicable unless appropriate signs
are posted in accordance with 625 ILCS 5/11-605.
(Prior Code, § 74.02) Penalty, see §
74.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1002 and 625 ILCS 5/11-1002.5
§ 74.03 CROSSING AT OTHER THAN CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk, or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection, shall
yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (B)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-of-way
to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (C)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic-control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a marked
crosswalk.
   (D)   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway intersection diagonally unless
authorized by official traffic-control devices; and, when authorized to cross
diagonally, pedestrians shall cross only in accordance with the official
traffic-control devices pertaining to the crossing movements.
   (E)   Pedestrians with disabilities may cross a roadway at any point other
than within a marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk where the
intersection is physically inaccessible to them but they shall yield the right-
of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 74.03) Penalty, see §
74.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1003
§ 74.04 DRIVERS TO AVOID COLLIDING WITH PEDESTRIANS.
   Notwithstanding other provisions of this chapter, every driver of a vehicle
shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian, or any person
operating a bicycle or other device propelled by human power and shall give
warning by sounding the horn when necessary, and shall exercise proper
precaution upon observing any child or any obviously confused, incapacitated or
intoxicated person.
(Prior Code, § 74.04) Penalty, see §
74.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1003.1
§ 74.05 PEDESTRIAN WITH DISABILITIES; RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian with
clearly visible disabilities.
(Prior Code, § 74.05) Penalty, see §
74.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1004
§ 74.06 PEDESTRIANS TO USE RIGHT HALF OF CROSSWALKS.
   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
(Prior Code, § 74.06) Penalty, see §
74.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1005
§ 74.07 PEDESTRIANS SOLICITING RIDES OR BUSINESS.
   (A)   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a
ride from the driver of any vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall stand on a highway for the purpose of soliciting
employment or business from the occupant of any vehicle.
   (C)   (1)   No person shall stand on a highway for the purpose of soliciting
contributions from the occupant of any vehicle unless expressly permitted by
this code. Solicitation on highways within this village shall be allowed only
at intersections where all traffic is required to come to a full stop. Any
person engaged in the act of solicitation shall be 16 years of age or more and
shall be wearing a high visibility vest.
      (2)   The soliciting agency shall be:
         (a)   Registered with the Attorney General as a charitable
organization as provided by “An Act to regulate solicitation and collection of
funds for charitable purposes, providing for violations thereof, and making an
appropriation therefor”, approved July 26, 1963, as amended;
         (b)   Engaged in a statewide fund raising activity; and
         (c)   Liable for any injuries to any person or property during the
solicitation which is casually related to an act of ordinary negligence of the
soliciting agent.
   (D)   No person shall stand on or in the proximity of a roadway for the
purpose of soliciting the watching or guarding of any vehicle while parked or
about to be parked on a street or highway.
(Prior Code, § 74.07) Penalty, see §
74.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1006
§ 74.08 PEDESTRIANS WALKING ON HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   Where a sidewalk is provided and its use is practicable, it shall be
unlawful for any pedestrian to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   (B)   Where a sidewalk is not available, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a highway shall walk only on a shoulder, as far as practicable from the
edge of the roadway.
   (C)   Where neither a sidewalk nor a shoulder is available, any pedestrian
walking along and upon a highway shall walk as near as practicable to an
outside edge of a roadway and, if on a two-way roadway, shall walk only on the
left side of the roadway.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, any pedestrian upon a
roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 74.08) Penalty, see §
74.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1007
§ 74.09 RIGHT-OF-WAY ON SIDEWALKS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrians on a
sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 74.09) Penalty, see §
74.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1008
§ 74.10 PEDESTRIANS YIELD TO AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle making use of
an audible signal and visual signals meeting the requirements of 625 ILCS 5/12-
601, or of a police vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an audible
signal only, every pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to the authorized
emergency vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 74.10) Penalty, see §
74.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1009
§ 74.11 PEDESTRIANS UNDER INFLUENCE OF ALCOHOL OR DRUGS.
   A pedestrian who is under the influence of alcohol or any drug to a degree
which renders himself or herself a hazard shall not walk or be upon a highway,
except on a sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 74.11) Penalty, see §
74.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1010
§ 74.12 BRIDGE AND RAILROAD SIGNALS.
   (A)   No pedestrian shall enter or remain upon any bridge or approach
thereto beyond the bridge signal, gate or barrier after a bridge operation
signal indication has been given.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall pass through, around, over or under any crossing
gate or barrier at a railroad grade crossing or bridge while the gate or
barrier is closed or is being opened or closed.
   (C)   No pedestrian shall enter, remain upon or traverse over a railroad
grade crossing or pedestrian walkway crossing a railroad track when an audible
bell or clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device is operational
giving warning of the approach of a railroad train or railroad track equipment.
(Prior Code, § 74.12) Penalty, see §
74.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1011
§ 74.13 MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIRS.
   Every person operating a motorized wheelchair upon a sidewalk or roadway
shall be granted all the rights and shall be subject to all the duties
applicable to a pedestrian.
(Prior Code, § 74.13)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1004.1
§ 74.14 ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICES.
   Every person operating an electric personal assistive mobility device upon a
sidewalk or roadway has all the rights and is subject to all the duties
applicable to a pedestrian.
(Prior Code, § 74.14)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1005.1
§ 74.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
70.99.
   (B)   (1)   A first violation of §
74.02(B) is a petty offense with a minimum fine of $150. A second or subsequent
violation of §
74.02(B) is a petty offense with a minimum fine of $300.
      (2)   (a)   When a fine for a violation of §
74.02(B) is $150 or greater, the person who violates §
74.02(B) shall be charged an additional $50 to be paid to the unit school
district where the violation occurred for school safety purposes. If the
violation occurred in a dual school district, $25 of the surcharge shall be
paid to the elementary school district for school safety purposes and $25 of
the surcharge shall be paid to the high school district for school safety
purposes. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the entire $50 surcharge
shall be paid to the appropriate school district or districts.
         (b)   For purposes of this division (B)(2), SCHOOL SAFETY PURPOSES has
the meaning ascribed to that term in 625 ILCS 5/11-605.
   (C)   (1)   A violation of §
74.12 is a petty offense for which a $250 fine shall be imposed for a first
violation and a $500 fine shall be imposed for a second or subsequent
violation. The court may impose 25 hours of community service in place of the
$250 fine for a first violation.
      (2)   Local authorities shall impose fines as established in §
74.12(B) for pedestrians who fail to obey signals indicating the presence,
approach, passage or departure of a train or railroad track equipment.
(Prior Code, § 74.99)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1002.5 and 625 ILCS 5/11-1011
CHAPTER 75: EQUIPMENT; LOADS
Section
Equipment
   
75.01   Scope and effect of equipment requirements
Loads
   
75.15   Scope and effect of size, weight and load regulations
   
75.16   Projecting loads on passenger vehicles
   
75.17   Protruding members of vehicles
   
75.18   Spilling loads prohibited
   
75.19   Pushing of disabled vehicles
Condition of Vehicle
   
75.30   Clear vision
   
75.31   Signal lamps
   
75.32   Unnecessary noise
   
75.33   Horn
   
75.34   Gas and smoke
   
75.35   Brakes
   
75.36   Muffler
   
75.37   Lights
   
75.38   Volunteer firefighter
   
75.39   Non-skid devices
   
75.40   Tires
   
75.41   Weight
Road Weight Limit
   
75.55   Weight limit
   
75.56   Signs
   
75.57   Permit
EQUIPMENT
§ 75.01 SCOPE AND EFFECT OF EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to drive or move, or for the owner to
cause or knowingly permit to be driven or moved, on any highway any vehicle or
combination of vehicles which is in an unsafe condition as to endanger any
person or property, or which does not contain those parts or is not, at all
times, equipped with the lamps and other equipment in proper condition and
adjustment as required in 625 ILCS 5/12-101 et seq., or which is equipped in
any manner in violation of 625 ILCS 5/12-101 et seq., or for any person to do
any act forbidden or fail to perform any act required under 625 ILCS 5/12-101
et seq.
   (B)   The provisions of 625 ILCS 5/12-101 et seq., with respect to equipment
on vehicles, shall not apply to implements of husbandry, road machinery, road
rollers or farm tractors or to farm-wagon type trailers having a fertilizer
spreader attachment permanently mounted thereon, having a gross weight of not
to exceed 36,000 pounds and used only for the transportation of bulk
fertilizer, or to farm-wagon type tank trailers of not to exceed 2,000 gallons
capacity, used during the liquid fertilizer season as field-storage “nurse
tanks”, supplying the fertilizer to a field applicator and highways only for
bringing the fertilizer to a field applicator from a local source of supply to
the farm or field or from one farm or field to another.
(Prior Code, § 75.01) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/12-101
LOADS
§ 75.15 SCOPE AND EFFECT OF SIZE, WEIGHT AND LOAD REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to drive or move on, upon or across, or
for the owner to cause to knowingly permit to be driven or moved on, upon or
across any highway any vehicle or vehicles of a size and weight exceeding the
limitations stated in 625 ILCS 5/15-101 et seq., or otherwise in violation of
625 ILCS 5/15-101 et seq.
   (B)   The provisions of 625 ILCS 5/15-101 et seq. governing size, weight and
load do not apply to fire apparatus or equipment for snow and ice removal
operations owned or operated by the village, or to implements of husbandry, as
defined in §
70.01, temporarily operated or towed in a combination upon a highway; provided
the combination does not consist of more than three vehicles or, in the case of
hauling fresh, perishable fruits or vegetables from farm to the point of first
processing, not more than three wagons being towed by an implement of
husbandry, or to a vehicle operated under the terms of a special permit.
   (C)   The provisions of 625 ILCS 5/15-101 governing size, weight and load do
not apply to any snow and ice removal equipment that is no more than 12 feet in
width, if the equipment displays flags at least 18 inches square mounted on the
driver’s side of the snow plow. These vehicles must be equipped with an
illuminated rotating, oscillating or flashing amber light or lights or a
flashing amber strobe light or lights, mounted on the top of the cab and of
sufficient intensity to be visible at 500 feet in normal sunlight. If the load
on the transport vehicle blocks the visibility of the amber lighting from the
rear of the vehicle, the vehicle must also be equipped with an illuminated
rotating, oscillating or flashing amber light or lights or a flashing amber
strobe light or lights, mounted on the rear of the load and of sufficient
intensity to be visible at 500 feet in normal sunlight.
   (D)   No person shall use the highways under the jurisdiction of the village
in violation of weight and location restrictions and commercial vehicle
restrictions set forth by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 75.15) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Power of village to regulate loads, see 65 ILCS 5/11-40-1
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/15-101
§ 75.16 PROJECTING LOADS ON PASSENGER VEHICLES.
   No passenger-type vehicle shall be operated on any street with any load
carried thereon extending beyond the line of the fenders on the left side of
the vehicle, nor extending more than six inches beyond the line of the fenders
on the right side thereof.
(Prior Code, § 75.16) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/15-105
§ 75.17 PROTRUDING MEMBERS OF VEHICLES.
   No vehicle with boom, arm, drill rig or other protruding component shall be
operated upon any highway in the village unless the protruding component is
fastened so as to prevent shifting, bouncing or moving in any manner.
(Prior Code, § 75.17) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/15-106
§ 75.18 SPILLING LOADS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any street unless the vehicle
is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of its load from dropping,
shifting, leaking or otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand may be
dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or water or other substance may
be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or maintaining the roadway.
   (B)   No person shall operate on any highway any vehicle with any load
unless the load and any covering thereon is securely fastened so as to prevent
the covering or load from becoming loose, detached or in any manner a hazard to
other users of the highway.
   (C)   The State Department of Transportation shall adopt those rules and
regulations it deems appropriate which require the securing of steel rolls and
other objects on flatbed trucks so as to prevent injury to users of highways
and damage to property. Any person who operates a flatbed truck on any highway
in violation of the rules and regulations promulgated by the State Department
of Transportation under this division shall be punished as provided in §
70.99.
(Prior Code, § 75.18) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/15-109
§ 75.19 PUSHING OF DISABLED VEHICLES.
   It is unlawful under any circumstances for any vehicle to push any other
vehicle on or along any highway outside an urban area in this village, except
in an extreme emergency, and then the vehicle shall not be pushed farther than
is reasonably necessary to remove it from the roadway or from the immediate
hazard that exists.
(Prior Code, § 75.19) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/15-114
CONDITION OF VEHICLE
§ 75.30 CLEAR VISION.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle which is loaded or in such a
condition that the operator does not have a clear vision of all parts of the
roadway essential to the safe operation of the vehicle. Any view of the roadway
to the rear so obstructed shall be equipped with a mirror so attached as to
give him or her a view of the roadway behind him or her.
(Prior Code, § 75.30) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.31 SIGNAL LAMPS.
   Any motor vehicle in use on a highway shall be equipped with, and required
signal shall be given by, a signal lamp or lamps or mechanical signal device
when the distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the left
outside limit of the body, cab or load of such motor vehicle exceeds 24 inches
or when the distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the
rear limit of the body or load thereof exceeds 14 feet. The latter measurement
shall apply to any single vehicle, also to any combination of vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 75.31) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.32 UNNECESSARY NOISE.
   It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle which makes unusually load or
unnecessary noise.
(Prior Code, § 75.32) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.33 HORN.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a good and sufficient
audible signaling device in efficient working condition. Such signaling device
shall be sounded when necessary to give timely warning of the approach of a
vehicle, but such horn or other signaling shall not be sounded for any purpose
other than as a warning of impending danger.
   (B)   No motor vehicle, other than an emergency vehicle, shall be equipped
with a siren or gong signaling device.
(Prior Code, § 75.33) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.34 GAS AND SMOKE.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle which emits dense smoke or such
an amount of smoke or fumes as to be dangerous to the health of persons or as
to endanger the drivers of other vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 75.34) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.35 BRAKES.
   It shall be unlawful to drive any motor vehicle upon a street unless such
vehicle is equipped with good and sufficient brakes in good working condition,
as required by the state traffic law, or to operate any vehicle which is so
loaded that the operator does not have ready access to the mechanics operating
the brakes of such vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 75.35) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.36 MUFFLER.
   No motor vehicle shall be operated on any street unless such vehicle is
provided with a muffler in efficient actual working condition, and the use of a
cutout is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 75.36) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.37 LIGHTS.
   It shall be unlawful to operate or park on any street any vehicle not
equipped with adequate lights conforming to the requirements of the state law;
provided that vehicles may be parked at nighttime without lights on any street
or portion thereof, designated by ordinance as a place where vehicles may so
park at nighttime.
(Prior Code, § 75.37) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.38 VOLUNTEER FIREFIGHTER.
   Any motor vehicle owned or usually operated by a volunteer firefighter may
be equipped with not to exceed two lamps which shall emit a blue light without
glare. One such lamp may be mounted on the rear of any such vehicle. A flashing
blue light may be used only when such firefighter is responding to a fire call.
(Prior Code, § 75.38) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.39 NON-SKID DEVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to operate upon any street any motor vehicle equipped
with any non-skid device so constructed that any rigid or non-flexible portion
thereof comes into contact with the pavement or roadway.
(Prior Code, § 75.39) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.40 TIRES.
   It shall be unlawful to operate on any street any motor vehicle which is not
equipped with tires conforming to the requirements of the state traffic law.
(Prior Code, § 75.40) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.41 WEIGHT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a truck or other
commercial vehicle which weighs in excess of 15,000 pounds per axle, including
any load, upon any street within the village.
   (B)   Any truck or other commercial vehicle traveling to or from a pick-up
or delivery at a site within the village is exempt from the weight limit set
forth in division (A) above.
   (C)   Either the owner or the driver of a truck or other commercial vehicle,
operated in violation of this section, may be prosecuted for such violation,
and shall be jointly and severally liable for any fines imposed.
   (D)   Any person, firm or corporation convicted of any violation of this
section shall be fined according to the same schedule found at § 15-113 of the
Illinois Vehicle Code, being 625 ILCS 5/15-113.
   (E)   Signs conforming to the requirements in the state’s Manual on Uniform
Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways, giving notice of the
foregoing weight limitations, shall be posted at all entrances to the village.
(Prior Code, § 75.41) (Ord. 91-08-02, passed 8-12-1991) Penalty, see §
70.99
ROAD WEIGHT LIMIT
§ 75.55 WEIGHT LIMIT.
   No motor vehicle or trailer, which, including its load, weighs in excess of
15,000 pounds, shall be driven or towed at any time upon any street in the
village unless a special permit is first obtained.
(Prior Code, § 75.55) (Ord. 91-08-02, passed 8-12-1991) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.56 SIGNS.
   Signs shall be erected and maintained at the entrance points of all streets
entering the village to advise vehicle operators of the maximum permissible
weight limit specified by this title.
(Prior Code, § 75.56) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.57 PERMIT.
   Special permits for the operation of motor vehicles weighing more than
15,000 pounds on the village streets may be obtained from the Village Clerk,
upon asking, written application and payment of a permit fee of $100, and a
separate permit shall be required for each trip.
(Prior Code, § 75.57) (Ord. 91-08-02, passed 8-12-1991) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 76: MOTOR VEHICLE OFFENSES
Section
   
76.01   Reckless driving
   
76.02   Street racing
   
76.03   Accidents involving death or personal injuries
   
76.04   Duty to give information and render aid
   
76.05   Accident involving damage to vehicle
   
76.06   Duty upon damaging unattended vehicle or other property
   
76.07   Duty to report accident
   
76.08   False reports
   
76.09   When driver fails to report
 
   
76.99   Penalty
§ 76.01 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   A person commits reckless driving if he or she:
   (A)   Drives any vehicle with a willful or wanton disregard for the safety
of persons or property; or
   (B)   Knowingly drives a vehicle and uses an incline in a roadway, such as a
railroad crossing, bridge approach or hill, to cause the vehicle to become
airborne.
(Prior Code, § 76.01) Penalty, see §
76.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-503(a)
§ 76.02 STREET RACING.
   (A)   No person shall engage in street racing on any street or highway of
this village.
   (B)   No owner of any vehicle shall acquiesce in or permit his or her
vehicle to be used by another for the purpose of street racing.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACQUIESCE or PERMIT. Actual knowledge that the motor vehicle was to be
used for the purpose of street racing.
      STREET RACING.
         (a)   The operation of two or more vehicles from a point side by side
at accelerating speeds in a competitive attempt to outdistance each other;
         (b)   The operation of one or more vehicles over a common selected
course, each starting at the same point, for the purpose of comparing the
relative speeds or power of acceleration of such vehicle or vehicles within a
certain distance or time limit;
         (c)   The use of one or more vehicles in an attempt to outgain or
outdistance another vehicle;
         (d)   The use of one or more vehicles to prevent another vehicle from
passing;
         (e)   The use of one or more vehicles to arrive at a given destination
ahead of another vehicle or vehicles; or
         (6)   The use of one or more vehicles to test the physical stamina or
endurance of drivers over long-distance driving routes.
   (D)   Every person convicted of committing a violation of division (A) above
shall be guilty of aggravated street racing if the person, in committing a
violation of division (A) above, was involved in a motor vehicle accident that
resulted in great bodily harm or permanent disability or disfigurement to
another, where the violation was a proximate cause of the injury. Aggravated
street racing, a felony, will be prosecuted according to state law.
(Prior Code, § 76.02) Penalty, see §
76.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-506
§ 76.03 ACCIDENTS INVOLVING DEATH OR PERSONAL INJURIES.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle involved in a motor vehicle accident
resulting in personal injury to or death of any person shall immediately stop
the vehicle at the scene of the accident, or as close thereto as possible, and
shall then forthwith return to, and in every event shall remain at the scene of
the accident until the requirements of §
76.04 have been fulfilled. Every such stop shall be made without obstructing
traffic more than is necessary.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, PERSONAL INJURY shall mean any injury
requiring immediate professional treatment in a medical facility or doctor’s
office.
(Prior Code, § 76.03) Penalty, see §
76.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-401(a) - (b-1) and (e)
§ 76.04 DUTY TO GIVE INFORMATION AND RENDER AID.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle involved in a motor vehicle accident
resulting in injury to or death of any person or damage to any vehicle which is
driven or attended by any person shall give the driver’s name, address,
registration number and owner of the vehicle the driver is operating, and
shall, upon request and if available, exhibit the driver’s license to the
person struck or the driver or occupant of or person attending any vehicle
collided with, and shall render to any person injured in the accident
reasonable assistance, including the carrying or the making of arrangements for
the carrying of the person to a physician, surgeon or hospital for medical or
surgical treatment, if it is apparent that that treatment is necessary or if
such carrying is requested by the injured person.
   (B)   If none of the persons entitled to information pursuant to this
section are in condition to receive and understand the information and no
police officer is present, the driver, after rendering reasonable assistance,
shall forthwith report the accident at the Police Department, disclosing the
information required by this section.
(Prior Code, § 76.04) Penalty, see §
76.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-403
§ 76.05 ACCIDENT INVOLVING DAMAGE TO VEHICLE.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle involved in a motor vehicle accident
resulting only in damage to a vehicle which is driven or attended by any person
shall immediately stop the vehicle at the scene of the motor vehicle accident
or as close thereto as possible, but shall forthwith return to, and in every
event shall remain at, the scene of the motor vehicle accident until the
requirements of this chapter have been fulfilled. Every stop shall be made
without obstructing traffic more than is necessary. If a damaged vehicle is
obstructing traffic lanes, the driver of the vehicle must make every reasonable
effort to move the vehicle or have it moved so as not to block the traffic
lanes.
   (B)   Upon conviction of a violation of this section, the court shall make a
finding as to whether the damage to a vehicle is in excess of $1,000, and in
such case a statement of this finding shall be reported to the Secretary of
State with the report of conviction.
   (C)   (1)   If any peace officer or highway authority official finds either
a vehicle standing upon a highway or toll highway in violation of a
prohibition, limitation or restriction on stopping, standing or parking imposed
under this traffic code, or a disabled vehicle that obstructs the roadway of a
highway or toll highway, the peace officer or highway authority official is
authorized to move the vehicle or to require the operator of the vehicle to
move the vehicle to the shoulder of the road, to a position where parking is
permitted, or to public parking or storage premises.
      (2)   The removal may be performed by, or under the direction of, the
peace officer or highway authority official or may be contracted for by local
authorities. After the vehicle has been removed, the peace officer or highway
authority official shall follow appropriate procedures, as provided in 625 ILCS
5/4-203.
   (D)   A towing service, its officers and its employees are not liable for
loss of or damages to any real or personal property that occurs as the result
of the removal or towing of any vehicle under division (C) above, as provided
in 625 ILCS 5/4-213(b).
(Prior Code, § 76.05) Penalty, see §
76.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-402
§ 76.06 DUTY UPON DAMAGING UNATTENDED VEHICLE OR OTHER PROPERTY.
   The driver of any vehicle which collides with or is involved in a motor
vehicle accident with any vehicle which is unattended, or other property,
resulting in any damage to the other vehicle or property shall immediately stop
and shall then and there either locate and notify the operator or owner of the
vehicle or other property of the driver’s name, address, registration number
and owner of the vehicle the driver was operating or shall attach securely in a
conspicuous place on or in the vehicle or other property struck a written
notice giving the driver’s name, address, registration number and owner of the
vehicle the driver was driving and shall without unnecessary delay notify the
Police Department and shall make a written report of the accident when and as
required in §
76.07. Every such stop shall be made without obstructing traffic more than is
necessary. If a damaged vehicle is obstructing traffic lanes, the driver of the
vehicle must make every reasonable effort to move the vehicle or have it moved
so as not to block the traffic lanes.
(Prior Code, § 76.06) Penalty, see §
76.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-404
§ 76.07 DUTY TO REPORT ACCIDENT.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle, which is in any manner involved in an
accident within this village, resulting in injury to or death of any person or
in which damage to the property of any one person, including himself or
herself, in excess of $1,500 (or $500 if any of the vehicles involved in the
accident is subject to 625 ILCS 5/7-601, but is not covered by a liability
insurance policy in accordance with 625 ILCS 5/7-601) is sustained, shall, as
soon as possible but not later than ten days after the accident, file with the
Police Department a copy of the written report required to be filed with the
state under 625 ILCS 5/11-406(a).
   (B)   Whenever a school bus is involved in an accident in this village,
caused by a collision, a sudden stop or otherwise, resulting in any property
damage, personal injury or death, and whenever an accident occurs within 50
feet of a school bus in this village resulting in personal injury to or the
death of any person while awaiting or preparing to board the bus or immediately
after exiting the bus, the driver shall, as soon as possible, but not later
than ten days after the accident, file with the Police Department a copy of the
written report required to be filed with the state under 625 ILCS 5/11-406(b).
If a report is also required under division (A) above, that report and the
report required by this division (B) shall be submitted on a single form.
   (C)   The Chief of Police may require any driver, occupant or owner of a
vehicle involved in an accident of which report must be made as provided in
this section or §
76.09 to file supplemental reports whenever the original report is insufficient
in the opinion of the Chief of Police and may require witnesses of the accident
to submit written reports. The report may include photographs, charts, sketches
and graphs.
   (D)   Should the Police Department learn through other reports of accidents
required by law of the occurrence of an accident reportable under this chapter
and the driver, owner or witness has not reported as required under divisions
(A) through (C) above or §
76.09 within the time specified, the person is not relieved of the
responsibility and the Police Department shall notify the person by first-class
mail directed to his or her last known address of his or her legal obligation;
however, the notification is not a condition precedent to impose the penalty
for failure to report as provided in division (E) below.
   (E)   The Secretary of State shall suspend the driver’s license or any non-
resident’s driving privilege of any person who fails or neglects to make report
of a traffic accident as herein required or as required by any other law of
this state.
(Prior Code, § 76.07)
Statutory reference:
   Authorization for village to require accident reports, see 625 ILCS 5/11-415
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-406
§ 76.08 FALSE REPORTS.
   Any person who provides information in an oral or written report required by
this chapter with knowledge or reason to believe that the information is false
shall be fined as provided in §
76.99.
(Prior Code, § 76.08)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-409
§ 76.09 WHEN DRIVER FAILS TO REPORT.
   Whenever the driver of a vehicle is physically incapable of making a
required written accident report and if there was another occupant in the
vehicle at the time of the motor vehicle accident capable of making a written
report, the occupant shall make or cause the written report to be made. If the
driver fails for any reason to make the report the owner of the vehicle
involved in the motor vehicle accident shall, as soon as practicable, make the
report to the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 76.09)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-410
§ 76.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for
which no penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   Reckless driving. Every person convicted of reckless driving shall be
guilty of a Class A misdemeanor, except as provided under 625 ILCS 5/11-503 for
felony offenses.
   (C)   Street racing.
      (1)   Any person who is convicted of a violation of §
76.02(A) shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor for the first offense and
shall be subject to a minimum fine of $250. The driver’s license of any person
convicted of §
76.02(A) shall be revoked in the manner provided by 625 ILCS 5/6-205.
      (2)   Any person who is convicted of a violation of §
76.02(B) shall be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor. Any person who is convicted
of §
76.02(B) for a second or subsequent time shall be guilty of a Class A
misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 76.99)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-503 and 625 ILCS 5/11-506
CHAPTER 77: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Motorized vehicles prohibited
      
II.   Stop intersections
      
III.   Parking
      
IV.   Turning
SCHEDULE I. MOTORIZED VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The presence of motorized vehicles, whether gasoline or electrical,
and including snowmobiles, is prohibited, subject to division (B) below on the
village property legally described in Exhibit A of the ordinance herein
codified, attached thereto and fully incorporated by this reference and which
is otherwise known as the Southern View Community Park.
   (B)   The prohibition described in division (A) above does not apply to
vehicles which are required to be on the described premises for purposes of
construction or maintenance.
   (C)   Any violation of this schedule shall be punishable by a fine pursuant
to §
10.99.
(Prior Code, Ch. 77, Sch. I) (Ord. 97-10-01, passed 10-13-1997)
SCHEDULE II. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   The President and Board of Trustees do hereby authorize and direct that
traffic stop signs shall be erected at the following locations:
   (A)   At all four corners of the intersection of 4th Street and Apple
Orchard Road so that traffic proceeding in all directions shall stop before
entering said intersection;
   (B)   At all four corners of the intersection of 2nd and Garrett Streets so
that traffic proceeding in all directions shall stop before entering said
intersection;
   (C)   At all three corners of the intersection of Carman and Cordelia
Streets so that traffic proceeding in all directions shall stop before entering
said intersection;
   (D)   At all three corners of the intersection of Carman Street and St.
Joseph Streets so that traffic proceeding in all directions shall stop before
entering said intersection;
   (E)   At all three corners of the intersection of Straight Street and St.
Francis to that traffic proceeding in all directions shall stop before entering
said intersection;
   (F)   At all four corners of the intersection of 4th Street and St. Joseph
Street so that traffic proceeding in all directions shall stop before entering
said intersection; and
   (G)   At all four corners of the intersection of Second Street and
Cruickshank Street so that traffic proceeding in all directions shall stop
before entering said intersection.
(Prior Code, Ch. 77, Sch. II) (Ord. 04-06-02, passed 6-14-2004; Ord. 05-04-01,
passed 4-8-2005; Ord. 09-07-02, passed 7-28-2009)
SCHEDULE III. PARKING.
   (A)   The parking of motor vehicles on the north side of Kimble Street
between Spring Street and one-half block west of Carman Street, and along the
west side of Carman and Rita Streets from Kimble Street to St. Joseph Street,
is hereby prohibited at such times as official signs are in place prohibiting
such parking.
   (B)   Signs conforming to the specifications of the Illinois Manual on
Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways, adopted by the State
Department of Transportation stating, “No Parking”, shall be erected and
maintained on the north side of Kimble Street between College Street and one-
half block west of Carman Street, and along the west sides of Carman and Rita
Streets from Kimble Street to St. Joseph Street.
   (C)   Any violation of this schedule III shall be punishable by a fine not
exceeding $500.
(Ord. 83-2, passed 6-13-1983)
SCHEDULE IV. TURNING.
   (A)   A “No Left Turn” sign shall be placed on, or at a point along or near,
St. Joseph Street for the purpose of prohibiting left turns onto West Frontage
Road, which parallels Business Route 55, by westbound traffic on St. Joseph
Street in the village.
   (B)   Placement of the described sign shall be made in accordance with
current state law and regulations.
(Res. 03-06-01, passed 6- -2003)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
92.   SWIMMING POOLS
      
93.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
94.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Running at large prohibited
   
90.03   Vaccinations
   
90.04   Impoundment
   
90.05   Biting dogs; procedures for impoundment; destruction
   
90.06   Destructive dogs
   
90.07   Poundkeeper designated
   
90.08   Enforcement
   
90.09   Removal of dog waste
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AT LARGE. As applied to dogs, shall be held to mean such as are not confined
or restrained by means of a secure enclosure or leash.
   DOG. A female as well as a male dog.
(Prior Code, § 90.01) (Ord. 78-5, passed 10-9-1978)
§ 90.02 RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No dog shall be permitted by the owner or keeper thereof to run at
large in the village.
   (B)   Any dog kept in the village shall have received rabies vaccination
during the current calendar year and shall have about its neck a collar with a
tag attached evidencing such vaccination.
(Prior Code, § 90.02) (Ord. 78-5, passed 10-9-1978) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 VACCINATIONS.
   (A)   Required, who may vaccinate. Vaccination of dogs, as required by this
chapter, shall be performed by a veterinarian duly licensed to practice his or
her profession in this state. Upon performing such vaccination, such
veterinarian shall issue to the owner or keeper a metallic or other suitable
tag to be attached to the collar of such dog.
   (B)   Duration of vaccination. The vaccination performed under the
provisions of this chapter shall be effective until the expiration of the
calendar year in which the vaccination was performed.
   (C)   Exhibition of certificate. At a reasonable time, upon request of the
village officials or any person designated by them, the owner or keeper of any
dog shall exhibit his or her certificate issued under the provisions of this
chapter showing the vaccination of any dog owned or controlled by him or her.
(Prior Code, § 90.03) (Ord. 78-5, passed 10-9-1978) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   General. It shall be the duty of the village officials or any person
designated by them to take up and impound in the County Animal Shelter any dog
found running at large in the village contrary to the provisions of this
chapter, and the owner or keeper of such dog shall immediately be given notice
by mail of such impounding, if ownership of the dog can be established.
   (B)   Redemption of impounded dogs. Any dog impounded, except such as may
have bitten a person, shall, unless sooner redeemed, be held for a period of
seven days in order to afford opportunity to the owner or keeper thereof to
redeem the same. Any such owner or keeper desiring to redeem his or her
impounded dog shall pay an impounding fee of $100 the first offense, $150 for
the second offense and $200 for the third and all offenses thereafter to the
Village Clerk, who shall issue a receipt therefor. No dog shall be released
from the dog pound unless the owner or keeper exhibits such receipt to the
pound officer and also pays the cost of keeping such dog while impounded. No
dog shall be released without having been vaccinated for the current calendar
year.
   (C)   Destruction of impounded dogs. Any impounded dog which shall not be
redeemed within seven days, as provided in division (A) above, shall be
humanely destroyed by the poundkeeper.
(Prior Code, § 90.04) (Ord. 78-5, passed 10-9-1978; Ord. 94-05-01, passed 5-9-
1994; Ord. 01-01-01, passed 1-8-2001; Ord. 01-02-02, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 90.05 BITING DOGS; PROCEDURES FOR IMPOUNDMENT; DESTRUCTION.
   (A)   Any dog which shall have bitten or otherwise injured any person so as
to cause an abrasion of the skin shall be immediately taken up, impounded and
kept separated from other dogs for 14 days. If during that period such dog
develops symptoms of illness, a veterinarian shall be called to diagnose its
condition. If the symptoms disclosed are such as to indicate the presence of
rabies, such dog shall be destroyed, in such manner, however, as to preserve
intact the head, which shall thereupon be detached and immediately sent to the
diagnostic laboratory of the State Department of Agriculture. In case such dog
cannot be safely taken up and impounded, it may be shot, care being taken to
preserve the head intact, which shall thereupon be immediately detached and be
delivered to the diagnostic laboratory of the State Department of Agriculture.
   (B)   If, at the expiration of the period of 14 days, no symptoms of rabies
have developed in such dog so impounded, the same may be redeemed by the owner
upon payment of the redemption fees and charges specified by this chapter;
provided, however, that in case any dog so impounded for biting a person shall
have previously bitten any person, such shall be humanely destroyed by the
poundkeeper.
(Prior Code, § 90.05) (Ord. 78-5, passed 10-9-1978)
§ 90.06 DESTRUCTIVE DOGS.
   Any dog which may, in any manner, disturb the quiet of any person or
neighbor or shall destroy or, in any manner, injure any animal, plant, shrub or
other property not on the premises of its owner or keeper, is declared to be a
nuisance, and such dog shall be taken up and impounded and may be redeemed or
destroyed in the manner provided by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 90.06) (Ord. 78-5, passed 10-9-1978)
§ 90.07 POUNDKEEPER DESIGNATED.
   Except as to the regulations concerning vaccination, the Trustee of Public
Health shall be and he or she is charged with the duty of enforcing the
provisions of this chapter. He or she shall be ex officio poundkeeper of the
village. He or she shall designate such officers and employees under his or her
supervision as may be necessary to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 90.07) (Ord. 78-5, passed 10-9-1978)
§ 90.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Village Police Department shall enforce this chapter and no person shall
interfere with, hinder, molest or abuse a police officer in the exercise of
such enforcement.
(Prior Code, § 90.08) (Ord. 97-10-02, passed 10-13-1997) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09 REMOVAL OF DOG WASTE.
   The owner or custodian of a dog shall remove fecal material left on village
property by said dog.
(Prior Code, § 90.09) (Ord. 97-10-02, passed 10-13-1997) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine pursuant to §
10.99. Each day that any violation of this chapter shall continue shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 90.99)
CHAPTER 91: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
   
91.01   Definition
   
91.02   Animals
   
91.03   Foul matter
   
91.04   Stagnant water
   
91.05   Privies
   
91.06   Notice when person creating nuisance cannot be found
   
91.07   Weeds
   
91.08   Nuisances not enumerated
   
91.09   Sound device restrictions
   
91.10   Restrictions on outdoor burning
   
91.11   Dumping of leaves, yard wastes, white goods and the like
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01DEFINITION.
   Any premises, which may be nauseous, foul or offensive to the neighborhood,
to any person or family residing near the same or in such condition as to be
detrimental or obnoxious to the public health or comfort, shall be liable to a
penalty pursuant to §
91.99 after notice from any officer of the village or from any person aggrieved
thereby to abate, remove or remedy the same.
(Prior Code, § 91.01)
§ 91.02 ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any pen, place or premises in which animals are kept or confined which
is offensive to any person residing near the same or to persons passing along
the street or alley near the same is declared to be a nuisance, and the owner
who shall fail, neglect or refuse to abate such nuisance after notice to do so
from any officer of the village or by the person or persons aggrieved thereby
shall, upon conviction, be fined pursuant to §
91.99. No person shall keep one or more horses, cattle, goats, sheep, pigs,
chickens, geese, ducks or other animals or fowl commonly kept on farms, or
exotic animals commonly found in zoos, within the village limits.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to harbor or keep any animal which disturbs the
peace, by loud noises from time to time, of the day or night.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to permit any animal to run at large in any
public place in the village, and it shall further be unlawful to picket or tie
any animal in any of the streets of the village for the purpose of grazing or
feeding.
      (2)   No person shall cause or allow any stable or place where any animal
is or may be kept to become unclean or unwholesome.
(Prior Code, § 91.02) (Ord. 93-05-02, passed 5-10-1993) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 FOUL MATTER.
   Whoever shall, within the village, place or throw or permit to be discharged
or to flow from or out of any house or premises any filthy, foul or offensive
matter or liquid of any kind into any street, alley or public place or upon any
adjacent lot or ground or shall allow or permit the same to be done by any
person connected with the premises under his or her control, shall be deemed
guilty of maintaining a nuisance and shall, upon conviction, be fined pursuant
to §
91.99 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 91.03) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 STAGNANT WATER.
   Any lot, ground or premises within the village upon which stagnant water may
be standing so as to become, or is likely to become, foul, putrid or offensive
or detrimental to the health and comfort of persons residing in the vicinity
thereof is declared a nuisance, and any owner or agent of such lot or premises
who shall fail or neglect to abate said nuisance after notice to do so by any
officer of the village shall be subject to a fine pursuant to §
91.99 after notice that he or she shall fail to abate the same.
(Prior Code, § 91.04) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 PRIVIES.
   (A)   Whenever any privy or privy vault shall be kept or permitted to remain
in such a condition as to become offensive or unwholesome to any person or
persons in the vicinity thereof, the same shall be deemed a nuisance, and the
owner, occupant or agent of the premises upon which such privy is located, who
shall neglect or refuse to abate the nuisance after being notified to do so by
any officer of the village or by the person or persons aggrieved thereby shall,
upon conviction, be fined pursuant to §
91.99.
   (B)   No privy shall be permitted in any section of the village served by a
sewer.
(Prior Code, § 91.05) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 NOTICE WHEN PERSON CREATING NUISANCE CANNOT BE FOUND.
   When any nuisance, or anything likely to become a nuisance, may be found
upon any premises, and the person causing such nuisance is unknown or cannot be
found, the owner, agent or occupant of the premises shall be notified by any
officer of the village to abate the same, and if such owner, agent or occupant,
whose duty it is hereby made to abate the nuisance, shall not promptly comply
with such notice, he or she shall be subject to a fine pursuant to §
91.99.
(Prior Code, § 91.06) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.07 WEEDS.
   (A)   Declared a nuisance. Any weeds such as jimson, burdock, ragweed,
thistle, cockleburr or other weeds of a like kind found growing in any lot or
tract of land in the village are declared to be a nuisance, and it shall be
unlawful to permit any such weeds to grow or remain in any such place.
   (B)   Height. It shall be unlawful for anyone to permit any weeds, grass or
plants other than trees, bushes, flowers, edible food plants or other
ornamental plants to grow to a height exceeding eight inches anywhere in the
village; any such plants or weeds exceeding such height are declared to be a
nuisance.
   (C)   Removal; notice. It shall be the duty of the Health Officer to serve,
or cause to be served, a notice upon the owner and occupant of any premises on
which weeds or plants are permitted to grow in violation of the provisions of
this chapter and to demand the abatement of the nuisance within seven days.
   (D)   Abatement. If the person so served does not abate the nuisance within
seven days, the Health Officer may proceed to abate such nuisance, keeping an
account of the expense of the abatement, and such expense shall be charged and
paid by the property’s owner, along with any penalty assessed, pursuant to §§
51.10 through
51.12.
   (E)   Subsequent violations. For the second violation of this section within
a calendar year, the Health Officer may proceed to abate the nuisance and
penalties may be assessed beginning 72 hours after notice to the owner. For the
third and all subsequent violations of this section within a calendar year, the
Health Officer may proceed to abate the nuisance and penalties may be assessed
beginning 24 hours after notice to the owner.
   (F)   Cutting of weeds on certain private premises.
      (1)   The Village Superintendent of Public Health is hereby authorized to
cut the weeds on the land located at the northwest corner of Carman and Kimble
Streets.
      (2)   The cost of cutting said weeds shall be recovered by filing a lien
against said property as provided by law, and the Village Attorney is
authorized to file such claim for lien.
(Prior Code, § 91.07) (Ord. 71-4, passed 10-11-1971; Ord. 08-01-02, passed 1-
16-2008; Ord. 10-08-01, passed 8-24-2010; Ord. 10-09-02, passed 9-28-2010)
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.08 NUISANCES NOT ENUMERATED.
   Whoever shall create, permit or continue a nuisance of any kind or
description, not herein otherwise specified, in, upon or about any private
property or in any public place within the village which may affect the health,
comfort or convenience of the persons residing or doing business in the
vicinity thereof shall, upon conviction, be fined pursuant to §
91.99. All nuisances not defined by or provided for in this chapter, but which
are known to be and provided for by the statutes of this state, are declared to
be nuisances and may be proceeded against in the same manner as other nuisances
under the provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 91.08) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.09 SOUND DEVICE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall play, use, operate or permit to be played, used or
operated any radio, tape recorder, cassette player or other device where
receiving broadcast sound or reproducing recorded sound if the device is
located:
      (1)   On the public way; or
      (2)   In any motor vehicle on the public way; and if the sound generated
by the device is clearly audible to a person with normal hearing at a distance
greater than 75 feet.
   (B)   The limitations of this section shall not apply to any person
participating in a special event such as a carnival, fair or similar event.
(Prior Code, § 91.09) (Ord. 01-01-01, passed 2-12-2001; Ord. 01-02-01, passed
2-12-2001) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.10 RESTRICTIONS ON OUTDOOR BURNING.
   (A)   The words LANDSCAPE WASTE, as used in this section, shall mean all
accumulations of grass or shrubbery cuttings, leaves, tree limbs and other
materials accumulated as the result of the care of lawns, gardens, shrubbery,
vines and trees.
   (B)   No person shall burn trash, rubbish, papers or garbage, general
household waste or commercial waste or construction or demolition debris within
the corporate limits of the village. Only landscape waste may be burned, and it
shall be unlawful to burn landscape waste, except in compliance with the
regulations set forth in divisions (C), (D) and (E) below.
   (C)   (1)   Burning of landscape waste, by persons who are not burning
landscape waste as an agent or employee of the village, is prohibited prior to
7:00 a.m. and after 7:00 p.m. Burning is permitted, subject to the restrictions
of division (C)(2) below, only on Wednesday and Thursday of each week and the
first and third Saturdays of each month. It shall be unlawful to burn landscape
waste in any commercial zoning district within the village.
      (2)   Regardless of any statement to the contrary, burning of landscape
waste is prohibited on the following holidays of each year: New Year’s Day,
Fourth of July, Veterans Day, Halloween eve, Thanksgiving Day and Christmas
Day.
   (D)   Agents and employees of the village are permitted to burn landscape
waste on village property within the regular working hours of village employees
but shall limit, if possible, the number of days that landscape waste will be
burned.
   (E)   The following regulations govern the burning of all landscape waste
within the village.
      (1)   Each fire must be completely extinguished during times when burning
is prohibited.
      (2)   Burning of landscape waste is prohibited when wind air speed is 20
or more mph.
      (3)   Burning of landscape waste must be supervised, at all times, by a
person at least 14 years of age.
      (4)   Persons burning landscape waste shall do so with due regard for the
safety of people and property and shall take appropriate precautions to ensure
that the fire is under control at all times.
      (5)   Burning of landscape waste which has a moisture content that will
not allow for an open and visible flame is prohibited.
      (6)   Burning of landscape waste which has been chemically treated or
which produces noxious odors is prohibited.
      (7)   Burning or dumping of landscape waste upon or within two feet of
the paved portion of any street, sidewalk, alley or other public property is
prohibited.
      (8)   Burning of landscape waste permitting excessive smoke, thereby
creating a visibility hazard, including, but not limited to, a hazard on any
street, sidewalk or alley, is prohibited.
      (9)   Landscape waste shall not be brought into the village to be burned,
nor shall such waste be moved from one site to another within the village,
except for cooperative fires between or among adjacent neighbors.
      (10)   The person or persons starting or supervising a landscape waste
fire shall have ready access to a garden hose or other water supply or have
ready access to other tools or equipment for use in extinguishing such fire.
   (F)   No person shall keep or maintain a burn barrel or any other receptacle
for use in burning and no person shall burn landscape waste in a burn barrel or
other such receptacle.
   (G)   The Village Police Department is charged with the responsibility of
monitoring and enforcing this section. A police officer may order a fire
extinguished if that officer believes the fire violates any of the regulations
set forth above.
(Prior Code, § 91.10) (Ord. 93-10-02, passed 10-11-1993; Ord. 96-12-01, passed
12-9-1996; Ord. 97-04-01, passed 4-29-1997; Ord. 02-12-01, passed 12-9-2002;
Ord. 08-08-03, passed 8-19-2008) Penalty, see §
91.99
Cross-reference:
   Burning combustible material regulated, see §
51.07
§ 91.11 DUMPING OF LEAVES, YARD WASTES, WHITE GOODS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   No person shall bring leaves, yard wastes or other landscape wastes
from any location outside the village to any location within the village for
disposal or for any other purpose, except that fully-composted leaves, yard
wastes or other landscape wastes may be brought to any location within the
village for use for soil enhancement or enrichment.
   (B)   No person shall bring stoves, refrigerators, washers, dryers, water
heaters, furnaces or other appliances, or any other large appliance,
characterized as “white goods” under § 22.28 of the Illinois Environmental
Protection Act, being 415 ILCS 5/22.28, from any location outside the village
to any location within the village, for the purpose of disposal of such
appliance, particularly in anticipation of or in conjunction with any formal
village clean-up activity.
   (C)   The corporate authorities may structure any formal village clean-up
activity so that the costs of waste disposal at the disposal site, or the labor
and equipment costs, or both, are paid by, or passed through to each resident
from whom wastes, including landscape wastes and white goods, are collected for
disposal.
(Ord. 93-04-01, passed 4-12-1993) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   The keeping of such animals as prohibited in §
91.02(A) is declared to be a nuisance, and any owner or keeper who fails to
abate such nuisance, after receiving notice from the village, shall be subject
to a fine of not less than $200, nor more than $500 per violation, with each
day upon which a violation occurs or continues to be considered a separate
violation.
   (C)   Any person who violates §
91.09 shall be subject to a fine of not less than $75 for a first offense, and
not more than $150 for each violation; provided that for the second conviction
of any violation of this section within one calendar year, the mandatory
minimum fine shall be $125. Each day during which a violation continues during
the specified time for correction shall constitute a separate punishable
offense.
   (D)   A first offense of §
91.10 shall be punished only by issuance of a written warning. Any second or
subsequent violation of the same or other provision of §
91.10 shall be punishable by a fine of not less than $25, nor more than $750.
Any other violation of the same provision or another provision shall constitute
and be punishable as a separate offense. In addition, the village may, in its
discretion, seek any other available legal or equitable remedy to restrain or
enjoin violations of this section.
   (E)   Any violation of any provision of §
91.11 shall be punishable by a fine of not less than $25, nor more than $500.
Any other violation of the same provision or another provision, by any person
after having been given verbal or written notice of violation, shall constitute
and be punishable as a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 91.99) (Ord. 93-04-01, passed 4-12-1993; Ord. 93-05-02, passed
5-10-1993; Ord. 96-12-01, passed 12-9-1996; Ord. 97-04-01, passed 4-29-1997;
Ord. 01-01-01, passed 2-12-2001; Ord. 01-02-01, passed 2-12-2001; Ord. 02-12-
01, passed 12-9-2002; Ord. 08-08-03, passed 8-19-2008)
CHAPTER 92: SWIMMING POOLS
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Fence requirements
   
92.03   Ladder requirement
   
92.04   Compliance with provisions
   
92.05   Compliance; penalty
   
92.06   Enforcement
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ORNAMENTAL POOL. Any receptacle or containment for water, or any artificial
pool of water having a depth of more than 24 inches in any area of more than 12
square feet, or containing or being capable of containing more than 200 gallons
of water intended for an ornamental purpose and including all appurtenant
equipment constructed, installed and maintained in or above the ground outside
of a building used for a dwelling unit.
   PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL SWIMMING POOL. Any receptacle or containment for water,
or any artificial pool of water having a depth of more than 24 inches in any
area of more than 25 square feet, or containing or being capable of containing
more than 200 gallons of water intended for the purpose of immersion of
persons, and including all appurtenant equipment constructed, installed and
maintained in or above the ground outside of a building used for a dwelling
unit.
(Prior Code, § 92.01) (Ord. 75-5, passed 7-14-1975; Ord. 79-1, passed 6-11-
1979; Ord. 01-10-03, passed 10-8-2001)
§ 92.02 FENCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All outdoor private residential swimming pools and ornamental pools,
except those pools having walls extending four feet high or higher above ground
level, shall be completely enclosed by a fence and shall be secure from
trespass.
   (B)   All fence openings or points of entry or exit to or from the pool area
enclosure shall be equipped with a gate.
   (C)   The fence and gate shall be 36 inches or more in height above the
ground grade level.
   (D)   All gates shall be equipped with a self-closing of self-latching
device placed at the top of the gate.
(Prior Code, § 92.02) (Ord. 75-5, passed 7-14-1975; Ord. 79-1, passed 6-11-
1979; Ord. 01-10-03, passed 10-8-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.03 LADDER REQUIREMENT.
   All private residential swimming pools extending above the ground grade
level shall have a means of egress in the form of one or more ladders or set of
steps, which shall be removed when the pool is not in use.
(Prior Code, § 92.03) (Ord. 75-5, passed 7-14-1975; Ord. 79-1, passed 6-11-
1979; Ord. 01-10-03, passed 10-8-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.04 COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to construct, maintain, install or enlarge any private
residential swimming pool or ornamental pool in the village, except in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 92.04) (Ord. 75-5, passed 7-14-1975; Ord. 79-1, passed 6-11-
1979; Ord. 01-10-03, passed 10-8-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.05 COMPLIANCE; PENALTY.
   Any individual or any entity who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or
refuses to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject
to a fine in accordance with the general penalty provisions of the village
code.
(Prior Code, § 92.05) (Ord. 75-5, passed 7-14-1975; Ord. 79-1, passed 6-11-
1979; Ord. 01-10-03, passed 10-8-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the village may have for enforcement of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 92.06) (Ord. 01-10-03, passed 10-8-2001)
CHAPTER 93: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Prohibition of abandoned and inoperable vehicles
   
93.03   Disposition of inoperable and abandoned vehicles
   
93.04   Authority to impound; procedure
   
93.05   Notice to be given to registered owner, state police
   
93.06   Reclaiming of vehicle by owner
   
93.07   Disposal of unclaimed vehicle
   
93.08   Police Department to keep records of reclamation or disposal of vehicle
   
93.09   Disposition of proceeds of sale
   
93.10   Liability
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE.
      (1)   Any vehicle in a state of disrepair which results in the vehicle
having the reasonable appearance that it is incapable of being driven safely or
legally upon the public highways;
      (2)   Any vehicle which has, to all appearances, not been moved or used
for seven consecutive days or more and is apparently deserted; or
      (3)   For the purposes of this definition, a vehicle deemed to be
abandoned under division (1) above shall be subject to impoundment and the
owner shall remain in violation if, after notice procedures provided for in §
93.05 have been carried out, the vehicle remains on any public highway in a
state of disrepair, as defined in division (1) above. The fact that the vehicle
is moved after it is cited shall not be a defense under division (1) above, nor
shall this fact require subsequent notices to the owner before impoundment.
   ANTIQUE VEHICLE. A motor vehicle that is more than 25 years of age or a
bonafide replica thereof and which is driven on the highways only going to and
from an antique auto show or an exhibition, or for servicing or demonstration,
or a firefighting vehicle more than 20 years old which is not used as
firefighting equipment but is used only for the purpose of exhibition or
demonstration.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The Chief of Police of the village.
   INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE.
      (1)   Any motor vehicle from which, for a period of at least seven days,
wheels or other parts have been removed, or on which the engine, wheels or
other parts have been altered, damaged or otherwise so treated that the vehicle
is incapable of being driven under its own motor power.
      (2)   Shall not include a motor vehicle which has been rendered
temporarily incapable of being driven under its own power in order to perform
repair thereon; provided that the repairs are completed within seven days.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every device which is self-propelled.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT. The Police Department of the village.
   POLICE OFFICER. A member of the Police Department.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any property not owned by the village, whether owned by an
individual, corporation or other private or public entity.
   PROPERTY. Any real property within the village which is not a street or
highway.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved by human power and
snowmobiles, as defined in the Illinois Snowmobile Registration and Safety Act,
being 625 ILCS 40/1-1 et seq.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Southern View, Illinois.
   VILLAGE BOARD. The Board of Trustees of the village.
(Prior Code, § 93.01) (Ord. 02-10-01, passed 10-14-2002)
§ 93.02 PROHIBITION OF ABANDONED AND INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall abandon any vehicle within the village, and no person
shall leave any vehicle at any place within the village for such time and under
such circumstances as to cause such vehicle reasonably to appear to have been
abandoned.
   (B)   No person shall leave any partially dismantled, non-operating, wrecked
or junked vehicle on any street or highway in the village.
(Prior Code, § 93.02) (Ord. 02-10-01, passed 10-14-2002) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 DISPOSITION OF INOPERABLE AND ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   (A)   The owner of an abandoned or inoperable motor vehicle and any owner or
occupier of land on which such vehicle sits must dispose of it, or enclose it
within a building, within seven days after receiving written notice from the
Village Clerk, the Chief of Police or any police officer designated by him or
her to do so.
   (B)   The notice, referred to in division (A) above, will notify the
recipient that he or she may request a hearing on the question of whether the
vehicle is an inoperable motor vehicle or abandoned motor vehicle by submitting
such request, in writing, to the Village Board within seven days after the date
of the notice referred to hereinabove. A request for a hearing will stay the
enforcement of this chapter pending the hearing and a decision by the Village
Board.
   (C)   The owner of the vehicle or the owner or occupant of the land on which
the vehicle sits may apply for an extension of time by making a written request
for hearing. The Village Board, upon receiving an application for an extension
of time, will grant an extension of not more than 30 days if the applicant
shows good cause for an extension and submits an affidavit that the abandoned
or inoperable motor vehicle is being held for sale or expeditious repair.
EXPEDITIOUS REPAIR means that the parts for the repair have been ordered but
are not yet available for installation for reasons beyond the owner’s control;
the vehicle is scheduled to be repaired within 30 days; or the vehicle is
inoperable because of an accident and the owner is pursuing a claim for damages
or is considering pursuing such claim.
   (D)   If the recipient of the notice, referred to in division (A) above,
fails to comply with the notice, the Chief of Police shall cause the towing or
removal of the abandoned or inoperable motor vehicle from private property
within seven days or thereafter following said notice to the owner of the
vehicle and the owner or occupant of the premises where the vehicle is located;
or from public property within seven days or thereafter following notice to the
owner of said vehicle.
   (E)   If, following the hearing provided for in division (B) above, the
Village Board determines that the vehicle is an abandoned or inoperable motor
vehicle, the Village Board will set a reasonable date by which the vehicle must
be disposed of or enclosed. In the event said vehicle is not disposed of or
enclosed within a building by the said date set by the Village Board, then the
Chief of Police shall cause the towing or removal of the abandoned or
inoperable motor vehicle without further, prior notice thereof.
   (F)   Upon towing or removal as hereinabove provided, such vehicle shall be
impounded until lawfully claimed or disposed of in accordance with §§
93.06 and
93.07. The Chief of Police, or any member of the Police Department designated
by him or her, may enter upon private property at all reasonable hours for the
purpose of inspecting such vehicle, posting notice thereon and removing and
impounding such vehicle, and it shall be unlawful for any person to prevent the
Chief of Police, or his or her designee, from entering on private property for
the purposes of carrying out his or her duties hereunder or to interfere with
him or her in the lawful performance of his or her duties under the provisions
of this section.
(Prior Code, § 93.03) (Ord. 02-10-01, passed 10-14-2002) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   When an abandoned, unattended, wrecked, burned or partially dismantled
vehicle is creating a traffic hazard because of its position in relation to the
highway or street, or because its physical appearance is impeding traffic, its
immediate removal from the highway, street or private property adjacent to the
highway or street by a towing service may be authorized by a police officer or
the Chief of Police.
   (B)   When an abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed vehicle comes into the
temporary possession or custody of a person in the village, not the owner of
the vehicle, that person shall immediately notify the Police Department. Upon
receipt of such notification, a police officer or Chief of Police may authorize
a towing service to remove and take possession of the abandoned, lost, stolen
or unclaimed vehicle. The towing service will safely keep the towed vehicle and
its contents, maintain a record of the tow until the vehicle is claimed by the
owner or other person legally entitled to possession thereof or until it is
disposed of as provided in this chapter.
   (C)   When a vehicle is authorized to be towed, the Police Department shall
keep and maintain a record of the vehicle towed, listing the color, year of
manufacture, manufacturer’s trade name, manufacturer’s series name, body style,
vehicle identification number and license plate number displayed on the
vehicle. The record shall also include the date and hour of tow, location towed
from, location towed to, reason for towing and the name of the police officer
authorizing the tow.
(Prior Code, § 93.04) (Ord. 02-10-01, passed 10-14-2002)
§ 93.05 NOTICE TO BE GIVEN TO REGISTERED OWNER, STATE POLICE.
   (A)   When the police officer authorizing the impounding of a vehicle does
not know the identity of the registered owner, lien holder or other legally-
entitled person, he or she will cause the vehicle registration records of the
state to be searched by the Secretary of State for the purpose of obtaining the
required ownership information.
      (1)   The Police Department will also cause the stolen motor vehicle
files of the state police to be searched by a directed communication to the
state police for stolen or wanted information on the vehicle. When the state
police files are searched with negative results, the Police Chief will request
the state police to search the information contained in the National Crime
Information Center (NCIC) files. The information determined from these record
searches will be obtained by the Police Department for use in sending notice by
certified mail to the registered owner, lien holder or other legally-entitled
person advising where the vehicle is held, requesting a disposition be made and
setting forth public sale information.
      (2)   Notification shall be sent no later than ten days after the date
the Police Department impounds or authorizes the impounding of a vehicle;
provided that if the Police Department is unable to determine the identity of
the registered owner, lien holder or other person legally entitled to ownership
of the impounded vehicle within a ten-day period after impoundment, then
notification shall be sent no later than two days after the date the identity
of the registered owner, lien holder or other person legally entitled to
ownership of the impounded vehicle is determined. Exceptions to a notification
by certified mail to the registered owner, lien holder or other legally-
entitled persons are as set forth in division (A) above.
   (B)   When the registered owner, lien holder or other person legally
entitled to the possession of the impounded vehicle cannot be identified from
the registration files of the state or other state, if applicable, the Police
Department shall so notify the state police for the purpose of further
attempting to identify the vehicle owner or other person legally entitled to
the possession of the vehicle. The information obtained by the state police
will be immediately obtained by the Police Department for notification
purposes, as set forth in division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 93.05) (Ord. 02-10-01, passed 10-14-2002)
§ 93.06 RECLAIMING OF VEHICLE BY OWNER.
   Any time before a vehicle is sold at public sale or disposed of as provided
in §
93.07, the owner, lien holder or other person legally entitled to its
possession may reclaim the vehicle by presenting proof of ownership or proof of
the right to possession of the vehicle to the Police Department. No vehicle
shall be released to the owner, lien holder or other person under this section
until all towing and storage charges have been paid.
(Prior Code, § 93.06) (Ord. 02-10-01, passed 10-14-2002)
§ 93.07 DISPOSAL OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLE.
   (A)   Disposal of unclaimed vehicles with notice.
      (1)   When an abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed vehicle seven years of
age or newer remains unclaimed by the registered owner, lien holder or other
person legally entitled to its possession for a period of 30 days after notice
has been given as required by §
93.05, the Police Department or towing service having possession of the vehicle
shall cause it to be sold at public auction to the highest bidder. Notice of
the time and place of the sale shall be posted in a conspicuous place for at
least ten days prior to the sale on the premises where the vehicle has been
impounded. At least ten days prior to the sale, the Police Department where the
vehicle is impounded, or the towing service where the vehicle is impounded,
shall cause a notice of the time and place of the sale to be sent by certified
mail to the registered owner, lien holder and other persons known by the Police
Department or towing service to be legally entitled to the possession of the
vehicle. Such notice shall contain a complete description of the vehicle to be
sold and what steps must be taken by any legally entitled person to reclaim the
vehicle.
      (2)   In those instances where the certified notification specified in
this chapter has been returned by the postal authorities to the Police
Department or towing service due to the addressee having moved, or being
unknown at the address obtained from the registration records of the state, the
sending of a second certified notice will not be required.
   (B)   Disposal of unclaimed vehicles without notice.
      (1)   When the identity of the registered owner, lien holder or other
person legally entitled to possession of an abandoned, lost or unclaimed
vehicle of seven years of age or newer cannot be determined by any means
provided for in this chapter, the vehicle may be sold as provided in division
(A) above without notice to any person whose identity cannot be determined.
      (2)   When an abandoned vehicle of more than seven years of age is
impounded as specified by this chapter, it will be kept in custody for a
minimum of ten days for the purpose of determining the identity of the
registered owner and lien holder; contacting the registered owner and lien
holder by United States mail, public service or in person for a determination
of disposition; and for an examination of the state police stolen vehicle files
for theft and wanted information. At the expiration of the ten-day period,
without the benefit of disposition information being received from the
registered owner or the lien holder, the Police Department will cause it to be
sold at public auction to the highest bidder. If the vehicle is not sold, it
may be disposed of as junk.
      (3)   A vehicle classified as an antique vehicle may, however, be sold to
a person desiring to restore it.
   (C)   Titling vehicles after sale; removal of liens. An applicant for a
certificate of title under this chapter shall proceed under 625 ILCS 5/4-212.
(Prior Code, § 93.07) (Ord. 02-10-01, passed 10-14-2002)
§ 93.08 POLICE DEPARTMENT TO KEEP RECORDS OF RECLAMATION OR DISPOSAL OF
VEHICLE.
   When a vehicle in the custody of the Police Department is reclaimed by the
registered owner, lien holder or other legally-entitled person, or when the
vehicle is sold at public sale or otherwise disposed of as provided in this
chapter, a report of the transaction will be maintained by the Police
Department for a period of one year from the date of the sale or disposal.
(Prior Code, § 93.08) (Ord. 02-10-01, passed 10-14-2002)
§ 93.09 DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS OF SALE.
   When a vehicle located within the village is authorized to be towed away by
the Police Department and disposed of as set forth in this chapter, the
proceeds of the public sale or disposition of the vehicle, after the deduction
of towing, storage and processing charges, shall be deposited in the General
Fund of the village.
(Prior Code, § 93.09) (Ord. 02-10-01, passed 10-14-2002)
§ 93.10 LIABILITY.
   A police officer or the Police Department, or the towing service owner,
operator or employee shall not be liable for damages in any action brought by
the registered owner, former registered owner or his or her legal
representative, lien holder or any other person legally entitled to the
possession of a vehicle when the vehicle was processed and sold or disposed of
as provided by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 93.10) (Ord. 02-10-01, passed 10-14-2002)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates or aids and abets in the violation of §
93.02 shall be subject to a fine of not less than $100, nor more than $200 for
each offense, and shall be required by the court to make a disposition of the
abandoned, unclaimed or inoperable vehicle. The Chief of Police is authorized
to compromise any charge for a violation of §
93.02 for $50 for the first offense and $75 for any subsequent offense if the
nuisance is abated and payment is made to the Village Clerk within ten days of
the citation.
(Prior Code, § 93.99) (Ord. 02-10-01, passed 10-14-2002)
CHAPTER 94: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
94.001   Sidewalk specifications
   
94.002   Use of public streets for block parties and other gatherings
Opening of Streets, Sidewalks or Other Public Ways
   
94.015   Prohibited acts
   
94.016   Application for permit
   
94.017   Fee
   
94.018   Restoration
   
94.019   Specifications for excavation
   
94.020   Inspection by village
Trees and Shrubs on Public Streets
   
94.035   Prohibited acts
   
94.036   Removal
   
94.037   Required trimming
   
94.038   Trimming by the village
Standards for Construction of Facilities on Public Rights-of-Way
   
94.050   Purpose and scope
   
94.051   Definitions
   
94.052   Annual registration required
   
94.053   Permit required; applications and fees
   
94.054   Action on permit applications
   
94.055   Effect of permit
   
94.056   Revised permit drawings
   
94.057   Insurance
   
94.058   Indemnification
   
94.059   Security
   
94.060   Permit suspension and revocation
   
94.061   Change of ownership or owner’s identity or legal status
   
94.062   General construction standards
   
94.063   Traffic control
   
94.064   Location of facilities
   
94.065   Construction methods and materials
   
94.066   Vegetation control
   
94.067   Removal, relocation or modifications of utility facilities
   
94.068   Cleanup and restoration
   
94.069   Maintenance and emergency maintenance
   
94.070   Variances
   
94.071   Enforcement
 
   
94.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Forms
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.001 SIDEWALK SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   All public sidewalks constructed or remodeled in the village shall be
located within the boundaries of the dedicated public streets and shall not
extend closer than six inches to the lot lines of property adjoining and
bordering such streets.
   (B)   All sidewalks shall not be less than four feet wide.
(Prior Code, § 94.001) (Ord. 68-5, passed 6-10-1968) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.002 USE OF PUBLIC STREETS FOR BLOCK PARTIES AND OTHER GATHERINGS.
   (A)   One or more persons may apply for and receive permission from the
Village Police Department to conduct a block party or similar event upon a
village street or other public right-of-way.
   (B)   The person or persons receiving such permission shall have authority
to block off no more than one block of any village street for no more than 24
consecutive hours.
   (C)   Barricades from the village may be used for such purpose.
   (D)   Additionally, the lawful consumption of alcoholic beverages by adults
shall be permitted during such block party or event, notwithstanding that such
consumption may take place upon a village street or other public right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 94.002) (Ord. 91-03, passed 3-11-1991) Penalty, see §
94.999
OPENING OF STREETS, SIDEWALKS OR OTHER PUBLIC WAYS
§ 94.015 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   No person shall injure, disturb, tear up or make any excavation in or under
or bore under any street, alley, public sidewalk or other public ground within
the village without having a contract with the village or without having a
written permit from the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 94.015) (Ord. 65-3, passed 8-9-1965; Ord. 68-3, passed 6-10-
1968; Ord. 81-1, passed 3-9-1981) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.016 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   A permit shall be issued by the Village Clerk only upon a written
application therefor. The application shall state the name and address of the
applicant; the name and address of the person, firm or corporation doing the
work; and shall include the dimensions and exact location of the opening.
(Prior Code, § 94.016) (Ord. 65-3, passed 8-9-1965; Ord. 68-3, passed 6-10-
1968; Ord. 81-1, passed 3-9-1981)
§ 94.017 FEE.
   (A)   A fee shall be charged and collected in advance by the Village Clerk
before issuing a permit as shown in the following schedule:
      (1)   For boring under a street, alley, sidewalk or other public ground:
$50; and
      (2)   For excavating in or under any street, alley, sidewalk or other
public way: $200.
   (B)   No such fees shall be required of the Springfield Metro Sanitary
District; the Central Illinois Light Company; City Water, Light and Power or
Ameritech; or any of their successors, but each shall promptly restore any
opening, including the surface, to a condition equal to or better than the
condition of the street prior to opening.
(Prior Code, § 94.017) (Ord. 65-3, passed 8-9-1965; Ord. 68-3, passed 6-10-
1968; Ord. 81-1, passed 3-9-1981; Ord. 93-11-02, passed 11-8-1993)
§ 94.018 RESTORATION.
   Except for the utilities identified in §
94.017, the person or entity opening any street shall restore the base of the
street and the surface of the street to a condition equal to or better than the
condition of the street prior to opening. Any person or other entity opening a
street who fails to restore the base and surface of the street in accordance
with this section, as determined by the Village Engineer, or who fails to make
such repairs within a reasonable time shall, upon conviction, be fined in
accordance with §
94.999.
(Prior Code, § 94.018) (Ord. 01-11-01, passed 11-12-2001) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.019 SPECIFICATIONS FOR EXCAVATION.
   Any person making an excavation in any street having a permanent type of
pavement surface shall make such excavation by sawing the edges of the surface
and curb openings. No excavated material shall be used for backfill within the
limits of the street. The entire excavation within the limits of the street
shall be backfilled in accordance with the Standard Specifications for Road and
Bridge Construction, § 603.8, published by the State Department of
Transportation, Division of Highways, as amended, and the backfill shall be
made with trench backfill to within nine inches of the existing surface. The
trench backfill shall be in accordance with the Standard Specifications for
Road and Bridge Construction, § 21Q. The remaining portion of the excavation
shall be filled with seven inches of Class X concrete and two inches of
bituminous concrete, Class I, as defined by the Standard Specifications. If it
is necessary to remove a portion of the existing curb and gutter, such curb and
gutter must be replaced to the original line and grade with Class X concrete.
All work shall be accomplished in accordance with the State Standard
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction, adopted August 1, 1967, or the
latest amendments thereof.
(Prior Code, § 94.019) (Ord. 65-3, passed 8-9-1965; Ord. 68-3, passed 6-10-
1968; Ord. 81-1, passed 3-9-1981) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.020 INSPECTION BY VILLAGE.
   (A)   The person to whom a permit is issued shall promptly restore such
street and upon completion of such restoration the Village Clerk shall be
notified.
   (B)   The Clerk shall immediately notify the Village Trustee in charge of
streets, who shall, within 48 hours, inspect the work and advise the Clerk of
whether or not the restoration is satisfactory.
(Prior Code, § 94.020) (Ord. 65-3, passed 8-9-1965; Ord. 68-3, passed 6-10-
1968; Ord. 81-1, passed 3-9-1981; Ord. 93-11-02, passed 11-8-1993) Penalty, see
§
94.999
TREES AND SHRUBS ON PUBLIC STREETS
§ 94.035 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to plant, or cause to be planted, any
trees or shrubs in any public street or alley within the village.
(Prior Code, § 94.035) (Ord. 71-3, passed 10-11-1971) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.036 REMOVAL.
   The Trustee of Streets shall have the power to order the removal of any tree
or shrub planted in any public street or alley in violation of this subchapter
upon giving written notice to the person who planted, or caused to be planted,
such tree or shrub. Upon failure of such person to remove such tree or shrub
within a reasonable time after such notice, the Trustee of Streets may have
such tree or shrub removed, and such person shall be chargeable with the
expense of the removal. Such expense may be collected by the village by suit or
otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 94.036) (Ord. 71-3, passed 10-11-1971)
§ 94.037 REQUIRED TRIMMING.
   All trees and shrubbery planted, cultivated or maintained on premises along
any street or alley of the village shall have the boughs or branches thereof
cut and trimmed to at least ten feet above the ground, so as to not interfere
with passage of persons or vehicles along any street, alley or sidewalk and so
as to not obstruct the light reflected from the public street lights.
(Prior Code, § 94.037) (Ord. 71-3, passed 10-11-1971) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.038 TRIMMING BY THE VILLAGE.
   If the owner or occupant of premises adjacent to a street, alley or sidewalk
permits the limbs or foliage of trees or shrubs to grow in such a manner as to
interfere with travel and passage of vehicles or persons on streets, alleys or
sidewalks, it shall be the duty of the Trustee of Streets to notify such owner
or occupant, in writing, to trim such trees or shrubbery within such time and
in the manner specified in the notice. If any person so notified shall neglect
or refuse to comply with such notice, the Trustee of Streets shall cause such
trees or shrubbery to be trimmed, and the village shall recover the cost of
trimming such trees and shrubbery from the owner or occupant by bringing suit
in the name of the village against the person neglecting or refusing to trim
such trees or shrubbery.
(Prior Code, § 94.038) (Ord. 71-3, passed 10-11-1971)
STANDARDS FOR CONSTRUCTION OF FACILITIES ON PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY
§ 94.050 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this subchapter is to establish policies and
procedures for constructing facilities on rights-of-way within the village’s
jurisdiction, which will provide public benefit consistent with the
preservation of the integrity, safe usage and visual qualities of the village
rights-of-way and the village as a whole.
   (B)   Facilities subject to this subchapter. This subchapter applies to all
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or within the public
rights-of-way within the jurisdiction of the village. A facility lawfully
established prior to the effective date of this subchapter may continue to be
maintained, repaired and operated by the utility as presently constructed and
located except as may be otherwise provided in any applicable franchise,
license or similar agreement.
   (C)   Franchises, licenses or similar agreements. The village, in its
discretion and as limited by law, may require utilities to enter into a
franchise, license or similar agreement for the privilege of locating their
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or within the village
rights-of-way. Utilities that are not required by law to enter into such an
agreement may request that the village enter into such an agreement. In such an
agreement, the village may provide for terms and conditions inconsistent with
this subchapter.
   (D)   Effect of franchises, licenses or similar agreements.
      (1)   Utilities other than telecommunications providers. In the event
that a utility other than a telecommunications provider has a franchise,
license or similar agreement with the village, such franchise, license or
similar agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement
and any lawful renewal or extension thereof.
      (2)   Telecommunications providers. In the event of any conflict with, or
inconsistency between, the provisions of this subchapter and the provisions of
any franchise, license or similar agreement between the village and any
telecommunications provider, the provisions of such franchise, license or
similar agreement shall govern and control during the during the term of such
agreement and any lawful renewal or extension thereof.
   (E)   Conflicts with other subchapters. This subchapter supersedes all
chapters or parts of chapters adopted prior hereto that are in conflict
herewith, to the extent of such conflict.
   (F)   Conflicts with state and federal laws. In the event that applicable
federal or state laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
subchapter, the utility shall comply with the requirements of this subchapter
to the maximum extent possible without violating federal or state laws or
regulations.
   (G)   Sound engineering judgment. The village shall use sound engineering
judgment when administering this subchapter, and may vary the standards,
conditions and requirements expressed in this subchapter when the village so
determines. Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the ability of the
village to regulate its rights-of-way for the protection of the public health,
safety and welfare.
(Prior Code, § 94.050) (Ord. 2000-01-01, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 94.051 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Any term
not defined in this section shall have the meaning ascribed to it in 92 Ill.
Adm. Code § 530.30, unless the context clearly requires otherwise.
   AASHTO. American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials.
   ANSI. American National Standards Institute.
   APPLICANT. A person applying for a permit under this subchapter.
   ASTM. American Society for Testing and Materials.
   BACKFILL. The methods or materials for replacing excavated material in a
trench or pit.
   BORE or BORING. To excavate an underground cylindrical cavity for the
insertion of a pipe or electrical conductor.
   CARRIER PIPE. The pipe enclosing the liquid, gas or slurry to be
transported.
   CASING. A structural protective enclosure for transmittal devices, such as
carrier pipes, electrical conductors and fiber optic devices.
   CLEAR ZONE. The total roadside border area, starting at the edge of the
pavement, available for safe use by errant vehicles. This area may consist of a
shoulder, a recoverable slope, a non-recoverable slope and a clear run-out
area. The desired width is dependent upon the traffic volumes and speeds, and
on the roadside geometry. Distances are specified in the AASHTO Roadside Design
Guide.
   COATING. Protective wrapping or mastic cover applied to buried pipe for
protection against external corrosion.
   CODE. The Municipal Code of the Village of Southern View, Illinois.
   CONDUCTOR. Wire carrying electrical current.
   CONDUIT. A casing or encasement for wires or cables.
   CONSTRUCTION or CONSTRUCT. The installation, repair, maintenance, placement,
alteration, enlargement, demolition, modification or abandonment in place of
facilities.
   COVER. The depth of earth or backfill over buried utility pipe or conductor.
   CROSSING FACILITY. A facility that crosses one or more right-of-way lines of
a right-of-way.
   DISRUPT THE RIGHT-OF-WAY. For the purposes of this subchapter, any work that
obstructs the right-of-way or causes a material adverse effect on the use of
the right-of-way for its intended use. Such work may include, without
limitation, the following: excavating or other cutting; placement (whether
temporary or permanent) of materials, equipment, devices or structures; damage
to vegetation; and compaction or loosening of the soil, and shall not include
the parking of vehicles or equipment in a manner that does not materially
obstruct the flow of traffic on a highway.
   EMERGENCY. Any immediate maintenance to the facility required for the safety
of the public using or in the vicinity of the right-of-way or immediate
maintenance required for the health and safety of the general public served by
the utility.
   ENCASEMENT. Provision of a protective casing.
   ENGINEER. The Village Engineer, or his or her designee.
   EQUIPMENT. Materials, tools, implements, supplies and/or other items used to
facilitate construction of facilities.
   EXCAVATION. The making of a hole or cavity by removing material, or laying
bare by digging.
   EXTRA HEAVY PIPE. Pipe meeting ASTM standards for this pipe designation.
   FACILITY. All structures, devices, objects and materials (including track
and rails, wires, ducts, fiber optic cable, communications and video cables and
wires, poles, conduits, grates, covers, pipes, cables and appurtenances
thereto) located on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or within rights-
of-way under this subchapter, except those owned by the village.
   FREESTANDING FACILITY. A facility that is not a crossing facility or a
parallel facility, such as an antenna, transformer, pump or meter station.
   FRONTAGE ROAD. Roadway, usually parallel, providing access to land adjacent
to the highway where it is precluded by control of access on highway.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any substance or material which, due to its quantity,
form, concentration, location or other characteristics, is determined by the
Village Engineer to pose an unreasonable and imminent risk to the life, health
or safety of persons or property or to the ecological balance of the
environment, including, but not limited to, explosives, radioactive materials,
petroleum or petroleum products or gases, poisons, etiology (biological)
agents, flammables, corrosives or any substance determined to be hazardous or
toxic under any federal or state law, statute or regulation.
   HIGHWAY. A specific type of right-of-way used for vehicular traffic,
including rural or urban roads or streets. HIGHWAY includes all highway land
and improvements, including roadways, ditches and embankments, bridges,
drainage structures, signs, guardrails, protective structures and appurtenances
necessary or convenient for vehicle traffic.
   HIGHWAY CODE. The Illinois Highway Code, 605 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq., as
amended from time to time.
   IDOT. Illinois Department of Transportation.
   ILCC. Illinois Commerce Commission.
   JACKING. Pushing a pipe horizontally under a roadway by mechanical means
with or without boring.
   JETTING. Pushing a pipe through the earth using water under pressure to
create a cavity ahead of the pipe.
   JOINT USE. The use of pole lines, trenches or other facilities by two or
more utilities.
   MAJOR INTERSECTION. The intersection of two or more major arterial highways.
   OCCUPANCY. The presence of facilities on, over or under right-of-way.
   PARALLEL FACILITY. A facility that is generally parallel or longitudinal to
the centerline of a right-of-way.
   PARKWAY. Any portion of the right-of-way not improved by street or sidewalk.
   PAVEMENT CUT. The removal of an area of pavement for access to a facility or
for the construction of a facility.
   PERMITTEE. The entity to which a permit has been issued pursuant to §§
94.053 and
94.054.
   PETROLEUM PRODUCTS PIPELINES. Pipelines carrying crude or refined liquid
petroleum products, including, but not limited to, gasoline, distillates,
propane, butane or coal-slurry.
   PRACTICABLE. That which is performable, feasible or possible, rather than
that which is simply convenient.
   PRESSURE. The internal force acting radially against the walls of a carrier
pipe expressed in pounds per square inch gauge (psig).
   PROMPT. That which is done within a period of time specified by the village.
If no time period is specified, the period shall be 30 days.
   PUBLIC ENTITY. A legal entity that constitutes or is part of the government,
whether at local, state or federal level.
   RESTORATION. The repair of a right-of-way, highway, roadway or other area
disrupted by the construction of a facility.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any street, alley, other land or waterway, dedicated or
commonly used for utility purposes, including utility easements in which the
village has the right and authority to authorize, regulate or permit the
location of facilities other than those of the village. RIGHT-OF-WAY shall not
include any real or personal village property that is not specifically
described in the previous two sentences and shall not include village
buildings, fixtures and other structures or improvements, regardless of whether
they are situated in the right-of-way.
   ROADWAY. The part of the highway that includes the pavement and shoulders.
   SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL. The transmitting, supplying or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not
for sale.
   SECURITY FUND. The amount of security required pursuant to §
94.059.
   SHOULDER. A width of roadway, adjacent to the pavement, providing lateral
support to the pavement edge and providing an area for emergency vehicular
stops and storage of snow removed from the pavement.
   SOUND ENGINEERING JUDGMENT. A decision(s) consistent with generally accepted
engineering principles, practices and experience.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS. This term includes, but is not limited to, messages or
information transmitted through use of local, toll and wide area telephone
service, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer
exchange service, private line services, specialized mobile radio services or
any other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar
means, between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave,
radio, satellite or similar facilities. Unless the context clearly requires
otherwise, TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall also include wireless telecommunications,
as defined in the Illinois Telecommunications Infrastructure Maintenance Fee
Act, 35 ILCS 635/1 seq. TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include value added
services in which computer processing applications are used to act on the form,
content, code and protocol of the information for purposes other than
transmission. TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include purchase of
telecommunications by a telecommunications service provider for use as a
component part of the service provided by him or her to the ultimate retail
consumer who originates or terminates the end-to-end communications. Retailer
access charges, right of access charges, charges for use of inter-company
facilities and all telecommunications resold in the subsequent provision and
used as a component of or integrated into, end-to-end telecommunications
service shall not be included in gross charges as sales for resale.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include the provision of cable services through a
cable system, as defined in the Cable Communications Act of 1984 (47 U.S.C. §§
521 et seq.), as now or hereafter amended or cable or other programming
services subject to an open video system fee payable to the village through an
open video system, as defined in the Rules of the Federal Communications
Commission (47 C.F.R. §§ 76.1500 et seq.), as now or hereafter amended.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER. Any person that installs, owns, operates or
controls facilities in the public right-of-way used or designed to be used to
transmit telecommunications in any form.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER. Includes every person engaged in making sales
of telecommunications at retail as defined herein.
   TRENCH. A relatively narrow open excavation for the installation of an
underground facility.
   UTILITY. The individual or entity owning or operating any facility as
defined in this subchapter.
   VENT. A pipe to allow the dissipation into the atmosphere of gases or vapors
from an underground casing.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Southern View, Illinois.
   WATER LINES. Pipelines carrying raw or potable water.
   WET BORING. Boring using-water under pressure at the cutting auger to soften
the earth and to provide a sluice for the excavated material.
(Prior Code, § 94.051) (Ord. 2000-01-01, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 94.052 ANNUAL REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   Every utility that occupies right-of-way within the village shall register
on January 1 of each year with the Village Clerk, providing the utility’s name,
address and regular business telephone and telecopy numbers; the name of one or
more contact persons who can act on behalf of the utility in connection with
emergencies involving the utility’s facilities in the right-of-way and a 24-
hour telephone number for each such person; and evidence of insurance, as
required in §
94.057, in the form of a certificate of insurance. A telecommunications
provider that has registered under this section shall be deemed to have
satisfied the registration requirement under this section.
(Prior Code, § 94.052) (Ord. 2000-01-01, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 94.053 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATIONS AND FEES.
   (A)   Permit required.
      (1)   No person shall construct (as defined in this subchapter) any
facility on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or within any village
right-of-way which:
         (a)   Changes the location of the facility;
         (b)   Adds a new facility;
         (c)   Disrupts the right-of-way (as defined in this subchapter); or
         (d)   Materially increases the amount of area or space occupied by the
facility on, over, above, along, under, across or within the right-of-way,
without first filing an application with the Village Clerk and obtaining a
permit from the village therefor, except as otherwise provided in this
subchapter.
      (2)   No permit shall be required for installation and maintenance of
service connections to customers’ premises where there will be no disruption of
the right-of-way.
   (B)   Permit application. All applications for permits pursuant to this
subchapter shall be filed on a form provided by the village and shall be filed
in such number of duplicate copies as the village may designate. The applicant
may designate those portions of its application materials that it reasonably
believes contain proprietary or confidential information as “proprietary” or
“confidential” by clearly marking each page of such materials accordingly.
   (C)   Minimum general application requirements. The application shall be
made by the utility, or its duly authorized representative, and shall contain,
at a minimum, the following:
      (1)   The utility’s name and address and telephone and telecopy numbers;
      (2)   The applicant’s name and address, if different than the utility,
its telephone, telecopy numbers, e-mail address and its interest in the work;
      (3)   The names, addresses and telephone and telecopy numbers and e-mail
addresses of all professional consultants, if any, advising the applicant with
respect to the application;
      (4)   A general description of the proposed work and the purposes and
intent of the facility and the uses to which the facility will be put. The
scope and detail of such description shall be appropriate to the nature and
character of the work to be performed, with special emphasis on those matters
likely to be affected or impacted by the work proposed;
      (5)   Evidence that the utility has placed on file with the village:
         (a)   A written traffic control plan demonstrating the protective
measures and devices that will be employed consistent with the Illinois Manual
on Uniform Traffic Control Devices to prevent injury or damage to persons or
property and to minimize disruptions to efficient pedestrian and vehicular
traffic; and
         (b)   An emergency contingency plan which shall specify the nature of
potential emergencies, including, without limitation, construction and
hazardous materials emergencies, and the intended response by the applicant.
The intended response shall include notification to the village and shall
promote protection of the safety and convenience of the public. Compliance with
the Illinois Compiled Statutes regulations for emergency contingency plans
constitutes compliance with this section unless the village finds that
additional information or assurances are needed;
      (6)   Drawings, plans and specifications showing the work proposed,
including the certification of an engineer that such drawings, plans and
specifications comply with applicable codes, rules and regulations;
      (7)   Evidence of insurance, as required in §
94.057;
      (8)   Evidence of posting of the security fund, as required in §
94.059;
      (9)   Any request for a variance from one or more provisions of this
subchapter (§
94.070); and
      (10)   Such additional information as may be reasonably required by the
village.
   (D)   Supplemental application requirements for specific types of utilities.
In addition to the requirements of division (C) above, the permit application
shall include the following items as applicable to the specific utility that is
the subject of the permit application:
      (1)   In the case of new electric power, communications or natural gas
distribution system installation, evidence that any “Certificate of Public
Convenience and Necessity” has been issued by state statutes that the applicant
is required by law, or has elected, to obtain;
      (2)   In the case of natural gas systems, state the proposed pipe size,
design, construction class and operating pressures;
      (3)   In the case of water lines, indicate that all requirements of the
State Environmental Protection Agency, Division of Public Water Supplies, have
been satisfied;
      (4)   In the case of sewer line installations, indicate that the land and
water pollution requirements of the State Environmental Protection Agency,
Division of Water Pollution Control and other local or state entities with
jurisdiction, have been satisfied; or
      (5)   In the case of petroleum products pipelines, state the type or
types of petroleum products, pipe size, maximum working pressure and the design
standard to be followed.
   (E)   Applicant’s duty to update information. Throughout the entire permit
application review period and the construction period authorized by the permit,
any amendments to information contained in a permit application shall be
submitted by the utility, in writing, to the village within 30 days after the
change necessitating the amendment.
   (F)   Application fees. Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license or
similar agreement, all applications for permits pursuant to this subchapter
shall be accompanied by a fee in the amount of $1,500.
(Prior Code, § 94.053) (Ord. 2000-01-01, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 01-07-01,
passed 7-9-2001)
§ 94.054 ACTION ON PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Village review of permit applications. Completed permit applications,
containing all required documentation, shall be examined by the Village
Engineer within a reasonable time after filing. If the application does not
conform to the requirements of all applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules
and regulations, the Village Engineer shall reject such application in writing,
stating the reasons therefor. If the Village Engineer is satisfied that the
proposed work conforms to the requirements of this subchapter and all
applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules and regulations, the Village Engineer
shall issue a permit therefor as soon as practicable.
   (B)   Additional village review of applications of telecommunications
retailers.
      (1)   Pursuant to § 4 of the Telephone Company Act, 220 ILCS 65/4, a
telecommunications retailer shall notify the village that it intends to
commence work governed by this subchapter for facilities for the provision of
telecommunications services. Such notice shall consist of plans, specifications
and other documentation sufficient to demonstrate the purpose and intent of the
facilities, and shall be provided by the telecommunications retailer to the
village not less than ten days prior to the commencement of work requiring no
excavation and not less than 30 days prior to the commencement of work
requiring excavation. The Village Engineer shall specify the portion of the
right-of-way upon which the facility may be placed, used and constructed.
      (2)   In the event that the Village Engineer fails to provide such
specification of location to the telecommunications retailer within either: ten
days after service of notice to the village by the telecommunications retailer
in the case of work not involving excavation for new construction; or 25 days
after service of notice by the telecommunications retailer in the case of work
involving excavation for new construction, the telecommunications retailer may
commence work without obtaining a permit under this subchapter.
      (3)   Upon the provision of such specification by the village, where a
permit is required for work pursuant to §
94.053, the telecommunications retailer shall submit to the village an
application for a permit and any and all plans, specifications and
documentation available regarding the facility to be constructed. Such
application shall be subject to the requirements of division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 94.054) (Ord. 2000-01-01, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 94.055 EFFECT OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Authority granted; no property right or other interest created. A
permit from the village authorizes a permittee to undertake only certain
activities in accordance with this subchapter on village rights-of-way, and
does not create a property right or grant authority to the permittee to impinge
upon the rights of others who may have an interest in the public rights-of-way.
   (B)   Compliance with all laws required. The issuance of a permit by the
village does not excuse the permittee from complying with other requirements of
the village and all applicable statutes, laws, ordinances, rules and
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 94.055) (Ord. 2000-01-01, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 94.056 REVISED PERMIT DRAWINGS.
   In the event that the actual locations of any facilities deviate in any
material respect from the locations identified in the plans, drawings and
specifications submitted with the permit application, the permittee shall
submit a revised set of drawings or plans to the village within 90 days after
the completion of the permitted work. The revised drawings or plans shall
specifically identify where the locations of the actual facilities deviate from
the locations approved in the permit. If any deviation from the permit also
deviates from the requirements of this subchapter, it shall be treated as a
request for variance in accordance with §
94.070. If the village denies the request for a variance, then the permittee
shall either remove the facility from the right-of-way or modify the facility
so that it conforms to the permit and submit revised drawings or plans
therefor.
(Prior Code, § 94.056) (Ord. 2000-01-01, passed 1-10-2000) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.057 INSURANCE.
   (A)   Required coverages and limits. Unless otherwise provided by franchise,
license or similar agreement, each utility occupying right-of-way or
constructing any facility in the right-of-way shall secure and maintain the
following liability insurance policies insuring the utility as named insured
and naming the village, and its elected and appointed officers, officials,
agents and employees as additional insureds on the policies listed in divisions
(A)(1) and (A)(2) below:
      (1)   Commercial general liability insurance, including premises-
operations, explosion, collapse and underground hazard (commonly referred to as
“X”, “C” and “U” coverages) and products-completed operations coverage with
limits not less than:
         (a)   Five million dollars for bodily injury or death to each person;
         (b)   Five million dollars for property damage resulting from any one
accident; and
         (c)   Five million dollars for all other types of liability.
      (2)   Automobile liability for owned, non-owned and hired vehicles with a
combined single limit of $1,000,000 for personal injury and property damage for
each accident;
      (3)   Worker’s compensation with statutory limits; and
      (4)   Employer’s liability insurance with limits of not less than
$1,000,000 per employee and per accident.
   (B)   Excess or umbrella policies. The coverages required by this section
may be in any combination of primary, excess and umbrella policies. Any excess
or umbrella policy must provide excess coverage over underlying insurance on a
following form basis such that when any loss covered by the primary policy
exceeds the limits under the primary policy, the excess or umbrella policy
becomes effective to cover such loss.
   (C)   Copies required. The utility shall provide copies of any of the
policies required by this section to the village within ten days following
receipt of a written request therefor from the village.
   (D)   Maintenance and renewal of required coverages.
      (1)   The insurance policies required by this section shall contain the
following endorsement:
         “It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be
canceled nor the intention not to renew be stated until 30 days after receipt
by the village, by registered mail or certified mail, return receipt requested,
of a written notice addressed to the Village Clerk of such intent to cancel or
not to renew.”
      (2)   Within ten days after receipt by the village of said notice, and in
no event later than ten days prior to said cancellation, the utility shall
obtain and furnish to the village evidence of replacement insurance policies
meeting the requirements of this section.
   (E)   Self-insurance. A utility may self-insure all or a portion of the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required by division (A) above. A
utility that self-insures is not required, to the extent of such self-
insurance, to comply with the requirement for the naming of additional insureds
under division (A) above, or the requirements of divisions (B), (C) and (D)
above. A utility that elects to self-insure shall provide to the village
evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self-insure the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required under division (A) above,
such as evidence that the utility is a “private self insurer” under the
Workers’ Compensation Act, being 820 ILCS 305/1 et seq.
   (F)   Effect of insurance and self-insurance on utility’s liability. The
legal liability of the utility to the village and any person for any of the
matters that are the subject of the insurance policies or self-insurance
required by this section shall not be limited by such insurance policies or
self-insurance or by the recovery of any amounts thereunder.
(Prior Code, § 94.057) (Ord. 2000-01-01, passed 1-10-2000) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.058 INDEMNIFICATION.
   By occupying or constructing facilities in the right-of-way, a utility shall
be deemed to agree to defend, indemnify and hold the village and its elected
and appointed officials and officers, employees, agents and representatives
harmless from and against any and all injuries, claims, demands, judgments,
damages, losses and expenses, including reasonable attorney’s fees and costs of
suit or defense, arising out of, resulting from or alleged to arise out of or
result from the negligent, careless or wrongful acts, omissions, failures to
act or misconduct of the utility or its affiliates, officers, employees,
agents, contractors or subcontractors in the construction of facilities or
occupancy of the rights-of-way, and in providing or offering service over the
facilities, whether such acts or omissions are authorized, allowed or
prohibited by this subchapter or by a franchise, license or similar agreement;
provided, however, that the utility’s indemnity obligations hereunder shall not
apply to any injuries, claims, demands, judgments, damages, losses or expenses
arising out of or resulting from the negligence, misconduct or breach of this
subchapter by the village, its officials, officers, employees, agents or
representatives.
(Prior Code, § 94.058) (Ord. 2000-01-01, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 94.059 SECURITY.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The permittee shall establish a Security Fund in a form and in an
amount as set forth in this section. The Security Fund shall be continuously
maintained in accordance with this section at the permittee’s sole cost and
expense until the completion of the work authorized under the permit.
      (2)   The Security Fund shall serve as security for:
         (a)   The faithful performance by the permittee of all the
requirements of this subchapter;
         (b)   Any expenditure, damage or loss incurred by the village
occasioned by the permittee’s failure to comply with any codes, rules,
regulations, orders, permits and other directives of the village issued
pursuant to this subchapter; and
         (c)   The payment by the permittee of all liens and all damages,
claims, costs or expenses that the village may pay or incur by reason of any
action or non-performance by permittee in violation of this subchapter,
including, without limitation, any damage to public property or restoration
work the permittee is required by this subchapter to perform that the village
must perform itself or have completed as a consequence solely of the
permittee’s failure to perform or complete, and all other payments due the
village from the permittee pursuant to this subchapter or any other applicable
law.
   (B)   Form.
      (1)   The permittee shall provide the Security Fund to the village in the
form, at the permittee’s election, of cash, a surety bond in a form acceptable
to the village or an unconditional letter of credit in a form acceptable to the
village.
      (2)   Any surety bond or letter of credit provided pursuant to this
division (B) shall, at a minimum:
         (a)   Provide that it will not be canceled without prior notice to the
village and the permittee;
         (b)   Not require the consent of the permittee prior to the collection
by the village of any amounts covered by it; and
         (c)   Shall provide a location convenient to the village and within
the state at which it can be drawn.
   (C)   Amount. The dollar amount of the Security Fund shall be sufficient to
provide for the reasonably estimated cost to restore the right-of-way to at
least as good a condition as that existing prior to the construction under the
permit, as determined by the Village Engineer, and may also include reasonable,
directly related costs that the village estimates are likely to be incurred if
the permittee fails to perform such restoration. Where the construction of
facilities proposed under the permit will be performed in phases in multiple
locations in the village, with each phase consisting of construction of
facilities in one location or a related group of locations, and where
construction in another phase will not be undertaken prior to substantial
completion of restoration in the previous phase or phases, the village may, in
the exercise of sound discretion, allow the permittee to post a single amount
of security which shall be applicable to each phase of the construction under
the permit. The amount of the Security Fund for phased construction shall be
equal to the greatest amount that would have been required under the provisions
of this division (C) for any single phase.
   (D)   Withdrawals.
      (1)   The village, upon 14 days’ advance written notice clearly stating
the reason for, and its intention to exercise withdrawal rights under this
division (D), may withdraw an amount from the Security Fund; provided that the
permittee has not reimbursed the village for such amount within the 14-day
notice period.
      (2)   Withdrawals may be made if the permittee:
         (a)   Fails to make any payment required to be made by the permittee
hereunder;
         (b)   Fails to pay any liens relating to the facilities that are due
and unpaid;
         (c)   Fails to reimburse the village for any damages, claims, costs or
expenses which the village has been compelled to pay or incur by reason of any
action or nonperformance by the permittee; or
         (d)   Fails to comply with any provision of this subchapter that the
village determines can be remedied by an expenditure of an amount in the
Security Fund.
   (E)   Replenishment. Within 14 days after receipt of written notice from the
village that any amount has been withdrawn from the Security Fund, the
permittee shall restore the Security Fund to the amount specified in division
(C) above.
   (F)   Interest. The permittee may request that any and all interest accrued
on the amount in the Security Fund be returned to the permittee by the village,
upon written request for said withdrawal to the village; provided that any such
withdrawal does not reduce the Security Fund below the minimum balance required
in division (C) above.
   (G)   Closing and return of Security Fund. Upon completion of the work
authorized under the permit, the permittee shall be entitled to the return of
the Security Fund, or such portion thereof as remains on deposit, within a
reasonable time after account is taken for all offsets necessary to compensate
the village for failure by the permittee to comply with any provisions of this
subchapter or other applicable law. In the event of any revocation of the
permit, the Security Fund, and any and all accrued interest therein, shall
become the property of the village to the extent necessary to cover any
reasonable costs, loss or damage incurred by the village as a result of said
revocation; provided that any amounts in excess of said costs, loss or damage
shall be refunded to the permittee.
   (H)   Rights not limited. The rights reserved to the village with respect to
the Security Fund are in addition to all other rights of the village, whether
reserved by this subchapter or otherwise authorized by law, and no action,
proceeding or exercise of right with respect to said Security Fund shall affect
any other right the village may have. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
village shall not be entitled to a double monetary recovery with respect to any
of its rights which may be infringed or otherwise violated.
(Prior Code, § 94.059) (Ord. 2000-01-01, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 94.060 PERMIT SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Village right to revoke permit. The village may revoke or suspend a
permit issued pursuant to this subchapter for one or more of the following
reasons:
      (1)   Fraudulent, false, misrepresenting or materially incomplete
statements in the permit application;
      (2)   Noncompliance with this subchapter;
      (3)   Permittee’s physical presence or presence of permittee’s facilities
on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or within the public rights-of-way
presents a direct or imminent threat to the public health, safety or welfare;
or
      (4)   The permittee’s failure to construct the facilities substantially
in accordance with the permit and approved plans.
   (B)   Notice of revocation or suspension. The village shall send written
notice of its intent to revoke or suspend a permit issued pursuant to this
subchapter stating the reason or reasons for the revocation or suspension and
the alternatives available to permittee under this section.
   (C)   Permittee alternatives upon receipt of notice of revocation or
suspension.
      (1)   Upon receipt of a written notice of revocation or suspension from
the village, the permittee shall have the following options:
         (a)   Immediately provide the village with evidence that no cause
exists for the revocation or suspension;
         (b)   Immediately correct, to the satisfaction of the village, the
deficiencies stated in the written notice; providing written proof of such
correction to the village within five working days after receipt of the written
notice of revocation; or
         (c)   Immediately remove the facilities located on, over, above,
along, upon, under, across or within the public rights-of-way and restore the
rights-of-way to the satisfaction of the village providing written proof of
such removal to the village within ten days after receipt of the written notice
of revocation.
      (2)   The village may, in its discretion, for good cause shown, extend
the time periods provided in this division (C).
   (D)   Stop work order. In addition to the issuance of a notice of revocation
or suspension, the village may issue a stop work order immediately upon
discovery of any of the reasons for revocation set forth within division (A)
above.
   (E)   Failure or refusal of the permittee to comply.
      (1)   If the permittee fails to comply with the provisions of division
(C) above, the village, or its designee, may, at the option of the village:
         (a)   Correct the deficiencies;
         (b)   Upon not less than 20 days’ notice to the permittee, remove the
subject facilities or equipment; or
         (c)   After not less than 30 days’ notice to the permittee of failure
to cure the noncompliance, deem them abandoned and property of the village.
      (2)   The permittee shall be liable in all events to the village for all
costs of removal.
(Prior Code, § 94.060) (Ord. 2000-01-01, passed 1-10-2000) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.061 CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP OR OWNER’S IDENTITY OR LEGAL STATUS.
   (A)   Notification of change. A utility shall notify the village no less
than the mandatory 30 days prior to the transfer of ownership of any facility
in the right-of-way or change in identity of the utility. The new owner of the
utility or the facility shall have all the obligations and privileges enjoyed
by the former owner under the permit, if any, and all applicable laws,
ordinances, rules and regulations, including this subchapter, with respect to
the work and facilities in the right-of-way.
   (B)   Amended permit. A new owner shall request that any current permit be
amended to show current ownership. If the new owner fails to have a new or
amended permit issued in its name, the new owner shall be presumed to have
accepted, and agreed to be bound by, the terms and conditions of the permit if
the new owner uses the facility or allows it to remain on the village’s right-
of-way.
   (C)   Insurance and bonding. All required insurance coverage or bonding must
be changed to reflect the name of the new owner upon transfer.
(Prior Code, § 94.061) (Ord. 2000-01-01, passed 1-10-2000) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.062 GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Standards and principles. All construction in the right-of-way shall
be consistent with applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules and regulations
and commonly recognized and accepted traffic control and construction
principles, sound engineering judgment and, where applicable, the principles
and standards set forth in the following IDOT publications:
      (1)   Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction;
      (2)   Supplemental Specifications and Recurring Special Provisions;
      (3)   Bureau of Design and Environment (BDE) Manual;
      (4)   Highway Standards Manual;
      (5)   Illinois Highway Standards for Traffic Control;
      (6)   Illinois Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices;
      (7)   Flagger’s Handbook; and
      (8)   Work Site Protection Manual for Daylight Maintenance Operations.
   (B)   Interpretation of municipal standards and principles. If a discrepancy
exists between or among differing principles and standards required by this
subchapter, the Village Engineer shall determine, in the exercise of sound
engineering judgment, which principles apply and such decision shall be final.
If requested, the Village Engineer shall state which standard or principle will
apply to the construction, maintenance or operation of a facility in the
future.
(Prior Code, § 94.062) (Ord. 2000-01-01, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 94.063 TRAFFIC CONTROL.
   (A)   Minimum requirements. The village’s minimum requirements for traffic
protection are contained in IDOT’s Illinois Manual on Uniform Traffic Control
Devices and this subchapter.
   (B)   Warning signs, protective devices and flaggers. The utility is
responsible for providing and installing warning signs, protective devices and
flaggers, when necessary, meeting all applicable federal, state and local
requirements for protection of the public and the utility’s workers when
performing any work on the public rights-of-way.
   (C)   Interference with traffic. All work shall be phased so that there is
minimum interference with pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   (D)   Notice when access is blocked. At least 48 hours prior to beginning
work that will partially or completely block access to any residence, business
or institution, the utility shall notify the resident, business or institution
of the approximate beginning time and duration of such work; provided, however,
that in cases involving emergency repairs pursuant to §
94.069, the utility shall provide such notice as is practicable under the
circumstances.
   (E)   Compliance. The utility shall take immediate action to correct any
deficiencies in traffic protection requirements that are brought to the
utility’s attention by the village.
(Prior Code, § 94.063) (Ord. 2000-01-01, passed 1-10-2000) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.064 LOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   Parallel facilities located within highways.
      (1)   Overhead parallel facilities. An overhead parallel facility may be
located within the right-of-way lines of a highway only if:
         (a)   Lines are located as near as practicable to the right-of-way
line and as nearly parallel to the right-of-way line as reasonable pole
alignment will permit;
         (b)   Where pavement is curbed, poles are as remote as practicable
from the curb with a minimum distance of two feet (0.6 m) behind the face of
the curb, where available;
         (c)   Where pavement is uncurbed, poles are as remote from pavement
edge as practicable with minimum distance of four feet (1.2 m) outside the
outer shoulder line of the roadway and are not within the clear zone;
         (d)   No pole is located in the ditch line of a highway; and
         (e)   Any ground-mounted appurtenance is located within one foot (0.3
m) of the right-of-way line or as near as possible to the right-of-way line.
      (2)   Underground parallel facilities. An underground parallel facility
may be located within the right-of-way lines of a highway only if:
         (a)   The facility is located as near the right-of-way line as
practicable and not more than eight feet (2.4 m) from and parallel to the
right-of-way line;
         (b)   A new facility may be located under the paved portion of a
highway only if other locations are impracticable or inconsistent with sound
engineering judgment (e.g., a new cable may be installed in existing conduit
without disrupting the pavement); and
         (c)   In the case of an underground power or communications line, the
facility shall be located as near to the right-of-way line as practicable and
not more than five feet (1.5 m) from the right-of-way line and any above-
grounded appurtenance shall be located within one foot (0.3 m) of the right-of-
way line or as near as practicable.
   (B)   Facilities crossing highways.
      (1)   No future disruption. The construction and design of crossing
facilities installed between the ditch lines or curb lines of village highways
may require the incorporation of materials and protections (such as encasement
or additional cover) to avoid settlement or future repairs to the roadbed
resulting from the installation of such crossing facilities.
      (2)   Culverts or drainage facilities. Crossing facilities shall not be
located in culverts or drainage facilities.
      (3)   Ninety-degree crossing required. Crossing facilities shall cross at
or as near to a 90-degree angle to the centerline as practicable.
      (4)   Overhead power or communication facility. An overhead power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         (a)   It has a minimum vertical line clearance as required by the
Illinois Compiled Statute’s rules entitled, “Construction of Electric Power and
Communication Lines” (83 Ill. Adm. Code § 305);
         (b)   Poles are located within one foot (0.3 m) of the right-of-way
line of the highway and outside of the clear zone; and
         (c)   Overhead crossings at major intersections are avoided.
      (5)   Underground power or communication facility. An underground power
or communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         (a)   The design materials and construction methods will provide
maximum maintenance-free service life; and
         (b)   Capacity for the utility’s foreseeable future expansion needs is
provided in the initial installation.
      (6)   Markers. The village may require the utility to provide a marker at
each right-of-way line where an underground facility, other than a power or
communication facility, crosses a highway. Each marker shall identify the type
of facility, the utility and an emergency phone number. Markers may also be
eliminated as provided in current federal regulations (49 C.F.R. § 192.707
(1989)).
   (C)   Facilities to be located within particular rights-of-way. The village
may require that facilities be located within particular rights-of-way that are
not highways, rather than within particular highways.
   (D)   Freestanding facilities.
      (1)   The village may restrict the location and size of any freestanding
facility located within a right-of-way.
      (2)   The village may require any freestanding facility located within a
right-of-way to be screened from view.
   (E)   Appearance standards.
      (1)   The village may prohibit the installation of facilities in
particular locations in order to preserve visual quality.
      (2)   A facility may be constructed only if its construction does not
require extensive removal or alteration of trees or terrain features visible to
the highway user or impair the aesthetic quality of the lands being traversed.
   (F)   Above ground installation. Above ground facilities may be installed
only if:
      (1)   No other existing facilities in the area are located underground;
      (2)   New underground installation is not technically feasible; and
      (3)   The proposed installation will be made at a location, and will
employ suitable design and materials, to provide the greatest protection of
aesthetic qualities of the area being traversed without adversely affecting
safety. Suitable designs include, but are not limited to, self-supporting
armless, single-pole construction with vertical configuration of conductors and
cable.
   (G)   Facility attachments to bridges or roadway structures.
      (1)   Facilities may be installed as attachments to bridges or roadway
structures only where the utility has demonstrated that all other means of
accommodating the facility are not practicable.
         (a)   Other means shall include, but are not limited to, underground,
underwater, independent poles, cable supports and tower supports, all of which
are completely separated from the bridge or roadway structure.
         (b)   Facilities transmitting commodities that are volatile,
flammable, corrosive or energized, especially those under significant pressure
or potential, present high degrees of risk and such installations are not
permitted.
      (2)   A utility shall include in its request to accommodate a facility
installation on a bridge or roadway structure supporting data demonstrating the
impracticability of alternate routing; approval or disapproval of an
application for facility attachment to a bridge or roadway structure will be
based upon the following considerations:
         (a)   The type, volume, pressure or voltage of the commodity to be
transmitted and an evaluation of the resulting risk to persons and property in
the event of damage to or failure of the facility;
         (b)   The type, length, value and relative importance of the highway
structure in the transportation system;
         (c)   The alternative routings available to the utility and their
comparative practicability;
         (d)   The proposed method of attachment;
         (e)   The ability of the structure to bear the increased load of the
proposed facility;
         (f)   The degree of interference with bridge maintenance and painting;
         (g)   The effect on the visual quality of the structure; and
         (h)   The public benefit expected from the utility service as compared
to the risk involved.
(Prior Code, § 94.064) (Ord. 2000-01-01, passed 1-10-2000) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.065 CONSTRUCTION METHODS AND MATERIALS.
   (A)   Standards and requirements for particular types of construction
methods.
      (1)   Boring or jacking.
         (a)   Pits and shoring. Boring or jacking under rights-of-way shall be
accomplished from pits located at a minimum distance specified by the Village
Engineer from the edge of the pavement. Pits for boring or jacking shall be
excavated no more than 48 hours in advance of boring or jacking operations and
backfilled within 48 hours after boring or jacking operations are completed.
While pits are open, they shall be clearly marked and protected by barricades.
Shoring shall be designed, erected, supported, braced and maintained so that it
will safely support all vertical and lateral loads that may be imposed upon it
during the boring or jacking operation.
         (b)   Wet boring or jetting. Wet boring or jetting shall not be
permitted under the roadway.
         (c)   Borings with diameters greater than six inches. Borings over six
inches (0.15 m) in diameter shall be accomplished with an auger and following
pipe, and the diameter of the auger shall not exceed the outside diameter of
the following pipe by more than one inch (25 mm).
         (d)   Borings with diameters six inches or less. Borings of six inches
or less in diameter may be accomplished by either jacking, guided with auger or
auger and following pipe method.
         (e)   Tree preservation. Any facility located within the drip line of
any tree designated by the village to be preserved shall be bored under or
around the root system.
      (2)   Trenching. Trenching for facility installation, repair or
maintenance on rights-of-way shall be done in accord with the applicable
portions of § 603 of IDOT’s Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge
Construction.
         (a)   The length of open trench shall be kept to the practicable
minimum consistent with requirements for pipe-line testing. Only one-half of
any intersection may have an open trench at any time unless special permission
is obtained from the Village Engineer.
         (b)   Open trench and windrowed excavated material shall be protected
as required by Chapter 6 of the Illinois Manual on Uniform Traffic Control
Devices. Where practicable, the excavated material shall be deposited between
the roadway and the trench as added protection. Excavated material shall not be
allowed to remain on the paved portion of the roadway. Where right-of-way width
does not allow for windrowing excavated material off the paved portion of the
roadway, excavated material shall be hauled to an off-road location.
         (c)   The utility shall not trench within the drip line of any tree
designated by the village to be preserved.
      (3)   Backfilling.
         (a)   Any pit, trench or excavation created during the installation of
facilities shall be backfilled for its full width, depth and length using
methods and materials in accordance with IDOT’s Standard Specifications for
Road and Bridge Construction. When excavated material is hauled away or is
unsuitable for backfill, suitable granular backfill shall be used.
         (b)   For a period of three years from the date construction of a
facility is completed, the utility shall be responsible to remove and restore
any backfilled area that has settled due to construction of the facility. If so
ordered by the Engineer, the utility, at its expense, shall remove any pavement
and backfill material to the top of the installed facility, place and properly
compact new backfill material, and restore new pavement, sidewalk, curbs and
driveways to the proper grades, as determined by the Engineer.
      (4)   Pavement cuts. Pavement cuts for facility installation or repair
shall be permitted on a highway only if that portion of the highway is closed
to traffic. If a variance to the limitation set forth in this division (A)(4)
is permitted under §
94.070, the following requirements shall apply.
         (a)   Any excavation under pavements shall be backfilled as soon as
practicable with granular material of CA-6 or CA-10 gradation, as designated by
the Engineer.
         (b)   Restoration of pavement, in kind, shall be accomplished as soon
as practicable, and temporary repair with bituminous mixture shall be provided
immediately. Any subsequent failure of either the temporary repair or the
restoration shall be rebuilt upon notification by the village.
         (c)   All saw cuts shall be full depth.
         (d)   For all rights-of-way which have been reconstructed with a
concrete surface in the last seven years, or resurfaced in the last three
years, permits shall not be issued unless such work is determined to be an
emergency repair or other work considered necessary and unforeseen before, the
time of the reconstruction or unless a pavement cut is necessary for a
J.U.L.I.E. locate.
      (5)   Encasement.
         (a)   Casing pipe shall be designed to withstand the load of the
highway and any other superimposed loads. The casing shall be continuous either
by one-piece fabrication or by welding of jointed installation approved by the
village.
         (b)   The venting, if any, of any encasement shall extend within one
foot (0.3 m) of the right-of-way line. No above-ground vent pipes shall be
located in the area established as clear zone for that particular section of
the highway.
         (c)   In the case of water main or service crossing, encasement shall
be furnished between bore pits unless continuous pipe or village approved
jointed pipe is used under the roadway. Casing may be omitted only if pipe is
installed prior to highway construction and carrier pipe is continuous or
mechanical joints are of a type approved by the village. Bell and spigot type
pipe shall be encased regardless of installation method.
         (d)   In the case of gas pipelines of 60 psig or less, encasement may
be eliminated.
         (e)   In the case of gas pipelines or petroleum products pipelines
with installations of more than 60 psig, encasement may be eliminated only if
extra heavy pipe is used that precludes future maintenance or repair; and
cathodic protection of the pipe is provided.
         (f)   If encasement is eliminated for a gas or petroleum products
pipeline, the facility shall be located so as to provide that construction does
not disrupt the right-of-way.
      (6)   Minimum cover of underground facilities. Cover shall be provided
and maintained at least in the amount specified in the following table for
minimum cover for the type of facility:
 
Type of Facility                             Minimum Cover
Communication line installed by the plowed   24 inches (0.6 m)
method
Gas or petroleum products                    30 inches (0.8 m)
Power or communication line (in general)     30 inches (0.8 m)
Sanitary sewer, storm sewer or drainage line Sufficient cover to provide freeze
                                             protection
Water line                                   Sufficient cover to provide freeze
                                             protection
 
   (B)   Standards and requirements for particular types of facilities.
      (1)   Electric power or communication lines.
         (a)   Code compliance. Electric power or communications facilities
within village rights-of-way shall be constructed, operated and maintained in
conformity with the provisions of 83 Ill. Adm. Code § 305 (formerly General
Order 160 of the Illinois Commerce Commission) entitled Rules for Construction
of Electric Power and Communications Lines and the National Electrical Safety
Code.
         (b)   Overhead facilities. Overhead power or communication facilities
shall use single pole construction and, where practicable, joint use of poles
shall be used. Utilities shall make every reasonable effort to design the
installation so guys and braces will not be needed. Variances may be allowed if
there is no feasible alternative and if guy wires are equipped with guy guards
for maximum visibility.
         (c)   Underground facilities.
            1.   Cable may be installed by trenching or plowing provided that
special consideration is given to boring in order to minimize damage when
crossing improved entrances and side roads.
            2.   If a crossing is installed by boring or jacking, encasement
shall be provided between jacking or bore pits. Encasement may be eliminated
only if:
               a.   The crossing is installed by the use of “moles”, “whip
augers” or other approved method which compress the earth to make the opening
for cable installation; or
               b.   The installation is by the open trench method which is only
permitted prior to roadway construction.
            3.   Cable shall be grounded in accordance with the National
Electrical Safety Code.
      (2)   Underground facilities other than electric power or communication
lines. Underground facilities other than electric power or communication lines
may be installed by:
         (a)   The use of “moles”, “whip augers” or other approved methods
which compress the earth to move the opening for the pipe;
         (b)   Jacking or boring with vented encasement provided between the
ditch lines or toes of slopes of the highway;
         (c)   Open trench with vented encasement between ultimate ditch lines
or toes of slopes, but only if prior to roadway construction; or
         (d)   Tunneling with vented encasement, but only if installation is
not possible by other means.
      (3)   Gas transmission, distribution and service. Gas pipelines within
rights-of-way shall be constructed, maintained and operated in a village
approved manner and in conformance with the Federal Code of the Office of
Pipeline Safety Operations, Department of Transportation, Part 192 -
Transportation of Natural and Other Gas by Pipeline: Minimum Federal Safety
Standards (49 C.F.R. pt. 192), IDOT’s Standard Specifications for Road and
Bridge Construction and all other applicable laws, rules and regulations.
      (4)   Petroleum products pipelines. Petroleum products pipelines within
rights-of-way shall conform to the applicable sections of ANSI Standard Code
for Pressure Piping (Liquid Petroleum Transportation Piping Systems ANSI-
B 31.4).
      (5)   Waterlines, sanitary sewer lines, storm water sewer lines or
drainage lines. Water lines, sanitary sewer lines, storm sewer lines and
drainage lines within rights-of-way shall meet or exceed the recommendations of
the current Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in
Illinois.
      (6)   Ground mounted appurtenances. Ground mounted appurtenances to
overhead or underground facilities, when permitted within a right-of-way, shall
be provided with a vegetation-free area extending one foot (305 mm) in width
beyond the appurtenance in all directions. The vegetation-free area may be
provided by an extension of the mounting pad, or by heavy duty plastic or
similar material approved by the Engineer. With the approval of the Engineer,
shrubbery surrounding the appurtenance may be used in place of vegetation-free
area. The housing for ground-mounted appurtenances shall be painted a neutral
color to blend with the surroundings.
   (C)   Materials.
      (1)   General standards. The materials used in constructing facilities
within rights-of-way shall be those meeting the accepted standards of the
appropriate industry, the applicable portions of IDOT’s Standards
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction, the requirements of the State
Commerce Commission or the standards established by other official regulatory
agencies for the appropriate industry.
      (2)   Material storage on right-of-way. All pipe, conduit, wire, poles,
cross arms or other materials shall be distributed along the right-of-way prior
to and during installation in a manner to minimize hazards to the public or an
obstacle to right-of-way maintenance or damage to the right-of-way and other
property. If material is to be stored on the right-of-way, prior approval must
be obtained from the village.
      (3)   Hazardous materials. The plans submitted by the utility to the
village shall identify any hazardous materials that may be involved in the
construction of the new faculties or removal of any existing facilities.
   (D)   Operational restrictions.
      (1)   Construction operations on rights-of-way may, at the discretion of
the village, be required to be discontinued when such operations would create
hazards to traffic or the public health, safety and welfare. Such operations
may also be required to be discontinued or restricted when conditions are such
that construction would result in extensive damage to the right-of-way or other
property.
      (2)   These restrictions may be waived by the Engineer when emergency
work is required to restore vital utility services.
      (3)   Unless otherwise permitted by the village, the hours of
construction are 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. local time, Monday through Saturday,
except construction shall not be permitted on a weekday recognized as a
national holiday.
   (E)   Location of existing facilities. Any utility proposing to construct
facilities in the village shall contact J.U.L.I.E. and ascertain the presence
and location of existing above-ground and underground facilities within the
rights-of-way to be occupied by its proposed facilities. The village will make
its permit records available to a utility for the purpose of identifying
possible facilities. When notified of an excavation or when requested by the
village or by J.U.L.I.E., a utility shall locate and physically mark its
underground facilities within 48 hours, excluding weekends and holidays, in
accordance with the Illinois Underground Facilities Damage Prevention Act (220
ILCS 50/1 et seq.).
(Prior Code, § 94.065) (Ord. 2000-01-01, passed 1-10-2000) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.066 VEGETATION CONTROL.
   (A)   Tree trimming permit required. Tree trimming shall not be considered a
normal maintenance operation, but shall require the application for, and the
issuance of, a permit, in addition to any other permit required under this
subchapter.
      (1)   Application for tree trimming permit. Applications for tree
trimming permits shall include assurance that the work will be accomplished by
competent workers with supervision who are experienced in accepted tree pruning
practices. Tree trimming permits shall designate an expiration date in the
interest of assuring that the work will be expeditiously accomplished.
      (2)   Damage to trees. Poor pruning practices resulting in damaged or
misshapen trees will not be tolerated and shall be grounds for cancellation of
the tree trimming permit and for assessment of damages. The village will
require compensation for trees extensively damaged and for trees removed
without authorization. The formula developed by the International Society of
Arboriculture will be used as a basis for determining the compensation for
damaged trees or unauthorized removal of trees. The village may require the
removal and replacement of trees if trimming or radical pruning would leave
them in an unacceptable condition.
   (B)   Specimen trees or trees of special significance. The village may
require that special measures be taken to preserve specimen trees or trees of
special significance. The required measures may consist of higher poles, side
arm extensions, covered wire or other means.
   (C)   Chemical use. Spraying of any type of brush-killing chemicals will not
be permitted on rights-of-way, unless the utility demonstrates to the
satisfaction of the Engineer that such spraying is the only practicable method
of vegetation control.
(Prior Code, § 94.066) (Ord. 2000-01-01, passed 1-10-2000) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.067 REMOVAL, RELOCATION OR MODIFICATIONS OF UTILITY FACILITIES.
   (A)   Notice. Within 90 days following written notice from the village, a
utility shall, at its own expense, temporarily or permanently remove, relocate,
change or alter the position of any utility facilities within the rights-of-way
whenever the corporate authorities have determined that such removal,
relocation, change or alteration is reasonably necessary for the construction,
repair, maintenance or installation of any village improvement in or upon, or
the operations of the village in or upon, the rights-of-way.
   (B)   Removal of unauthorized facilities. Within 30 days following written
notice from the village, any utility that owns, controls or maintains any
unauthorized facility or related appurtenances within the public rights-of-way
shall, at its own expense, remove all or any part of such facilities or
appurtenances from the public rights-of-way; a facility is unauthorized and
subject to removal in the following circumstances:
      (1)   Upon expiration or termination of the permittee’s license or
franchise unless otherwise permitted by applicable law;
      (2)   If the facility was constructed or installed without the prior
grant of a license or franchise, if required;
      (3)   If the facility was constructed or installed without prior issuance
of a required permit in violation of this subchapter; or
      (4)   If the facility was constructed or installed at a location not
permitted by the permittee’s license or franchise.
   (C)   Emergency removal or relocation of facilities. The village retains the
right and privilege to cut or move any facilities, located within the rights-
of-way of the village, as the village may determine to be necessary,
appropriate or useful in response to any public health or safety emergency. If
circumstances permit, the municipality shall attempt to notify the utility, if
known, prior to cutting or removing a facility and shall notify the utility, if
known, after cutting or removing a facility.
   (D)   Abandonment of facilities. Upon abandonment of a facility within the
public rights-of-way of the village, the utility shall notify the village
within 90 days. Following receipt of such notice, the village may direct the
utility to remove all or any portion of the facility if the Village Engineer
determines that such removal will be in the best interest of the public health,
safety and welfare. In the event that the village does not direct the utility
that abandoned the facility to remove it, by giving notice of abandonment to
the village, the abandoning utility shall be deemed to consent to the
alteration or removal of all or any portion of the facility by another utility
or person.
(Prior Code, § 94.067) (Ord. 2000-01-01, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 94.068 CLEANUP AND RESTORATION.
   Upon completion of all construction or maintenance of facilities, the
utility shall remove all excess material and restore all turf and terrain in a
timely manner and to the satisfaction of the village. This includes restoration
of entrances and side roads. Restoration of roadway surfaces shall be made
using materials and methods approved by the Village Engineer. Such cleanup and
repair may be required to consist of backfilling, regrading, reseeding,
resodding or any other requirement to restore the right-of-way to a condition
substantially equivalent to that which existed prior to the commencement of the
project.
(Prior Code, § 94.068) (Ord. 2000-01-01, passed 1-10-2000) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.069 MAINTENANCE AND EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   General. Facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or
within rights-of-way are to be maintained by or for the utility in a manner
satisfactory to the village and at the utility’s expense.
   (B)   Emergency maintenance procedures. Emergencies may justify
noncompliance with normal procedures for securing a permit:
      (1)   If an emergency creates a hazard on the traveled portion of the
right-of-way, the utility shall take immediate steps to provide all necessary
protection for traffic on the highway or the public on the right-of-way,
including the use of signs, lights, barricades or flaggers. If a hazard does
not exist on the traveled way, but the nature of the emergency is such as to
require the parking on the shoulder of equipment required in repair operations,
adequate signs and lights shall be provided. Parking on the shoulder in such an
emergency will only be permitted when no other means of access to the facility
is available;
      (2)   In an emergency, the utility shall, as soon as possible, notify the
Village Engineer, or his or her duly authorized agent, of the emergency,
informing him or her as to what steps have been taken for protection of the
traveling public and what will be required to make the necessary repairs. If
the nature of the emergency is such as to interfere with the free movement of
traffic, the village police shall be notified immediately; or
      (3)   In an emergency, the utility shall use all means at hand to
complete repairs as rapidly as practicable and with the least inconvenience to
the traveling public.
   (C)   Emergency repairs. The utility must file, in writing, with the village
a description of the repairs undertaken in the right-of-way within 48 hours
after an emergency repair.
(Prior Code, § 94.069) (Ord. 2000-01-01, passed 1-10-2000) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.070 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Request for variance. A utility requesting a variance from one or more
of the provisions of this subchapter must do so, in writing, to the Village
Engineer as a part of the permit application. The request shall identify each
provision of this subchapter from which a variance is requested and the reasons
why a variance should be granted.
   (B)   Authority to grant variances. The Village Engineer shall decide
whether a variance is authorized for each provision of this subchapter
identified in the variance request on an individual basis.
   (C)   Conditions for granting of variance. The Village Engineer may
authorize a variance only if the utility requesting the variance has
demonstrated that:
      (1)   One or more conditions not under the control of the utility (such
as terrain features or an irregular right-of-way line) create a special
hardship that would make enforcement of the provision unreasonable, given the
public purposes to be achieved by the provision; and
      (2)   All other designs, methods, materials, locations or facilities that
would conform with the provision from which a variance is requested are
impracticable in relation to the requested approach.
   (D)   Additional conditions for granting of a variance. As a condition for
authorizing a variance, the Village Engineer may require the utility requesting
the variance to meet reasonable standards and conditions that may or may not be
expressly contained within this subchapter but which carry out the purposes of
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 94.070) (Ord. 2000-01-01, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 94.071 ENFORCEMENT.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the village may have for enforcement of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 94.071) (Ord. 2000-01-01, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 94.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty has been provided shall be punished as set forth in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Violation of §§
94.015 through
94.020 shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $750.
   (C)   Any violation of §§
94.035 through
94.038 shall be punishable by a fine pursuant to §
10.99, and each day on which a violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense.
   (D)   Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to
comply with any of the provisions of §§
94.050 through
94.071 shall be subject to fine in accordance with the penalty provisions of
this code. There may be times when the village will incur delay or other costs,
including third-party claims, because the utility will not or cannot perform
its duties under its permit and this chapter. Unless the utility shows that
another allocation of the cost of undertaking the requested action is
appropriate, the utility shall bear the village’s costs of damages and its
costs of installing, maintaining, modifying, relocating or removing the
facility that is the subject of the permit. No other administrative agency or
commission may review or overrule a permit related cost apportionment of the
village. Sanctions may be imposed upon a utility who does not pay the costs
apportioned to it.
(Prior Code, § 94.999) (Ord. 65-3, passed 8-9-1965; Ord. 68-3, passed 6-10-
1968; Ord. 71-3, passed 10-11-1971; Ord. 81-1, passed 3-9-1981; Ord. 2000-01-
01, passed 1-10-2000)
APPENDIX A: FORMS
VILLAGE OF SOUTHERN VIEW, ILLINOIS
3412 South 5th Street
Southern View, Illinois 62703
UTILITY RIGHT-OF-WAY CONSTRUCTION
APPLICATION AND PERMIT NO. ________
WHEREAS, I (We) __________________(Name of Applicant),
_______________________________
_____________________(Mailing Address) ____________(City), ___________
(State)___, hereinafter termed the Applicant, request permission and authority
to do certain work herein described on the right-of-way of the Village streets
known as ________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________.
The work is described in detail on the attached sketch and/or as follows:
It is understood that the work authorized by this permit shall be completed
within _____ after the date this permit is approved, otherwise the permit
becomes null and void.
This permit is subject to the conditions and restrictions attached to this
sheet.
This permit is hereby accepted and its provisions agreed to this _______day of
_____________, _____.
Signed ______________________________
      Applicant
Witness ____________________________         _________________________________
                                    Mailing Address
___________________________________         _________________________________
Mailing Address                           City                State
___________________________________         _________________________________
City                  State            Telephone No.          Facsimile No.
SIGN AND RETURN TO : Village of Southern View, Village Clerk, 3412 South 5th
Street, Southern View, Illinois 62703
Approved this ___________ day of ______________, 20____.
This Permit is not in effect            VILLAGE OF SOUTHERN VIEW, ILLINOIS
until signed by Applicant and
approved by                      BY: _______________________
The Village Of Southern View, Illinois   Its ___________________
First: The Applicant represents all parties in interest and shall furnish
material, do all work, pay all costs, and shall in a reasonable length of time
restore the damaged portions of the highway to a condition similar or equal to
that existing before the commencement of the described work, including any
seeding or sodding necessary.
Second: The proposed work shall be located and constructed to the satisfaction
of the Village Engineer or his or her duty authorized representative. No
revisions or additions shall be made to the proposed work on the-right-of-way
without the written permission of the Village Engineer.
Third: The Applicant shall at all times conduct the work in such a manner as to
minimize hazards to vehicular and pedestrian traffic. Traffic controls and work
site protection shall be in accordance with the applicable requirements of
Chapter 6 (Traffic Controls for Highway Construction and Maintenance
Operations) of the Illinois Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for
Streets and Highways and with the traffic control plan if one is required
elsewhere in the permit. All signs, barricades, flaggers, etc., required for
traffic control shall be furnished by the Applicant. The work may be done on
any day except Sunday, New Year’s Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor
Day, Thanksgiving Day, and Christmas Day. Work shall be done only from 7:00
a.m. to 6:00 p.m., local time.
Fourth: The work performed by the Applicant is for the bona fide purpose
expressed and not for the purpose of, nor will it result in, the parking or
servicing of vehicles on the highway right-of-way. Signs located on or
overhanging the right-of-way shall be prohibited.
Fifth: The Applicant, its successors or assigns, agrees to hold harmless The
Village of Southern View, Illinois and its duly appointed officers, agents and
employees against any action for personal injury or property damage sustained
by reason of the exercise of this permit.
Sixth: The Applicant shall not trim, cut, or in any way disturb any trees or
shrubbery along the highway without the approval of the Village Engineer or his
or her duly authorized representative.
Seventh: The Village reserves the right to make such changes, additions,
repairs and relocations within its statutory limits to the facilities
constructed under this permit or their appurtenances on the right-of-way as may
at any time be considered necessary to permit the relocation, reconstruction,
widening, or maintaining of the highway and/or to provide proper protection to
life and property on or adjacent to the Village right-of-way. However, in the
event this permit is granted to construct, locate, operate, and maintain
utility facilities on the Village right-of-way, the Applicant, upon written
request by the Village Engineer, shall perform such alterations or change of
location of the facilities, without expense to the Village, and should the
Applicant fail to make satisfactory arrangements to comply with this request
within a reasonable time, the Village reserves the right to make such
alterations or change of location or remove the work, and the Applicant agrees
to pay for the costs incurred.
Eighth: This permit is effective only insofar as the Village has jurisdiction
and does not presume to release the Applicant from compliance with the
provisions of any existing statutes or local regulations relating to the
construction of such work.
Ninth: The construction of access driveways is subject to regulations listed in
the “Policy on Permits for Access Driveways to State Highways.” If, in the
future, the land use of property served by an access driveway described and
constructed in accordance with this permit changes so as to require a higher
driveway type as defined in that policy, the owner shall apply for a new permit
and bear the costs for such revision as may be required to conform the
regulations listed in the policy. Utility installations shall be subject to the
“Policy on the Accommodation of Utilities on Rights-of-Way of the Illinois
State Highway System.”
Tenth: The Applicant affirms that the property lines shown on the attached
sheet (s) are true and correct and binds and obligates himself to perform the
operation in accordance with the description and attached sketch and to abide
by the policy regulations.
Eleventh: The Applicant affirms that it has complied with §
94.053 (adopted by Southern View Ordinance 2000-01-01) in it submission of this
application.
VILLAGE OF SOUTHERN VIEW, ILLINOIS
3412 South 5th Street
Southern View, Illinois 62703
                     INDIVIDUAL UTILITY CONSTRUCTION
                     PERMIT BOND NO. __________________
KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that I (We)__________(Name of
Applicant)__________,
_________________________(Mailing
Address)___________________________________________,
______ as Principal, and______________________(Surety
Company)__________________________,
a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of
__________________ and licensed to do business in the State of Illinois, are
held firmly bound unto the people of The Village of Southern View, State of
Illinois in the penal sum of _________________________ Dollars ($__________)
lawful money of the United States well and truly be paid unto said, people of
The Village of Southern View, the State of Illinois, for payment of which we
bind ourselves, our successors and assigns, jointly, severally and firmly by
these presents.
   WHEREAS, Utility Right-of-Way Construction Permit No. ___________________
issued by The Village of Southern View, Illinois grants to
_______________________________________________ permission and authority to
construct, locate, operate and maintain the work described in said Permit upon
or adjacent to _______________________ in Southern View, as more fully
described in said Permit which by this reference is made a part hereof as if
written herein at length, in and by which Permit the said Principal has
promised and agreed to perform said described operation and related activities
in accordance with the terms and conditions of and described in said Permit.
   NOW, THEREFORE, if the said Principal shall well and truly perform said
operations in accordance with the terms and conditions of and description in
said Permit to the satisfaction of said Village and shall perform no other work
or construction at said location without first applying for and receiving
another permit from said Village, then no claim or demand will be made against
the above obligation. Otherwise, this bond or so much thereof as may be
necessary shall insure to the said Village as cost and expense to change and
correct during a period of five years from the date of approval of this bond by
the Village, said construction to conform to the terms and conditions of and
description in said Permit.
   IN WITNESS WHEREOF, WE HAVE DULY EXECUTED THE FOREGOING
This _________ Day of ____________, 20____         Principal
_________________________
Surety __________________________         Address __________________________
Address ________________________________   City/State _________________________
City/State _________________________      Telephone _________________________
By _____________________________________   By _______________________________
   (Seal)                            (Seal)
Agent for Surety ___________________         Village of Southern View, Illinois
Address __________________________      By _________________________
City/State _________________________      Its _________________________
By _______________________________
(Prior Code, Ch. 94, App. A) (Res. 2000-01-01, passed 1-10-2000)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   AMUSEMENTS
      
111.   PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND SOLICITORS
      
112.   LIQUOR CONTROL
      
113.   TELECOMMUNICATIONS INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTENANCE
      
114.   MOBILE FOOD VENDORS
      
115.   VIDEO GAMING
      
116.   MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS
CHAPTER 110: AMUSEMENTS
Section
Amusement Centers
   
110.01   License provisions applicable
   
110.02   License required
   
110.03   License application
   
110.04   License issuance restricted
Billiard and Pool Halls
   
110.15   License provisions applicable
   
110.16   License required
   
110.17   License application
   
110.18   License issuance restricted
AMUSEMENT CENTERS
§ 110.01 LICENSE PROVISIONS APPLICABLE.
   The provisions of this subchapter, insofar as the same may be applicable and
not in conflict, shall apply to and govern the issuance of any license under
the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 110.01)
§ 110.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate or maintain an amusement center or place open to the
public within the village without first obtaining a license therefor.
(Prior Code, § 110.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.03 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   An application for a license to operate or maintain an amusement center or
place shall be made, in writing, to the Village Clerk, and shall state therein
the intended location of the business and the number and types of amusements to
be used or offered to the public.
(Prior Code, § 110.03)
§ 110.04 LICENSE ISSUANCE RESTRICTED.
   The Village Clerk shall issue a license required by the provisions of this
subchapter upon proof being made of good moral character of the applicant
therefor.
(Prior Code, § 110.04)
BILLIARD AND POOL HALLS
§ 110.15 LICENSE PROVISIONS APPLICABLE.
   The provisions of this subchapter, insofar as the same may be applicable and
not in conflict, shall apply to and govern the issuance of any license under
the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 110.20)
§ 110.16 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate, maintain or conduct a billiard or pool table open
to the public without first obtaining a license therefor.
(Prior Code, § 110.21) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.17 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   All applications for a license to operate, maintain or conduct a billiard or
pool table open to the public shall be made, in writing, to the Village Clerk
and shall state thereon the intended location of the place of business and the
number of tables to be used therein.
(Prior Code, § 110.22)
§ 110.18 LICENSE ISSUANCE RESTRICTED.
   The Village Clerk shall issue a license required by the provisions of this
subchapter upon proof being made of good moral character of the applicant
therefor.
(Prior Code, § 110.23)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License requirement
   
111.03   Application procedure
   
111.04   Standards for issuance
   
111.05   Revocation procedure
   
111.06   Standards for revocation
   
111.07   Appeal procedure
   
111.08   Exhibition of identification
   
111.09   Village policy on soliciting
   
111.10   Notice regulating soliciting
   
111.11   Duty of solicitors
   
111.12   Uninvited soliciting prohibited
   
111.13   Time limit on soliciting
 
   
111.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority of village to license, tax, regulate or prohibit peddlers,
itinerant merchants or transient vendors, see 65 ILCS 5/11-42-5
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler or solicitor, as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the village and who, in
the furtherance of that business, uses any building, structure, vehicle or any
place within the village.
   PEDDLER. Any person, not an itinerant merchant, who:
      (1)   Travels from place to place by any means, carrying goods for sale,
or making sales, or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Without traveling from place to place, sells or offers goods for
sale from any public place within the village.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a SOLICITOR is not
a peddler.
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in this activity within the village.
   (B)   (1)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as
set, from time to time, by the Board of Trustees.
      (2)   The Board hereby establishes a fee of $50 to cover the
administrative and policing costs associated with the issuance of a permit.
Local not-for-profit groups (for example, scout troops) are not required to pay
a fee.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
(Ord. 22-02-01, passed 2-22-2022) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the Clerk. This application shall be signed by the applicant
if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the president if a
corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide information concerning
the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the village;
         (b)   The local address of the individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of the individual; and
         (d)   The capacity in which the individual will act.
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on, and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant’s business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character and quality of the goods or services to
be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock; and
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom the goods are manufactured or grown,
and where the goods are at the time of application.
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
and/or
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified in
division (A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) above has
been convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each
offense and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant; and
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application, if required by the village, credentials from the person, if
any, for which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant
to act as the representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C) above,
a statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to
the date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless the investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant has committed the following
will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors and the like;
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts.
§ 111.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the Clerk
after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
111.06. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. This notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his or her last known
address, at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
§ 111.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals or general welfare
of the public.
§ 111.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
111.04 or
111.06 shall have the right to appeal to the Board of Trustees. The appeal
shall be taken by filing with the Board of Trustees, within 14 days after
notice of the decision has been mailed to the person’s last known address, a
written statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The Board of Trustees
shall set the time and place for a hearing, and notice for the hearing shall be
given to the person in the same manner as provided in §
111.05.
   (B)   The order of the Board of Trustees after the hearing shall be final.
§ 111.08 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the village shall be used to conduct the business
licensed, separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The Clerk shall issue a license to each peddler or solicitor licensed
under this chapter. The license shall contain the words “Licensed Peddler” or
“Licensed Solicitor”, the expiration date of the license and the number of the
license. The license shall be kept with the licensee during the time that he or
she is engaged in the business licensed.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.09 VILLAGE POLICY ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the village that the occupants of
the residences in the village shall make the determination of whether
solicitors shall be, or shall not be, invited to their respective residences.
§ 111.10 NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING.
   (A)   Notice of the refusal of invitation to solicitors, to any residence,
shall be given on a weatherproof card, approximately three inches by four
inches in size, exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence,
indicating the determination by the occupant, containing the applicable words,
as follows:
      “NO SOLICITORS INVITED”
   (B)   The letters shall be at least one-third inch in height. For the
purpose of uniformity, the cards shall be provided by the Chief of Police to
persons requesting, at the cost thereof.
   (C)   The card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
§ 111.11 DUTY OF SOLICITORS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any premises
in the village upon which a residence is located to first examine the notice
provided for in §
111.10 if any is attached, and be governed by the statement contained on the
notice. If the notice states “NO SOLICITORS INVITED”, then the solicitor,
whether registered or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the
premises.
   (B)   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.12 UNINVITED SOLICITING PROHIBITED.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or
create any sound in any manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of the residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting in defiance of the notice exhibited
at the residence in accordance with the provisions of §
111.10.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.13 TIME LIMIT ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door of a
residence located thereon, or rap or knock upon any door, or create any sound
in any other manner calculated to attract the attention of the occupant of the
residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the occupant thereof
and engage in soliciting, prior to 9:00 a.m. or after 9:00 p.m. of any weekday
or Saturday, or at any time on a Sunday or on a state or national holiday.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not more than
$750. Each day’s violation shall constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 112: LIQUOR CONTROL
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   License required
   
112.03   Issuance; renewal; classifications
   
112.04   Classes of licenses
   
112.05   License fees
   
112.06   Separate license for each premises
   
112.07   Application
   
112.08   Bond
   
112.09   Insurance
   
112.10   Liquor Control Commissioner
   
112.11   Suspension/revocation of license
   
112.12   Hearings
   
112.13   Hours of sale
   
112.14   Conduct on premises
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL. The product of distillation of any fermented liquid, whether
rectified or diluted, whatever may be the origin thereof, and includes
synthetic ethyl alcohol, but does not include denatured alcohol or wood
alcohol.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. Includes alcohol, spirits, wine and beer, and every liquid
or solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer and
capable of being consumed as a beverage by a human being.
   APPLICANT. The entity or person that applies for a license.
   BEER. A beverage obtained by alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
concoction of barley or other grain, malt and hops in water, and includes beer,
ale, stout, lager beer, porter and the like.
   CONSUMPTION SALES. The sale, or offering for sale, at retail of any
alcoholic liquor for use and consumption on the premises where sold and not for
resale.
   DRAM SHOP INSURANCE. Insurance available to provide indemnification to
individuals or entities against whom an action for damages may be brought
pursuant to 235 ILCS 5/6-21 or as hereafter amended.
   HOTEL/MOTEL. Every building or other structure kept, used, maintained,
advertised and held out to the public to be a place where food is actually
served and consumed and sleeping accommodations are offered for consideration
to guests and travelers, in which 25 or more rooms are used for the sleeping
accommodations of such guests and having one or more public dining rooms where
meals are served to such guests.
   ILLINOIS LIQUOR CONTROL ACT. An act passed by the 58th Illinois General
Assembly, entitled “An Act Relating to Alcoholic Liquors”, approved January 31,
1993, as amended.
   LICENSED PREMISES. The premises described in the application for the license
or in the license as the place where the business covered by the license is or
will be conducted.
   MANUFACTURER. Every brewer, fermenter, distiller, rectifier, winemaker,
blender, processor or person who fills or refills an original package and any
other person engaged in brewing, fermenting, distilling or rectifying alcoholic
liquor.
   NIGHTCLUB. An establishment or building, or part of an establishment or
building, wherein entertainment is presented, food and liquor is served, and
space and music are provided for dancing, with a capacity of over 175 people.
   ORIGINAL PACKAGE. Any bottle, flask, jug, can, cask, barrel, keg, hogshead
or other container used, corked or capped, sealed and labeled by the
manufacturer of an alcoholic liquor to contain any alcoholic liquor.
   OWNER, PROPRIETOR, MANAGER or AGENT. Include all persons who are the owners
or are in control of any place where the sale or distribution of alcoholic
liquor is conducted. The term OWNER includes legal and equitable ownership.
   PACKAGE SALES. The sale, or offering for sale, at retail of alcoholic
liquor, in the original package, and not to be consumed, in whole or in part,
on or about the premises where sold.
   PERSON. An individual, a partnership, a corporation, an association, a trust
or any other human organization or establishment.
   PRINCIPAL BUSINESS. Any establishment, holding a license for the sale of
alcoholic liquor wherein more than 50% of its gross sales or revenues for each
calendar month in the preceding 12 months are for goods and services other than
alcoholic liquor.
   RESTAURANT. Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out
to the public as a place where meals are served and sold and where meals are
actually served and sold, such place being provided with adequate and separate
sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and capacity, and having employed
therein a sufficient number and kind of employees to prepare, cook and serve
suitable food for its guests. A RESTAURANT holding an R license under this
chapter shall have its normal lunch or dinner items available for sale at all
times alcoholic liquors are available for sale.
   RETAILER. A person who sells, or offers for sale, alcoholic liquor for use
or consumption and not for resale in any form.
   SALE. Any transfer, exchange or barter in any manner or by any means, for
consideration, and includes all sales, whether made by an owner, principal,
officer, proprietor, agent or employee.
   SELL AT RETAIL and SALE AT RETAIL. Sales for use or consumption and not for
resale in any form.
   SERVICE STATION. Any business which derives part of its income from the sale
of automotive fuels, dispensed directly or indirectly into vehicles.
   SPIRITS. Any beverage which contains alcohols obtained by distillation,
mixed with water or other substance in solution and includes brandy, rum,
whiskey, gin, vodka and other spirituous liquors, and such liquors when
rectified, blended or mixed with other substances including but not limited to
hard seltzers and similar products.
   TAVERN. An establishment or building or part of an establishment or building
wherein alcoholic liquors are sold.
   TO SELL. Includes to solicit or receive, an order for, to keep or expose for
sale and to keep with intent to sell.
   VIDEO GAMING PARLOR. Includes an establishment which has a video gaming
license issued by the State of Illinois and the village, and which sells
alcoholic liquors only in the form of single serving, self contained cans or
bottles, for consumption only on the premises.
   WINE. Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
contents of fruits or vegetables containing sugar, including such beverages
when fortified or mixed with alcohol or spirits.
(Prior Code, § 112.01) (Ord. 94-05-03, passed 5-25-1994; Ord. 97-06-02, passed
6-9-1997; Ord. 24-10-02, passed 10-22-2024)
§ 112.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person within the corporate limits of the village shall offer to sell at
retail, or sell at retail, any alcoholic liquor without first obtaining a
license therefor.
(Prior Code, § 112.02) (Ord. 94-05-03, passed 5-25-1994; Ord. 24-10-02, passed
10-22-2024) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03 ISSUANCE; RENEWAL; CLASSIFICATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   All licenses shall be issued for one year, ending each December
31, and may be renewed annually, for an indeterminate number of years; provided
the licensee fulfills all conditions of this chapter and other ordinances of
the village and laws of the state and the United States.
      (2)   A hotel/motel license is issued for a three-month period, with a
fee per calendar quarter of $250.
   (B)   (1)   The following classifications and numbers of liquor licenses are
established for the village:
Classification Maximum Number
Classification                                         Maximum Number
Class 1A - Tavern                                      3
Class 1AA - VGP                                        8
Class 1B - 1-day license                               No limit
Class 1BB -OTAP                                        No limit
Class 2A - Package sales only                          2
Class 2B - Package sales combined with another license 1
Class 3AA - Hotel/motel                                1
Class 3BB - Nightclub                                  1
 
(Prior Code, § 112.03) (Ord. 94-05-03, passed 5-25-1994; Ord. 99-07-02, passed
7-12-1999; Ord. 02-03-01, passed 3-11-2002; Ord. 12-7-1, passed 7-10-2012; Ord.
14-03-01, passed 3-25-2014; Ord. 14-12-01, passed 12-23-2014; Ord. 19-01-01,
passed 1-22-2019; Ord. 19-04-01, passed 4-9-2019; Ord. 19-07-004, passed 7-23-
2019; Ord. 20-01-01, passed 1-28-2020; Ord. 20-02-02, passed 2-11-2020; Ord.
20-02-03, passed 2-11-2020; Ord. 21-01-04, passed 1-26-2021; Ord. 21-08-01,
passed 8-24-2021; Ord. 22-04-02, passed 4-26-2022; Ord. 24-10-02, passed 10-22-
2024)
§ 112.04 CLASSES OF LICENSES.
   (A)   A Class 1A - Tavern - Tavern license shall entitle the licensee to
sell alcoholic liquors during the hours set forth in §
112.13.
   (B)   A Class 1AA-VGP - VGP license shall entitle the licensee to sell
alcoholic liquors during the hours set forth in §
112.13.
   (C)   A Class 1B - One-day license shall entitle the licensee to sell only
beer, for a period not to exceed one day. Such licenses shall be authorized in
the discretion of the Village Board.
   (D)   A Class 1BB - OTAP - OTAP shall entitle the licensee to sell alcoholic
liquors during the hours set forth in §
112.13.
   (E)   A Class 2A and 2AA - Package Sales License shall entitle the licensee
to sell all alcoholic liquor, in the original package only, for consumption off
the premises. Class 2A or 2AA licensees shall not display alcoholic liquors
outdoors or sell alcoholic liquors from a drive-up window.
   (F)   A Class 3AA - Hotel/Motel License shall entitle the licensee to sell
alcoholic liquors during the hours set forth in §
112.13.
   (G)   A Class 3BB - Nightclub License shall entitle the licensee to sell
alcoholic liquors during the hours set forth in §
112.13.
(Prior Code, § 112.04) (Ord. 94-05-03, passed 5-25-1994; Ord. 19-04-01, passed
4-9-2019; Ord. 24-10-02, passed 10-22-2024)
§ 112.05 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   The annual license fees shall be as follows:
Classification Fee
Classification                                         Fee
Class 1A - Tavern                                      $1,000
Class 1AA - VGP                                        $1,000
Class 1B - 1-day license                               $100
Class 1BB- OTAP                                        $100
Class 2A - Package sales only                          $750
Class 2B - Package sales combined with another license $400
Class 3AA - Hotel/motel                                $1,500
Class 3BB - Nightclub                                  $1,500
Class 4 - Restaurant                                   $400
 
   (B)   The fee for filing a new application is $25. The fee for a renewal
application is $25. The license fee is due in semi-annual installments, due
January 1 and July l, except for Class 1B licenses, for which payment must be
made in full before issuance. All fees must be paid in cash or cashier’s check.
Fees shall not be pro-rated for portions of years and are not refundable in the
event of suspension or revocation.
(Prior Code, § 112.05) (Ord. 94-05-03, passed 5-25-1994; Ord. 19-04-01, passed
4-9-2019; Ord. 24-10-02, passed 10-22-2024)
§ 112.06 SEPARATE LICENSE FOR EACH PREMISES.
   A separate license must be obtained for each premises at which an applicant
or license holder offers for sale or sells alcoholic liquors at retail.
(Prior Code, § 112.06) (Ord. 94-05-03, passed 5-25-1994; Ord. 24-10-02, passed
10-22-2024)
§ 112.07 APPLICATION.
   Any person desiring a license shall make application to the village on forms
provided by the village. Each application shall be signed by all applicants and
verified by affidavit. Applications shall contain information sufficient to
allow the village to determine that a license will not be issued to an
applicant ineligible for a license under § 6-2 of the Illinois Liquor Control
Act (235 ILCS 5/6-2). Failure to provide all required information or providing
false information shall be grounds for denial of a license.
(Prior Code, § 112.07) (Ord. 94-05-03, passed 5-25-1994; Ord. 24-10-02, passed
10-22-2024)
§ 112.08 BOND.
   Each applicant for a liquor license shall execute a bond payable to the
village in the penal sum of $500, conditioned upon the applicant’s or
licensee’s compliance with this chapter. This bond must be attached to and
filed with the new application or renewal application.
(Prior Code, § 112.08) (Ord. 94-05-03, passed 5-25-1994; Ord. 24-10-02, passed
10-22-2024)
§ 112.09 INSURANCE.
   Each applicant for a liquor license shall attach to an application or
renewal application for a liquor license proof of dram shop insurance with
liability limits in an amount equal to the maximum recovery for an action for
damages brought pursuant to 235 ILCS 5/6-21 or as hereafter amended.
(Prior Code, § 112.09) (Ord. 97-06-02, passed 6-9-1997; Ord. 24-10-02, passed
10-22-2024)
§ 112.10 LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   In accordance with § 4-2 of the Illinois Liquor Control Act (235 ILCS
5/4-2), the Village President, or a designee, shall be the local Liquor Control
Commissioner.
   (B)   The local Liquor Control Commissioner shall have the following powers,
each of which may also be exercised by the Commissioner’s authorized agent:
      (1)   To grant, deny, suspend and revoke liquor licenses;
      (2)   To enter into and authorize any law enforcement officer to enter
the premises of any licensee at any time; and
      (3)   To make or change reasonable rules and regulations for the
administration and enforcement of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 112.10) (Ord. 94-05-03, passed 5-25-1994; Ord. 24-10-02, passed
10-22-2024)
§ 112.11 SUSPENSION/REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Suspension for up to 30 days or revocation of a license shall be made
by and at the discretion of the local Liquor Control Commissioner, for cause.
   (B)   Cause shall include:
      (1)   That the licensee has violated any provision of this chapter or any
other federal, state or local law relating to the sale of alcoholic liquor;
      (2)   That the licensee has made any false statement of material fact in
the license application;
      (3)   That the licensee has permitted an unlawful, disorderly or immoral
practice upon the licensed premises;
      (4)   That the licensee has refused to testify under oath to all relevant
and material questions propounded to the licensee at any hearing conducted by
the village;
      (5)   That the licensee has failed to operate the business at the
location referred to in the license for a period of 60 continuous days;
      (6)   That the licensee or agent or employee of the licensee has
interfered with a peace officer’s performance of official duties;
      (7)   That the licensee has failed to obey any lawful order of the local
Commissioner; or
      (8)   That the licensee has employed a manager who is not eligible for a
license under § 6-2 of the Illinois Liquor Control Act (235 ILCS 5/6-2).
(Prior Code, § 112.11) (Ord. 94-05-03, passed 5-25-1994; Ord. 24-10-02, passed
10-22-2024) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.12 HEARINGS.
   The local Liquor Control Commissioner may conduct hearings for the purposes
of adducing evidence and administering and enforcing the provisions of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 112.12) (Ord. 94-05-03, passed 5-25-1994; Ord. 24-10-02, passed
10-22-2024)
§ 112.13 HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   No alcoholic liquor shall be sold before 7:00 a.m. on any day.
   (B)   The closing time for each classification of license of the village
shall be as follows.
Classification Closing Time
Classification                         Closing Time
Class 1A - Tavern                      1:00 a.m.
Class 1AA - VGT                        2:00 a.m.*
Class 1B - 1-day license               11:00 p.m.
Class 1BB - OTAP
Class 2A - Package sales only          1:00 a.m.
Class 2B - Package sales combined with 1:00 a.m.
another license
Class 3AA - Hotel/motel                24 hours
Class 3BB - Nightclub                  2:00 a.m.
Class 4 - Restaurant                   10:00 p.m. Sunday - Thursday and 11:00
                                       p.m. Friday - Saturday
 
   (C)   * Video gaming parlors which have a valid 2024 license with a 3:00
a.m. closing time may maintain the 3:00 a.m. closing time until there is any
change in ownership, or the ownership structure of a corporation or LLC, at
which time the closing time for any license shall be 2:00 a.m.
   (D)   All times between the closing time and opening times shall be closed
hours. No alcoholic liquors shall be sold, donated, bartered, exchanged, served
or transferred by a licensee or consumed by a licensee’s patron(s) during
closed hours.
(Prior Code, § 112.13) (Ord. 94-05-03, passed 5-25-1994; Ord. 10-05-01, passed
5-11-2010; Ord. 19-01-01, passed 1-22-2019; Ord. 19-04-01, passed 4-9-2019;
Ord. 20-02-03, passed 2-11-2020; Ord. 24-10-02, passed 10-22-2024) Penalty, see
§
112.99
§ 112.14 CONDUCT ON PREMISES.
   No licensee shall permit the following conduct on the premises designated in
the license:
   (A)   The performance of acts, or simulated acts, of sexual intercourse,
masturbation or deviate sexual conduct;
   (B)   The actual or simulated caressing or fondling of the genitals or
buttocks of either gender or of the female breasts;
   (C)   The actual or simulated display or exposure of the genitals or pubic
hair of either gender or of the female breast below the tope of the areola;
   (D)   Allowing any person to remain upon the premises who has exposed to
public view any portion of his or her genitals; or
   (E)   The display of films or pictures depicting acts set forth in divisions
(A), (B) or (C) above.
(Prior Code, § 112.14) (Ord. 94-05-03, passed 5-25-1994; Ord. 24-10-02, passed
10-22-2024) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of this chapter is punishable by:
      (1)   Denial of a new license, or by suspension or revocation of an
existing license, in accordance with §
112.11; or
      (2)   By a fine of up to $500 per day, for each day upon which a
violation occurs or continues, or both.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed to have been committed for each
day upon which a violation occurs.
(Prior Code, § 112.99) (Ord. 94-05-03, passed 5-25-1994; Ord. 24-10-02, passed
10-22-2024)
CHAPTER 113: TELECOMMUNICATIONS INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTENANCE
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Registration of telecommunications providers
   
113.03   Fee
   
113.04   Collection, enforcement and administration of fees
   
113.05   Compliance with other laws
   
113.06   Existing franchises and licenses
   
113.07   Enforcement
   
113.08   Waiver and fee implementation
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GROSS CHARGES.
      (1)   The amount paid to a telecommunications retailer for the act or
privilege of originating or receiving telecommunications within the village,
and for all services rendered in connection therewith, valued in money, whether
paid in money or otherwise, including cash, credits, services and property of
every kind or nature, and shall be determined without any deduction on account
of the cost of such telecommunications, the cost of the materials used, labor
or service costs or any other expense whatsoever.
      (2)   In case credit is extended, the amount thereof shall be included
only as and when paid GROSS CHARGES for private line service shall include
charges imposed at each channel point within the village, charges for the
channel mileage between each channel point within the village and charges for
that portion of the interstate inter-office channel provided within the
village; however, GROSS CHARGES shall not include:
         (a)   Any amounts added to a purchaser’s bill because of a charge made
under the fee imposed by this section; additional charges added to a
purchaser’s bill under §§ 9-221 or 9-222 of the Public Utilities Act, being 220
ILCS 5/9-221 or 220 ILCS 5/9-222; the tax imposed by the Telecommunications
Excise Tax Act, being 35 ILCS 630/1 et seq.; 911 surcharges; or the tax imposed
by I.R.C. § 4251, being 26 U.S.C. § 4251;
         (b)   Charges for a sent collect telecommunication received outside
the village;
         (c)   Charges for leased time on equipment or charges for the storage
of data or information or subsequent retrieval or the processing of data or
information intended to change its form or content. Such equipment includes,
but is not limited to, the use of calculators, computers, data processing
equipment, tabulating equipment or accounting equipment and also includes the
usage of computers under a time-sharing agreement;
         (d)   Charges for customer equipment, including such equipment that is
leased or rented by the customer from any source, wherein such charges are
disaggregated and separately identified from other charges;
         (e)   Charges to business enterprises certified under 220 ILCS 5/9-
222.1 to the extent of such exemption and during the period of time specified
by the village;
         (f)   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment
provided in connection therewith between a parent corporation and its wholly
owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, and only to the extent
that the charges between the parent corporation and wholly owned subsidiaries
or between wholly owned subsidiaries represent expense allocation between the
corporations and not the generation of profit other than a regulatory required
profit for the corporation rendering such services;
         (g)   Bad debts (BAD DEBT means any portion of a debt that is related
to a sale at retail for which gross charges are not otherwise deductible or
excludable that has become worthless or uncollectible, as determined under
applicable federal income tax standards; if the portion of the debt deemed to
be bad is subsequently paid, the retailer shall report and pay the tax on that
portion during the reporting period in which the payment is made);
         (h)   Charges paid by inserting coins in coin-operated
telecommunications devices; or
         (i)   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment
provided to the village.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any municipal street, alley, water or public right-of-
way dedicated or commonly used for utility purposes, including utility
easements wherein the village has acquired the right and authority to locate or
permit the location of utilities consistent with telecommunications facilities.
PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY shall not include any real or personal village property
that is not specifically described in the previous sentence and shall not
include village buildings and other structures or improvements, regardless of
whether they are situated in the public right-of-way.
   RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE. (or any like term)
Any retailer having or maintaining within the state, directly or by a
subsidiary, an office, distribution facilities, transmission facilities, sales
office, warehouse or other place of business, or any agent or other
representative operating within this state under the authority of the retailer
or its subsidiary, irrespective of whether such place of business or agent or
other representative is located here permanently or temporarily, or whether
such retailer or subsidiary is licensed to do business in this state.
   SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL. The transmitting, supplying or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not
for sale.
   SERVICE ADDRESS. The location of telecommunications equipment from which
telecommunications services are originated or at which telecommunications
services are received. If this is not a defined location, as in the case of
wireless telecommunications, paging systems, maritime systems, air-to-ground
systems and the like, SERVICE ADDRESS shall mean the location of the customer’s
primary use of the telecommunications equipment, as defined by the location in
the state where bills are sent.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS. Includes, but is not limited to, messages or information
transmitted through use of local, toll and wide area telephone service, channel
services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer exchange
services, private line services, specialized mobile radio services or any other
transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means, between
or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite or similar facilities. Unless the context clearly requires otherwise,
TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall also include wireless telecommunications as
hereinafter defined. TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include value added services
in which computer processing applications are used to act on the form, content,
code and protocol of the information for purposes other than transmission.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include purchase of telecommunications by a
telecommunications service provider for use as a component part of the service
provided by him or her to the ultimate retail consumer who originates or
terminates the end-to-end communications. Retailer access charges, right of
access charges, charges for use of intercompany facilities and all
TELECOMMUNICATIONS resold in the subsequent provision and used as a component
of, or integrated into, end-to-end telecommunications service shall not be
included in gross charges as sales for resale. TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not
include the provision of cable services through a cable system, as defined in
the Cable Communications Act of 1984 (47 U.S.C. §§ 521 et seq.), as now or
hereafter amended or cable, or other programming services subject to an open
video system fee payable to the village through an open video system, as
defined in the Rules of the Federal Communications Commission (47 C.F.R. §§
76.1500 et seq.), as now or hereafter amended.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER.
      (1)   Any telecommunications retailer; and
      (2)   Any person that is not a telecommunications retailer that installs,
owns, operates or controls equipment in the public right-of-way that is used,
or designed to be used, to transmit telecommunications in any form.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER or RETAILER or CARRIER. Includes every person
engaged in the business of making sales of telecommunications at retail, as
defined in this section. The village may, in its discretion, upon application,
authorize the collection of the fee hereby imposed by any retailer not
maintaining a place of business within this state, who, to the satisfaction of
the village, furnishes adequate security to ensure collection and payment of
the fee. When so authorized, it shall be the duty of such retailer to pay the
fee upon all of the gross charges for telecommunications in the same manner and
subject to the same requirements as a retailer maintaining a place of business
within the village.
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS. Includes cellular mobile telephone services,
personal wireless services, as defined in § 704(C) of the Telecommunications
Act of 1996 (Pub. L. No. 104-104), 42 U.S.C. § 332(7)(C), as now or hereafter
amended, including all commercial mobile radio services, and paging services.
(Prior Code, § 113.01) (Ord. 97-10-03, passed 10-13-1997)
§ 113.02 REGISTRATION OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDERS.
   (A)   Every telecommunications provider, as defined by this chapter, shall
register with the village within 30 days after the effective date of this
chapter or becoming a telecommunications provider, whichever is later, on a
form to be provided by the village; provided, however, that any
telecommunications retailer that has filed a return pursuant to §
113.04(C) shall be deemed to have registered in accordance with this section.
   (B)   Every telecommunications provider who has registered with the village
pursuant to division (A) above has an affirmative duty to submit an amended
registration form or current return as required by §
113.04(C), as the case may be, to the village within 30 days from the date of
the occurrence of any changes in the information provided by the
telecommunications provider in the registration form or most recent return on
file with the village.
(Prior Code, § 113.02) (Ord. 97-10-03, passed 10-13-1997) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.03 FEE.
   (A)   A village telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee is hereby
imposed upon all telecommunications retailers in the amount of 1% of all gross
charges charged by the telecommunications retailer to service addresses within
the village for telecommunications originating or received in the village.
   (B)   Upon the effective date of the infrastructure maintenance fee
authorized in this chapter, the village infrastructure maintenance fee
authorized hereunder shall be the only fee or compensation for the use of all
public rights-of-way within the village by telecommunications retailers.
Imposition of the infrastructure maintenance fee provided under this chapter
does not, however, serve as a limitation on the levying of any taxes or
imposition of any fees otherwise authorized by law.
   (C)   The village telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee
authorized by this section shall be collected, enforced and administered as set
forth in §
113.04.
(Prior Code, § 113.03) (Ord. 97-10-03, passed 10-13-1997)
§ 113.04 COLLECTION, ENFORCEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION OF FEES.
   (A)   A telecommunications retailer shall charge to and collect from each
customer an additional charge in an amount equal to the village infrastructure
maintenance fee attributable to that customer’s service address.
   (B)   Unless otherwise approved by the Village Board of Trustees, the
infrastructure maintenance fee shall be remitted by the telecommunications
retailer to the village not later than the last day of the month subsequent to
the month in which a bill is issued to the customer; provided, however, that
the telecommunications retailer may retain an amount not to exceed 2% of the
village infrastructure maintenance fee collected by it to reimburse itself for
expenses incurred in accounting for and remitting the fee.
   (C)   Remittance of the municipal infrastructure fee to the village shall be
accompanied by a return, in a form to be prescribed by the Village Board of
Trustees, which shall contain such information as the Village Board of Trustees
may reasonably require.
   (D)   Any infrastructure maintenance fee required to be collected pursuant
to this chapter and any such infrastructure maintenance fee collected by such
telecommunications retailer shall constitute a debt owed by the
telecommunications retailer to the village. The charge imposed under division
(A) above by the telecommunications retailer pursuant to this chapter shall
constitute a debt of the purchaser to the telecommunications retailer who
provides such services until paid and, if unpaid, is recoverable at law in the
same manner as the original charge for such services.
   (E)   If it shall appear that an amount of the infrastructure maintenance
fee has been paid that was not due under the provisions of this chapter,
whether as a result of a mistake of fact or an error of law, then such amount
shall be credited against any infrastructure maintenance fee due, or to become
due, under this chapter, from the telecommunications retailer who made the
erroneous payment; provided, however, the Village Treasurer may request, and
telecommunications retailer shall provide, written substantiation for such
credit; however, no claim for such credit may be made more than three years
after the date of the erroneous payment unless the credit is used only to
offset a claim of underpayment made by the village within the applicable
statutory period of limitations; and the credit derives from an overpayment
made by the same telecommunications retailer during the applicable statutory
period of limitations.
   (F)   Amounts paid under this chapter by telecommunications retailers shall
not be included in the tax base under any of the following acts as described
immediately below:
      (1)   “Gross charges” for purposes of the Telecommunications Excise Tax
Act, being 35 ILCS 630/1 et seq.;
      (2)   “Gross receipts” for purposes of the municipal utility tax, as
prescribed in § 8-11-2 of the Illinois Municipal Code, being 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2;
      (3)   “Gross charges” for purposes of the municipal telecommunications
tax, as prescribed in § 8-11-17 of the Illinois Municipal Code, being 65 ILCS
5/8-11-17; or
      (4)   “Gross revenue” for purposes of the tax on annual gross revenue of
public utilities, as prescribed in § 2-202 of the Public Utilities Act, being
220 ILCS 5/2-202.
   (G)   The village shall have the right, in its discretion, to audit the
books and records of all telecommunications retailers subject to this chapter
to determine whether the telecommunications retailer has properly accounted to
the village for the village infrastructure maintenance fee. Any underpayment of
the amount of the village infrastructure maintenance fee due to the village by
the telecommunications retailer shall be paid to the village, plus 5% of the
total amount of the underpayment determined in an audit, plus any costs
incurred by the village in conducting the audit, in an amount not to exceed 5%
of the total amount of the underpayment determined in an audit. Said sum shall
be paid to the village within 21 days after the date of issuance of an invoice
for the same.
   (H)   The Village Board of Trustees, or its designee, may promulgate such
further or additional regulations concerning the administration and enforcement
of this chapter, consistent with its provisions, as may be required from time
to time and shall notify all telecommunications retailers that are registered
pursuant to §
113.02 of such regulations.
(Prior Code, § 113.04) (Ord. 97-10-03, passed 10-13-1997)
§ 113.05 COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER LAWS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall excuse any person or entity from obligations
imposed under any law, including, but not limited to:
   (A)   Generally applicable taxes;
   (B)   Standards for construction on, over, under or within, use of or repair
of the public rights-of-way, including standards relating to free standing
towers and other structures upon the public rights-of-way, as provided;
   (C)   Any liability imposed for the failure to comply with such generally
applicable taxes or standards governing construction on, over, under or within,
use of or repair of the public rights-of-way; and
   (D)   Compliance with any ordinance or provision of this code concerning
uses or structures not located on, over or within the right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 113.05) (Ord. 97-10-03, passed 10-13-1997)
§ 113.06 EXISTING FRANCHISES AND LICENSES.
   Any franchise, license or similar agreements between telecommunications
retailers and the village entered into before the effective date of this
chapter regarding the use of public rights-of-way shall remain valid according
to and for their stated terms, except for any fees, charges or other
compensation to the extent waived.
(Prior Code, § 113.06) (Ord. 97-10-03, passed 10-13-1997)
§ 113.07 ENFORCEMENT.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the village may have for enforcement of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 113.07) (Ord. 97-10-03, passed 10-13-1997)
§ 113.08 WAIVER AND FEE IMPLEMENTATION.
   (A)   The village hereby waives all fees, charges and other compensation
that may accrue, after the effective date of the waiver, to the village by a
telecommunications retailer pursuant to any existing village franchise, license
or similar agreement with a telecommunications retailer during the time the
village imposes the telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee. This
waiver shall only be effective during the time the infrastructure maintenance
fee provided for in this chapter is subject to being lawfully imposed on the
telecommunications retailer and collected by the telecommunications retailer
from the customer.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall send a notice of the waiver by certified mail/
return receipt requested to each telecommunications retailer with whom the
village has a franchise.
   (C)   (1)   The village infrastructure maintenance fee provided for in this
chapter shall become effective and imposed on the first day of the month not
less than 90 days after the village provides written notice by certified mail
to each telecommunications retailer with whom the village has an existing
franchise, license or similar agreement that the village waives all
compensation under such existing franchise, license or similar agreement during
such time as the fee is subject to being lawfully imposed and collected by the
retailer and remitted to the village.
      (2)   The infrastructure maintenance fee shall apply to gross charges
billed on or after the effective date as established in division (C)(1) above.
(Prior Code, § 113.08) (Ord. 97-10-03, passed 10-13-1997)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Any telecommunications provider who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or
refuses to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject
to a fine in accordance with the general penalty provisions of the village
municipal code.
(Prior Code, § 113.99) (Ord. 97-10-03, passed 10-13-1997)
CHAPTER 114: MOBILE FOOD VENDORS
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Mobile food vendor license
   
114.03   Separate license
   
114.04   License issuance
   
114.05   License term
   
114.06   License not transferable
   
114.07   Permit display
   
114.08   State law and health code compliance
   
114.09   License suspension
   
114.10   Glass prohibition
   
114.11   Indemnification
   
114.12   Insurance requirement
   
114.13   Temporary license
   
114.14   Multiple site form
   
114.15   Permitted locations
   
114.16   Hours of operation
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOBILE FOOD OPERATION. A self-contained food service operation, located in a
readily movable motorized, wheeled or towed vehicle, used to store, prepare,
display and/or serve food intended for immediate human consumption. It shall
include, but is not limited to, food carts, food trucks and ice cream trucks.
   MOBILE FOOD VENDOR. A vendor of a mobile food operation.
(Ord. 21-11-03, passed 11-23-2021)
§ 114.02 MOBILE FOOD VENDOR LICENSE.
   A mobile food vendor license is required for any person(s) wishing to
operate as a mobile food vendor except:
   (A)   A mobile food vendor license is not required for village-sponsored
special events where a fee to participate is required or assessed by the
village;
   (B)   A mobile food vendor license is not required for private catered
events held on private property when there are no sales to the general public
and such sales are limited to attendees or invitees; or
   (C)   For other special events occurring upon resolution or majority vote of
the Village Board.
(Ord. 21-11-03, passed 11-23-2021) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.03 SEPARATE LICENSE.
   If a mobile food vendor has more than one mobile food operation, then each
such mobile food operation shall require a separate mobile food vendor license.
(Ord. 21-11-03, passed 11-23-2021) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.04 LICENSE ISSUANCE.
   Upon the submission of a complete application showing compliance with all
terms of this chapter and passage of an investigation, when required, the
mobile food vendor license shall be signed by the Village President.
(Ord. 21-11-03, passed 11-23-2021)
§ 114.05 LICENSE TERM.
   No license shall be granted for longer than one year and shall expire on the
last day of December following its issuance.
   (A)   The license for an annual mobile food vendor license shall be valid on
January 1 and expiring on December 31 for the year in which it was issued.
   (B)   Licenses for applications received throughout the year shall be valid
from their date of issuance without proration.
   (C)   All licenses and permits shall be either displayed so that they are
visible to customers at all times or kept within the confines of the food
truck/cart so that they are readily available upon request or inspection.
   (D)   The fee for an annual license shall be $300.
(Ord. 21-11-03, passed 11-23-2021) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.06 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   Mobile food vendor licenses shall not be transferable to any other applicant
or mobile food vendor.
(Ord. 21-11-03, passed 11-23-2021) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.07 PERMIT DISPLAY.
   Mobile food vendors shall obtain and either display or have readily
available for inspection, at all times, all State and/or County Health
Department permits required to operate their food truck/cart.
(Ord. 21-11-03, passed 11-23-2021) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.08 STATE LAW AND HEALTH CODE COMPLIANCE.
   Any mobile food vendor operating in the village shall be properly permitted
by the County Health Department. All food trucks shall be subject to the State
and the County Health Codes and all rules and regulations promulgated by the
applicable Health Commissioner. No food, food products or beverages for public
consumption shall be kept, offered for sale, transported or handled except in
accordance with the rules and regulations of the State and the County Health
Department.
(Ord. 21-11-03, passed 11-23-2021) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.09 LICENSE SUSPENSION.
   If the State or the County Health Department suspends or revokes their
respective permits and/or licenses, then the mobile food vendor license shall
hereby be revoked until such time as the State or the County Health Department
permits and/or licenses are reinstated.
(Ord. 21-11-03, passed 11-23-2021)
§ 114.10 GLASS PROHIBITION.
   No food or beverage may be sold or given away in a glass container or
bottle.
(Ord. 21-11-03, passed 11-23-2021) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.11 INDEMNIFICATION.
   Every mobile food vendor shall indemnify and hold harmless the village for
all suits or actions brought against the village for or on account of any
injuries or damages received or sustained by any party or parties caused by the
said vendor.
(Ord. 21-11-03, passed 11-23-2021)
§ 114.12 INSURANCE REQUIREMENT.
   Proof of insurance of the vendor’s public liability, food products liability
and property damage insurance sufficient to protect vendor, property owners and
the village from all claims for damage to property or bodily injury, including
death, which may arise from the operations under the registration or in
connection therewith is required. Such insurance shall provide coverage of not
less than $1,000,000 per occurrence. A registration issued pursuant to the
provisions of this section shall be invalid at any time the insurance required
herein is not maintained and evidence of continuing coverage is not filed with
the village.
(Ord. 21-11-03, passed 11-23-2021) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.13 TEMPORARY LICENSE.
   Temporary mobile food vendor licenses issued to mobile food vendors for
either village-approved special events or village-sponsored special events
shall be valid only for the dates provided on the license, not to exceed five
consecutive days, and shall be event specific. Each event shall require a
separate application and temporary license. The temporary license fee shall be
$100 unless the temporary license is issued to a mobile food vendor who has
paid for, been issued and currently has an annual mobile food vendor license.
(Ord. 21-11-03, passed 11-23-2021) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.14 MULTIPLE SITE FORM.
   Licensed mobile food vendors are required to complete and submit the State
Department of Revenue “ST-2 Multiple Site Form” for each applicable reporting
period.
(Ord. 21-11-03, passed 11-23-2021)
§ 114.15 PERMITTED LOCATIONS.
   (A)   Mobile food vendors may operate only in permitted locations, or at a
special event authorized by the village, or with the permission of a private
property owner and in accordance with all applicable laws and ordinances.
   (B)   Location restrictions shall include the following.
      (1)   No mobile food vendor shall be permitted to operate in a location
where it would substantially obstruct a public way, impair the movement of
pedestrians or vehicles or pose a hazard to public safety, and, in no event,
shall be within 16 feet from roadway intersections. No mobile food vendor shall
be permitted to operate in an area marked “No Parking” or “Fire Zone”.
      (2)   No mobile food vendor shall park, stand or operate in a location
which is adjacent to or within ten feet of the property line of a restaurant.
This requirement shall not apply to a restaurant affiliated with the mobile
food vendor. A restaurant may manifest affiliation by written request to the
village as part of the application process or at other times when seeking to
affiliate with a mobile food vendor.
      (3)   No mobile food vendor shall operate within ten feet of the address
point of any fair, carnival, circus, festival, special event or civic event
that is licensed or sanctioned by the village except when mobile food vendor
has obtained the necessary registration.
      (4)   No mobile food vendor shall operate within ten feet of the address
point of public parks without first obtaining written authorization and
required registration from the village.
      (5)   No mobile food vendor shall operate on private property within the
corporate limits of the village without first obtaining written consent to
operate from the affected private property owner.
      (6)   No mobile food vendor shall operate in any area of the village that
the Village Board, in consultation with the Administrator of Public Works and
Zoning Administrator, has determined is unsuitable for such operation. The
Village Board, no less frequently than annually, shall compile a map of areas
which it has determined are suitable for mobile food vendors and cause such map
to be available from the village’s website.
(Ord. 21-11-03, passed 11-23-2021) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.16 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Hours of operation shall be limited to the hours between 7:00 a.m. and 10:00
p.m., excluding special events referenced herein.
(Ord. 21-11-03, passed 11-23-2021) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to operate as a mobile food vendor without a
license as issued by this chapter. Violators are subject to the general
penalties of the village, and revocation of any licenses issued pursuant to the
village code.
(Ord. 21-11-03, passed 11-23-2021)
CHAPTER 115: VIDEO GAMING
Section
   
115.01   Applicability of provisions
   
115.02   Definitions
   
115.03   License
   
115.04   License application requirements
   
115.05   Application filing; renewals
   
115.06   License fees
   
115.07   License revocation or suspension
   
115.08   Limitation on number of video gaming licenses
   
115.09   Limitation on number of video gaming terminals on premises
   
115.10   Prohibition
   
115.11   Exceptions
   
115.12   Licensed establishments
   
115.13   Seizure of unauthorized gambling devices and gambling funds
§ 115.01 APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter, except as otherwise provided, shall apply to
all video gaming as hereinafter defined, whether specifically licensed or
regulated under other provisions of this code or other ordinances, or not.
(Ord. 24-10-01, passed 10-22-2024)
§ 115.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The Illinois Gaming Board.
   COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLES. As defined in Section 18b-101 of the Illinois
Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/18b-101.
   LICENSED ESTABLISHMENT. Any business licensed by the State of Illinois to
have or operate a video gaming device in the village, including any licensed
fraternal establishment, licensed veterans establishment, licensed truck stop
establishment and licensed large truck stop establishment as those terms are
defined in the VGA, 230 ILCS 40/5.
   LICENSED FRATERNAL ESTABLISHMENT. The location where a qualified fraternal
organization that derives its charter from a national fraternal organization
regularly meets.
   LICENSED LARGE TRUCK STOP ESTABLISHMENT. A facility located within three
road miles from a freeway interchange, as measured in accordance with the
Department of Transportation's rules regarding the criteria for the
installation of business signs: (i) that is at least a three-acre facility with
a convenience store; (ii) with separate diesel islands for fueling commercial
motor vehicles; (iii) that sells at retail more than 50,000 gallons of diesel
or biodiesel fuel per month; and (iv) with parking spaces for commercial motor
vehicles. The requirement of item (iii) of this definition may be met by
showing that estimated future sales or past sales average at least 50,000
gallons per month.
   LICENSED TRUCK STOP ESTABLISHMENT. A facility: (i) that is at least a three-
acre facility with a convenience store; (ii) with separate diesel islands for
fueling commercial motor vehicles; (iii) that sells at retail more than 10,000
gallons of diesel or biodiesel fuel per month; and (iv) with parking spaces for
commercial motor vehicles. The requirement of item (iii) of this definition may
be met by showing that estimated future sales or past sales average at least
10,000 gallons per month.
   LICENSED VETERANS ESTABLISHMENT. The location where a qualified veterans
organization that derives its charter from a national veterans organization
regularly meets.
   VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL. Any electronic video game machine that, upon
insertion of cash, is available to play or simulate the play of a video game,
including but not limited to, video poker, line up and blackjack, as authorized
by the Board utilizing a video display and microprocessors in which the player
may receive free games or credits that can be redeemed for cash. The term does
not include a machine that directly dispenses coins, cash or tokens or is for
amusement purposes only.
(Ord. 24-10-01, passed 10-22-2024)
§ 115.03 LICENSE.
   (A)   No person, either as owner, lessee, manager, officer or agent, or in
any other capacity, shall operate or permit to be operated any video gaming
terminal, as defined herein, at any premises within the village without first
having obtained a video gaming license from, the village. The license provided
for in this chapter shall permit a licensee to operate video gaming terminals
at the specified establishment.
   (B)   No applicant, including any person, either as owner, lessee, manager,
officer or agent, shall be eligible for a video gaming license from the
village, nor shall an existing license holder be entitled to maintain a video
gaming license, unless each of the following requirements are met and continue
to be met:
      (1)   The applicant holds the appropriate certificate or license from the
State of Illinois permitting video gaming and is in good standing with same;
      (2)   The applicant is not in arrears in any tax, fee or bill due to the
city/village/town or State of Illinois;
      (3)   The applicant has completed and complies with all the application
requirements set forth in §
115.04 and is not disqualified due to a felony, gambling offense, or crime of
moral turpitude; and
      (4)   The establishment is located outside of a residential zoning
district.
   (C)   The Village President shall be the approving authority for all
licenses. In the event a licensee or prospective licensee disagrees with any
action taken by the Village President, an appeal may be made directly to the
President and Board of Trustees of the village at its next regularly scheduled
meeting after written notice of the action from which an appeal is made.
(Ord. 24-10-01, passed 10-22-2024)
§ 115.04 LICENSE APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   The license applicant shall provide the following information to the village
on a form provided by the village:
   (A)   The legal name of the establishment;
   (B)   The business name of the establishment;
   (C)   The address of the establishment where the video gaming terminals are
to be located;
   (D)   The type of establishment, including whether it is classified as a
veteran, fraternal, regular truck stop, large truck stop or liquor
establishment and supporting documentation demonstrating the classification;
   (E)   A floor plan, drawn to scale using a computer, detailing the overall
layout of the establishment, including the location and count of dining
seating, the location.and count of video gaming terminals and seating for said
terminals, and other significant features of the establishment, including exit
locations, restrooms and other equipment. A high-resolution electronic copy of
the floor plan as well as a paper printed copy (no smaller than 11 inches by 17
inches) shall be submitted at the time of application; hand-drawn floor plans
and floor plans not including a scale will not be accepted;
   (F)   The amount of time the establishment has been in business under the
ownership, of the applicant at the location where video gaming is proposed to
take place;
   (G)   The business office address of the establishment if different from the
address of the establishment;
   (H)   In the case of a corporation, limited liability company or trust, the
name and address of an agent authorized and designated to accept service on
behalf of the licensee;
   (I)   A phone number for the establishment;
   (J)   An e-mail address for the establishment;
   (K)   The name and address of every person owning more than a 5% share of
the establishment;
   (L)   The name, address, phone number and e-mail address of any terminal
operator or distributor proposed to own, service or maintain video gaming
terminals at the establishment;
   (M)   A copy of the establishment's State of Illinois video gaming license;
   (N)   In the case of a corporation, limited liability company or
partnership, a copy of the establishment's state certificate of good standing;
   (O)   A statement as to the number of video gaming terminals which the
establishment proposes to have on its premises (not to exceed five for all
establishments);
   (P)   A statement that the establishment is not in arrears in any tax, fee
or bill due to the village or State of Illinois;
   (Q)   A statement that the establishment agrees to abide by all state and
federal laws and any local ordinance;
   (R)   A statement that no manager or owner with more than 5% interest in the
establishment has ever been convicted of a felony, a gambling offense or a
crime of moral turpitude. In the event that an establishment cannot provide
such statement, the establishment may apply for a certificate of rehabilitation
from the Village President indicating that the individual who would disqualify
the establishment from obtaining the video gaming license has been
rehabilitated and is no longer a threat to violate the law. The Village
President may consider the nature of the offense, the length of time since the
offense, the length of time since release from custody and other factors to
determine if the individual has been rehabilitated such that he or she is no
longer likely to commit another offense; and
   (S)   For renewal applications, a report or reports showing its gross annual
revenue for the previous calendar year by category of revenue generated and
showing the percentage of gaming revenue payable to the establishment as
compared to the total gross revenues of the establishment.
(Ord. 24-10-01, passed 10-22-2024)
§ 155.05 APPLICATION FILING; RENEWALS.
   (A)   Applications shall be processed by the Village Clerk on a first come,
first served basis. Every application shall be date and time stamped upon
filing. An application received in the mail shall be considered filed on the
date and time it is opened by the Village Clerk's department.
   (B)   Every video gaming license holder shall be required to file a renewal
application, which may contain the same or similar information as set forth in
§
115.04. Renewal applications shall be due on or before December 1 unless that
day falls on a holiday, in which case the application may be received by the
Clerk on the following business day.
(Ord. 24-10-01, passed 10-22-2024)
§ 115.06 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   The fee for operation of a video gaming terminal shall be $250 per
terminal annually. The cost of this fee shall be shared equally between the
terminal operator and the applicable licensed establishment.
   (B)   The application fee is not subject to reimbursement or refund upon
denial of a license.
   (C)   Said fees are not subject to proration or refund and are due prior to
issuance of the license.
   (D)   All licenses required by this division shall be prominently displayed
next to the video gaming terminal.
(Ord. 24-10-01, passed 10-22-2024)
§ 115.07 LICENSE REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   The Village President, at any time, may notify any licensee under this
division within five business days of any charge of a violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter in connection with the operation of any video gaming
terminal. After a hearing presided over by the Village President, the Village
President may order the revocation of the license upon a finding that the
violation has occurred, and the license shall thereupon be terminated. The
licensee may appeal the revocation as prescribed in §
115.03(C).
   (B)   In the event of the revocation or denial of any license or
registration under this section, such person shall not be issued any license
provided for in this chapter for one calendar year following the revocation or
any appeal thereof.
(Ord. 24-10-01, passed 10-22-2024)
§ 115.08 LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF VIDEO GAMING LICENSES.
   There shall be no more than 15 establishments licensed to operate video
gaming terminals in the village at any given time. This number may be amended
from time to time by action of the Village Board
(Ord. 24-10-01, passed 10-22-2024)
§ 115.09 LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF VIDEO GAMING TERMINALS ON PREMISES.
   (A)   There shall be no more than six video gaming terminals allowed and
permits issued therefore under this chapter for each licensee at any one
location, other than a licensed large truck stop establishment.
   (B)   There shall be no more than ten video gaming terminals allowed and
permits issued therefore under this chapter for each licensee at any licensed
large truck stop establishment.
(Ord. 24-10-01, passed 10-22-2024)
§ 115.10 PROHIBITION.
   Except as otherwise excepted in this chapter, it shall be unlawful for any
person to gamble within the corporate limits of the village, or for any person
or entity which owns, occupies or controls an establishment within the village
to knowingly permit others to gamble on the premises.
(Ord. 24-10-01, passed 10-22-2024)
§ 115.11 EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prohibit or make unlawful the
following activities or forms of gambling: the keeping, possession, ownership,
use or playing of a video gaming terminal in a licensed establishment, licensed
truck stop establishment, licensed fraternal establishment or licensed veterans
establishment, which is licensed by the Board to conduct or allow such specific
activities under the VGA, 230 ILCS 40/1, et seq.
(Ord. 24-10-01, passed 10-22-2024)
§ 115.12 LICENSED ESTABLISHMENTS.
   Any business, liquor or food licensee within the corporate limits of the
village that allows gambling to occur on premises in violation of this section
shall be subject to having his/her/its license immediately revoked for a period
of 60 days. Any business, liquor or food licensee within the corporate limits
of the village that allows gambling to occur on premises in violation of this
chapter a second time shall have his/her/its license permanently revoked and,
thereafter, barred from obtaining any business, liquor or food license within
the village.
(Ord. 24-10-01, passed 10-22-2024)
§ 115.13 SEIZURE OF UNAUTHORIZED GAMBLING DEVICES AND GAMBLING FUNDS.
   Any gambling device which is not authorized by this chapter shall be subject
to immediate seizure and confiscation by the village. Any money or other thing
of value intrinsically related to acts of gambling not authorized by this
chapter shall be seized and forfeited as contraband. Disposition of such
gambling devices and funds seized or confiscated shall be made in accordance
with the law.
(Ord. 24-10-01, passed 10-22-2024)
CHAPTER 116: MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
116.01   Applicability of provisions
   
116.02   License required
   
116.03   Filing of application and fee provision
   
116.04   Application for massage establishment
   
116.05   Issuance of license for massage establishment
   
116.06   Facilities necessary
   
116.07   Operating requirements
   
116.08   Advertising
   
116.09   Inspections
   
116.10   Transfer of license
   
116.11   Display of license
   
116.12   Employment of massage therapists
   
116.13   Revocation or suspension of license for massage establishment
   
116.14   Renewal of license
   
116.15   Maintaining public nuisance
 
   
116.99   Penalty
§ 116.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this article, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
   ADVERTISE or ADVERTISING MATERIAL. The issuance of any card, sign, or device
to any person: the causing, permitting, or allowing of any sign or marking on
or in any building, vehicle, or other structure; or any printed, audio, or
video material published in or broadcast by any newspaper, magazine,
television, radio, internet, internet streaming device, blog, chat room,
website, or social media.
   APPLICANT. Any person that applies for a massage establishment license.
   BODYWORK or BODYWORK SERVICES. Any method of applying pressure on or
friction against, or stroking, kneading, rubbing, tapping, pounding, vibrating,
touching or stimulating, the external parts of the body, by another individual,
with the hands, any body part, or with the aid of any mechanical or electrical
apparatus or appliances, with or without such supplementary aids as rubbing
alcohol, liniments, antiseptics, oils, powders, creams, lotions, ointments or
similar preparations, for compensation. The definition of bodywork or bodywork
services for the purposes of this chapter is intentionally not the same and is
broader than the definition of massage in this chapter, and is intended to
cover massage, bodywork services provided by bodywork practitioners, and other
similar services that fit the general definition, regardless of what the
services or the person providing the services is called, unless expressly
excluded by this chapter.
   BODYWORK PRACTITIONER or BODYWORK PROVIDER. Any person who provides bodywork
services, including massage therapists.
   EMPLOYEE. Any and all persons other than massage therapists, who render any
service to the licensee, who receive compensation directly from the licensee,
and who have no physical contact with customers and clients.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The Director of the Department of Health of the County of
Sangamon or his authorized representative.
   LICENSEE. An applicant who has received a license from the village to
operate a massage establishment.
   MASSAGE, MASSAGE SERVICES, or MASSAGE THERAPY. Any system of structured
palpitation or movement of the soft tissue of the body, including, but not
limited to, techniques such as effleurage or stroking and gliding, petrissage
or kneading, tapotement or percussion, tapping, pounding, friction, vibration,
compression, touching, stimulating, and stretching the external parts of the
body with or without the aid of lubricants, rubbing alcohol, liniments,
antiseptics, oils, powder, creams, lotions, ointments, salt or herbal
preparations, hydromassage, thermal massage, a massage device that mimics or
enhances the actions typically performed by human hands, or any other similar
preparations commonly used in this practice.
   MASSAGE. For the purposes of this chapter, is intended to cover massage and
bodywork services provided by massage therapists, bodywork practitioners, and
other similar services that fit the definition, regardless of what the services
or the person providing the services is called, unless expressly excluded by
this chapter.
   MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT. Except as otherwise provided in this article, any
establishment having a fixed place of business within the Village that
advertises or offers massage services, or where any person for any
consideration whatsoever, engages in the practice of massage, or carries on, or
permits to be engaged or carried on any massage services as defined in this
article.
   MASSAGE THERAPIST. Any person who, for any consideration whatsoever, engages
in the practice of massage as defined in this chapter, and who holds a valid
license from the Illinois Department of Finance and Professional Regulation, or
possesses written documentation of exemption from licensing or certification
under the Illinois Massage Licensing Act (225 ILCS 57/1 et seq.) to perform
massage services. For the purposes of this chapter, MASSAGE THERAPIST shall
include practitioners of Asian bodywork approaches and other similar
practitioners exempt from licensing under the Illinois Massage Licensing Act
(225 ILCS 57/25).
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, firm, association, limited liability
company, joint venture, joint stock company, corporation or combination thereof
in whatever form or character.
   SEXUAL or GENITAL AREA. The male or female genitals, pubic area, buttocks,
anus or perineum of any person, or the vulva or breasts of a female.
(Ord. 25-02-01, passed 2-25-2025)
§ 116.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to advertise, offer, engage in, conduct
or carry on, or to permit to be advertised, offered, engaged in, conducted or
carried on, in or upon any premises in the village, the operation of a massage
establishment as herein defined, without first having obtained a license from
the village pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, with the exception of
the following:
   (A)   Hospitals, nursing homes, medical facilities, or offices at which
physicians, surgeons, chiropractors, osteopaths, podiatrists, naprapaths,
occupational therapists, physical therapists, or other health care workers duly
licensed by the State of Illinois to provide, on an ongoing basis, professional
health services to individuals including, but not limited to, services
permitted by the Illinois Occupational Therapy Practices Act (335 ILCS 75/1 et
seq.); the Illinois Physical Therapy Act (225 ILCS 90/1 et seq.): or the
Illinois Naprapathic Practices Act (225 ILCS 63/1 et seq.);
   (B)   Athletic trainers for any athletic program of a private or public
school, college, or any athletic team regularly organized or engaging in
competition;
   (C)   Barbers, estheticians, and cosmetologists who are duly licensed by the
State of Illinois, and who only provide massage services of the neck, back,
face, scalp, hair, hands, and feet of a patron who is fully clothed;
   (D)   Any school or educational institution licensed to do business as a
school or educational institution in the State of Illinois, or any school
recognized by or approved by or affiliated with the American Massage Therapy
Association, the National Certification Board for Therapeutic Massage and
Bodywork, or the Federation of State Massage Therapy Boards, and which has for
its purpose or offers courses in the teaching of the theory, method,
profession, or work of bodywork or massage, including clinical externships,
practicums or community services;
   (E)   Home-based massage services provided by a person who is duly licensed
by the State of Illinois, provided that such person is otherwise in compliance
with the village code pertaining to home occupations; and
   (F)   Massage services offered or conducted by a licensed massage
establishment and which are performed at a location other than a massage
establishment, provided that such massage services are performed in accordance
with this chapter.
(Ord. 25-02-01, passed 2-25-2025) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.03 FILING OF APPLICATION AND FEE PROVISION.
   (A)   Every applicant for a license to maintain, operate, or conduct a
massage establishment shall file an application with the Village Clerk as
provided herein and pay a non-refundable fee of $25. The application shall be
in the form provided by the Village Clerk or his/her designee.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall, within five days of the receipt of an
application for a massage establishment license, forward copies of such
application to the Chief of Police, the Department of Public Works, and the
County Department of Health. The Police Department, the Department of Public
Works, and the County Department of Health, may, within 30 days of the receipt
of a copy of the application, inspect the premises proposed to be operated as a
massage establishment and make written recommendations concerning compliance
with the codes, laws, regulations, and ordinances that each respective
department administers. The President shall thereafter review the application
and make the final determination whether to grant or deny the application for a
license under this chapter, and shall also provide a copy of the recommendation
to the Village Clerk.
   (C)   The President shall determine whether to grant, deny or hold an
application for further investigation, and the Village Clerk shall notify the
applicant that his or her application is granted, denied, or held for further
investigation by the President. Upon the conclusion of such additional
investigation, if necessary, the President shall determine whether to grant or
deny, and the Village Clerk shall advise the applicant in writing whether the
application is granted or denied by the President.
(Ord. 25-02-01, passed 2-25-2025)
§ 116.04 APPLICATION FOR MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   The application for a license to operate a massage establishment shall
set forth the exact nature of the massage services to be administered, and the
proposed place of business and facilities therefor.
   (B)   The application for a license shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The applicant's name, current address, telephone number, and date
of birth;
      (2)   The name, address, and date of birth of all employees, massage
therapists, managers, and persons with supervisory authority that have been or
are intended to be employed by the applicant or provide massage services;
      (3)   Whether the applicant has had any license denied, revoked or
suspended in the Village of Southern View, State of Illinois, or any other
state or municipality for a massage establishment, and the reasons therefor;
      (4)   Whether the applicant, or any employee, massage therapist, manager,
or person with supervisory authority has had any criminal or municipal
ordinance violation convictions, forfeiture of bond, and pleadings of nolo
contendere on all charges, except minor traffic violations, within the last
five years;
      (5)   Authorization for the chief of police or his designee to conduct a
background check and take fingerprints on the applicant, and any manager or
person with supervisory authority;
      (6)   A copy of the State of Illinois issued massage license for each
massage therapist that has been or is intended to be employed by the applicant
to provide massage services, or a copy of the certification or other written
documentation or proof of exemption for licensing as required by the Massage
Licensing Act (225 ILCS 57/25); and
      (7)   A drawing or floor plan of the premises designating each room by
its purpose or the activity that will take place in each room.
      (8)   If the premises is leased:
         (a)   A copy of the lease, and any subleases, assignments or
acceptances in effect at the time of application;
         (b)   The name, address and telephone number of the legal owner of the
premises;
         (c)   If the legal owner is not an individual, the name, address and
telephone number of a representative or agent authorized to act on behalf of
the legal owner; and
         (d)   If the premises is managed or supervised by someone other than
the legal owner thereof, the name, address and telephone number of the person,
business or entity who manages or supervises the premises.
      (9)   If the applicant is a business:
         (a)   The type of business or entity (i.e., sole proprietorship,
corporation, limited liability company, partnership, etc.);
         (b)   The name of the business or entity, and all assumed names under
which the business or entity is conducted; and
         (c)   The names, addresses, telephone numbers, and dates of birth of
all persons with management and supervisory authority of the business or
entity.
      (10)   The information requested in divisions (B)(l), (3), (4) and (5)
shall also include information for the following persons:
         (a)   If the applicant is a sole proprietorship, the information
sought to be provided shall be for the individual;
         (b)   If the applicant is a partnership, the information sought to be
provided shall be for each general and limited partner, for each individual who
is a general partner of such general or limited partnership, and for each
individual who owns more than 5% of such limited partnership;
         (c)   If the applicant is a joint venture, the information sought to
be provided shall be for each joint venturer and each individual who owns more
than 5% of such joint venture;
         (d)   If the applicant is a corporation, the information sought to be
provided shall be for each officer and director, and if the corporation's stock
is publicly traded, each shareholder owning more than 5% of the outstanding
stock in said corporation; and
         (e)   If the applicant is a limited liability company, the information
sought to be provided shall be for each manager and member owning or holding
more than a 5% membership interest.
   (C)   If a change in any information required under this section occurs at
any time during a license period, the licensee shall file a written statement
with the Village Clerk indicating the nature and effective date of the change.
The change in information statement shall be filed no later than ten days after
the change(s) take effect.
(Ord. 25-02-01, passed 2-25-2025)
§ 116.05 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE FOR MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   Upon receipt of the President's determination as referred to in this
chapter, the Village Clerk shall issue a license to maintain, operate or
conduct a massage establishment, unless the President finds:
      (1)   That the operation of the massage establishment, as proposed by the
applicant, would not comply with all applicable laws, including but not limited
to, the building, health, planning, housing, and zoning codes of the Village of
Southern View; or
      (2)   That the applicant and any other person who will be directly or
indirectly engaged in the management and operation of a massage establishment
has been convicted of or pled guilty to:
         (a)   A felony;
         (b)   An offense involving sexual misconduct with children;
         (c)   Prostitution, soliciting for a prostitute, keeping a place of
prostitution, pimping, or other similar offense opposed to decency and
morality;
         (d)   That the applicant has failed or refused to give information
relevant to the investigation of the application; submitted false, misleading
or incomplete information; or has refused to submit to or cooperate with any
inspection required by this chapter;
         (e)   That the operation of the massage establishment, as proposed by
the applicant, would violate the provisions of this chapter; or
         (f)   That the granting of the license would not be in the best
interests of the village and the reason(s) therefore.
   (B)   The President, at his/her discretion, may issue a license to any
person convicted of or who has pled guilty to any felony, if the President
finds that such conviction occurred at least five years prior to the date of
application, the applicant has had no subsequent convictions, and the applicant
has shown evidence of rehabilitation sufficient to warrant the public trust,
   (C)   Every massage establishment license issued pursuant to this chapter
shall expire on January 1 of each year, unless sooner suspended or revoked in
accordance with this chapter.
(Ord. 25-02-01, passed 2-25-2025)
§ 116.06 FACILITIES NECESSARY.
   (A)   No massage establishment shall be issued a license, nor be operated,
established or maintained within the village, unless said establishment
complies with each of the following minimum requirements:
      (1)   Construction of room used for toilets, tubs, steam baths and
showers shall be made waterproof with approved waterproof materials and shall
be installed in accordance with the building code of the Village of Southern
View .
      (2)   All massage tables, bathtubs, shower stalls, steam or bath areas,
lavatories, and floors shall have surfaces which may be readily disinfected.
      (3)   Adequate bathing, dressing, locker, and toilet facilities shall be
provided for patrons to be served at any given time. In the event male and
female patrons are to be served simultaneously, separate bathing, dressing,
locker, toilet, and massage room facilities shall be provided. Separate toilet
and lavatory facilities shall be maintained for personnel.
      (4)   The premises shall have adequate equipment for disinfecting and
sterilizing non-disposable instruments and materials used in administering
massages. Such non-disposable instruments and materials shall be disinfected
after use on each patron.
      (5)   Closed cabinets shall be provided and used for the storage of clean
linen, towels, and other materials used in connection with administering
massages. All soiled linens, towels, and other materials shall be kept in
properly covered containers or cabinets, which shall be kept separate from the
clean storage areas.
      (6)   Toilet facilities shall be provided within the massage
establishment in convenient locations. When five or more employees and patrons
of different sexes are on the premises at the same time, separate toilet
facilities shall be provided. A single water closet per sex shall be provided
for each 20 or more employees or patrons of that sex on the premises at any one
time. Urinals may be substituted for water closets after one water closet has
been provided. Toilet facilities shall be designated as to the sex accommodated
therein.
      (7)   Lavatories or washbasins shall provide both hot and cold running
water and shall be installed in the toilet room. Lavatories or washbasins shall
be provided with a soap dispenser and sanitary towels.
      (8)   The premises shall be equipped with a service sink for custodial
service.
(Ord. 25-02-01, passed 2-25-2025) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.07 OPERATING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every portion of the massage establishment, including appliances and
apparatus, shall be kept clean and operated in a sanitary condition.
   (B)   Price rates for all services shall be prominently posted in the
reception area in a location available to all patrons and prospective customers
or provided to all patrons and prospective customers as a written price list.
   (C)   All employees, managers, persons with supervisory authority, massage
therapists, agents, and independent contractors shall wear clean, non-
transparent outer garments, which cover the sexual and genital areas while on
the licensed premises. Employees, massage therapists, agents, and independent
contractors shall not disrobe, or offer or agree to disrobe, either wholly or
partially while in the presence of any patron receiving massage services. A
separate dressing room for each sex must be available on the premises with
individual lockers for each employee and massage therapist. Doors to such
dressing rooms shall open inward and shall be self-closing.
   (D)   All massage establishments shall maintain clean, laundered sheets and
towels in sufficient quantity, and shall be laundered after each use thereof
and stored in a sanitary manner.
   (E)   The sexual or genital area of patrons must be covered by towels,
cloths, or undergarments when in the presence of an employee, manager, person
with supervisory authority, massage therapist, agent, or independent
contractor.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any employee, manager, person with
supervisory authority, massage therapist, agent, or independent contractor, to
place his or her hand upon, to touch with any part of his or her body, to
fondle in any manner, or to massage a sexual or genital area of any person
while on the licensed premises.
   (G)   No employee, manager, person with supervisory authority, massage
therapist, agent or independent contractor shall perform, or offer or agree to
perform any act which would require the touching of the patrons' genital area,
   (H)   All walls, ceilings, floors, pools, showers, bathtubs, steam rooms,
and all other physical facilities shall be in good repair and maintained in a
clean and sanitary condition. Wet and dry heat rooms, steam or vapor rooms, or
steam or vapor cabinets, shower compartments, and toilet rooms shall be
thoroughly cleaned each day the business is in operation. Bathtubs and showers
shall be thoroughly cleaned after each use. When carpeting is used on the
floors, it shall be kept dry.
   (I)   Oils, creams, lotions, or other preparations used in administering
massages shall be kept in clean, closed containers or cabinets.
   (J)   No massage therapist shall administer a massage to a patron impaired
by intoxicating liquor or drugs, nor shall any massage therapist administer a
massage to a patron while impaired by intoxicating liquor or drugs.
   (K)   No massage therapist shall administer a massage to a patron exhibiting
any skin fungus, skin infection, skin inflammation, or skin eruption, unless a
physician or nurse practitioner duly licensed by the State of Illinois
certifies in writing that such person may be safely massaged and prescribing
the conditions thereof.
   (L)   Each massage therapist shall wash his or her hands in hot running
water, using a proper soap or disinfectant before administering a massage to
each patron.
   (M)   (1)   All licensees shall maintain, as a business record of the
licensed massage establishment, a record of:
         (a)   The date and time of all massage services performed at the
licensed premises;
         (b)   The name of the massage therapist administering massage
services; and
         (c)   The amounts received for massage services.
      (2)   The record of the date, time, and service provided must be made
before services are initiated, and the record of the amount received for
services must be made at the time payment is rendered. All records shall be
kept for a period of at least one year and shall be made available in a format
that can be inspected at any reasonable time upon request by the President or
the chief of police or their designees.
   (N)   The main entrance to the massage establishment where patrons and
potential customers are greeted shall be clearly visible from the outside and
shall have and maintain clear glass that is not painted over, darkened, or
otherwise blocked by cloth or any other obstruction.
   (O)   A sign shall be posted in a prominent location near the main entrance
of the massage establishment identifying the establishment as a massage
establishment and state the trade or business name as it appears on the massage
establishment's license.
   (P)   Prospective customers and patrons shall be provided with written
notice which states the following:
“State law prohibits soliciting another for the purpose of a sexual act.
Solicitation can be punishable as a Class 4 felony, subject an offender to
fines and imprisonment, and impoundment of any vehicle used by the offender to
commit the offense. Offers or requests to buy or purchase sexual services or
acts shall be immediately reported to law enforcement.”
   (Q)   Written notice shall be posted in a conspicuous location accessible to
all employees and massage therapists which states the following:
“State law prohibits soliciting another for the purpose of a sexual act.
Solicitation can be punishable as a Class 4 felony, subject an offender to
fines and imprisonment, and impoundment of any vehicle used by the offender to
commit the offense. Offers or requests to buy or purchase sexual services or
acts should be immediately reported to the Village Police Department by calling
911.”
   (R)   The hours of operation for massage establishments shall be limited to
the hours between 8:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.
   (S)   There shall be not be placed, published, or distributed any
advertisement, picture, or statement in any manner or medium which is false,
deceptive, or misleading in order to induce any person to purchase or utilize
any massage services, or which reasonably appears to suggest or imply any
sexual activity in connection with massage services.
   (T)   No person shall reside or be allowed to remain overnight in the
licensed premises; provided, however, that if the licensed premises contains
living quarters that are properly zoned and authorized for such residential use
above the massage establishment, the entrance to such living quarters shall be
separate from the entrance to the massage establishment and shall not be
accessible in any manner from the interior of the massage establishment.
(Ord. 25-02-01, passed 2-25-2025) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.08 ADVERTISING.
   No massage establishment granted a license under provisions of this chapter
shall place, publish or distribute or cause to be placed, published, or
distributed any advertising material that depicts any portion of the human body
that would reasonably suggest or imply to prospective customers that any sexual
activity is available or will be performed in connection with massage services,
or that employees, managers, persons with supervisory authority, or massage
therapists are dressed in any manner other than prescribed in this chapter, nor
shall any massage establishment suggest or imply in the text of such
advertising that any sexual activity is available or will be performed in
connection with massage services.
(Ord. 25-02-01, passed 2-25-2025) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.09 INSPECTIONS.
   The Department of Public Works, and the Police Department may make an
inspection of each massage establishment granted a license under the provisions
of this chapter for the purposes of determining whether the provisions of this
chapter are complied with. Such inspections shall be made at reasonable times
and in a reasonable manner. As a condition of the issuance of a license under
this chapter, the licensee consents to walk-through inspections by authorized
village employees, without notice, at any time during business hours. It shall
be unlawful for any licensee to fail to allow such inspection officer access to
the premises or to hinder such officer in any manner.
(Ord. 25-02-01, passed 2-25-2025) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.10 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   No license for the operation of a massage establishment issued pursuant to
the provisions of this chapter shall be transferable; provided, however, that
upon the death or incapacity of a licensee, the massage establishment may
continue in business for a reasonable period of time, not to exceed 90 days, to
allow for the approval of a new license.
(Ord. 25-02-01, passed 2-25-2025) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.11 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every licensee shall display a valid license in a conspicuous place within
the massage establishment so that the same may be readily seen by patrons or
prospective customers entering the premises.
(Ord. 25-02-01, passed 2-25-2025) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.12 EMPLOYMENT OF MASSAGE THERAPISTS.
   (A)   Massage establishments shall not employ or contract with any person as
a massage therapist unless he or she holds a current, valid license issued by
the Illinois Department of Financial and Professional Regulation or written
proof of exemption from said license, as required by the Massage Licensing Act
(225 ILCS 57/1 et seq.). Upon receiving notice or constructive notice that a
massage therapist has been disciplined or subject to investigation by the
Department, the licensee shall be responsible for obtaining information as to
the status of said massage therapist's license.
   (B)   Each massage establishment shall maintain a current list of all
licensed massage therapists who perform massage services and proof of their
current, valid license or written proof of exemption from said license as
required by the Massage Licensing Act (225 ILCS 57/1 et seq.). The licensee
shall allow inspection of such records at any reasonable time upon request by
the village.
   (C)   No student or non-licensed person, other than a person with written
proof of exemption from licensure as required by the Massage Licensing Act (225
ILCS 57/1 et seq.), shall be allowed in a massage therapy room with a patron
unless accompanied by a licensed massage therapist at all times.
(Ord. 25-02-01, passed 2-25-2025) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.13 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE FOR MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT.
   Any license issued for a massage establishment under this chapter may be
revoked or suspended by the President for good cause or where any provision of
this chapter, the Village Code, or any law is violated by the licensee or any
massage therapist, employee, manager, person with supervisory authority, agent,
or independent contractor of the licensee while at the massage establishment.
For purposes of license revocation or suspension, the licensee shall be
strictly liable for such violations, regardless of actual or constructive
knowledge of such violations. It shall also be cause for revocation or
suspension that the licensee has made a false statement on an application for a
license or renewal thereof under this chapter, or in any case where the
licensee refused to permit any duly authorized police officer, village
inspector, or health inspector of the County of Sangamon to inspect the
licensed premises or the operations therein. Such license may also be revoked
or suspended by the President after upon the recommendations of a duly
authorized police officer, village inspector, or the health inspector that such
business is being managed, conducted, or maintained without regard for the
public health or health of patrons or prospective customers, or without due
regard to proper sanitation or hygiene.
(Ord. 25-02-01, passed 2-25-2025)
§ 116.14 RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   Any licensee may renew his or her license prior to the expiration thereof on
January 1 of each year, provided that he or she is qualified to receive a
license and the massage establishment complies with all of the requirements in
this chapter. Applications for renewal of license must be made in writing to
the Village Clerk not more than two months and not less than one month prior to
expiration of an existing license and accompanied by the applicable license
fee.
(Ord. 25-02-01, passed 2-25-2025)
§ 116.15 MAINTAINING PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Any building used, operated, or maintained as a massage establishment in
violation of this chapter with the intentional, knowing, reckless or negligent
permission of the owner, licensee, or person managing or supervising the
building, together with all fixtures and other property used in violation of
this chapter, are hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(Ord. 25-02-01, passed 2-25-2025) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   Any person in violation of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of not
less than $250 nor more than $750 per offense. Each day the violation continues
shall be a separate offense. The village shall have the right to prohibit
occupancy of any building being utilized in violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 25-02-01, passed 2-25-2025)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
131.   OFFENSES PERTAINING TO PROPERTY
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
      
134.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
      
135.   GAMBLING OFFENSES
      
136.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
      
137.   WEAPONS
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   Definitions
   
130.02   Intent
   
130.03   Knowledge
   
130.04   Recklessness
   
130.05   Negligence
   
130.06   Attempt
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The taking of action or a failure or omission to take action.
(720 ILCS 5/2-2)
   ANOTHER. A person or persons other than the offender.
(720 ILCS 5/2-3)
   CONDUCT. An act or a series of acts, and the accompanying mental state.
(720 ILCS 5/2-4)
   OFFENSE. A violation of a penal statute of this village or state.
(720 ILCS 5/2-12)
§ 130.02 INTENT.
   A person intends, or acts intentionally or with intent, to accomplish a
result or engage in conduct described by the section defining the offense, when
his or her conscious objective or purpose is to accomplish that result or
engage in that conduct.
(720 ILCS 5/4-4)
§ 130.03 KNOWLEDGE.
   (A)   A person knows, or acts knowingly or with knowledge of:
      (1)   The nature or attendant circumstances of his or her conduct,
described by the section defining the offense, when he or she is consciously
aware that his or her conduct is of that nature or that those circumstances
exist. Knowledge of a material fact includes awareness of the substantial
probability that the fact exists; and
      (2)   The result of his or her conduct, described by the section defining
the offense, when he or she is consciously aware that that result is
practically certain to be caused by his or her conduct.
   (B)   Conduct performed knowingly or with knowledge is performed willfully,
within the meaning of a statute using the term “willfully”, unless the section
clearly requires another meaning.
   (C)   When the law provides that acting knowingly suffices to establish an
element of an offense, that element also is established if a person acts
intentionally.
(720 ILCS 5/4-5)
§ 130.04 RECKLESSNESS.
   A person is reckless or acts recklessly, when that person consciously
disregards a substantial and unjustifiable risk that circumstances exist or
that a result will follow, described by the section defining the offense, and
that disregard constitutes a gross deviation from the standard of care that a
reasonable person would exercise in the situation. An act performed recklessly
is performed wantonly, within the meaning of a section using the term
“wantonly” unless the statute clearly requires another meaning.
(720 ILCS 5/4-6)
§ 130.05 NEGLIGENCE.
   A person is negligent, or acts negligently, when that person fails to be
aware of a substantial and unjustifiable risk that circumstances exist or a
result will follow, described by the statute defining the offense, and that
failure constitutes a substantial deviation from the standard of care that a
reasonable person would exercise in the situation.
(720 ILCS 5/4-7)
§ 130.06 ATTEMPT.
   (A)   Elements of the offense. A person commits the offense of attempt when,
with intent to commit a specific offense, he or she does any act that
constitutes a substantial step toward the commission of that offense.
   (B)   Impossibility. It is not a defense to a charge of attempt that,
because of a misapprehension of the circumstances, it would have been
impossible for the accused to commit the offense attempted.
   (C)   Statutory fine. A person convicted of attempt may be fined or
imprisoned or both, not to exceed the maximum provided for the offense
attempted. If the fine exceeds that set forth in §
130.99 below, however, the village shall enforce the offense under the
provisions of state law.
(720 ILCS 5/8-4) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provisions of this title for which another
penalty is not specifically provided shall be fined not less than $25 nor more
than $750.
   (B)   In addition to any criminal penalties imposed for a violation of §
131.02, if a person is convicted of or placed on supervision for knowingly
damaging or destroying crops of another, including crops intended for personal,
commercial, research or developmental purposes, the person is liable in a civil
action to the owner of any crops damaged or destroyed for money damages up to
twice the market value of the crops damaged or destroyed.
(720 ILCS 5/21-1(d)(4))
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES PERTAINING TO PROPERTY
Section
   
131.01   Trespass to land
   
131.02   Damaging village property
   
131.03   Jackrocks
   
131.04   Unlawful assembly
   
131.05   Throwing missiles
   
131.06   Damage of firefighting apparatus, hydrants or equipment
§ 131.01 TRESPASS TO LAND.
   (A)   (1)   A person commits criminal trespass to real property when he or
she:
         (a)   Knowingly and without lawful authority enters or remains within
or on a building;
         (b)   Enters upon the land of another, after receiving, prior to the
entry, notice from the owner or occupant that the entry is forbidden;
         (c)   Remains upon the land of another, after receiving notice from
the owner or occupant to depart;
         (d)   Presents false documents or falsely represents his or her
identity orally to the owner or occupant of a building or land in order to
obtain permission from the owner or occupant to enter or remain in the building
or on the land;
         (e)   Intentionally removes a notice posted on residential real
estate, as required by § 15-1505.8(1) of the Code of Civil Procedure (735 ILCS
5/15-1505.8(l)) before the date and time set forth in the notice; or
         (f)   Enters a field used or capable of being used for growing crops,
an enclosed area containing livestock, an agricultural building containing
livestock or an orchard in or on a motor vehicle (including an off-road
vehicle, motorcycle, moped or any other powered two-wheel vehicle) after
receiving, prior to the entry, notice from the owner or occupant that the entry
is forbidden or remains upon or in the area after receiving notice from the
owner or occupant to depart.
      (2)   For the purposes of division (A)(1)(a) above, this section shall
not apply to being in a building which is open to the public while the building
is open to the public during its normal hours of operation; nor shall this
section apply to a person who enters a public building under the reasonable
belief that the building is still open to the public.
   (B)   (1)   A person has received notice from the owner or occupant within
the meaning of division (A) above if he or she has been notified personally,
either orally or in writing, including a valid court order, as defined by
subsection (7) of § 112A-3 of the Code of Criminal Procedure of 1963 (725 ILCS
5/112A-3(7)) granting remedy (2) of subsection (b) of § 112A-14 of that Code
(725 ILCS 5/112A-14(b)(2)), or if a printed or written notice forbidding such
entry has been conspicuously posted or exhibited at the main entrance to the
land or the forbidden part thereof.
      (2)   (a)   Subject to the provisions of division (B)(2)(b) below, as an
alternative to the posting of real property as set forth in division (B)(1)
above, the owner or lessee of any real property may post the property by
placing identifying purple marks on trees or posts around the area to be
posted. Each purple mark shall be:
            1.   A vertical line of at least eight inches in length and the
bottom of the mark shall be no less than three feet nor more than five feet
high. Such marks shall be placed no more than 100 feet apart and shall be
readily visible to any person approaching the property; or
            2.   A post capped or otherwise marked on at least its top two
inches. The bottom of the cap or mark shall be not less than three feet but not
more than five feet six inches high. Posts so marked shall be placed not more
than 36 feet apart and shall be readily visible to any person approaching the
property. Prior to applying a cap or mark which is visible from both sides of a
fence shared by different property owners or lessees, all such owners or
lessees shall concur in the decision to post their own property.
         (b)   Nothing in this division (B)(2) shall be construed to authorize
the owner or lessee of any real property to place any purple marks on any tree
or post or to install any post or fence if doing so would violate any
applicable law, rule, ordinance, order, covenant, bylaw, declaration,
regulation, restriction, contract or instrument.
   (C)   This section does not apply to any person, whether a migrant worker or
otherwise, living on the land with permission of the owner or of his or her
agent having apparent authority to hire workers on this land and assign them
living quarters or a place of accommodations for living thereon, nor to anyone
living on the land at the request of, or by occupancy, leasing or other
agreement or arrangement with the owner or his or her agent, nor to anyone
invited by the migrant worker or other person so living on the land to visit
him or her at the place he or she is so living upon the land.
   (D)   (1)   (a)   A person shall be exempt from prosecution under this
section if he or she beautifies unoccupied and abandoned residential and
industrial properties located within the village.
         (b)   For the purpose of this division:
            1.   UNOCCUPIED AND ABANDONED RESIDENTIAL AND INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY
means any real estate:
               a.   In which the taxes have not been paid for a period of at
least two years; and
               b.   Which has been left unoccupied and abandoned for a period
of at least one year.
            2.   BEAUTIFIES means to landscape, clean up litter or to repair
dilapidated conditions on or to board up windows and doors.
   (E)   (1)   Liability. No person shall be liable in any civil action for
money damages to the owner of unoccupied and abandoned residential and
industrial property which that person beautifies pursuant to division (D)
above.
      (2)   Mortgagee, or agent of the mortgagee, exceptions.
         (a)   A mortgagee, or agent of the mortgagee, shall be exempt from
prosecution for criminal trespass for entering, securing or maintaining an
abandoned residential property.
         (b)   No mortgagee, or agent of the mortgagee, shall be liable to the
mortgagor or other owner of an abandoned residential property in any civil
action for negligence or civil trespass in connection with entering, securing
or maintaining the abandoned residential property.
         (c)   For the purpose of this division (E)(2) only, ABANDONED
RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY means mortgaged real estate that the mortgagee or agent of
the mortgagee determines in good faith meets the definition of abandoned
residential property set forth in § 15-1200.5 of Article XV of the Code of
Civil Procedure (see 735 ILCS 5/15-1200.5).
   (F)   This section does not prohibit a person from entering a building or
upon the land of another for emergency purposes. For purposes of this division
(F), EMERGENCY means a condition or circumstance in which an individual is, or
is reasonably believed by the person to be, in imminent danger of serious
bodily harm or in which property is or is reasonably believed to be in imminent
danger of damage or destruction.
   (G)   Division (A)(4) above does not apply to a peace officer or other
official of a unit of government who enters a building or land in the
performance of his or her official duties.
   (H)   A violation of divisions (A)(1)(a), (A)(1)(b), (A)(1)(c) or (A)(1)(d)
is a Class B misdemeanor. A violation of division (A)(6) is a Class A
misdemeanor.
   (I)   (1)   A person may be liable in any civil action for money damages to
the owner of the land he or she entered upon with a motor vehicle as prohibited
under division (A)(1)(f) above. A person may also be liable to the owner for
court costs and reasonable attorney’s fees. The measure of damages shall be:
         (a)   The actual damages, but not less than $250, if the vehicle is
operated in a nature preserve or registered area, as defined in §§ 3.11 and
3.14 of the Illinois Natural Areas Preservation Act (525 ILCS 30/3.11 and
3.14);
         (b)   Twice the actual damages if the owner has previously notified
the person to cease trespassing; or
         (c)   In any other case, the actual damages, but not less than $50. If
the person operating the vehicle is under the age of 16, the owner of the
vehicle and the parent or legal guardian of the minor are jointly and severally
liable.
      (2)   For the purposes of this division (I), the following definitions
apply.
         (a)   LAND. Includes, but is not limited to, land used for crop land,
fallow land, orchard, pasture, feed lot, timber land, prairie land, mine spoil
nature preserves and registered areas. LAND does not include driveways or
private roadways upon which the owner allows the public to drive.
         (b)   OWNER. The person who has the right to possession of the land,
including the owner, operator or tenant.
         (c)   VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as provided under § 1-217 of the
Illinois Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/1-217).
   (J)   This section does not apply to the following persons while serving
process:
      (1)   A person authorized to serve process under § 2-202 of the Code of
Civil Procedure (735 ILCS 5/2-202); or
      (2)   A special process server appointed by the Circuit Court.
(720 ILCS 5/21-3) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.02 DAMAGING VILLAGE PROPERTY.
   (A)   A person commits criminal damage to property when he or she:
      (1)   Knowingly damages any property of another;
      (2)   Recklessly by means of fire or explosive damages property of
another;
      (3)   Knowingly starts a fire on the land of another;
      (4)   Knowingly injures a domestic animal of another without his or her
consent;
      (5)   Knowingly deposits on the land or in the building of another any
stink bomb or any offensive smelling compound and thereby intends to interfere
with the use by another of the land or building;
      (6)   Knowingly damages any property, other than as described in division
(A)(2) above, with intent to defraud an insurer;
      (7)   Knowingly shoots a firearm at any portion of a railroad train;
      (8)   Knowingly, without proper authorization, cuts, injures, damages,
defaces, destroys or tampers with any fire hydrant or any public or private
firefighting equipment, or any apparatus appertaining to firefighting
equipment; or
      (9)   Intentionally, without proper authorization, opens any fire
hydrant.
   (B)   When the charge of criminal damage to property exceeding a specified
value is brought, the extent of the damage is an element of the offense to be
resolved by the trier of fact as either exceeding or not exceeding the
specified value.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a violation of divisions (A)(1), (A)
(3) or (A)(5) above that the owner of the property or land damaged consented to
the damage.
(720 ILCS 5/21-1(a) - (c)) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional prohibitions; felonies, see 720 ILCS 5/21-1
§ 131.03 JACKROCKS.
   (A)   A person commits a jackrocks violation when he or she knowingly:
      (1)   Sells, gives away, manufactures, purchases or possesses a jackrock;
or
      (2)   Places, tosses or throws a jackrock on public or private property.
   (B)   As used in this section, JACKROCK means a caltrop or other object
manufactured with one or more rounded or sharpened points, which when placed or
thrown present at least one point at such an angle that it is peculiar to and
designed for use in puncturing or damaging vehicle tires. It does not include a
device designed to puncture or damage the tires of a vehicle driven over it in
a particular direction, if a conspicuous and clearly visible warning is posted
at the device’s location, alerting persons to its presence.
   (C)   This section does not apply to the possession, transfer or use of
jackrocks by any law enforcement officer in the course of his or her official
duties.
   (D)   A jackrocks violation is a Class A misdemeanor.
(720 ILCS 5/21-1.4)
§ 131.04 UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any two or more persons within the village to
assemble together for any unlawful purpose, or who, being assembled, to act in
concert to do any unlawful act, with force and violence, against the property
of the village, the person or property of another or against the peace or to
the terror of citizens or other persons or to make any movement or preparation
therefor.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly suffer or to permit
any assembly for the purpose of committing any unlawful act or breach of the
peace or any riotous, offensive or disorderly conduct in or upon premises owned
or occupied by him or her or under his or her control within the village.
(Prior Code, § 131.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.05 THROWING MISSILES.
   It shall be unlawful to throw any stone, brick, clod or other missile upon
or against any fence, building, tree or other public or private property.
(Prior Code, § 131.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.06 DAMAGE OF FIREFIGHTING APPARATUS, HYDRANTS OR EQUIPMENT.
   No person shall wilfully and maliciously cut, injure, damage, tamper with,
destroy or deface any fire hydrant, fire hose, fire engine or other public or
private firefighting equipment, or any apparatus appertaining to such
equipment, or intentionally open any fire hydrant without proper authorization.
(720 ILCS 5/21-1(a)(8)) (Prior Code, § 131.01) Penalty, see §
130.99
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
Section
   
132.01   Disorderly conduct
   
132.02   Curfew
   
132.03   Riot and affray
   
132.04   Assault; assault and battery
   
132.05   Disturbing the peace
 
   
132.99   Penalty
§ 132.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   A person commits disorderly conduct when he or she knowingly:
   (A)   Does any act in such unreasonable manner as to alarm or disturb
another and to provoke a breach of the peace;
   (B)   Transmits, or causes to be transmitted, in any manner, to the village
Fire Department or fire protection district a false alarm of fire, knowing at
the time of the transmission that there is no reasonable ground for believing
that the fire exists;
   (C)   Transmits, or causes to be transmitted, in any manner, to another a
false alarm to the effect that a bomb or other explosive of any nature or a
container holding poison gas, a deadly biological or chemical contaminant, or
radioactive substance is concealed in a place where its explosion or release
would endanger human life, knowing at the time of the transmission that there
is no reasonable ground for believing that the bomb, explosive or a container
holding poison gas, a deadly biological or chemical contaminant or radioactive
substance is concealed in the place;
   (D)   Transmits, or causes to be transmitted, a threat of destruction of a
school building or school property, or a threat of violence, death or bodily
harm directed against persons at a school, school function or school event,
whether or not school is in session;
   (E)   Transmits, or causes to be transmitted, in any manner, to any peace
officer, public officer or public employee a report to the effect that an
offense will be committed, is being committed or has been committed, knowing at
the time of the transmission that there is no reasonable ground for believing
that the offense will be committed, is being committed or has been committed;
   (F)   Transmits, or causes to be transmitted, in any manner, a false report
to any public safety agency without the reasonable grounds necessary to believe
that transmitting the report is necessary for the safety and welfare of the
public;
   (G)   Calls or texts the number “911” or transmits, or causes to be
transmitted, in any manner, to a public safety agency or public safety
answering point for the purpose of making or transmitting a false alarm or
complaint and reporting information when, at the time the call, text, or
transmission is made, the person knows there is no reasonable ground for making
the call, text, or transmission and further knows that the call, text, or
transmission could result in the emergency response of any public safety
agency;
   (H)   Transmits, or causes to be transmitted, in any manner, a false report
to the Department of Children and Family Services under § 4 of the Abused and
Neglected Child Reporting Act (325 ILCS 5/4);
   (I)   Transmits, or causes to be transmitted, in any manner, a false report
to the Department of Public Health under the Nursing Home Care Act (210 ILCS
45), the Specialized Mental Health Rehabilitation Act of 2013 (210 ILCS 49) or
the ID/DD Community Care Act (210 ILCS 47);
   (J)   Transmits, or causes to be transmitted, in any manner, to the Village
Police Department or Village Fire Department or fire protection district, or
any privately owned and operated ambulance service, a false request for an
ambulance, emergency medical technician-ambulance or emergency medical
technician-paramedic knowing at the time there is no reasonable ground for
believing that the assistance is required;
   (K)   Transmits, or causes to be transmitted, in any manner, a false report
under Article II of Public Act 83-1432;
   (L)   Enters upon the property of another and for a lewd or unlawful purpose
deliberately looks into a dwelling on the property through any window or other
opening in it; or
   (M)   While acting as a collection agency, as defined in the Collection
Agency Act (205 ILCS 740) or as an employee of the collection agency, and while
attempting to collect an alleged debt, makes a telephone call to the alleged
debtor which is designed to harass, annoy or intimidate the alleged debtor.
(720 ILCS 5/26-1(a))
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.02 CURFEW.
   (A)   Curfew offenses.
      (1)   A minor commits a curfew offense when he or she remains in any
public place or on the premises of any establishment during curfew hours.
      (2)   A parent or guardian of a minor or other person in custody or
control of a minor commits a curfew offense when he or she knowingly permits
the minor to remain in any public place or on the premises of any establishment
during curfew hours.
   (B)   Curfew defenses. It is a defense to prosecution under division (A)
above that the minor was:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian or other person in
custody or control of the minor;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor’s presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by a government or governmental
agency, a civic organization or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor, or going to or returning home from, without any
detour or stop, an official school, religious or other recreational activity
supervised by adults and sponsored by a government or governmental agency, a
civic organization or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the
minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married or is an emancipated minor under the
Emancipation of Minors Act.
   (C)   Enforcement. Before taking any enforcement action under this section,
a law enforcement officer shall ask the apparent offender’s age and reason for
being in the public place. The officer shall not issue a citation or make an
arrest under this section unless the officer reasonably believes that an
offense has occurred and that, based on any response and other circumstances,
no defense in division (B) above is present.
   (D)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CURFEW HOURS.
         (a)   Between 12:01 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on Saturday;
         (b)   Between 12:01 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on Sunday; and
         (c)   Between 11:00 p.m. on Sunday to Thursday, inclusive, and 6:00
a.m. on the following day.
      EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting
state that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited
to, a fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident or any situation
requiring immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
      ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately-owned place of business operated for a
profit to which the public is invited, including, but not limited to, any place
of amusement or entertainment.
      GUARDIAN.
         (a)   A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person
of a minor; or
         (b)   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by
a court.
      MINOR. Any person under 17 years of age.
      PARENT. A person who is:
         (a)   A natural parent, adoptive parent or step-parent of another
person; or
         (b)   At least 18 years of age and authorized by a parent or guardian
to have the care and custody of a minor.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways and
the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities and shops.
      REMAIN. To:
         (a)   Linger or stay; or
         (b)   Fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a police
officer or the owner, operator or other person in control of the premises.
      SERIOUS BODILY INJURY. Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement or protracted loss
or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
(720 ILCS 5/12C-60(a) - (d))
Statutory reference:
   Authority to impose curfew, see 65 ILCS 5/11-1-5
§ 132.03 RIOT AND AFFRAY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to incite or participate in a riot or
affray within the village.
(Prior Code, § 132.03) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.04 ASSAULT; ASSAULT AND BATTERY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit an assault or an assault and
battery upon the person of another within the village.
(Prior Code, § 132.04) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.05 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully disturb the peace and quiet
of any neighborhood or family by loud or unusual noises or by tumultuous or
offensive carriage, threatening, traducing, quarreling, challenging to a fight
or fighting or by any display of any deadly weapon.
(Prior Code, § 132.05) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   In addition to any penalty imposed as set forth in §
130.99, any person convicted of disorderly conduct under §
132.01 shall be ordered by the court to perform community service, as set forth
under the provisions of 720 ILCS 5/26-1.
   (C)   A violation of §
132.02 is a petty offense with a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $500,
except that neither a person who has been made a ward of the court under the
Juvenile Court Act of 1987 (705 ILCS 405), nor that person’s legal guardian,
shall be subject to any fine. In addition to or instead of the fine imposed by
this section, the court may order a parent, legal guardian or other person
convicted of a violation of §
132.02(A) to perform community service as determined by the court, except that
the legal guardian of a person subject to delinquency proceedings or who has
been made a ward of the court under the Juvenile Court Act of 1987 may not be
ordered to perform community service. The dates and times established for the
performance of community service by the parent, legal guardian or other person
convicted of a violation of §
132.02(A) shall not conflict with the dates and times that the person is
employed in his or her regular occupation. Fines and assessments, such as fees
or administrative costs, shall not be ordered or imposed against a minor under
the age of 18 transferred to adult court or excluded from juvenile court
jurisdiction under Article V of the Juvenile Court Act of 1987, or the minor’s
parent, guardian, or legal custodian.
(720 ILCS 5/12C-60(e))
(Prior Code, § 132.99)
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
133.01   Resisting or obstructing a peace officer, firefighter or correctional
institution employee
   
133.02   Refusing to aid an officer
   
133.03   Tampering with public notice
   
133.04   Escape
§ 133.01 RESISTING OR OBSTRUCTING A PEACE OFFICER, FIREFIGHTER OR CORRECTIONAL
INSTITUTION EMPLOYEE.
   (A)   (1)   A person who knowingly resists or obstructs the performance by
one known to the person to be a peace officer, firefighter or correctional
institution employee of any authorized act within his or her official capacity
commits a Class A misdemeanor.
      (2)   In addition to any other sentence that may be imposed, a court
shall order any person convicted of resisting or obstructing a peace officer,
firefighter or correctional institution employee to be sentenced to a minimum
of 48 consecutive hours of imprisonment or ordered to perform community service
for not less than 100 hours as may be determined by the court. The person shall
not be eligible for probation in order to reduce the sentence of imprisonment
or community service.
      (3)   A person convicted for a violation of this section whose violation
was the proximate cause of an injury to a peace officer, firefighter or
correctional institution employee is guilty of a Class 4 felony.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CORRECTIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEE. Any person employed to supervise and
control inmates incarcerated in a penitentiary, state farm, reformatory,
prison, jail, house of correction, police detention area, half-way house or
other institution or place for the incarceration or custody of persons under
sentence for offenses or awaiting trial or sentence for offenses, under arrest
for an offense, a violation of probation, a violation of parole, a violation of
aftercare release, a violation of mandatory supervised release or awaiting a
bail setting hearing or preliminary hearing, or who are sexually dangerous
persons or who are sexually violent persons.
      FIREFIGHTER. Any individual, either as an employee or volunteer, of a
regularly constituted fire department of a municipality or fire protection
district who performs firefighting duties, including, but not limited to, the
Fire Chief, Assistant Fire Chief, captain, engineer, driver, ladder person,
hose person, pipe person and any other member of a regularly constituted fire
department. FIREFIGHTER also means a person employed by the office of the State
Fire Marshal to conduct arson investigations.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a violation of this section if a
person resists or obstructs the performance of one known by the person to be a
firefighter by returning to or remaining in a dwelling, residence, building or
other structure to rescue, or to attempt to rescue, any person.
(720 ILCS 5/31-1) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.02 REFUSING TO AID AN OFFICER.
   Whoever, upon command, refuses or knowingly fails reasonably to aid a person
known by him or her to be a peace officer in:
   (A)   Apprehending a person whom the officer is authorized to apprehend; or
   (B)   Preventing the commission by another of any offense, commits a petty
offense.
(720 ILCS 5/31-8) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.03 TAMPERING WITH PUBLIC NOTICE.
   A person commits tampering with public notice when he or she knowingly and
without lawful authority alters, destroys, defaces, removes or conceals any
public notice, posted according to law, during the time for which the notice
was to remain posted.
(720 ILCS 5/32-9) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.04 ESCAPE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in the village to assist any person in
the custody of a member of the Police Department to escape, or attempt to
escape, from such custody or to attempt to rescue any person in custody.
(Prior Code, § 133.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 134: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
Section
   
134.01   Public indecency
   
134.02   Obscenity
   
134.03   Harmful material
   
134.04   Indecent exposure of person
   
134.05   Indecent writing or pictures
   
134.06   Obscene publications
   
134.07   Cruelty to animals
   
134.08   House of prostitution
   
134.09   Gambling
§ 134.01 PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   (A)   Any person of the age of 17 years and upwards who performs any of the
following acts in a public place commits a public indecency:
      (1)   An act of sexual penetration or sexual conduct; or
      (2)   A lewd exposure of the body done with intent to arouse or to
satisfy the sexual desire of the person.
   (B)   Breastfeeding of infants is not an act of public indecency.
   (C)   PUBLIC PLACE, for purposes of this section, means any place where the
conduct may reasonably be expected to be viewed by others.
(720 ILCS 5/11-30(a), (b))
Statutory reference:
   Public indecency by person 18 year of age or older, or within 500 feet of
elementary or secondary     school grounds when children are present, Class 4
felony, see 720 ILCS 5/11-30(c)
§ 134.02 OBSCENITY.
   (A)   Elements of the offense. A person commits obscenity when, with
knowledge of the nature or content thereof, or recklessly failing to exercise
reasonable inspection which would have disclosed the nature or content thereof,
he or she:
      (1)   Sells, delivers or provides, or offers or agrees to sell, deliver
or provide, any obscene writing, picture, record or other representation or
embodiment of the obscene;
      (2)   Presents or directs an obscene play, dance or other performance or
participates directly in that portion thereof which makes it obscene;
      (3)   Publishes, exhibits or otherwise makes available anything obscene;
      (4)   Performs an obscene act or otherwise presents an obscene exhibition
of his or her body for gain;
      (5)   Creates, buys, procures or possesses obscene matter or material
with intent to disseminate it in violation of this section, or of the penal
laws or regulations of any other jurisdiction; or
      (6)   Advertises or otherwise promotes the sale of material represented
or held out by him or her to be obscene, whether or not it is obscene.
   (B)   Obscene defined. Any material or performance is OBSCENE if:
      (1)   The average person, applying contemporary adult community
standards, would find that, taken as a whole, it appeals to the prurient
interest;
      (2)   The average person, applying contemporary adult community
standards, would find that it depicts or describes, in a patently offensive
way, ultimate sexual acts or sadomasochistic sexual acts, whether normal or
perverted, actual or simulated, or masturbation, excretory functions or lewd
exhibition of the genitals; and
      (3)   Taken as a whole, it lacks serious literary, artistic, political or
scientific value.
   (C)   Interpretation of evidence.
      (1)   Obscenity shall be judged with reference to ordinary adults except
that it shall be judged with reference to children or other specially
susceptible audiences if it appears from the character of the material or the
circumstances of its dissemination to be specially designed for or directed to
such an audience.
      (2)   Where circumstances of production, presentation, sale,
dissemination, distribution or publicity indicate that material is being
commercially exploited for the sake of its prurient appeal, the evidence is
probative with respect to the nature of the matter and can justify the
conclusion that the matter is lacking in serious literary, artistic, political
or scientific value.
      (3)   In any prosecution for an offense under this section, evidence
shall be admissible to show:
         (a)   The character of the audience for which the material was
designed or to which it was directed;
         (b)   What the predominant appeal of the material would be for
ordinary adults or a special audience, and what effect, if any, it would
probably have on the behavior of those people;
         (c)   The artistic, literary, scientific, educational or other merits
of the material, or absence thereof;
         (d)   The degree, if any, of public acceptance of the material in this
state;
         (e)   Appeal to prurient interest, or absence thereof, in advertising
or other promotion of the material; and
         (f)   Purpose of the author, creator, publisher or disseminator.
   (D)   Permissive inference. The trier of fact may infer an intent to
disseminate from the creation, purchase, procurement or possession of a mold,
engraved plate or other embodiment of obscenity specially adapted for
reproducing multiple copies, or the possession of more than three copies of
obscene material.
   (E)   Affirmative defenses. It shall be an affirmative defense to obscenity
that the dissemination:
      (1)   Was not for gain and was made to personal associates other than
children under 18 years of age; and
      (2)   Was to institutions or individuals having scientific or other
special justification for possession of such material.
   (F)   Forfeiture of property. A person who has been convicted previously of
the offense of obscenity and who is convicted of a second or subsequent offense
of obscenity is subject to the property forfeiture provisions set forth in
Article 124B of the Code of Criminal Procedure of 1963, being 725 ILCS 5/124B-
5 et seq.
(720 ILCS 5/11-20(a) - (c), (e) - (g)) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.03 HARMFUL MATERIAL.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DISTRIBUTE. To transfer possession of, whether with or without
consideration.
      HARMFUL TO MINORS. That quality of any description or representation, in
whatever form, of nudity, sexual conduct, sexual excitement or sado-masochistic
abuse when, taken as a whole, it does the following:
         (a)   Predominately appeals to the prurient interest in sex of minors;
         (b)   Is patently offensive to prevailing standards in the adult
community in the state as a whole with respect to what is suitable material for
minors; and
         (c)   Lacks serious literary, artistic, political or scientific value
for minors.
      KNOWINGLY. Having knowledge of the contents of the subject matter, or
recklessly failing to exercise reasonable inspection which would have disclosed
the contents.
      MATERIAL.
         (a)   Any picture, photograph, drawing, sculpture, film, video game,
computer game, video or similar visual depiction, including any such
representation or image which is stored electronically; or
         (b)   Any book, magazine, printed matter however reproduced or
recorded audio of any sort.
      MINOR. Any person under the age of 18.
      NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female genitals, pubic area or
buttocks with less than a fully opaque covering, or the showing of the female
breast with less than a fully opaque covering of any portion below the top of
the nipple, or the depiction of covered male genitals in a discernibly turgid
state.
      SADO-MASOCHISTIC ABUSE. Flagellation or torture by or upon a person clad
in undergarments, a mask or bizarre costume or the condition of being fettered,
bound or otherwise physically restrained on the part of one clothed for sexual
gratification or stimulation.
      SEXUAL CONDUCT. Acts of masturbation, sexual intercourse or physical
contact with a person’s clothed or unclothed genitals, pubic area, buttocks or,
if the person is a female, breast.
      SEXUAL EXCITEMENT. The condition of human male or female genitals when in
a state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
   (B)   A person is guilty of distributing harmful material to a minor when he
or she does either of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly sells, lends, distributes, exhibits to, depicts to or
gives away to a minor any of the following, knowing that the minor is under the
age of 18 or failing to exercise reasonable care in ascertaining the person’s
true age:
         (a)   Any material which depicts nudity, sexual conduct or sado-
masochistic abuse, or which contains explicit and detailed verbal descriptions
or narrative accounts of sexual excitement, sexual conduct or sado-masochistic
abuse, and which taken as a whole is harmful to minors;
         (b)   A motion picture, show or other presentation which depicts
nudity, sexual conduct or sado-masochistic abuse and is harmful to minors; or
         (c)   An admission ticket or pass to premises where there is exhibited
or to be exhibited such a motion picture, show or other presentation.
      (2)   Admits a minor to premises where there is exhibited or to be
exhibited such a motion picture, show or other presentation, knowing that the
minor is a person under the age of 18 or failing to exercise reasonable care in
ascertaining the person’s true age.
   (C)   In any prosecution arising under this section, it is an affirmative
defense:
      (1)   That the minor as to whom the offense is alleged to have been
committed exhibited to the accused a draft card, driver’s license, birth
certificate or other official or apparently official document purporting to
establish that the minor was 18 years of age or older, which was relied upon by
the accused;
      (2)   That the defendant was in a parental or guardianship relationship
with the minor or that the minor was accompanied by a parent or legal guardian;
      (3)   That the defendant was a bona fide school, museum or public
library, or was a person acting in the course of his or her employment as an
employee or official of such organization or retail outlet affiliated with and
serving the educational purpose of the organization;
      (4)   That the act charged was committed in aid of legitimate scientific
or educational purposes; or
      (5)   That an advertisement of harmful material, as defined in division
(A) above, culminated in the sale or distribution of the harmful material to a
child under circumstances where there was no personal confrontation of the
child by the defendant, his or her employees or agents, as where the order or
request for the harmful material was transmitted by mail, telephone, internet
or similar means of communication, and delivery of the harmful material to the
child was by mail, freight, internet or similar means of transport, which
advertisement contained the following statement, or a substantially similar
statement, and that the defendant required the purchaser to certify that he or
she was not under the age of 18 and that the purchaser falsely stated that he
or she was not under the age of 18: “NOTICE: It is unlawful for any person
under the age of 18 to purchase the matter advertised. Any person under the age
of 18 that falsely states that he or she is not under the age of 18 for the
purpose of obtaining the material advertised is guilty of a Class B misdemeanor
under the laws of the state”.
   (D)   The predominant appeal to prurient interest of the material shall be
judged with reference to average children of the same general age of the child
to whom the material was sold, lent, distributed or given unless it appears
from the nature of the matter or the circumstances of its dissemination or
distribution that it is designed for specially susceptible groups, in which
case the predominant appeal of the material shall be judged with reference to
its intended or probable recipient group.
   (E)   Distribution of harmful material in violation of this section is a
Class A misdemeanor.
   (F)   Any person under the age of 18 who falsely states, either orally or in
writing, that he or she is not under the age of 18, or who presents or offers
to any person any evidence of age and identity that is false or not actually
his or her own with the intent of ordering, obtaining, viewing or otherwise
procuring or attempting to procure or view any harmful material is guilty of a
Class B misdemeanor.
   (G)   A person over the age of 18 who fails to exercise reasonable care in
ascertaining the true age of a minor, knowingly distributes to, or sends, or
causes to be sent, or exhibits to, or offers to distribute, or exhibits any
harmful material to a person that he or she believes is a minor is guilty of a
Class A misdemeanor.
   (H)   Telecommunications carriers, commercial mobile service providers and
providers of information services, including, but not limited to, internet
service providers and hosting service providers, are not liable under this
section, except for willful and wanton misconduct, by virtue of the
transmission, storage or caching of electronic communications or messages of
others or by virtue of the provision of other related telecommunications,
commercial mobile services or information services used by others in violation
of this section.
(720 ILCS 5/11-21) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Distribution of harmful material, second or subsequent offense, a Class 4
felony, see 720 ILCS 5/11-21(e)
   Use of a computer web camera, cellular telephone or any other type of device
to manufacture the harmful material, a Class 4 felony, see 720 ILCS 5/11-21(g)
§ 134.04 INDECENT EXPOSURE OF PERSON.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make any indecent exposure of his or
her person, to appear in any state of nudity or commit any lewd or indecent act
of behavior. Pursuant to 720 ILCS 5/11-30, the breastfeeding of infants is not
prohibited by this section.
(Prior Code, § 134.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.05 INDECENT WRITING OR PICTURES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to write, mark, cut or make any obscene,
lewd or indecent gesture, word, sentence, design, character or figure in any
place open to public view.
(Prior Code, § 134.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.06 OBSCENE PUBLICATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to bring, or cause to be brought, into
the village, for the purpose of sale or exhibition, or keep, sell, offer or
expose for sale any obscene or indecent publication, book, pamphlet, paper,
print, picture, illustration, model, cast, instrument or article of indecent or
immoral use or advertise the same for sale or exhibition.
(Prior Code, § 134.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.07 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to be cruel to any animal either by
direct acts of cruelty or by failure to provide and care for any animal in his
or her care or custody or permit any such acts of cruelty to any such animal in
his or her charge, custody or control.
(Prior Code, § 134.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.08 HOUSE OF PROSTITUTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the limits of the village to keep
any bawdy or disorderly house, house of ill fame or assignation or place for
the practice of fornication or adultery or lease, let or permit any building or
premises owned or controlled by him or her to any person who shall use the same
in whole or in part as a house of ill fame or house of assignation or place for
the practice of fornication or adultery.
(Prior Code, § 134.08) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.09 GAMBLING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to, by himself or herself, or for
another, set up, open, keep, maintain or conduct any gambling house or room or
place used for the practice of gambling or playing for money, property, thing
of value or for anything representing the same or knowingly permit or suffer
any building or premises occupied, owned, leased or controlled by him or her to
be used for any such purpose or keep or use or permit to be used in any
building or place owned, leased or controlled by him or her any keno table,
faro table, wheel of fortune, roulette wheel, shuffleboard, cards or other
device or instrument commonly used for the purpose of gaming, except as
otherwise permitted by state law and Chapter 135.
(Prior Code, § 134.09) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 135: GAMBLING OFFENSES
Section
   
135.01   Definitions
   
135.02   Gambling
   
135.03   Keeping a gambling place
   
135.04   Seizure of gambling devices and gambling funds
Cross-reference:
   Gambling, see §
134.09
§ 135.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESS. Has the meaning ascribed to it in 720 ILCS 5/17-50 et seq.
   COMPUTER. Has the meaning ascribed to it in 720 ILCS 5/17-50 et seq.
   GAMBLING DEVICE. Any clock, tape machine, slot machine or other machines or
device for the reception of money or other thing of value on chance or skill or
upon the action of which money or other thing of value is staked, hazarded,
bet, won or lost; or any mechanism, furniture, fixture, equipment or other
device designed primarily for use in a gambling place. A GAMBLING DEVICE does
not include:
      (1)   A coin-in-the-slot operated mechanical device played for amusement
which rewards the player with the right to replay such mechanical device, which
device is so constructed or devised as to make such result of the operation
thereof depend in part upon the skill of the player and which returns to the
player thereof no money, property or right to receive money or property;
      (2)   Vending machines by which full and adequate return is made for the
money invested and in which there is no element of chance or hazard;
      (3)   A crane game. For the purposes of this definition, a CRANE GAME is
an amusement device involving skill, if it rewards the player exclusively with
merchandise contained within the amusement device proper and limited to toys,
novelties and prizes other than currency, each having a wholesale value which
is not more than $25;
      (4)   A redemption machine. For the purposes of this definition, a
REDEMPTION MACHINE is a single-player or multi-player amusement device
involving a game, the object of which is throwing, rolling, bowling, shooting,
placing or propelling a ball or other object that is either physical or
computer generated on a display or with lights into, upon or against a hole or
other target that is either physical or computer generated on a display or with
lights, or stopping, by physical, mechanical or electronic means, a moving
object that is either physical or computer generated on a display or with
lights into, upon or against a hole or other target that is either physical or
computer generated on a display or with lights, provided that all of the
following conditions are met:
         (a)   The outcome of the game is predominantly determined by the skill
of the player;
         (b)   The award of the prize is based solely upon the player’s
achieving the object of the game or otherwise upon the player’s score;
         (c)   Only merchandise prizes are awarded;
         (d)   The wholesale value of prizes awarded in lieu of tickets or
tokens for single play of the device does not exceed $25; and
         (e)   The redemption value of tickets, tokens and other
representations of value, which may be accumulated by players to redeem prizes
of greater value, for a single play of the device does not exceed $25.
      (5)   Video gaming terminals at a licensed establishment, licensed truck
stop establishment, licensed large truck stop establishment, licensed fraternal
establishment or licensed veterans establishment licensed in accordance with
the Video Gaming Act (230 ILCS 40).
   INTERNET. An interactive computer service or system or an information
service, system or access software provider that provides or enables computer
access by multiple users to a computer server, and includes, but is not limited
to, an information service, system or access software provider that provides
access to a network system commonly known as the Internet, or any comparable
system or service and also includes, but is not limited to, a World Wide Web
page, newsgroup, message board, mailing list, or chat area on any interactive
computer service or system or other online service.
   LOTTERY. Any scheme or procedure whereby one or more prizes are distributed
by chance among persons who have paid or promised consideration for a chance to
win such prizes, whether such scheme or procedure is called a lottery, raffle,
gift, sale or some other name, excluding savings promotion raffles authorized
under § 5g of the Illinois Banking Act (205 ILCS 5/5g), § 7008 of the Savings
Bank Act (205 ILCS 205/7008), § 42.7 of the Illinois Credit Union Act (205 ILCS
305/42.7), § 5136B of the National Bank Act (12 U.S.C. § 25a) or § 4 of the
Home Owners’ Loan Act (12 U.S.C. § 1463).
   POLICY GAME. Any scheme or procedure whereby a person promises or guarantees
by any instrument, bill, certificate, writing, token or other device that any
particular number, character, ticket or certificate shall in the event of any
contingency in the nature of a lottery entitle the purchaser or holder to
receive money, property or evidence of debt.
(720 ILCS 5/28-2)
§ 135.02 GAMBLING.
   (A)   A person commits gambling when he or she:
      (1)   Knowingly plays a game of chance or skill for money or other thing
of value unless excepted in division (B) below;
      (2)   Knowingly makes a wager upon the result of any game, contest or any
political nomination, appointment or election;
      (3)   Knowingly operates, keeps, owns, uses, purchases, exhibits, rents,
sells, bargains for the sale or lease of, manufactures or distributes any
gambling device;
      (4)   Contracts to have or give himself or herself or another the option
to buy or sell, or contracts to buy or sell, at a future time, any grain or
other commodity whatsoever, or any stock or security of any company, where it
is at the time of making such contract intended by both parties thereto that
the contract to buy or sell, or the option, whenever exercised, or the contract
resulting therefrom, shall be settled, not by the receipt or delivery of such
property, but by the payment only of differences in prices thereof; however,
the issuance, purchase, sale, exercise, endorsement or guarantee, by or through
a person registered with the Secretary of State pursuant to § 8 of the Illinois
Securities Law of 1953 (815 ILCS 5/8), or by or through a person exempt from
such registration under § 8, of a put, call or other option to buy or sell
securities which have been registered with the Secretary of State or which are
exempt from such registration under § 3 of the Illinois Securities Law of 1953
(815 ILCS 5/3) is not gambling within the meaning of this division (A)(4);
      (5)   Knowingly owns or possesses any book, instrument or apparatus by
means of which bets or wagers have been, or are, recorded or registered, or
knowingly possesses any money which he or she has received in the course of a
bet or wager;
      (6)   Knowingly sells pools upon the result of any game or contest of
skill or chance, political nomination, appointment or election;
      (7)   Knowingly sets up or promotes any lottery or sells, offers to sell
or transfers any ticket or share for any lottery;
      (8)   Knowingly sets up or promotes any policy game or sells, offers to
sell or knowingly possesses or transfers any policy ticket, slip, record,
document or other similar device;
      (9)   Knowingly drafts, prints or publishes any lottery ticket or share,
or any policy ticket, slip, record, document or similar device, except for such
activity related to lotteries, bingo games and raffles authorized by and
conducted in accordance with the laws of the state or any other state or
foreign government;
      (10)   Knowingly advertises any lottery or policy game, except for such
activity related to lotteries, bingo games and raffles authorized by and
conducted in accordance with the laws of the state or any other state;
      (11)   Knowingly transmits information as to wagers, betting odds or
changes in betting odds by telephone, telegraph, radio, semaphore or similar
means; or knowingly installs or maintains equipment for the transmission or
receipt of such information; except that nothing in this division (A)(11)
prohibits transmission or receipt of such information for use in news reporting
of sporting events or contests; or
      (12)   Knowingly establishes, maintains or operates an Internet site that
permits a person to play a game of chance or skill for money or other thing of
value by means of the Internet or to make a wager upon the result of any game,
contest, political nomination, appointment or election by means of the
Internet. This division (A)(12) does not apply to activities referenced in
division (B)(6)(a), (B)(6)(b) and (B)(15) below.
   (B)   Participants in any of the following activities shall not be convicted
of gambling:
      (1)   Agreements to compensate for loss caused by the happening of
chance, including, without limitation, contracts of indemnity or guaranty and
life or health or accident insurance;
      (2)   Offers of prizes, award or compensation to the actual contestants
in any bona fide contest for the determination of skill, speed, strength or
endurance or to the owners of animals or vehicles entered in such contest;
      (3)   Pari-mutuel betting as authorized by the law of this state;
      (4)   Manufacture of gambling devices, including the acquisition of
essential parts therefor and the assembly thereof, for transportation in
interstate or foreign commerce to any place outside this state when such
transportation is not prohibited by any applicable federal law; or the
manufacture, distribution or possession of video gaming terminals, as defined
in the Video Gaming Act (230 ILCS 40), by manufacturers, distributors and
terminal operators licensed to do so under the Video Gaming Act;
      (5)   The game commonly known as “bingo”, when conducted in accordance
with the Bingo License and Tax Act (230 ILCS 25);
      (6)   (a)   Lotteries when conducted by the state in accordance with the
Illinois Lottery Law (20 ILCS 1605). This exemption includes any activity
conducted by the Department of Revenue to sell lottery tickets pursuant to the
provisions of the Illinois Lottery Law and its rules.
         (b)   The purchase of lottery tickets through the Internet for a
lottery conducted by the state under the program established in § 7.12 of the
Illinois Lottery Law (20 ILCS 1605/7.12).
      (7)   Possession of an antique slot machine that is neither used nor
intended to be used in the operation or promotion of any unlawful gambling
activity or enterprise. For the purpose of this division (B)(7), an ANTIQUE
SLOT MACHINE is one manufactured 25 years ago or earlier;
      (8)   (a)   Raffles and poker runs when conducted in accordance with the
Raffles and Poker Runs Act (230 ILCS 15).
         (b)   The purchase of raffle chances for a raffle conducted in
accordance with the Raffles and Poker Runs Act (230 ILCS 15).
      (9)   Charitable games when conducted in accordance with the Charitable
Games Act (230 ILCS 30);
      (10)   Pull tabs and jar games when conducted under the Illinois Pull
Tabs and Jar Games Act (230 ILCS 20);
      (11)   Gambling games conducted on riverboats when authorized by the
Riverboat Gambling Act (230 ILCS 10);
      (12)   Video gaming terminal games at a licensed establishment, licensed
truck stop establishment, licensed fraternal establishment or licensed veterans
establishment when conducted in accordance with the Video Gaming Act (230 ILCS
40);
      (13)   Games of skill or chance where money or other things of value can
be won but no payment or purchase is required to participate;
      (14)   Savings promotion raffles authorized under § 5g of the Illinois
Banking Act (205 ILCS 5/5g), § 7008 of the Savings Bank Act (205 ILCS 205/
7008), § 42.7 of the Illinois Credit Union Act (205 ILCS 305/42.7), § 5136b of
the National Bank Act (12 U.S.C. § 25a) or § 4 of the Home Owners’ Loan Act (12
U.S.C. § 1463); and
      (15)   Sports wagering when conducted in accordance with the Sports
Wagering Act (230 ILCS 45).
   (C)   Circumstantial evidence. In prosecutions under this section,
circumstantial evidence shall have the same validity and weight as in any
criminal prosecution.
(720 ILCS 5/28-1(a), (b), (d)) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Second and subsequent offenses of §
135.02(A)(3) through (A)(12), felonies, see 720 ILCS 5/28-1
§ 135.03 KEEPING A GAMBLING PLACE.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, a GAMBLING PLACE is any real estate,
vehicle, boat or any other property whatsoever used for the purposes of
gambling other than gambling conducted in the manner authorized by the
Riverboat Gambling Act (230 ILCS 10), the Sports Wagering Act (230 ILCS 45) or
the Video Gaming Act (230 ILCS 40). No person shall knowingly permit any
premises or property owned or occupied by him or her or under his or her
control to be used as a gambling place.
   (B)   When any premises is determined by the circuit court to be a gambling
place:
      (1)   The premises is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and may be
proceeded against as such; and
      (2)   The premises of any person who knowingly permits thereon a
violation of any section of this chapter shall be held liable for and may be
sold to pay any unsatisfied judgment that may be recovered and any unsatisfied
fine that may be levied under any section of this chapter.
(720 ILCS 5/28-3) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 135.04 SEIZURE OF GAMBLING DEVICES AND GAMBLING FUNDS.
   (A)   Every device designed for gambling which is incapable of lawful use or
every device used unlawfully for gambling shall be considered a gambling device
and shall be subject to seizure, confiscation and destruction by the state
police or village authorities. As used in this section, a GAMBLING DEVICE
includes any slot machine, and includes any machine or device constructed for
the reception of money or other thing of value and so constructed as to return,
or cause someone to return, on chance to the player thereof money, property or
a right to receive money or property. With the exception of any device designed
for gambling which is incapable of lawful use, no gambling device shall be
forfeited or destroyed unless an individual with a property interest in the
device knows of the unlawful use of the device.
(720 ILCS 5/28-5(a))
   (B)   Every gambling device shall be seized and forfeited to the county
wherein the seizure occurs. Any money or other thing of value integrally
related to acts of gambling shall be seized and forfeited to the county wherein
the seizure occurs.
(720 ILCS 5/28-5(b))
CHAPTER 136: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
Litter
   
136.01   Definitions
   
136.02   Dumping or depositing of litter prohibited; exemptions
   
136.03   Dumping or depositing litter from motor vehicle prohibited
   
136.04   Accumulation of litter prohibited
   
136.05   Presumption of violation by operator throwing litter from motor
vehicle
   
136.06   Receptacles required in public areas
   
136.07   Power of court to order removal of litter
 
   
136.99   Penalty
LITTER
§ 136.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LITTER.
      (1)   Any discarded, used or unconsumed substance or waste.
      (2)   LITTER may include, but is not limited to, any garbage, trash,
refuse, cigarettes, debris, rubbish, grass clippings or other lawn or garden
waste, newspaper, magazines, glass, metal, plastic or paper containers or other
packaging construction material, abandoned vehicle (as defined in the Illinois
Vehicle Code (see 625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq.)), motor vehicle parts, furniture,
oil, carcass of a dead animal, any nauseous or offensive matter of any kind,
any object likely to injure any person or create a traffic hazard, potentially
infectious medical waste (as defined in § 3.360 of the Environmental Protection
Act (415 ILCS 5/3.360)) or anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature,
which has been discarded, abandoned or otherwise disposed of improperly.
(415 ILCS 105/3(a))
   MOTOR VEHICLE. As defined in Chapter 70.
§ 136.02 DUMPING OR DEPOSITING OF LITTER PROHIBITED; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall dump, deposit, drop, throw, discard, leave, cause or
permit the dumping, depositing, dropping, throwing, discarding or leaving of
litter upon any public or private property in the village, or upon or into any
river, lake, pond or other stream or body of water in this village unless:
      (1)   The property has been designated by the village or any of its
agencies for the disposal of litter, and the litter is disposed of on that
property in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the State
Pollution Control Board;
      (2)   The litter is placed into a receptacle or other container intended
by the owner or tenant in lawful possession of that property for the deposit of
litter;
      (3)   The person is the owner or tenant in lawful possession of the
property or has first obtained the consent of the owner or tenant in lawful
possession, or unless the act is done under the personal direction of the owner
or tenant and does not create a public health or safety hazard, a public
nuisance or a fire hazard;
      (4)   The person is acting under the direction of proper public officials
during special cleanup days; and/or
      (5)   The person is lawfully acting in or reacting to an emergency
situation where health and safety is threatened, and removes and properly
disposes of any litter, including, but not limited to, potentially infectious
medical waste, as defined in 415 ILCS 5/3.360, when the emergency situation no
longer exists.
(415 ILCS 105/4)
   (B)   (1)   A mandatory minimum fine of $50 must be imposed against any
person who is convicted of violating this section.
      (2)   In addition to any fine imposed under this subchapter, the court
may order that the person convicted of such a violation remove and properly
dispose of the litter, may employ special bailiffs to supervise such removal
and disposal, and may tax the costs of such supervision as costs against the
person so convicted.
      (3)   An individual convicted of violating this section by disposing of
litter upon a public highway may, in addition to any other penalty, be required
to maintain litter control for 30 days over a designated portion of that
highway, including, at the discretion of the agency having jurisdiction over
the section of highway in question, at the site where the offense occurred, as
provided in 605 ILCS 120/50.
(415 ILCS 105/8(a), (b), (d), (e))
Penalty, see §
136.99
§ 136.03 DUMPING OR DEPOSITING LITTER FROM MOTOR VEHICLE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall dump, deposit, drop, throw, discard or otherwise
dispose of litter from any motor vehicle upon any public highway, upon any
public or private property or upon or into any river, lake, pond, stream or
body of water in this village except as permitted under §
136.02(A)(1) through (A)(5). Nor shall any person transport, by any means,
garbage or refuse from any dwelling, residence, place of business, farm or
other site to and deposit the material in, around or on top of trash barrels or
other receptacles placed along public highways or at roadside rest areas.
(415 ILCS 105/5)
   (B)   (1)   A mandatory minimum fine of $50 must be imposed against any
person who is convicted of violating this section.
      (2)   In addition to any fine imposed under this subchapter, the court
may order that the person convicted of such a violation remove and properly
dispose of the litter, may employ special bailiffs to supervise such removal
and disposal and may tax the costs of such supervision as costs against the
person so convicted.
      (3)   An individual convicted of violating this section by disposing of
litter upon a public highway may, in addition to any other penalty, be required
to maintain litter control for 30 days over a designated portion of that
highway, including, at the discretion of the agency having jurisdiction over
the section of highway in question, at the site where the offense occurred, as
provided in 605 ILCS 120/50.
(415 ILCS 105/8(a), (b), (d), (e))
Penalty, see §
136.99
§ 136.04 ACCUMULATION OF LITTER PROHIBITED.
   No person shall allow litter to accumulate upon real property, of which the
person charged is the owner or tenant in control, in such a manner as to
constitute a public nuisance or in such a manner that the litter may be blown
or otherwise carried by the natural elements on to the real property of another
person.
(415 ILCS 105/6) Penalty, see §
136.99
§ 136.05 PRESUMPTION OF VIOLATION BY OPERATOR THROWING LITTER FROM MOTOR
VEHICLE.
   Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped or dumped from any motor
vehicle not carrying passengers for hire, the presumption is created that the
operator of that motor vehicle has violated §
136.03, but that presumption may be rebutted.
(415 ILCS 105/9) Penalty, see §
136.99
§ 136.06 RECEPTACLES REQUIRED IN PUBLIC AREAS.
   (A)   In order to assist the public in complying with this chapter, the
owner or person in control of any property which is held out to the public as a
place for assemblage, the transaction of business, recreation or as a public
way shall cause to be placed and maintained receptacles for the deposit of
litter of sufficient volume and in sufficient numbers to meet the needs of the
numbers of people customarily coming on or using the property.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, PROPERTY HELD OUT TO THE PUBLIC FOR THE
TRANSACTION OF BUSINESS includes, but is not limited to, commercially operated
parks, campgrounds, drive-in restaurants, automobile service stations, business
parking lots, car washes, shopping centers, marinas, boat launching areas,
industrial parking lots, boat moorage and fueling stations, piers, beaches and
bathing areas, airports, roadside rest stops, drive-in movies and shopping
malls; and PROPERTY HELD OUT TO THE PUBLIC FOR ASSEMBLAGE, RECREATION OR AS A
PUBLIC WAY includes, but is not limited to, any property that is publicly owned
or operated for any of the purposes stated in the definition in this division
for PROPERTY HELD OUT TO THE PUBLIC FOR THE TRANSACTION OF BUSINESS but
excludes state highway rights-of-way and rest areas located thereon.
(415 ILCS 105/10)
§ 136.07 POWER OF COURT TO ORDER REMOVAL OF LITTER.
   The penalties prescribed in this chapter are in addition to, and not in lieu
of, any penalties, rights, remedies, duties or liabilities which may be
otherwise imposed or conferred by a court.
(415 ILCS 105/8(c))
§ 136.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person convicted of a violation of §
136.02 shall be fined not less than $250 nor more than $1,000.
(415 ILCS 105/8(a))
   (C)   (1)   Any person convicted of a violation of §
136.04 shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $500.
      (2)   In addition to any fine imposed under §
136.04, the court may order that the person convicted of such a violation
remove and properly dispose of the litter, may employ special bailiffs to
supervise such removal and disposal and may tax the costs of such supervision
as costs against the person so convicted.
(415 ILCS 105/8(b))
   (D)   If no litter receptacles are placed on property described in §
136.06, the owner or person in control of the property shall be fined $100 for
violating §
136.06. If the owner or person in control of the property has placed litter
receptacles on his or her property but the number or size of the receptacles
has proved inadequate to meet the needs of the numbers of people coming on or
using his or her property as indicated by the condition and appearance of that
property, and the owner or person in control has failed to provide sufficient
or adequate receptacles within ten days after being made aware of that fact by
written notice from the police, he or she shall be fined $25 for each
receptacle not so provided and maintained.
(415 ILCS 105/10)
(Prior Code, § 136.99) (Ord. 20-06-02, passed 6-23-2020)
CHAPTER 137: WEAPONS
Section
Deadly Weapons
   
137.01   Unlawful possession of weapons
   
137.02   Exemptions
   
137.03   Unlawful possession of firearms and firearm ammunition
   
137.04   Confiscation and disposition of weapons
Air Rifles
   
137.15   Definitions
   
137.16   Selling, renting or transferring to children; prohibition
   
137.17   Carrying or discharging on public streets
   
137.18   Permitted possession
   
137.19   Permitted sales
   
137.20   Seizure and removal
Concealed Weapons; Discharge of Weapons
   
137.35   Carrying concealed weapons
   
137.36   Discharge of weapons, firearms and air rifles
Statutory reference:
   Firearms and ammunition registration, see 430 ILCS 65/0.01 through 16-3
DEADLY WEAPONS
§ 137.01 UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OF WEAPONS.
   (A)   Offenses. A person commits the offense of unlawful possession of
weapons when he or she knowingly:
      (1)   Sells, manufactures, purchases, possesses or carries any bludgeon,
black-jack, slung-shot, sand-club, sand-bag, metal knuckles or other knuckle
weapon regardless of its composition, throwing star or any knife, commonly
referred to as a switchblade knife, which has a blade that opens automatically
by hand pressure applied to a button, spring or other device in the handle of
the knife, or a ballistic knife, which is a device that propels a knifelike
blade as a projectile by means of a coil spring, elastic material or compressed
gas;
(720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(1))
      (2)   Carries or possesses with intent to use the same unlawfully against
another, a dagger, dirk, billy, dangerous knife, razor, stiletto, broken bottle
or other piece of glass, stun gun or taser or any other dangerous or deadly
weapon or instrument of like character;
(720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(2))
      (3)   Carries or possesses with intent to use the same unlawfully against
another, any firearm in a church, synagogue, mosque or other building,
structure or place used for religious worship;
(720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(2.5))
      (4)   Carries on or about his or her person or in any vehicle, a tear gas
gun projector or bomb or any object containing noxious liquid gas or substance,
other than an object containing a non-lethal noxious liquid gas or substance
designed solely for personal defense carried by a person 18 years of age or
older;
(720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(3))
      (5)   Carries or possesses in any vehicle or concealed on or about his or
her person, except when on his or her land or in his or her own abode, legal
dwelling or fixed place of business, or on the land or in the legal dwelling of
another person as an invitee with that person’s permission, any pistol,
revolver, stun gun or taser or other firearm, except that this division (A)(5)
does not apply to or affect transportation of weapons that meet one of the
following conditions:
         (a)   Are broken down in a non-functioning state;
         (b)   Are not immediately accessible;
         (c)   Are unloaded and enclosed in a case, firearm carrying box,
shipping box or other container by a person who has been issued a currently
valid firearm owner’s identification card; or
         (d)   Are carried or possessed in accordance with the Firearm
Concealed Carry Act by a person who has been issued a currently valid license
under the Firearm Concealed Carry Act.
(720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(4))
      (6)   Sets a spring gun;
(720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(5))
      (7)   (a)   Carries or possesses on or about his or her person, upon any
public street, alley or other public lands within the village limits, except
when an invitee thereon or therein, for the purpose of the display of such
weapon or the lawful commerce in weapons, or except when on his or her land or
in his or her own abode, legal dwelling or fixed place of business, or on the
land or in the legal dwelling of another person as an invitee with that
person’s permission, any pistol, revolver, stun gun or taser or other firearm,
except that this division (A)(7) does not apply to or affect transportation of
weapons that meet one of the following conditions:
            1.   Are broken down in a non-functioning state;
            2.   Are not immediately accessible;
            3.   Are unloaded and enclosed in a case, firearm carrying box,
shipping box or other container by a person who has been issued a currently
valid firearm owner’s identification card; or
            4.   Are carried or possessed in accordance with the Firearm
Concealed Carry Act, being 430 ILCS 66/1 et seq., by a person who has been
issued a currently valid license under the Firearm Concealed Carry Act.
         (b)   A STUN GUN OR TASER, as used in this division (A)(7), means:
            1.   Any device which is powered by electrical charging units, such
as batteries, and which fires one or several barbs attached to a length of wire
and which, upon hitting a human, can send out a current capable of disrupting
the person’s nervous system in such a manner as to render him or her incapable
of normal functioning; or
            2.   Any device which is powered by electrical charging units, such
as batteries, and which, upon contact with a human or clothing worn by a human,
can send out current capable of disrupting the person’s nervous system in such
a manner as to render him or her incapable of normal functioning.
(720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(10))
      (8)   Sells, manufactures or purchases any explosive bullet. For purposes
of this division (A)(8), the following definitions apply.
         (a)   CARTRIDGE. A tubular metal case having a projectile affixed at
the front thereof and a cap or primer at the rear end thereof, with the
propellant contained in such tube between the projectile and the cap.
         (b)   EXPLOSIVE BULLET. The projectile portion of an ammunition
cartridge which contains or carries an explosive charge which will explode upon
contact with the flesh of a human or an animal.
(720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(11))
      (9)   Carries or possesses on or about his or her person while in a
building occupied by a unit of government, a billy club, other weapon of like
character or other instrument of like character intended for use as a weapon.
For the purposes of this division (A)(9), BILLY CLUB means a short stick or
club commonly carried by police officers which is either telescopic or
constructed of a solid piece of wood or other human-made material.
(720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(13))
   (B)   Exemptions.
      (1)   Crossbows, common or compound bows and underwater spearguns are
exempted from the definition of ballistic knife, as defined in division (A)(1)
above.
      (2)   The provision of division (A)(1) above prohibiting the sale,
manufacture, purchase, possession or carrying of any knife, commonly referred
to as a switchblade knife, which has a blade that opens automatically by hand
pressure applied to a button, spring or other device in the handle of the
knife, does not apply to a person who possesses a currently valid Firearm
Owner’s Identification Card previously issued in his or her name by the state
police or to a person or an entity engaged in the business of selling or
manufacturing switchblade knives.
(720 ILCS 5/24-1(e)) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Provisions concerning silencers on guns; machine guns; bombs; possession of
weapon in place authorized to sell intoxicating beverages or at public
gathering; possession of weapon while hooded, robed and/or masked; or
possession of weapons on school or university grounds (all of which are
felonies), see 720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(6), (7), (8) and (9) and 24-1(c),
respectively
§ 137.02 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Section 137.01(A)(4), (A)(5), (A)(7) and (A)(9) do not apply to or
affect any of the following:
      (1)   Peace officers, and any person summoned by a peace officer to
assist in making arrests or preserving the peace while actually engaged in
assisting the officer;
      (2)   Wardens, superintendents and keepers of prisons, penitentiaries,
jails and other institutions for the detention of persons accused or convicted
of an offense, while in the performance of their official duty, or while
commuting between their homes and places of employment;
      (3)   Members of the armed services or reserve forces of the United
States or the Illinois National Guard or the Reserve Officers Training Corps,
while in the performance of their official duty;
      (4)   Special agents employed by a railroad or a public utility to
perform police functions, and guards of armored car companies, while actually
engaged in the performance of the duties of their employment or commuting
between their homes and places of employment; and watchperson while actually
engaged in the performance of the duties of their employment;
      (5)   Persons licensed as private security contractors, private
detectives or private alarm contractors, or employed by a private security
contractor, private detective or private alarm contractor agency licensed by
the Department of Financial and Professional Regulation, if their duties
include the carrying of a weapon under the provisions of the Private Detective,
Private Alarm, Private Security, Fingerprint Vendor and Locksmith Act of 2004
(225 ILCS 447), while actually engaged in the performance of the duties of
their employment or commuting between their homes and places of employment. A
person shall be considered eligible for this exemption if he or she has
completed the required 20 hours of training for a private security contractor,
private detective or private alarm contractor, or employee of a licensed
private security contractor, private detective or private alarm contractor
agency and 20 hours of required firearm training, and has been issued a firearm
control card by the Department of Financial and Professional Regulation.
Conditions for the renewal of firearm control cards issued under the provisions
of this section shall be the same as for those cards issued under the
provisions of the Private Detective, Private Alarm, Private Security,
Fingerprint Vendor and Locksmith Act of 2004. The firearm control card shall be
carried by the private security contractor, private detective or private alarm
contractor, or employee of the licensed private security contractor, private
detective or private alarm contractor agency at all times when he or she is in
possession of a concealable weapon permitted by his or her firearm control
card;
      (6)   Any person regularly employed in a commercial or industrial
operation as a security guard for the protection of persons employed and
private property related to that commercial or industrial operation, while
actually engaged in the performance of his or her duty or traveling between
sites or properties belonging to the employer, and who, as a security guard, is
a member of a security force registered with the Department of Financial and
Professional Regulation; provided that the security guard has successfully
completed a course of study, approved by and supervised by the Department of
Financial and Professional Regulation, consisting of not less than 48 hours of
training that includes the theory of law enforcement, liability for acts and
the handling of weapons. A person shall be considered eligible for this
exemption if he or she has completed the required 20 hours of training for a
security officer and 28 hours of required firearm training, and has been issued
a firearm control card by the Department of Financial and Professional
Regulation. Conditions for the renewal of firearm control cards issued under
the provisions of this section shall be the same as for those cards issued
under the provisions of the Private Detective, Private Alarm, Private Security,
Fingerprint Vendor and Locksmith Act of 2004 (225 ILCS 447/5-5 et seq.). This
firearm control card shall be carried by the security guard at all times when
he or she is in possession of a concealable weapon permitted by his or her
firearm control card;
      (7)   Agents and investigators of the State Legislative Investigating
Commission authorized by the Commission to carry the weapons specified in §
137.01(A)(4) and (A)(5) while on duty in the course of any investigation for
the Commission;
      (8)   Persons employed by a financial institution as a security guard for
the protection of other employees and property related to such financial
institution, while actually engaged in the performance of their duties,
commuting between their homes and places of employment, or traveling between
sites or properties owned or operated by such financial institution, and who,
as a security guard, is a member of a security force registered with the
Department of Professional and Financial Regulation; provided that any person
so employed has successfully completed a course of study, approved by and
supervised by the Department of Financial and Professional Regulation,
consisting of not less than 48 hours of training which includes theory of law
enforcement, liability for acts and the handling of weapons. A person shall be
considered to be eligible for this exemption if he or she has completed the
required 20 hours of training for a security officer and 28 hours of required
firearm training, and has been issued a firearm control card by the Department
of Financial and Professional Regulation. Conditions for renewal of firearm
control cards issued under the provisions of this division (A)(8) shall be the
same as for those issued under the provisions of the Private Detective, Private
Alarm, Private Security, Fingerprint Vendor and Locksmith Act of 2004 (225 ILCS
447/5-5 et seq.). The firearm control card shall be carried by the security
guard, at all times, when he or she is in possession of a concealable weapon
permitted by his or her firearm control card. For purposes of this division (A)
(8), FINANCIAL INSTITUTION means a bank, savings and loan association, credit
union or company providing armored car services;
      (9)   Any person employed by an armored car company to drive an armored
car while actually engaged in the performance of his or her duties;
      (10)   Persons who have been classified as peace officers pursuant to the
Peace Officer Fire Investigation Act (20 ILCS 2910/0.01 et seq.);
      (11)   Investigators of the office of the State’s Attorneys Appellate
Prosecutor authorized by the board of governors of the office of the State’s
Attorneys Appellate Prosecutor to carry weapons, pursuant to § 7.06 of the
State’s Attorneys Appellate Prosecutor’s Act (725 ILCS 210/1 et seq.);
      (12)   Special investigators appointed by a State’s Attorney under § 3-
9005 of the Counties Code (55 ILCS 5/3-9005);
      (13)   Probation officers, while in the performance of their duties, or
while commuting between their homes, places of employment or specific locations
that are part of their assigned duties, with the consent of the Chief Judge of
the circuit for which they are employed, if they have received weapons training
according to requirements of the Peace Officer and Probation Officer Firearm
Training Act (50 ILCS 710);
      (14)   Court security officers while in the performance of their official
duties or while commuting between their homes and places of employment, with
the consent of the Sheriff;
      (15)   A person employed, as an armed security guard at a nuclear energy,
storage, weapons or development site or facility regulated by the Nuclear
Regulatory Commission who has completed the background screening and training
mandated by the rules and regulations of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission; or
      (16)   Manufacture, transportation or sale of weapons to persons
authorized under (A)(1) through (A)(15) above to possess those weapons.
(720 ILCS 5/24-2(a))
   (B)   Section 137.01(A)(1) does not apply to the purchase, possession or
carrying of a black- jack or slung-shot by a police officer.
(720 ILCS 5/24-2(d))
   (C)   Section 137.01(A)(5) and (A)(7) do not apply to or affect any of the
following:
      (1)   Members of any club or organization organized for the purpose of
practicing shooting at targets upon established target ranges, whether public
or private, while using their firearms on those target ranges;
(720 ILCS 5/24-2(f))
      (2)   Members of any club or organization organized for the purpose of
practicing shooting at targets upon established target ranges, whether public
or private, and patrons of such ranges, while such members or patrons are using
their firearms on those target ranges;
      (3)   Duly authorized military or civil organizations while parading,
with the special permission of the Governor;
      (4)   Hunters, trappers or fishers while engaged in lawful hunting,
trapping or fishing under the provisions of the Wildlife Code or the Fish and
Aquatic Life Code;
      (5)   Transportation of weapons that are broken down in a non-functioning
state or are not immediately accessible; and
      (6)   Carrying or possessing any pistol, revolver, stun gun or taser or
other firearm on the land or in the legal dwelling of another person as an
invitee with that person’s permission.
(720 ILCS 5/24-2(b))
   (D)   Section 137.01(A)(5) and (A)(7) do not apply to any parole agent or
parole supervisor who meets the qualifications and conditions prescribed in §
3-14-1.5 of the Unified Code of Corrections (730 ILCS 5).
(720 ILCS 5/24-2(g-6))
   (E)   Section 137.01(A)(8) does not apply to:
      (1)   Members of the armed services or reserve forces of the United
States or the Illinois National Guard, while in the performance of their
official duty;
      (2)   Bona fide collectors of antique or surplus military ordnance;
      (3)   Laboratories having a department of forensic ballistics, or
specializing in the development of ammunition or explosive ordnance; or
      (4)   Commerce, preparation, assembly or possession of explosive bullets
by manufacturers of ammunition licensed by the federal government, in
connection with the supply of those organizations and persons exempted by
division (E)(1) above, or like organizations and persons outside this state, or
the transportation of explosive bullets to any organization or person exempted
in this section by a common carrier or by a vehicle owned or leased by an
exempted manufacturer.
(720 ILCS 5/24-2(g))
   (F)   An information or indictment based upon a violation of any provision
of this subchapter need not negate any exemptions contained in this subchapter.
The defendant shall have the burden of proving such an exemption.
(720 ILCS 5/24-2(h))
   (G)   Nothing in this subchapter shall prohibit, apply to or affect the
transportation, carrying or possession of any pistol or revolver, stun gun,
taser or other firearm consigned to a common carrier operating under license
with the state or the federal government where such transportation, carrying or
possession is incident to the lawful transportation in which the common carrier
is engaged. Nothing in this subchapter shall prohibit, apply to or affect the
transportation, carrying or possession of any pistol, revolver, stun gun, taser
or other firearm not the subject of and regulated by 720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(7),
which is unloaded and enclosed in a case, firearm carrying box, shipping box or
other container by the possessor of a valid firearm owner’s identification
card.
(720 ILCS 5/24-2(i))
§ 137.03 UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OF FIREARMS AND FIREARM AMMUNITION.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of unlawful possession of firearms or
firearm ammunition when:
      (1)   He or she is under 18 years of age and has in his or her possession
any firearm of a size which may be concealed upon the person;
      (2)   He or she is under 21 years of age, has been convicted of a
misdemeanor other than a traffic offense or adjudged delinquent and has any
firearms or firearm ammunition in his or her possession;
      (3)   He or she is a narcotic addict and has any firearms or firearm
ammunition in his or her possession;
      (4)   (a)   He or she has been a patient in a mental institution within
the past five years and has any firearms or firearm ammunition in his or her
possession.
         (b)   For purposes of this division (A)(4), the following definitions
apply.
            MENTAL INSTITUTION. Any hospital, institution, clinic, evaluation
facility, mental health center or part thereof, which is used primarily for the
care or treatment of persons with mental illness.
            PATIENT IN A MENTAL INSTITUTION. The person was admitted, either
voluntarily or involuntarily, to a mental institution for mental health
treatment unless the treatment was voluntary and solely for an alcohol abuse
disorder and no other secondary substance abuse disorder or mental illness.
      (5)   He or she is a person with an intellectual disability and has any
firearms or firearm ammunition in his or her possession; or
      (6)   He or she has in his or her possession any explosive bullet.
         (a)   For the purposes of this division (A)(6), EXPLOSIVE BULLET means
the projectile portion of an ammunition cartridge which contains or carries an
explosive charge which will explode upon contact with the flesh of a human or
an animal.
         (b)   CARTRIDGE means a tubular metal case having a projectile affixed
at the front thereof and a cap or primer at the rear end thereof, with the
propellent contained in the tube between the projectile and the cap.
   (B)   Unlawful possession of firearms, other than handguns, and firearm
ammunition is punishable under §
130.99. Unlawful possession of handguns is a felony punishable under
appropriate state law. The possession of each firearm or firearm ammunition in
violation of this section constitutes a single and separate violation.
   (C)   Nothing in division (A)(1) above prohibits a person under 18 years of
age from participating in any lawful recreational activity with a firearm, such
as, but not limited to, practice shooting at targets upon established public or
private target ranges or hunting, trapping or fishing in accordance with the
Wildlife Code (see 520 ILCS 5) or the Aquatic Life Code (see 515 ILCS 5).
(720 ILCS 5/24-3.1) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 137.04 CONFISCATION AND DISPOSITION OF WEAPONS.
   Upon conviction of an offense in which a weapon was used or possessed by the
offender, any weapon seized may be confiscated by the trial court for further
disposition consistent with state law.
(720 ILCS 5/24-6)
AIR RIFLES
§ 137.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR RIFLE. Any air gun, air pistol, spring gun, spring pistol, B.B. gun,
pellet gun or any implement that is not a firearm, which impels a pellet
constructed of hard plastic, steel, lead or other hard materials with a force
that reasonably is expected to cause bodily harm.
   DEALER. Any person, copartnership, association or corporation engaged in the
business of selling at retail or renting any of the articles included in the
definition of “air rifle”.
(Prior Code, § 137.15)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/24.8-01
§ 137.16 SELLING, RENTING OR TRANSFERRING TO CHILDREN; PROHIBITION.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any dealer to sell, lend, rent, give or otherwise
transfer an air rifle to any person under the age of 13 years where the dealer
knows or has cause to believe the person to be under 13 years of age or where
the dealer has failed to make reasonable inquiry relative to the age of the
person and the person is under 13 years of age.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to sell, give, lend or otherwise
transfer any air rifle to any person under 13 years of age, except where the
relationship of parent and child, guardian and ward, or adult instructor and
pupil exists between the person and the person under 13 years of age, or where
the person stands in loco parentis to the person under 13 years of age.
(Prior Code, § 137.16) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/24.8-1
§ 137.17 CARRYING OR DISCHARGING ON PUBLIC STREETS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person under 13 years of age to carry any air
rifle on the public streets, roads, highways or public lands within this
village unless the person under 13 years of age carries the rifle unloaded.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to discharge any air rifle from or
across any street, sidewalk, road, highway or public land or any public place
except on a safely constructed target range.
   (C)   Any person violating any provision of this section commits a petty
offense.
(Prior Code, § 137.17) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/24.8-2 and 720 ILCS 5/24.8-5
§ 137.18 PERMITTED POSSESSION.
   Notwithstanding any provision of this chapter, it is lawful for any person
under 13 years of age to have in his or her possession any air rifle if it is:
   (A)   Kept within his or her house of residence or other private enclosure;
   (B)   Used by the person under 13 years of age and he or she is a duly
enrolled member of any club, team or society organized for educational purposes
and maintaining as part of its facilities or having written permission to use
an indoor or outdoor rifle range under the supervision, guidance and
instruction of a responsible adult, and then only if the air rifle is actually
being used in connection with the activities of the club, team or society under
the supervision of a responsible adult; or
   (C)   Used in or on any private grounds or residence under circumstances
when the air rifle is fired, discharged or operated in a manner as not to
endanger persons or property and then only if it is used in a manner as to
prevent the projectile from passing over any grounds or space outside the
limits of such grounds or residence.
(Prior Code, § 137.18)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/24.8-3
§ 137.19 PERMITTED SALES.
   The provisions of §§
137.15 through
137.19 do not prohibit sales of air rifles:
   (A)   By wholesale dealers or jobbers;
   (B)   To be shipped out of the state; or
   (C)   To be used at a target range operated in accordance with 720 ILCS 5/
24.8-3 or by members of the armed services of the United States or veterans’
organizations.
(Prior Code, § 137.19)
Cross-reference:
   Carrying concealed weapons, see §
137.35
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/24.8-4
§ 137.20 SEIZURE AND REMOVAL.
   Any police officer shall seize, take, remove or cause to be removed at the
expense of the owner any air rifle sold or used in any manner in violation of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 137.20)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/24.8-5
CONCEALED WEAPONS; DISCHARGE OF WEAPONS
§ 137.35 CARRYING CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry concealed weapons or in a
threatening manner display any pistol, knife or sling shot, brass, steel or
iron knuckles or any other deadly or dangerous weapon or use and/or discharge
same. Further, it shall be unlawful for any minor person to have in his or her
possession any firearm.
(Prior Code, § 137.35) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 137.36 DISCHARGE OF WEAPONS, FIREARMS AND AIR RIFLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any weapon, firearm or air
rifle in the village; provided that this section shall not be construed to
prohibit any officer of the law from discharging a firearm in the performance
of his or her duty, nor any citizen from discharging any firearm, weapon or air
rifle when lawfully defending his or her person, family or property.
(Prior Code, § 137.36) Penalty, see §
130.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   MOBILE HOMES
      
152.   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
      
153.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
154.   ZONING CODE
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Building Code; Fence Regulations
   
150.01   Adoption of Building Code
   
150.02   Definitions
   
150.03   Building Inspector
   
150.04   Fees
   
150.05   Duration of permit; renewal
   
150.06   Amendments to the Building Code
   
150.07   Post frame construction and pole barns
   
150.08   Fence regulations
Health and Safety Standards for Hotels, Motels and Large Apartment Buildings
   
150.20   Definitions
   
150.21   Required equipment in common areas
   
150.22   Required equipment for rooms or units
   
150.23   Additional requirements for hotels and motels
   
150.24   Maintenance of required equipment
   
150.25   Off-street parking
   
150.26   Environmental barriers
   
150.27   Swimming pools
   
150.28   Variances
 
   
150.99   Penalty
BUILDING CODE; FENCE REGULATIONS
§ 150.01 ADOPTION OF BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   Pursuant to § 1-3-1 of the Illinois Municipal Code, the 2018 edition
of the International Building Codes, as published by the International Code
Council (“the IBC”), is hereby adopted as the Building Code of the village. The
IBC shall control all matters concerning the construction, alteration,
addition, repair, use, location, occupancy and maintenance of all buildings and
structures, other than one- and two-family dwellings, and shall apply to
existing or proposed building and structures, except if such matters are
otherwise provided for in the ordinance from which this chapter is derived or
in other ordinances or statutes or rules or regulations of the village. The IBC
shall also govern the removal and demolition of all buildings and structures,
including one- and two-family dwellings.
   (B)   Pursuant to § 1-3-1 of the Illinois Municipal Code, the 2018 edition
of the International Residential Code for One- and Two-Family Dwellings, as
published by the International Code Council (“the IRC”), is hereby adopted by
reference as the One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code of the village. The IRC
shall control all matters concerning construction, prefabrication, alteration,
repair, use, occupancy and maintenance of detached one- or two-family dwellings
and one-family townhouses not more than three stories in height and their
accessory structures.
(Prior Code, § 150.01) (Ord. 76-1, passed 6-14-1976; Ord. 96-09-01, passed 9-9-
1996; Ord. 2000-02-01, passed 2-14-2000; Ord. 10-12-01, passed 12-14-2010; Ord.
23-07-04, passed 7-25-2023)
§ 150.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The Building Inspector.
   CORPORATION COUNSEL. The Attorney for the Village of Southern View.
   MUNICIPALITY. The Village of Southern View.
(Prior Code, § 150.02) (Ord. 76-1, passed 6-14-1976)
§ 150.03 BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   Establishment of position.
      (1)   The position of building inspector is created and the executive
official in charge shall be known as the Building Inspector.
      (2)   The Building Inspector shall be appointed by the President and
Board of Trustees. His or her appointment shall continue during good behavior
and satisfactory service. He or she shall not be removed from his or her
position except for cause after full opportunity has been given to him or her
to be heard on specific charges.
      (3)   During temporary absence or disability of the Building Inspector,
the appointing authority shall designate an acting Building Inspector.
   (B)   Duties. It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector to enforce all
laws relating to the construction, alteration, removal and demolition of
buildings and structures in the village.
   (C)   Liability. The Building Inspector, or any employee charged with the
enforcement of this subchapter, acting in good faith and without malice for the
village in the discharge of his or her duties, shall not thereby render himself
or herself liable personally, and he or she is relieved from all personal
liability for any damage that may accrue to persons or property as a result of
any act required or by reason of any act or omission in the discharge of his or
her duties. Any suit brought against the Building Inspector, or his or her
employee, because of such act or omission performed by him or her in the
enforcement of any provisions of this code, shall be defined by the Village
Attorney until final termination of the proceedings.
   (D)   Right of entry. The Building Inspector, in the discharge of his or her
official duties, and, upon proper identification, shall have authority to enter
any buildings, structure or premises in the village at any reasonable hour.
(Prior Code, § 150.03) (Ord. 76-1, passed 6-14-1976)
§ 150.04 FEES.
   (A)   No permit as required by the Building Code shall be issued until the
fee prescribed by ordinance shall have been paid. Nor shall an amendment to a
permit be approved until the additional fee, if any, due to an increase in the
estimated cost of the building or structure, shall have been paid.
   (B)   For a permit within the Residential Zones, for the construction or
alteration of a building or structure, for removal of a building or structure
to a new location within the same lot or for a permit for demolition of a
building or structure, the fee shall be at the rate of $25 for the first $2,000
of the estimated cost, plus $2 per $1,000 of the estimated cost in excess of
$1,000. There shall be no cap or limit to the amount of the building permit.
   (C)   The term ESTIMATED COST, as used in this section, means the reasonable
value of all services, labor, materials and use of scaffolding and other
appliances or devices entering into and necessary to the prosecution and
completion of the work ready for occupancy; provided that the cost of
excavation or grading and of painting, decorating or other work that is merely
for embellishment or not necessary for the safe and lawful use of the building
or structure is not deemed a part of such estimated cost. If the permit is
obtained after the construction or alteration which is the subject of the
permit, there shall be an additional fee for the permit of $100.
(Prior Code, § 150.04) (Ord. 76-1, passed 6-14-1976; Ord. 99-04-01, passed 4-
12-1999; Ord. 06-09-01, passed 9-11-2006; Ord. 08-05-01, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 150.05 DURATION OF PERMIT; RENEWAL.
   The permits issued under this subchapter are valid for one year. If any
construction project shall take a longer period of time, a new permit shall be
obtained for each additional year in accordance with this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 150.05)
§ 150.06 AMENDMENTS TO THE BUILDING CODE.
   The following amendments, modifications and revisions are applicable to the
Building Code as adopted by the village.
   (A)   All permits issued under this chapter shall be issued by the Building
Inspector and shall be valid for one year from the date of issuance. In the
event that construction under a building permit previously issued lasts longer
than one year, a new permit shall be obtained for each additional one-year
period.
   (B)   No permit shall be required for minor repairs, maintenance or other
work which does not affect, modify or alter, in any way, the structural
integrity of the building, as determined by the Building Inspector. Examples of
projects which do not require a permit include those which merely replaces a
non-structural component of the building, such as a roof (where no trusses or
structural members are repaired or replaced), siding, windows or a fence being
replaced with the same material. In addition, where a driveway is being
overlayed or replaced with the same material, and there is no change in the
size or shape of the driveway, no permit is required. Examples of projects
which do require a permit include any modification in the structure, such as
altering the eaves, installing a driveway having an impermeable surface to
replace a gravel or unpaved driveway or replacing a chain link fence with a
privacy permit.
   (C)   Any alteration, modification or change to a building which would
create a violation or conflict with the Village’s Zoning Code shall require a
permit to be issued by the Building Inspector, including approval of a variance
if needed.
(Prior Code, § 150.06) (Ord. 05-09-01, passed 9-8-2005)
§ 150.07 POST FRAME CONSTRUCTION AND POLE BARNS.
   In addition to all other requirements of village code, accessory buildings
in excess of 150 square feet in a Residential District:
   (A)   Shall not utilize metal cladding;
   (B)   Shall not utilize solid sawn posts or laminated columns;
   (C)   Shall not utilize embedded concrete piers or wooden posts or poles
directly embedded into the ground;
   (D)   Shall be constructed utilizing wood studs on 16- or 24-inch centers,
steel framing or concrete masonry;
   (E)   Shall not have side walls in excess of ten feet in height; and
   (F)   Shall be constructed on a continuous foundation.
(Prior Code, § 150.07) (Ord. 14-04-01, passed 4-15-2014) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.08 FENCE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall hereafter construct, erect or maintain a fence or
section of fence unless it conforms to the following requirements.
   (B)   For purposes of this code, the word FENCE shall also include a hedge
or other plant growth planted or maintained as fencing.
      (1)   On that portion of a lot or public right-of-way between a public
street fronting the lot and one foot to the rear of the survey pegs marking the
front corners of the lot, no fence shall be erected.
      (2)   On that portion of a lot between one foot to the rear of the survey
pegs marking the front corners of the lot and lines extending straight out from
both ends of the main front load-bearing wall of the habitable structure upon
such lot, all fences shall be at least 50% open and no fence shall be more than
48 inches high; however, a hedge or other plant growth need not be 50% open but
must, at all times, be kept trimmed to a height of no more than 36 inches.
      (3)   On the portion of a lot between lines extending straight out from
both ends of the main front load-bearing wall and both ends of the main rear
load-bearing wall of the habitable structure upon such lot, all fences shall be
at least 50% open and no fence shall be more than six feet high; however, if a
written consent from the owner(s) of record of the adjacent realty is first
filed with the Building Inspector, a particular fence may be constructed,
erected or maintained of a solid, not open design or to any specified height
not over eight feet, or both. A hedge or other plant growth need not be 50%
open but must, at all times, be kept trimmed to a height of no more than five
feet high. On a corner lot, any fence in such side yard, adjacent to a street,
shall conform to the requirements of this division (B).
   (C)   On that portion of a lot to the rear of lines extending straight out
from both ends of the main rear load-bearing wall of the habitable structure
upon such lot and which is less than ten feet from any-adjacent realty, no
fence shall be more than six feet high; however, if a written consent from the
owner(s) of record of the adjacent realty is first filed with the Building
Inspector, a particular fence may be constructed, erected or maintained to any
specified height not over eight feet. On a corner lot, any fence in such side
yard, adjacent to a street, shall conform to the requirements of division (B)
above.
   (D)   Along the rear line of a lot, fences may not exceed eight feet in
height. On a corner lot, any fence erected along a rear lot line shall conform
to the requirements of division (B) above.
   (E)   Barbed wire, electric fencing and other materials capable of injuring
humans or animals shall not be used.
   (F)   No fence may be erected or maintained which hinders access to solar
energy necessary for the proper functioning of a solar energy system.
(Prior Code, § 150.08) (Ord. 93-10-01, passed 10-11-1993) Penalty, see §
150.99
HEALTH AND SAFETY STANDARDS FOR HOTELS, MOTELS AND LARGE APARTMENT BUILDINGS
§ 150.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APARTMENT. A dwelling unit, which includes private kitchen and bathroom
facilities and consists of one or more rooms designed, arranged, used or
intended for use for occupancy by one or more persons.
   APARTMENT BUILDING. Any premises having more than ten dwelling units, where
each dwelling unit includes kitchen and bathroom facilities and consists of one
or more rooms designed, arranged, used or intended for use for occupancy by one
or more persons.
   HOTEL. Any building or buildings with a common entrance or entrances, in
which lodging or rooming units are provided and offered to the public for
compensation, and which are open to transient, weekly, monthly or permanent
guests, and which may have accessory faculties, including, but not limited to,
a restaurant, banquet hall, ballroom, tavern, cocktail lounge, meeting rooms,
swimming pool and recreation facilities.
   MOTEL. Any building or buildings with a common entrance or entrances, or
with doorways opening directly to the outdoors, or both, in which lodging or
rooming units are provided and offered to the public for compensation, and
which are open to transient, weekly, monthly or permanent guests, and which may
have accessory facilities, including, but not limited to, a restaurant, banquet
hall, ballroom, tavern, cocktail lounge, meeting rooms, swimming pool and
recreation facilities. MOTEL includes HOTEL.
   PARKING SPACE. A durably surfaced area, comprising an area of not less than
180 square feet, sufficient in size to store one standard automobile, except to
the extent that a larger area may be required under state law for parking
spaces for handicapped persons.
   ROOM. When used in the context of hotels or motels, means a lodging or
rooming unit.
(Prior Code, § 150.20) (Ord. 90-10-01, passed 10-8-1990)
§ 150.21 REQUIRED EQUIPMENT IN COMMON AREAS.
   The owner or operator of any hotel, motel or apartment building shall
provide the following equipment:
   (A)   Lighting in interior corridors, hallways, stairways and entrance and
exit passageways and in exterior corridors, passageways and parking areas,
which provides adequate illumination of the floor or ground surfaces below;
   (B)   Emergency lights, powered by batteries or suitable auxiliary emergency
power source, which provide at least one footcandle illumination at floor
level, shall be installed in all rooms with an occupant load of 50 or more and
in interior corridors, hallways, stairways and entrance or exit passageways;
   (C)   Exit signs, powered by batteries or suitable auxiliary emergency power
source, shall be installed in all exit passageways;
   (D)   Smoke detectors, of a type complying with the rules and regulations of
the State Fire Marshal, and installed in conformance with § 3 of the Illinois
Smoke Detector Act, being 425 ILCS 60/3 and any amendments thereto.
      (1)   Additionally, owners or operators of hotels or motels shall make
available smoke detectors of a type suitable for deaf or hearing-impaired
persons, in conformance with § 3(g) of such Act, being 425 ILCS 60/3(g) as may
be hereafter amended.
      (2)   Smoke detectors as described herein shall be maintained in
satisfactory operating condition by the owner or operator of hotels and motels.
   (E)   A fire alarm system, which includes:
      (1)   Fixed temperature detectors in attic areas, storage rooms,
equipment rooms and furnace rooms;
      (2)   Rate-of-rise fixed temperature detectors in basements or cellars,
spaced not more than 50 feet apart;
      (3)   A fire horn and light in each common area, corridor or hallway
which is audible to persons in each hotel or motel room or in each apartment
unit and is visible to persons in such common area;
      (4)   A weatherproof outside fire horn with a sign placed nearby which
states “Fire Alarm - Call 911”;
      (5)   Photo-electric smoke detectors, as set forth in division (D) above;
      (6)   Fire alarm pulls or actuators at or near exits; and
      (7)   A control panel which indicates the location of the pull or
actuator signal and is connected to a suitable auxiliary emergency power source
and a Knox box at or near the main entrance of such hotel, motel or apartment
building.
   (F)   A fire extinguishing (“sprinkler”) system throughout the building,
with all entrance piping, risers and standpipes made of copper piping, not
plastic and with a sufficient number of sprinkler heads to douse fires in
common areas or within rooms or dwelling units, or portable, hand-operated fire
extinguishers of sufficient capacity and in sufficient number and located in
appropriate locations so as to be effectively utilized for extinguishing fires
in common areas of within rooms or dwelling units; and
   (G)   Adequate heat, and if the structure is equipped with central air
conditioning, adequate cooling in all common areas. Portable heaters of any
design shall not be utilized by an owner or operator.
(Prior Code, § 150.21) (Ord. 90-10-01, passed 10-8-1990; Ord. 97-06-03, passed
6-9-1997) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.22 REQUIRED EQUIPMENT FOR ROOMS OR UNITS.
   The owner or operator of any hotel or motel shall provide the following
equipment in each room, and the owner or operator of any apartment building
shall provide the following equipment in each dwelling unit:
   (A)   Entry doors to each room of a hotel or motel, and to each unit in an
apartment building, as distinct from interior doors, shall have a fire rating
in accordance with the Village Building Code, and each/shall have operable
knobs, lockset, peephole device and security latch or chain;
   (B)   Instructions explaining procedures to be used in case of a fire, which
shall be posted in a location where they are readily accessible and will be
frequently seen by users of such rooms or dwelling units. Posting on the
backside of the door of an upper kitchen cabinet, on the backside of a closet
door that opens out or on the inside of a bathroom door shall be considered
compliance with this requirement. The instructions must include a diagram
showing the location of the room with all nearby exits;
   (C)   A bathroom which contains at least one lavatory basin and one bathtub
or shower, both with hot and cold running water, one flush toilet, one electric
light and one electric ventilation fan. In the case of apartment buildings,
each dwelling unit shall also contain a kitchen area, having at least a sink
with hot and cold running water, a cooking stove, an electric light, an
electric ventilation fan and a refrigerator, all of which shall be in close
proximity. Such sink, light and ventilation fan shall be provided by the owner
or operator, but the owner or operator may require the tenant to supply the
cooking stove or refrigerator or both;
   (D)   Ground fault circuit interrupter receptacles at any electric wall
outlet in a bathroom or kitchen or at electric outlets otherwise in the same
room and in close proximity to a basin or sink;
   (E)   At least one electric light connected to a wall switch, immediately
adjacent to the entry door to each room of a hotel or motel and to each unit in
an apartment building;
   (F)   If neither central air conditioning nor window air conditioners are
provided, each room of a hotel or motel and each unit in an apartment building
shall have one or more windows which can be opened and closed, each of which
shall be fitted with a screen;
   (G)   Shades, draperies or blinds on each window; and
   (H)   Adequate heat, and, if the structure is equipped with central air
conditioning, adequate cooling and thermostatic controls for each, in each room
of a hotel or motel and in each unit of an apartment building. Portable heaters
of any design shall not be utilized by an owner or operator.
(Prior Code, § 150.22) (Ord. 90-10-01, passed 10-8-1990) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.23 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR HOTELS AND MOTELS.
   The owners and operators of hotels or motels shall provide the following:
   (A)   Provision for the registration of all guests, with such registration
to include at least the name and permanent address of each guest. Registration
records shall be made available immediately to police or fire officials in the
event of an emergency at such hotel or motel. Additionally, all guest
registrations shall be made at a central desk;
   (B)   The central registration desk shall be staffed by a clerk 24 hours a
day. Having a desk clerk available within the building to respond when called
to the desk shall be deemed sufficient compliance with this requirement;
   (C)   Each room shall be directly connected to the central registration desk
by telephone; and
   (D)   Soiled linen in each room shall be replaced whenever a guest
terminates a stay at such hotel or motel or at least daily.
(Prior Code, § 150.23) (Ord. 90-10-01, passed 10-8-1990) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.24 MAINTENANCE OF REQUIRED EQUIPMENT.
   All equipment required by §§
150.21 through
150.23 shall be maintained in satisfactory operating condition by the owner or
operator of such hotel, motel or apartment building.
(Prior Code, § 150.24) (Ord. 90-10-01, passed 10-8-1990) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.25 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   The owner or operator of each hotel or motel shall provide off-street
vehicle parking spaces, totaling one and one-half times the number of rooms in
such hotel or motel. Such spaces shall be on the same parcel of land as the
hotel or motel or on land immediately adjacent to such hotel or motel, which is
owned by or under lease to the owner or operator thereof. The owner or operator
of each apartment building shall provide off-street vehicle parking spaces,
totaling two times the number of dwelling units in such apartment building.
Such spaces shall be on the same parcel of land as the apartment building or on
land immediately adjacent to such apartment building, which is owned by or
under lease to the owner or operator thereof.
(Prior Code, § 150.25) (Ord. 90-10-01, passed 10-8-1990) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.26 ENVIRONMENTAL BARRIERS.
   Compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall not relieve the owner
or operator of each hotel, motel or apartment building from compliance with the
Illinois Environmental Barriers Act (410 ILCS 25/1).
(Prior Code, § 150.26) (Ord. 90-10-01, passed 10-8-1990)
§ 150.27 SWIMMING POOLS.
   Compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall not relieve the owner
or operator of each hotel, motel or apartment building from compliance with the
Swimming Facility Act (210 ILCS 125/1).
(Prior Code, § 150.27) (Ord. 90-10-01, passed 10-8-1990)
§ 150.28 VARIANCES.
   The owner or operator of any hotel, motel or apartment may be granted a
variance from any of the requirements of this chapter, under the following
procedure and upon the following terms.
   (A)   The owner or operator who seeks a variance shall file a written
petition for variance which:
      (1)   Identifies the owner;
      (2)   Identifies the operator, if any;
      (3)   Gives the common address and the legal description of the property;
      (4)   Cites the specific term or terms of this chapter from which
variance is sought; and
      (5)   Gives the reason or reasons why such owner or operator believes a
variance should be granted. If financial hardship is advanced as the reason for
the granting of a variance, current balance sheets and financial statements of
the owner and operator, if any, as prepared by a certified public accountant
(s), shall be included with the petition. The petition and all supporting
documents shall be filed with the Village Clerk. A filing fee of $150 is
payable upon filing the petition.
   (B)   Simultaneously upon filing a petition for variance, the owner or
operator seeking a variance shall post one or more notices of such petition in
prominent locations at the hotel, motel or apartment building in question. Such
notice(s) shall remain posted until the date of the hearing and must be
replaced by the owner or operator if removed or defaced. The owner or operator
shall provide the President and Board of Trustees with sufficient proof that
such notice was posted and remained in place until the date of the hearing.
   (C)   The President and Board of Trustees shall consider the petition at a
regular or special meeting no less than ten days nor more than 45 days after
the filing of the petition.
   (D)   At such hearing, the owner or operator bears the burden of proving the
matters set forth in the petition by a preponderance of the evidence. Formal
rules of evidence shall not apply. Proponents shall be heard first, followed by
opponents. Repetitive or cumulative evidence may be limited or barred and time
limits may be imposed by the President and Board of Trustees. Proponents and
opponents may be represented by counsel.
   (E)   The variance sought may be granted, in whole or in part, if a simple
majority of the corporate authorities present at such meeting determine either
that:
      (1)   Compliance with the term in question, under the particular
circumstances shown by the evidence, would not enhance the health and safety of
the public; or
      (2)   Compliance with the term in question would impose a severe
financial burden upon the owner and operator, if any. The specific terms of any
variance granted shall be set forth in writing, and any variance granted
because of financial burden shall expire not more than one year after the date
granted.
   (F)   An owner or operator may seek additional or subsequent variances by
filing new petitions therefor and otherwise complying with the foregoing rules.
(Prior Code, § 150.28) (Ord. 90-10-01, passed 10-8-1990)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provisions of §
150.08 shall be fined not less than $50, nor more than $200 per day for each
day upon which a violation occurs.
   (C)   Each violation of §§
150.20 to
150.28 shall be punishable by a fine against the owner or operator of not less
than $750 with each day upon which a violation occurs or continues to be viewed
as a separate violation. Additionally, the village may defer acting on the
request for any type of license or permit, or renewal thereof, until such time
as the situation giving rise to a violation is resolved.
(Prior Code, § 150.99) (Ord. 90-10-01, passed 10-8-1990; Ord. 93-10-01, passed
10-11-1993)
CHAPTER 151: MOBILE HOMES
Section
   
151.01   Definitions
   
151.02   Prohibited acts
§ 151.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOBILE HOME and TRAILER. Any object which is completely or partially
assembled, completely or partially enclosed or mounted on wheels or with wheels
removed, whether it is used for residential or commercial purposes or for
storage.
(Prior Code, § 151.01) (Ord. 06-04-02, passed 4-10-2006)
§ 151.02 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   The placing or erecting or parking of any structure or vehicle known as a
mobile home or trailer on any lot in the village is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 151.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 152: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
Section
   
152.01   Scope
   
152.02   Responsibility
   
152.03   Vacant structures and land
   
152.04   Sanitation
   
152.05   Grading and drainage
   
152.06   Sidewalks and driveways
   
152.07   Rodent harborage
   
152.08   Accessory structures
   
152.09   Defacement of property
   
152.10   Protective treatment
   
152.11   Exterior walls
   
152.12   Roofs and drainage
   
152.13   Window, skylight and door frames
   
152.14   Interior surfaces
   
152.15   Swimming pools
   
152.16   Unsafe conditions
§ 152.01 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this chapter shall govern the minimum conditions and the
responsibilities of persons for maintenance of structures, equipment, interior
and exterior property.
(Prior Code, § 152.01) (Ord. 14-08-02, passed 8-12-2014)
§ 152.02 RESPONSIBILITY.
   The owner of the premises shall maintain the structures and exterior
property in compliance with these requirements, except as otherwise provided
for in this code. A person shall not occupy as owner-occupant or permit another
person to occupy premises which are not in a sanitary and safe condition and
which do not comply with the requirements of this chapter. Occupants of a
dwelling unit, rooming unit or housekeeping unit are responsible for keeping in
a clean, sanitary and safe condition that part of the dwelling unit, rooming
unit, housekeeping unit or premises which they occupy and control.
(Prior Code, § 152.02) (Ord. 14-08-02, passed 8-12-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.03 VACANT STRUCTURES AND LAND.
   All vacant structures and premises thereof or vacant land shall be
maintained in a clean, safe, secure and sanitary condition, as provided herein,
so as not to cause a blighting problem or adversely affect the public health or
safety.
(Prior Code, § 152.03) (Ord. 14-08-02, passed 8-12-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.04 SANITATION.
   All property and premises shall be maintained in a clean, safe and sanitary
condition. The occupant shall keep that part of the property which such
occupant occupies or controls in a clean and sanitary condition.
(Prior Code, § 152.04) (Ord. 14-08-02, passed 8-12-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.05 GRADING AND DRAINAGE.
   All premises shall be graded and maintained to prevent the erosion of soil
and to prevent the accumulation of stagnant water thereon, or within any
structure located thereon.
(Prior Code, § 152.05) (Ord. 14-08-02, passed 8-12-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.06 SIDEWALKS AND DRIVEWAYS.
   All sidewalks, walkways, stairs, driveways, parking spaces and similar areas
shall be kept in a proper state of repair, and maintained free from hazardous
conditions.
(Prior Code, § 152.06) (Ord. 14-08-02, passed 8-12-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.07 RODENT HARBORAGE.
   All structures and exterior property shall be kept free from rodent
harborage and infestation. Where rodents are found, they shall be promptly
eliminated by approved processes which will not be injurious to human health.
After pest elimination, proper precautions shall be taken to eliminate rodent
harborage and prevent re-infestation.
(Prior Code, § 152.07) (Ord. 14-08-02, passed 8-12-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.08 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
   All accessory structures, including detached garages, fences and walls,
shall be maintained structurally sound and in good repair.
(Prior Code, § 152.08) (Ord. 14-08-02, passed 8-12-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.09 DEFACEMENT OF PROPERTY.
   No person shall willfully or wantonly damage, mutilate or deface any
exterior surface of any structure or building on any private or public property
by placing thereon any marking, carving or graffiti.
(Prior Code, § 152.09) (Ord. 14-08-02, passed 8-12-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.10 PROTECTIVE TREATMENT.
   (A)   All exterior surfaces, including, but not limited to, doors, door and
window frames, cornices, porches, trim, balconies, decks and fences, shall be
maintained in good condition. Exterior wood surfaces, other than decay-
resistant woods, shall be protected from the elements and decay by painting or
other protective covering or treatment. Peeling, flaking and chipped paint
shall be eliminated and surfaces repainted.
   (B)   All siding and masonry joints, as well as those between the building
envelope and the perimeter of windows, doors and skylights, shall be maintained
weather resistant and water-tight. All metal surfaces subject to rust or
corrosion shall be coated to inhibit such rust and corrosion, and all surfaces
with rust or corrosion shall be stabilized and coated to inhibit future rust
and corrosion. Oxidation stains shall be removed from exterior surfaces.
Surfaces designed for stabilization by oxidation are exempt from this
requirement.
(Prior Code, § 152.10) (Ord. 14-08-02, passed 8-12-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.11 EXTERIOR WALLS.
   All exterior walls shall be free from holes, breaks and loose or rotting
materials, and maintained weatherproof and properly surface coated where
required to prevent deterioration.
(Prior Code, § 152.11) (Ord. 14-08-02, passed 8-12-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.12 ROOFS AND DRAINAGE.
   (A)   The roof and flashing shall be sound, tight and not have defects that
admit rain. Roof drainage shall be adequate to prevent dampness or
deterioration in the walls or interior portion of the structure. Roof drains,
gutters and downspouts shall be maintained in good repair and free from
obstructions. Roof water shall not be discharged in a manner that creates a
public nuisance.
   (B)   Drainage of roofs and paved areas, yards and courts, and other open
areas on the premises shall not be discharged in a manner that creates a public
nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 152.12) (Ord. 14-08-02, passed 8-12-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.13 WINDOW, SKYLIGHT AND DOOR FRAMES.
   Every window, skylight, door and frame shall be kept in sound condition,
good repair and weather-tight.
(Prior Code, § 152.13) (Ord. 14-08-02, passed 8-12-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.14 INTERIOR SURFACES.
   All interior surfaces, including windows and doors, shall be maintained in
good, clean and sanitary condition. Peeling, chipping, flaking or abraded paint
shall be repaired, removed or covered. Cracked or loose plaster, decayed wood
and other defective surface conditions shall be corrected.
(Prior Code, § 152.14) (Ord. 14-08-02, passed 8-12-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.15 SWIMMING POOLS.
   Swimming pools shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition, and in
good repair.
(Prior Code, § 152.15) (Ord. 14-08-02, passed 8-12-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.16 UNSAFE CONDITIONS.
   The following conditions shall be determined as unsafe and shall be repaired
or replaced to comply with the International Building Code:
   (A)   The nominal strength of any structural member is exceeded by nominal
loads, the load effects or the required strength;
   (B)   The anchorage of the floor or roof to walls or columns, and of walls
and columns to foundations is not capable of resisting all nominal loads or
load effects;
   (C)   Structures or components thereof that have reached their limit state;
   (D)   Siding and masonry joints, including joints between the building
envelope and the perimeter of windows, doors and skylights are not maintained,
weather resistant or water-tight;
   (E)   Structural members that have evidence of deterioration or that are not
capable of safely supporting all nominal loads and load effects;
   (F)   Foundation systems that are not firmly supported by footings, are not
plumb and free from open cracks and breaks, are not properly anchored or are
not capable of supporting all nominal loads and resisting all load effects;
   (G)   Exterior walls that are not anchored to supporting and supported
elements or are not plumb and free of holes, cracks or breaks and loose or
rotting materials; are not properly anchored; or are not capable of supporting
all nominal loads and resisting all load effects;
   (H)   Roofing or roofing components that have defects that admit rain, roof
surfaces with inadequate drainage or any portion of the roof framing that is
not in good repair with signs of deterioration, fatigue or without proper
anchorage and incapable of supporting all nominal loads and resisting all load
effects;
   (I)   Flooring and flooring components with defects that affect
serviceability or flooring components that show signs of deterioration or
fatigue, are not properly anchored or are incapable of supporting all nominal
loads and resisting all load effects;
   (J)   Veneer, cornices, belt courses, corbels, trim, wall facings and
similar decorative features not properly anchored or that are anchored with
connections not capable of supporting all nominal loads and resisting, all load
effects;
   (K)   Overhang extensions or projections, including, but not limited to,
trash chutes, canopies, marquees, signs, awnings, fire escapes, standpipes and
exhaust ducts not properly anchored or that are anchored with connections not
capable of supporting all nominal loads and resisting all load effects;
   (L)   Exterior stairs, decks, porches, balconies and all similar
appurtenances attached thereto, including guards and handrails, are not
structurally sound, not properly anchored or that are anchored with connections
not capable of supporting all nominal loads and resisting all load effects; or
   (M)   Chimneys, cooling towers, smokestacks and similar appurtenances not
structurally sound or not properly anchored, or that are anchored with
connections not capable of supporting all nominal loads and resisting all load
effects.
(Prior Code, § 152.16) (Ord. 14-08-02, passed 8-12-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 153: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Title
   
153.002   Jurisdiction
   
153.003   Authority and purpose
   
153.004   Interpretation; when plats required
   
153.005   Definitions
   
153.006   Official map
   
153.007   Plat officer
   
153.008   Variances
   
153.009   Amendments
   
153.010   Subdivision review procedure table
   
153.011   Village corporate limits and street map
   
153.012   2006 zoning map
   
153.013   2006 drainage map
   
153.014   2006 water distribution map
   
153.015   2006 sanitary sewer map
   
153.016   Subdivision submittal schematic
Location and Sketch Maps
   
153.030   Purpose
   
153.031   Submission requirements
   
153.032   Subdivision site suitability
   
153.033   Location and sketch maps review process
   
153.034   Validity of location and sketch maps approval
   
153.035   Checklist for location and sketch maps
   
153.036   Location and sketch maps; flow diagram
Preliminary Plan
   
153.050   Purpose
   
153.051   Submission requirements
   
153.052   Preliminary plan review process
   
153.053   Village Board action
   
153.054   Validity of preliminary plan; reaffirmation of preliminary plan
   
153.055   Checklist for preliminary plan
   
153.056   Preliminary plan; flow diagram
Construction Plans
   
153.070   Purpose
   
153.071   Submission requirements
   
153.072   Construction plan review process
   
153.073   Checklist for construction plans
   
153.074   Construction plans; flow diagram
Construction and Bonding of Public Improvements
   
153.085   Notification of construction
   
153.086   Review and inspection fees
   
153.087   Inspection of construction
   
153.088   Security for public improvements
   
153.089   Length security in effect; forfeiture
   
153.090   Approval of public improvements
   
153.091   Checklist for construction and bonding
Final Plat
   
153.105   Purpose
   
153.106   Submission requirements
   
153.107   Final plat review process
   
153.108   Submission of final plat to the Village Board
   
153.109   Village Board approval
   
153.110   Recording the final plat
   
153.111   Acceptance of public improvements
   
153.112   Sample surveyor’s certificate
   
153.113   Sample ownership certificate
   
153.114   Sample drainage certificate
   
153.115   Sample school district certificate
   
153.116   Sample tax certificate
   
153.117   Sample permission to record certificate
   
153.118   Checklist for final plat
   
153.119   Final plat; flow diagram
Design Standards and Specifications for Required Public Improvements
   
153.130   State specifications
   
153.131   Right-of-way of streets
   
153.132   Street design
   
153.133   Lot and block design
   
153.134   Erosion and sediment control
   
153.135   Utility easements location of utilities
   
153.136   Surface water drainage
   
153.137   Backfill over underground utilities
   
153.138   Sewage disposal
   
153.139   Water supply
   
153.140   Electric distribution
   
153.141   Street lighting
   
153.142   Public areas and open spaces
   
153.143   Sidewalks
Minor Subdivisions
   
153.155   Purpose
   
153.156   Location map
   
153.157   Final plat submission requirements
   
153.158   Review process
   
153.159   Submission of minor subdivision plat to the Village Board
   
153.160   Recording the minor subdivision plat
   
153.161   Limitations on minor subdivisions
   
153.162   Checklist for minor subdivision
   
153.163   Minor subdivision; flow diagram
   
153.164   Minor subdivision final plat; flow diagram
Site Development
   
153.175   Purpose
   
153.176   Submission requirements
   
153.177   Standard and requirements
   
153.178   Review process
   
153.179   Review by the Village Board
   
153.180   Construction plans
   
153.181   Construction and securities
   
153.182   Checklist for site development
   
153.183   Site development; flow diagram
Tract Survey
   
153.195   Purpose
   
153.196   Submission requirements
   
153.197   Review process
   
153.198   Recording the tract survey
   
153.199   Checklist for tract survey
 
   
153.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 TITLE.
   This chapter may be cited as “the 2006 Land Subdivision Ordinance of the
Village of Southern View and Official Map Ordinance”.
(Prior Code, § 153.001) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.002 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The subdivision and site development jurisdiction of the village shall
include all land lying within the village corporate limits.
   (B)   The subdivision map herein referred to and identified by the title
thereon as “Village of Southern View and Environs, Official Map” is adopted
herein as a part hereof, together with all explanatory matters thereon.
   (C)   Should the village acquire extraterritorial subdivision jurisdiction
which overlay that of another municipality, a contractual agreement between the
village and the other municipality may be established which designates
subdivision jurisdiction boundaries in the overlap area. In the absence of such
an agreement, the jurisdiction shall extend to a median line equidistance from
the village boundary and the boundary of the other municipality nearest to the
boundary of the village at any given point on the line.
(Prior Code, § 153.002) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.003 AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter is adopted under the authority of division 12, Illinois
Municipal Code, being 65 ILCS 5/11-12-4 et seq.
   (B)   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote growth and development
and to regulate and control the division of land within the subdivision
approval jurisdiction of the village in order to provide for the legal and
orderly division of land by requiring proper description, monumentation and
recording of subdivided land and to promote growth of the community which
protects the public health and safety and provides essential public services to
existing and future residents.
   (C)   The goals and objectives of the subdivision regulations and official
maps as set forth and made a part hereof are as follows:
      (1)   To provide for the harmonious development of the village and its
environs as outlined and for the coordination of streets and subdivisions with
other existing or planned streets and for the preservation of adequate open
spaces for traffic, light and air and for the distribution of population and
traffic to the extent that favorable conditions in regard to health, safety and
general welfare are protected or created;
      (2)   To assure that development will follow proposals of the overall
Comprehensive Plan for the village and the environs embraced herein (should
such a plan be developed and adopted);
      (3)   To assure that a coordinated effort will be made between utilities,
service and developers so that streets and other improvements will be properly
installed; and
      (4)   To assure that a minimum level of improvements will be required of
all subdividers.
(Prior Code, § 153.003) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.004 INTERPRETATION; WHEN PLATS REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for a subdivider of land within the subdivision
jurisdiction of the village to subdivide land into lots, blocks, streets,
alleys or public open space unless by plat in accordance with the laws of the
state and the provisions of this chapter; it shall be unlawful to divide land
without obtaining tract survey approval, when required.
   (A)   Conflicts with deeds and covenants. In case of any conflict between
this chapter or part thereof and the whole or part of any existing or future
private covenants or deeds, the most restrictive shall apply.
   (B)   Exemptions from provisions. The provisions of this chapter shall not
apply, except as noted with respect to tract surveys, and no plat is required
in any of the following instances (Plats Act) 765 ILCS 205/0.01 et seq.:
      (1)   The division or subdivision of land into parcels or tracts of five
acres or more in size which does not involve any new streets or easements of
access;
      (2)   The division of lots or blocks of less than one acre in any
recorded subdivision which does not involve any new streets or easements of
access;
      (3)   The sale or exchange of parcels of land between owners of adjoining
and contiguous land, except where the transfer results in the creation of
another buildable lot;
      (4)   The conveyance of parcels of land or interests therein for the use
as a right-of-way for railroads or other public utility facilities and other
pipe lines, which does not involve any new streets or easements of access;
      (5)   The conveyance of land owned by a railroad or other public utility,
which does not involve any new streets or easements of access;
      (6)   The conveyance of land owned for highway or other public purposes
or grants or conveyances relating to the dedication of land for public use or
instruments relating to the vacation of land impressed with public use;
      (7)   Conveyance made to correct descriptions in prior conveyances;
      (8)   The sale or exchange of parcels or tracts of land following the
division into no more than two parts of a particular parcel or tract of land
existing on July 17, 1959 and not involving any new streets or easements of
access. If a division is made prior to October 1, 1973 for which an exemption
is claimed pursuant to this division (B)(8), and the division results in one
part being greater than five acres and the other part being less than five
acres, then the subsequent division of the part greater than five acres shall
qualify for the exemption set forth in division (B)(9) below. If a division is
made on or after October 1, 1973 for which an exemption is claimed pursuant to
this division (B)(8), and the division results in one part being greater than
five acres and the other part being less than five acres, then the subsequent
division of the part greater than five acres shall not qualify for the
exemption set forth in division (B)(9); or
      (9)   The sale of a single lot less than five acres from a tract of five
acres or larger when a survey is made by a registered surveyor; provided,
however, that this exemption shall not apply to the sale of any subsequent lots
from the same larger tract of land, as determined by the dimensions and
configuration of the larger tract on October 1, 1973, and provided that this
exemption does not invalidate any other local requirements applicable to the
subdivision of the land.
   (C)   Tract survey. A tract survey shall be required for a division or
subdivision of land for which no plat is required under division (B) above. All
tract surveys shall be approved and recorded in accordance with §§
153.195 through
153.198.
(Prior Code, § 153.004) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.005 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. All words
used in the present tense include the future tense, all words in the singular
include the plural and all words in the plural include the singular.
   ALLEY. A public way used primarily as a service access to the rear or side
of a property which abuts a street.
   ARTERIAL ROADWAY NETWORK PLAN. The portion of the Official Village Plan
(when developed) provided and planning for the present and future system of
streets for the village.
   AS BUILT PLANS. Final plans showing any changes from the construction plans,
indicating in detail how the project was constructed. Such plans show all
public facilities as built on the surface and underground, both on public
property and on easements and also indicate all private utility locations that
are known. Details shown include sanitary and storm sewers, manholes, invert
grades, bench marks, location of sanitary sewer laterals, street inlets,
hydrants, general flow of surface water and grades for drainage swales on the
lot. The AS BUILT PLANS carry the seal of a registered professional engineer
certifying that construction was completed in conformance with the plans and
specifications.
   BLOCK. A tract of land bounded by streets, or by a combination of streets,
parks, railroad rights-of-way or bodies of water.
   COLLECTOR STREETS. Streets penetrating neighborhoods collecting traffic from
local streets and channeling it in to the arterial street system. A minor
amount of through traffic may be expected, but COLLECTOR STREETS primarily
provide land access service and carry local traffic movements within
residential neighborhoods and commercial and industrial areas.
   CONSTRUCTION PLANS. The drawings prepared in the manner and containing the
data, documents and information required by §§
153.070 through
153.074.
   COVENANT. A private agreement written into the deed in which property owners
of the development promise to do or refrain from doing certain acts.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A permanent street with a single access point that ends in a
turnaround and cannot be further extended without taking property not dedicated
as a street. A CUL-DE-SAC begins at its point of intersection with a street
with multiple access.
   DEDICATE. To transfer ownership of land, either fee simple or a partial
interest, for a public use, and for a public body to accept it for that public
use.
   DRAINAGE COURSE. A natural watercourse, swale, depression or ditch for the
drainage of surface waters and storm waters.
   EASEMENT. A liberty, privilege or advantage which a party or the general
public may have regarding the land of another. The remainder of the rights in
the land remain in the hands of the owner who retains the legal title.
   EXISTING TOWNSHIP HIGHWAY. Any public road in the township which is owned
and maintained by the township.
   FINAL PLAT. The drawing of a subdivision prepared in the manner and
containing the data, documents and information required by this chapter showing
lots of record and which is to be recorded.
   FLAG LOT. A lot located behind another lot or parcel with access to a public
street only by a narrow strip of land extending from the buildable area of the
lot to the street.
   HALF STREET. A street dedicated to less than its full planned width.
   LARGE SCALE DEVELOPMENT. A form of land subdivision which involves the
construction of a multi-family or commercial building on a lot or parcel of
land one acre or more in size or two or more principal multi-family or
commercial buildings on a lot or parcel of land of any size served by an
internal street and utility distribution.
   LOCATION MAP. A preliminary drawing or map of a proposed subdivision
containing the data and information required by this chapter.
   LOT. The tract within a subdivision marked by the subdivider as a numbered
tract to be offered as a unit of land for sale or transfer of ownership.
   MAJOR ARTERIAL STREETS AND ROADWAYS. The highest traffic volume corridors
serving major activity centers and the longest trip distances. Service to
abutting land is subordinate to the provision of travel service to major
traffic movements. They are normally spaced on a one-mile grid pattern and may
include expressways.
   MINOR ARTERIAL STREETS AND HIGHWAYS. Streets and roadways which interconnect
with and augment the major arterial street system and provide service trips of
moderate length at a somewhat lower level of travel mobility than major
arterials. MINOR ARTERIALS place more emphasis on land access and distributes
travel to geographic areas smaller than those identified with major arterials.
   MINOR SUBDIVISION. The creation of a total of up to four lots (counting the
original tract from which the lots are created) which front along a public
road.
   OFFICIAL MAP. Map established herein and on which may be indicated proposed
public improvements for the purpose of coordinating construction of public
improvement with future community development. (See §§ 153.011 through
153.015.)
   OFFICIAL PLAN (should one be developed) or COMPREHENSIVE PLAN (should one be
developed). The Village of Southern View, Illinois Comprehensive Plan.
   OWNER. Any or all persons, entities, trusts or corporation holding legal
title to the land to be subdivided. If the owner is a trust, all beneficiaries
shall be listed as owners. If the OWNER is a corporation, all principals and
officers shall be listed as owners.
   PAVEMENT WIDTH. The distance from the edge of the pavement to the edge of
the pavement but not including curb and gutter.
   PLAN COMMISSION (should one be developed). The Plan Commission of the
Village of Southern View, Illinois. The Village Board is acting in place of a
commission.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A form of land subdivision that allows the
development of ten or more acres of land with variations of some of the
restrictions of standard zoning and subdivision regulations.
   PLAT. The action of officially subdividing land or the final plat which is
approved by the village and recorded.
   PLAT OFFICER. The Executive Director of the Springfield-Sangamon County
Regional Planning Commission, or duly authorized representative.
   PRELIMINARY PLAN. A plan of proposed subdivision or greater area prepared in
the manner, and containing the data, documents and information, required by
this chapter.
   PRINCIPAL BUILDING. A building in which the principal use of the lot on
which it is located is conducted.
   PRIVATE STREET. A purported street, way or strip of land reserved for the
use of a limited number of persons or purposes and which is not a publicly
dedicated street.
   PUBLIC CROSSWALK. A ten-foot right-of-way through the interior of a block in
which a sidewalk meeting the construction standards of this chapter is built.
   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT. Any street, sanitary sewer, storm sewer, drainage way,
water main, sidewalk, parkway or other facility which the village or other
governmental unit owns, maintains or operates.
   PUBLIC STREET. A street owned and maintained by a governmental body.
   RECORD. To file a final plat approved by the Village of Southern View with
the County Recorder of Deeds.
   RESERVE STRIP. Narrow strip of land between a street adjacent to the
property line and the adjacent property, the strip being retained in private
ownership to prevent access of the neighboring property to an improved and
dedicated street.
   REVERSE FRONTAGE. A condition whereby both fronts and rears of properties
face on streets.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land which has been dedicated in fee simple to a
public body for streets, alleys and other public improvements as determined by
the public body.
   SANITARY SEWER. A constructed conduit connected with the sewer system that
is designated to carry liquids and solids other than storm water to the
Springfield Metro Sanitary District.
   SERVICE ACCESS STREET. A street parallel to and adjacent to a major street
which provides access from the major street to abutting properties.
   SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance required between the building and
the lot line adjoining the street right-of-way.
   SHALL/MAY. Shall means something is mandatory; MAY means something is
discretionary.
   SITE DEVELOPMENT PLAN. A layout of the site prepared in the manner and
containing the information required by this chapter.
   SKETCH PLAN. A general layout of a proposed subdivision prepared in the
manner and containing the information required by this chapter.
   STORM SEWER. A constructed conduit for carrying storm sewer to a drainage
course.
   STORM WATER. Water from roof downspouts, basement footing perimeter drains
and yard drains as well as surface runoff.
   STREET, ROAD and ALLEY. Rights-of-way dedicated to and accepted for the
public use and affording a means of access to abutting property.
   STUB STREET. A street which is intended to be extended but which temporarily
ends.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any or all owners, agents or persons controlling land who
commence proceedings under this chapter by submitting location and sketch maps
to the Plan Commission or by making land improvements in the form of buildings,
drives and utilities, but not necessarily involving the actual division of
land.
   SUBDIVISION OF LAND.
      (1)   The division of land into two or more parts, any of which is less
than five acres in size (see § 153.004(B) for exemptions);
      (2)   The dedication of streets or easements of access; or
      (3)   The creation of a planned unit development. In the event a
subdivision is a planned unit development, the standards and regulations of
this chapter shall govern.
   SUPERINTENDENT OF HIGHWAYS. The Sangamon County Superintendent of Highways.
   SURETY. A bonding agency that is financially qualified to do business in the
State of Illinois.
   THROUGH LOT. Any lot which is not a corner lot and which adjoins two streets
that are parallel or within 45 degrees of being parallel to each other.
   TOWNSHIP HIGHWAY COMMISSIONER. The Township Highway Commissioner for the
township in which the subdivision is located.
   TRACT SURVEY. A land survey, made by a State Professional Land Surveyor,
complying with the requirements of § 1 of An Act to Revise the Law in Relation
to Plats, (765 ILCS 205/0.01), as now or hereafter amended.
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICE. Any sign, signal marking or device placed on or
adjacent to a street or highway by authority of the village, the State
Department of Transportation or the County Superintendent of Highways.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Southern View, Illinois.
   VILLAGE BOARD. The Board of Trustees of the Village of Southern View,
Illinois.
   VILLAGE CLERK. The Village Clerk of the Village of Southern View, Illinois.
   VILLAGE ENGINEER. Thee Village Engineer of the Village of Southern View,
Illinois or person designated to act in the capacity of the Village Engineer in
the review of engineering data, as outlined herein where the services of a
VILLAGE ENGINEER are specifically mentioned; if a person is designated to act
in the capacity of VILLAGE ENGINEER, said person must be a registered
professional engineer with a civil engineering degree.
   WATER DEPARTMENT. Village Water, Light and Power (the Water Department).
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The Director of Building and Zoning of the Village of
Southern View (should one be developed). The Village President is acting in
place of a Zoning Administrator, and the Village Board is acting as the Zoning
Board.
(Prior Code, § 153.005) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.006 OFFICIAL MAP.
   (A)   Map established and adopted. There is hereby established for the
village and contiguous area an official map, which is included herein by
reference and adopted as part of these regulations.
   (B)   Procedures. The official map may show sites for planned public
facilities. Public facility sites, which may be indicated on the official map,
may include, but are not limited to, sites for new trafficways or widening of
existing trafficways; school and recreational sites; public building sites; and
sites for future storm drainage, electrical or other public service or utility
easements.
      (1)   Whenever the official map indicates the necessity for providing a
site for a planned public facility, the Village Board may require that the site
for the public use is designated on the subdivision plat before granting
approval to such plat, and, furthermore, that such site be held for that
specific use for a period of one year from the date of final plat approval.
      (2)   Whenever a site for public use shown on the official map has been
required to be indicated on a subdivision plat, the responsible agency having
jurisdiction of such use shall acquire the land so designated or commence
proceedings to acquire such land by condemnation within one year from date of
approval of such plat, and, if it does not do so within such period of one
year, the land so designated may then be used by the owners in any other manner
consistent with this chapter and the appropriate zoning regulations.
   (C)   Amendments or additions to map. Amendments to the official map,
including the indication of additional public sites to be shown on the map,
shall be considered amendments to this chapter and, therefore, shall be as
specified in §
153.009. Any agency requesting the establishment on the official map of a
future public site or easement which is not included on the official map and
shall indicate to the Village Board the need for the site in the particular
location specified.
(Prior Code, § 153.006) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.007 PLAT OFFICER.
   The office of the Plat Officer is hereby established in which is vested the
duty of administration of these regulations as specified herein and such other
related regulations as are assigned to that office by the Village Board. The
Plat Officer, to be appointed by the Village President, with the advice and
consent of the Village Board, shall be a person who is qualified by
professional or practical training and experience to conduct the affairs of
that office. The acting plat officer is Executive Director of the Springfield-
Sangamon County Regional Planning Commission, or duly authorized
representative.
(Prior Code, § 153.007) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.008 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Authority. The Village Board hereby reserves authority to vary the
strict applications of any of the provisions herein contained, but such
variances shall only be exercised upon written recommendation of the Village
Engineer or upon its own motion.
   (B)   Site development plans. The standards and requirements of these
regulations may be modified by the Village Board in the case of “site
development plan”, as defined herein, in accordance with the standards and
requirements as set forth in §§
153.175 through
153.183.
(Prior Code, § 153.008) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.009 AMENDMENTS.
   Amendments to this chapter shall be made by the Village Board, as provided
by statute; provided, however, that no amendment shall be adopted without first
referring the proposed amendment to the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 153.009) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.010 SUBDIVISION REVIEW PROCEDURE TABLE.
 Number of Prints and Reviewed By Payment Approval Valid For
                    Number of Prints    Payment             Approval Valid For
                    and Reviewed By
Location Map        9 - Village Board   None                1 year
Minor Subdivision   1 - Village                             
                    Engineer
                   1 - CWLP (water)                        
                    1 - Springfield
                   Metro Sanitary                          
                    District
                   1 - Springfield                         
                    Engineer*
                   1 - Springfield                         
                    Fire Department
                   1 - Appropriate                         
                    School District
                   1 - County Highway                      
                    Department*
                    1 - County
                   Department of                           
                    Public Health*
                   1 - County Soil and                     
                    Water Conservation*
                    1 - Appropriate
                   Township                                
                    Commissioner*
                    1 - State
                   Department of                           
                    Transportation*
                    1 - Any utility
                   provider that may                       
                    be affected
Location and Sketch 9 - Village Board   None                1 year
Maps
                   1 - Village                             
                    Engineer
                   1 - CWLP (water)                        
                    1 - Springfield
                   Metro Sanitary                          
                    District
                   1 - Springfield                         
                    Engineer*
                   1 - Springfield                         
                    Fire Department
                   1 - Appropriate                         
                    School District
                   1 - County Highway                      
                    Department*
                    1 - County
                   Department of                           
                    Public Health*
                   1 - County Soil and                     
                    Water Conservation*
                    1 - Appropriate
                   Township                                
                    Commissioner*
                    1 - State
                   Department of                           
                    Transportation*
                    1 - Any utility
                   provider that may                       
                    be affected
Preliminary Plan    9 - Village Board   $300                3 years
                   1 - Village                             
                    Engineer
                   1 - CWLP (water)                        
                    1 - Springfield
                    Metro Sanitary
                   District -                              
                    Springfield
                    Engineer*
                   1 - Springfield                         
                    Fire Department
                   1 - Appropriate                         
                    School District
                   1 - County Highway                      
                    Department*
                    1 - County
                   Department of                           
                    Public Health*
                   1 - County Soil and                     
                    Water Conservation*
                    1 - Appropriate
                   Township                                
                    Commissioner*
                    1 - State
                   Department of                           
                    Transportation*
                    1 - Any utility
                   provider that may                       
                    be affected
                                        Plan and inspection As long as
Construction Plans  2 - Village Board   fees (see footnote) preliminary plan is
                                                            current
                   1 - Village                             
                    Engineer
                   1 - CWLP (water)                        
                    1 - Springfield
                   Metro Sanitary                          
                    District
                   1 - Springfield                         
                    Engineer*
                   1 - County Highway                      
                    Department*
                    1 - County
                   Department of                           
                    Public Health*
                   1 - County Soil and                     
                    Water Conservation*
                    1 - Appropriate
                   Township                                
                    Commissioner*
                    1 - State
                   Department of                           
                    Transportation*
                    1 - Any utility
                   provider that may                       
                    be affected
                                        $100, plus plan
Final Plat          9 - Village Board   review and          2 years
                                        inspection fee (see
                                        footnote)
                   1 - Village                             
                    Engineer
                   1 - CWLP (water)                        
                    1 - Springfield
                    Metro Sanitary
                   District -                              
                    Springfield
                    Engineer*
                   1 - Springfield                         
                    Fire Department
                   1 - Appropriate                         
                    School District
                   1 - County Highway                      
                    Department*
                    1 - County
                   Department of                           
                    Public Health*
                   1 - County Soil and                     
                    Water Conservation*
                    1 - Appropriate
                   Township                                
                    Commissioner*
                    1 - State
                   Department of                           
                    Transportation *
                    1 - Any utility
                   provider that may                       
                    be affected
Preliminary Plan    9 - Village Board   None                3 years renewable 1
Reaffirmation                                               time
                   1 - Village                             
                    Engineer
                   1 - CWLP (water)                        
                    1 - Springfield
                   Metro Sanitary                          
                    District
                   1 - Springfield                         
                    Engineer*
                   1 - Springfield                         
                    Fire Department
                   1 - Appropriate                         
                    School District
                   1 - County Highway                      
                    Department*
                    1 - County
                   Department of                           
                    Public Health*
                   1 - County Soil and                     
                    Water Conservation*
                    1 - Appropriate
                   Township                                
                    Commissioner*
                    1 - State
                   Department of                           
                    Transportation*
                    1 - Any utility
                   provider that may                       
                    be affected
Minor Subdivision   9 - Village Board   $100                2 years
                   1 - Village                             
                    Engineer
                   1 - CWLP (water)                        
                    1 - Springfield
                    Metro Sanitary
                   District -                              
                    Springfield
                    Engineer*
                   1 - Springfield                         
                    Fire Department
                   1 - Appropriate                         
                    School District
                   1 - County Highway                      
                    Department*
                    1 - County
                   Department of                           
                    Public Health*
                   1 - County Soil and                     
                    Water Conservation*
                    1 - Appropriate
                   Township                                
                    Commissioner*
                    1 - State
                   Department of                           
                    Transportation*
                    1 - Any utility
                   provider that may                       
                    be affected
                                        $100, plus plan
Site Development    9 - Village Board   review and          2 years renewable 1
                                        inspection fee (see time
                                        footnote)
                   1 - Village                             
                    Engineer
                   1 - CWLP (water)                        
                    1 - Springfield
                    Metro Sanitary
                   District -                              
                    Springfield
                    Engineer*
                   1 - Springfield                         
                    Fire Department
                   1 - Appropriate                         
                    School District
                   1 - County Highway                      
                    Department*
                    1 - County
                   Department of                           
                    Public Health*
                   1 - County Soil and                     
                    Water Conservation*
                    1 - Appropriate
                   Township                                
                    Commissioner*
                    1 - State
                   Department of                           
                    Transportation*
                    1 - Any utility
                   provider that may                       
                    be affected
Tract Survey        5 - Village Board   $40                 180 days
*If applicable
Plan review and inspection fee - 0.7% of estimated construction cost
 
(Prior Code, § 153.010) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.011 VILLAGE CORPORATE LIMITS AND STREET MAP.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/70e6db68e9bd52c73ebac3b5ba2d3edbe6d9cbb0/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1679.png]
 
(Prior Code, § 153.011) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.012 2006 ZONING MAP.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/70e6db68e9bd52c73ebac3b5ba2d3edbe6d9cbb0/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1681.png]
 
(Prior Code, § 153.012) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.013 2006 DRAINAGE MAP.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/70e6db68e9bd52c73ebac3b5ba2d3edbe6d9cbb0/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1683.png]
 
(Pri or Code, § 153 .013) (Or d. 06- 01- 01, pas sed 1-9- 200 6)
§ 153.014 2006 WATER DISTRIBUTION MAP.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/70e6db68e9bd52c73ebac3b5ba2d3edbe6d9cbb0/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1685.png]
 
(Prior Code, § 153.014) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.015 2006 SANITARY SEWER MAP.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/70e6db68e9bd52c73ebac3b5ba2d3edbe6d9cbb0/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1687.png]
 
(Prior Code, § 153.015) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.016 SUBDIVISION SUBMITTAL SCHEMATIC.
   The subdivision submittal schematic includes the following:
   (A)   Submit location and sketch maps for approval;
   (B)   Submit preliminary plan for approval;
   (C)   Submit construction plans for approval;
   (D)   Submit final plat for approval and recording; and
   (E)   Construct subdivision.
(Prior Code, § 153.016) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
LOCATION AND SKETCH MAPS
§ 153.030 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the location and sketch maps is to determine the suitability
of the site for subdividing and subsequent development. Suitability shall be
measured by the conformance with the effect on natural resources and natural
systems, ability to provide adequate essential services to the site and
conformance with the goals of this chapter set forth in §
153.003(B).
(Prior Code, § 153.030) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.031 SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS.
   Information filed with the Village Board shall be of sufficient detail so
that the Board can determine whether and how essential services will be
provided and if the site is suitable.
   (A)   Location map.
      (1)   The location map shall consist of data added to an existing base
map of a suitable scale, covering an area of at least a one mile radius from
the tract proposed for development.
      (2)   The location map shall show the following information:
         (a)   North point, scale and date;
         (b)   Outline of the entire area owned or controlled by the subdivider
with approximate boundary dimensions and total acreage;
         (c)   Existing streets and roads expected to serve the area to be
subdivided; and
         (d)   Existing utility lines expected to serve the area to be
subdivided.
   (B)   Sketch map. The sketch map shall show the general layout and character
of the proposed development.
      (1)   The scale shall be no more than 100 feet to the inch. Exact
dimension or engineering plans are not required.
      (2)   The sketch map shall show the following information:
         (a)   North point, scale and date;
         (b)   Area to be subdivided with general dimensions;
         (c)   Proposed street network and alignments with existing streets;
         (d)   General lot layout;
         (e)   Potential open space - public parks, existing waterways,
drainage or retention areas and the like; and
         (f)   Outstanding or unusual natural features and vegetation.
   (C)   Additional information. In addition to the information required below,
any other information necessary for the Village Board to determine site
suitability or adequacy of mitigating factors, as outlined in §
153.032, shall be submitted:
      (1)   Title of the proposed subdivision;
      (2)   Names, addresses and phone numbers of the owner, subdivides
engineer and land surveyor. A contact person should be designated;
      (3)   Proposed use and approximate number of housing units;
      (4)   Existing and proposed zoning;
      (5)   Method of sewage disposal;
      (6)   Method of water supply;
      (7)   Electric service provider;
      (8)   Fire protection district;
      (9)   School district;
      (10)   Gas service provider; and
      (11)   Percolation test results (one test per each four lots), if
applicable.
(Prior Code, § 153.031) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.032 SUBDIVISION SITE SUITABILITY.
   (A)   Essential utilities and public services.
      (1)   Land proposed to be subdivided shall have essential utilities and
public services available within a reasonable distance and time period. Land to
which these essential utilities and services will not be so provided shall be
deemed unsuitable for subdividing.
      (2)   Essential utilities and services and criteria for determining if
they can adequately be provided shall include the following:
         (a)   Sewage disposal.
            1.   Sanitary sewer service provided by the Springfield Metro
Sanitary District shall be the preferred method of sewage disposal. If sanitary
sewer service is currently available to the land proposed to be subdivided, it
shall be the sewage disposal method used.
            2.   If sanitary sewer service is not currently available but the
land is within the ultimate service area, as identified in the Springfield
Metro Sanitary District’s Facility Plan and the Sanitary District determines
that sewer service will be available within a reasonable period, the land may
be deem suitable for subdividing if on-site sewage disposal facilities can and
will be provided.
            3.   If the land cannot be served with sanitary trunk sewers within
a reasonable period, or if the land is not within the ultimate service area, as
identified in the Springfield Metro Sanitary District’s Facility Plan and,
therefore, shall be unsuitable for subdividing unless it can be shown that
adequate private sewage systems can be provided.
         (b)   Water supply. A State Environmental Protection Agency approved
public water supply shall be the method of water supply;
         (c)   Fire protection. Land proposed to be subdivided shall meet the
following conditions in order to be deemed suitable for subdividing:
            1.   Land shall be within the area served, or to be served, by the
Springfield Fire Department or within a fire protection district;
            2.   There shall be a public road providing adequate access for
emergency vehicles to the site. Roadways shall have an all-weather driving
surface (minimum oil and chip) with 20 feet of unobstructed width. Where a
bridge is required to be used as a part of the most direct fire truck access
route, it shall have a minimum vertical clearance of 13 feet, six inches and be
constructed and maintained to carry the live loads imposed by fire trucks;
            3.   There shall be a system of water mains or other source of
water adequate for firefighting purposes. Specific fire flows shall be
determined by the Springfield Fire Department using a standard published by the
Insurance Service Office, entitled Guide for Determination of Required Fire
Flow; and
            4.   A full sprinkler system installed with adequate water
available, as determined by the National Fire Protection Association Standards
13 or 13D, depending on the occupancy of the building, shall also satisfy this
requirement.
         (d)   Streets.
            1.   The suitability of existing streets for access to the proposed
subdivision and/or for incorporation into the proposed subdivision’s street
system shall also be considered.
            2.   A street shall be considered suitable if:
               a.   The street is constructed of all weather material
(concrete, asphalt, oil mat) and has an adequate base course;
               b.   The paved area is at least 20 feet wide with a road bed 24
feet wide; and
               c.   The street has good drainage.
            3.   If only a portion of the criteria set forth in this division
(A)(2)(d) is met, the Village Engineer, a representative of the Springfield
Fire Department and a representative of the Village Board shall make the
recommendation as to whether the street is suitable for the proposed
development or what improvements must be undertaken to make it possible.
         (e)   Police protection. In determining the suitability of land for
subdivision purposes, the distance that police would have to travel to respond
to a call for service shall be considered.
   (B)   Other requirements. Land proposed to be subdivided shall meet the
following requirements:
      (1)   Site must be in conformance with the Village Comprehensive Plan
(should one be developed);
      (2)   Development must be in accord with appropriate jurisdictional
floodplain regulations;
      (3)   Development must not be located in any environmentally sensitive
area unless the subdivider can show that environmental concerns can be
mitigated;
      (4)   Site must be of a shape, size and terrain so that usable lots and
streets in conformance with this chapter can and will be created;
      (5)   Development must not have a major conflict with existing use of
adjacent property (waste water treatment plants, power plants, major industrial
plants, landfills, certain agricultural uses and the like) unless it is shown
that factors which cause the conflict can and will be mitigated;
      (6)   Development must not cause major off-site impacts and problems
relating to, but not limited to, streets, drainage water system and parks. If
it is determined by the Village Board that major off-site impacts will result,
the subdivider must agree to mitigate the portion of the impact caused by the
subdivision; and
      (7)   When soils in the area to be developed have severe limitations for
building site development or sanitary facilities, as determined by the USDA
Natural Resources Conservation Service, the subdivider shall submit information
indicating how these limitations will be addressed.
(Prior Code, § 153.032) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.033 LOCATION AND SKETCH MAPS REVIEW PROCESS.
   (A)   The subdivider shall submit nine prints of the location and sketch
maps and support data to the Village Clerk. The subdivision will be reviewed
according to the filing deadline and review schedule, as established by the
Village Board.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall retain two prints on file and distribute the
location map and sketch maps and support data as follows:
      (1)   One print to each Village Board member; and
      (2)   One print to the Village President.
   (C)   The subdivider shall also submit prints of the location and sketch
maps and support data along with the review schedule as established by the
Village Board to the following:
      (1)   One print to the Village Engineer;
      (2)   One to Village Water, Light and Power - Water Department;
      (3)   One to Springfield Metro Sanitary District;
      (4)   One to Springfield Engineering Department;
      (5)   One to Springfield Fire Department;
      (6)   One to the appropriate School District;
      (7)   One to the County Highway Department, if applicable;
      (8)   One to the County Department of Public Health, if applicable;
      (9)   One to the County Soil and Water Conservation District, if
applicable;
      (10)   One to the appropriate Township Commissioner, if applicable; and
      (11)   One to any additional utility provider that may be affected by the
development.
   (D)   The entities listed in divisions (B) and (C) above shall transmit any
comments on the suitability of the site, in writing, to the Village Clerk
within seven calendar days of receipt. Receipt of plans must be acknowledged.
   (E)   The Village Clerk then will compile the comments from all the entities
as listed in division (D) above within two calendar days.
   (F)   The compiled comments will then be distributed to the Village Board
and Village President to evaluate, at a special meeting, within five calendar
days, from the date of receipt from the Village Clerk. During the special
meeting, the Village Board shall make recommendations with respect to the
suitability of the site and the proposed layout. Lack of a recommended action
at the special Board meeting shall constitute a negative recommendation.
   (G)   After the special Board meeting, the Village Clerk shall submit all
comments and recommendations to the subdivider. The subdivider shall address
comments and review recommendations received from the Village Board. The
subdivider shall submit all comments and any revisions to the Village Clerk
within 14 calendar days for the next regular scheduled Village Board meeting.
   (H)   At the next regular Board meeting, the Village Board shall review the
comments and revisions received from the subdivider. The Village Board shall
approve or disapprove the location and sketch maps based on the suitability
criteria as previously outlined.
(Prior Code, § 153.033) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.034 VALIDITY OF LOCATION AND SKETCH MAPS APPROVAL.
   (A)   The location and sketch maps shall be valid for a period of one year
after Village Board approval.
   (B)   If a preliminary plan has not been submitted within the one-year
period, approval of the location and sketch maps shall expire.
   (C)   If interest is renewed in subdividing the site at a later time, the
entire location and sketch maps review process and submission requirements
shall be repeated.
(Prior Code, § 153.034) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.035 CHECKLIST FOR LOCATION AND SKETCH MAPS.
   (A)   Submission requirements.
Checklist for Location and Sketch Maps Yes No N/A
Checklist for Location and Sketch Maps                                         Yes No N/
                                                                                      A
A. Location map                                                                      
   1. Suitable scale with one mile radius from proposed tract                     
   2. North point, scale and date                                                 
   3. Outline of the entire area owned or controlled by the subdivider with       
approximate boundary dimensions and total acreage
   4. Existing streets and roads expected to serve the area to be subdivided      
   5. Existing utility lines expected to serve the area to be subdivided          
B. Sketch map                                                                        
   1. General layout for proposed development                                     
   2. North point, scale and date (no more than one inch equals 100 feet)         
   3. Area to be subdivided with general dimensions                               
   4. Proposed street network and alignments with existing streets                
   5. General lot layout                                                          
   6. Potential open space - public parks, existing waterways, drainage or        
retention areas and the like
   7. Outstanding or unusual natural features and vegetation                      
C. Additional information required                                                   
   1. Title of the proposed subdivision                                           
   2. Names, addresses and phone numbers of the owner, subdivider, engineer       
and land surveyor. A contact person should be designated
   3. Proposed use and approximate number of housing units                        
   4. Existing and proposed zoning                                                
   5. Method of sewage disposal                                                   
   6. Method of water supply                                                      
   7. Electric service provider                                                   
   8. Fire protection district                                                    
   9. School district                                                             
   10. Gas service provider                                                       
   11. Percolation test results (one test per each four lots), if applicable      
 
   (B)   Review process.
Checklist for Location and Sketch Maps Yes No N/A
Checklist for Location and Sketch Maps                              Yes No N/A
A. Subdivider submit nine prints of location and sketch maps with         
support data to the Village Clerk
B. Village Clerk shall distribute the location and sketch maps with       
support data as follows
   1. Retain two on file                                               
   2. One to each Village Board member                                 
   3. One to the Village President                                     
C. Subdivider shall submit one print of location and sketch maps          
with support data to the following
   1. Village Engineer                                                 
   2. Village Water, Light and Power (Water Department)                
   3. Springfield Metro Sanitary District                              
   4. Springfield Engineer Department                                  
   5. Springfield Fire Department                                      
   6. Appropriate School District                                      
   7. County Highway Department, if applicable                         
   8. County Department of Public Health, if applicable                
   9. County Soil and Water Conservation, if applicable                
   10. Appropriate Township Commissioner, if applicable                
   11. State Department of Transportation, if applicable               
   12. Any additional utility provider, if applicable                  
      (List Utility Name):                                          
      (List Utility Name):                                          
      (List Utility Name):                                          
D. Village Clerk received comments within seven calendar days from        
the following
   1. Each Board member                                                
      A. Board member                                               
      B. Board member                                               
      C. Board member                                               
      D. Board member                                               
      E. Board member                                               
      F. Board member                                               
   2. Village President                                                
   3. Village Engineer                                                 
   4. Village Water, Light and Power (Water Department)                
   5. Springfield Metro Sanitary District                              
   6. Springfield Engineer Department                                  
   7. Springfield Fire Department                                      
   8. Appropriate School District                                      
   9. County Highway Department, if applicable                         
   10. County Department of Public Health, if applicable               
   11. County Soil and Water Conservation, if applicable               
   12. Appropriate Township Commissioner, if applicable                
   13. State Department of Transportation, if applicable               
   14. Any additional utility provider, if applicable                  
      (List Utility Name):                                          
      (List Utility Name):                                          
      (List Utility Name):                                          
E. The Village Clerk compiled comments within two calendar days           
F. The Village Clerk shall distribute the compiled comment to the
Village Board and Village President to evaluate at a special Board        
meeting within five calendar days from date of receipt of comments
G. The Village Clerk shall submit comments from special Board
meeting to the subdivider 14 calendar days prior to next regular          
scheduled Board meeting
H. Next regular Board meeting, Village Board shall make                   
recommendations for
   1. Approval                                                         
   2. Disapproval                                                      
 
CHECKLIST FOR LOCATION AND SKETCH MAPS
COMMENTS:
Completed by:
_______________________________________________________________________
Address:
____________________________________________________________________________
Date:
_______________________________________________________________________________
Completed Copy to Village Clerk:      Date:
____________________________________________
                  By: _____________________________________________
Date Received: ___________________________________      By:
_______________________
                              Village Clerk
(Prior Code, § 153.035) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.036 LOCATION AND SKETCH MAPS; FLOW DIAGRAM.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/70e6db68e9bd52c73ebac3b5ba2d3edbe6d9cbb0/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1689.png]
 
(Prior Code, § 153.036) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
PRELIMINARY PLAN
§ 153.050 PURPOSE.
   The preliminary plan is intended to provide a detailed layout of the
proposed subdivision showing the location of public improvements, lots drainage
and open space areas.
(Prior Code, § 153.050) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.051 SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The preliminary plan shall show the information required in division
(B) below on plan sheets no larger than 24 by 36 inches with matching lines if
two or more sheets are necessary. The scale shall be no more than 100 feet to
the inch. All dimensions shall be to the nearest foot. The preliminary plan
shall be consistent with the current zoning district classification of the
property.
   (B)   Information to be shown on the plan sheets shall include:
      (1)   The title under which the proposed subdivision is to be recorded;
the names and addresses of the engineer, registered land surveyor, subdivider
and owner of the tract with the name and address of the contact person with
whom any notice is to be sent;
      (2)   North point, scale and date of preparation and any revisions;
      (3)   A notation stating “Preliminary Plan - Not to be Recorded by
Recorder of Deeds”;
      (4)   Total acreage;
      (5)   Location of all present property lines and section lines;
      (6)   The location of all streets, watercourses and other existing
features within the area to be subdivided and within 200 feet of the site;
      (7)   Location and dimensions of existing buildings and their proposed
disposition;
      (8)   The existing utilities, drainage courses and culverts including the
location and size of water mains and sewer outlets within the area to be
subdivided and on the adjacent land;
      (9)   Contours referring to the U.S. Geological Survey datum with
intervals of two feet or less unless a greater interval is required because of
terrain;
      (10)   The elevation of the 100-year floodplain if any portion of the
land to be subdivided would be submerged by the flood. Adequate buildable area
must be provided above the elevation of the 100-year floodplain;
      (11)   Lot numbers;
      (12)   Proposed location of sewer mains (may be shown on a supplemental
sheet);
      (13)   The proposed storm drainage system including preliminary drainage
computations when detention or retention is likely to be needed (may be shown
on a supplemental sheet). An assessment of long-term erosion, sedimentation and
runoff changes caused by the subdivision should be included;
      (14)   Proposed location of water mains and fire hydrants;
      (15)   Location and width to the nearest foot of all proposed streets,
alleys and their associated rights-of-way;
      (16)   Location and width to the nearest foot of lots;
      (17)   Location and width to the nearest foot of all utility easements.
The subdivider shall determine the correct location of all easements to be
shown on the preliminary plan from the utility companies;
      (18)   The location of areas to be reserved for public use;
      (19)   The minimum setback requirements for the appropriate zoning
district;
      (20)   Proposed staging of final plats if more than one final plat will
be submitted based on traffic, utilities and other factors which would
determine the sequence of development with the least impact on existing
residents of the village;
      (21)   Draft of subdivision covenants relating to the requirements of the
ordinance;
      (22)   Written approval of the location of road access by the
governmental entity with road jurisdiction; and
      (23)   Provide an electronic file of the preliminary plan in AutoCAD
format to the Village Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 153.051) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.052 PRELIMINARY PLAN REVIEW PROCESS.
   (A)   The subdivider shall file nine prints of the preliminary plan of the
proposed subdivision in the office of the Village Clerk with a filing fee of
$300 to be deposited in the appropriate village account. The subdivision will
be reviewed according to the filing deadline and review schedule established by
the Village Board.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall retain two prints on file and distribute the
location map and sketch maps and support data as follows:
      (1)   One print to each Village Board member; and
      (2)   One print to the Village President.
   (C)   The subdivider shall also submit prints of the preliminary plan and
support data along with the review schedule as established by the Village Board
to the following:
      (1)   One print to the Village Engineer;
      (2)   One to Village Water, Light and Power - Water Department;
      (3)   One to Springfield Metro Sanitary District;
      (4)   One to Springfield Engineering Department;
      (5)   One to Springfield Fire Department;
      (6)   One to the appropriate school district;
      (7)   One to the County Highway Department, if applicable;
      (8)   One to the County Department of Public Health, if applicable;
      (9)   One to the County Soil and Water Conservation District, if
applicable;
      (10)   One to the appropriate Township Commissioner, if applicable; and
      (11)   One to any additional utility provider that may be affected by the
development.
   (D)   The entities listed in divisions (B) and (C) above shall transmit any
comments on the suitability of the site, in writing, to the Village Clerk
within seven calendar days of receipt. Receipt of plans must be acknowledged.
   (E)   The Village Clerk then will compile the comments from all the entities
as listed in division (D) above within two calendar days.
   (F)   The compiled comments will then be distributed to the Village Board
and Village President to evaluate at a special meeting within five calendar
days from the date of receipt from the Village Clerk. During the special
meeting, the Village Board shall make recommendations with respect to the
suitability of the site and the proposed layout. Lack of a recommended action
at the special Board meeting shall constitute a negative recommendation;
however, no review will take place and no recommendation will be made by the
Village Board until the Village Board has approved the location and sketch
maps.
   (G)   After the special Board meeting, the Village Clerk shall submit all
comments and recommendations to the subdivider. The subdivider shall address
comments and review recommendations received from the Village Board. The
subdivider shall submit all comments and any revisions to the Village Clerk
within 28 calendar days for the next regular scheduled Village Board meeting.
(Prior Code, § 153.052) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.053 VILLAGE BOARD ACTION.
   (A)   At the next regular Board meeting, the Village Board shall review the
comments and revisions received from the subdivider.
      (1)   The Village Board shall approve or disapprove the preliminary plan.
At such meeting, the subdivider may appear and be heard by the Village Board if
it so desires.
      (2)   The Village Board shall, by ordinance, approve or disapprove the
preliminary plat, and shall appropriately endorse the prints of the preliminary
plan, as follows:
      (Dis)approved by ordinance of the Village President and Village Board of
the Village of Southern View this ________ day of ______________, 20____.
                                       ___________________________________
      Village President
      Attest:
      ____________________________________________
      Village Clerk
      (3)   One print so endorsed shall be retained on file in the village
office, one endorsed print shall be sent to the Village Engineer and the third
endorsed print and the endorsed original shall be returned to the subdivider,
or his or her representative.
   (B)   Disapproval.
      (1)   If the Village Board finds that the preliminary plan does not
comply with the requirements of this chapter, it shall inform the subdivider of
its disapproval, in writing, and state the noncompliance found.
      (2)   One print of the proposed preliminary plan with the written
findings of the Village Board disapproving the plan shall be retained by the
Village Board, Village Clerk and one copy of all comments and plans shall be
sent to the subdivider and the engineer.
      (3)   If the subdivider desires to amend the disapproved preliminary
plan, the subdivider shall begin the review process again. No filing fee shall
be necessary if the amended preliminary plan is filed within two months of
disapproval.
(Prior Code, § 153.053) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.054 VALIDITY OF PRELIMINARY PLAN; REAFFIRMATION OF PRELIMINARY PLAN.
   (A)   The preliminary plan shall be valid for a period of three years after
Village Board approval. If the final plat has not been submitted to the Village
Board within said three-year period, or, if submitted, no final plat is
approved, the preliminary plan shall expire.
   (B)   If the subdivider has not submitted a final plat within three years
after preliminary plan approval, but wishes to avoid expiration of the plan,
the subdivider shall seek reaffirmation of the plan by submitting the
preliminary plan in accordance with §§
153.052 or
153.053 no later than 35 months after the initial Village Board approval. If
the subdivider has submitted a final plat within said three-year period, but is
not approved during or after said three-year period, the subdivider may avoid
expiration of the preliminary plan by making the same preliminary plan
reaffirmation submission described above; provided that if the disapproval of
the final plat occurs during or after the thirty-fifth month, the submission
required shall be made within one month of such disapproval. In such event, the
review process in §§
153.052 or
153.053 shall be followed.
   (C)   Where reaffirmation of the preliminary plan is sought, the Village
Board shall recommend that any changes in the plan it deems necessary to meet
the requirements of this chapter. If the subdivider has not resubmitted the
preliminary plan with the required changes to the Village Board within 30 days
after the Village Board meeting requiring changes, or if the resubmitted plan
is disapproved, the plan shall expire at that time or at the end of any appeal
process provided for in this chapter, whichever is later.
   (D)   A preliminary plan may be reaffirmed one time. If a final plat has not
been submitted to the Village Board within three years from the date of the
reaffirmation, or, if submitted, is not approved, the plan shall expire.
   (E)   Final plat approval shall extend the validity of the preliminary plan
for three years from the date of final plat approval; provided that the Village
Board may require any changes necessary to meet the requirements of this
chapter, and, in such an event, the provisions of division (C) above, with
respect to resubmission, shall apply. The preliminary plan may be reaffirmed
one time after each final plat approval. If another final plat has not been
resubmitted within three years from the date of the reaffirmation, the
preliminary plan shall expire. In the event a preliminary plan expires, a
subdivider wishing to proceed with subdivision of the land involved must
resubmit a location and sketch map for review and proceed as in the case of an
original submittal.
(Prior Code, § 153.054) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.055 CHECKLIST FOR PRELIMINARY PLAN.
   (A)   Submission requirements.
Checklist for Preliminary Plan Yes No N/A
Checklist for Preliminary Plan                                                  Yes No N/
                                                                                       A
A. Preliminary plan                                                                   
   1. Plan sheet no larger than 24 inches by 36 inches                             
   2. All dimensions to the nearest foot                                           
   3. Current and proposed zoning                                                  
   4. The title under which the proposed subdivision is to be recorded; the
names and addresses of the engineer, registered land surveyor, subdivider and         
owner of the tract with the name and address of the contact person with whom
any notice is to be sent
   5. North point, scale and date of preparation and any revisions                 
   6. A notation stating “Preliminary Plan - Not to be Recorded by Recorder f    
Deeds”
   7. Total acreage                                                                
   8. Location of all present property lines and section lines                     
   9. The location of all streets, watercourses and other existing features        
within the area to be subdivided and within 200 feet of the site
   10. Location and dimensions of existing buildings and their proposed            
disposition
   11. The existing utilities, drainage course and culverts including the
location and size of water mains and sewer outlets within the area to be              
subdivided and on the adjacent land
   12. Contours referring to the U.S. Geological Survey datum with intervals       
two feet or less unless a greater interval is required because of terrain
   13. The elevation of the 100-year floodplain if any portion of the land to
be subdivided would be submerged by the flood. Adequate buildable area must be        
provided above the elevation of the 100-year floodplain
   14. Lot numbers                                                                 
   15. Proposed location of sewer mains (may be shown on a supplemental sheet      
   16. The proposed storm drainage system including preliminary drainage
computations when detention or retention is likely to be needed (may be shown         
on a supplemental sheet). An assessment of long term erosion, sedimentation and
runoff changes caused by the subdivision should be included
   17. Proposed location of water mains and fire hydrants                          
   18. Location and width to the nearest foot of all proposed streets, alleys      
and their associated rights-of-way
   19. Location and width to the nearest foot of lots                              
   20. Location and width to the nearest foot of all utility easements. The
subdivider shall determine the correct location of all easements to be shown on       
the preliminary plan from the utility companies
   21. The location of areas to be reserved for public use                         
   22. The minimum setback requirements for the appropriate zoning district        
   23. Proposed staging of final plats if more than one final plat will be
submitted based on traffic, utilities and other factors which would determine         
the sequence of development with the least impact on existing residents of the
village
   24. Draft of subdivision covenants relating to the requirements of the          
ordinance
   25. Written approval of the location of road access by the governmental         
entity with road jurisdiction
   26. Provide an electronic file of the preliminary plan in AutoCAD format to the
Village Engineer
 
   (B)   Review process.
Checklist for Preliminary Plan Yes No N/A
Checklist for Preliminary Plan                                                Yes No N/
                                                                                     A
A. Subdivider submit nine prints of preliminary plan with support data, and a       
check for $300 to the Village Clerk
B. Village Clerk shall distribute the preliminary plan with support data as         
follows
   1. Retain two on file                                                         
   2. One to each Village Board member                                           
   3. One to the Village President                                               
C. Subdivider shall submit one print of location and sketch maps with support       
data to the following
   1. Village Engineer                                                           
   2. Village Water, Light and Power (Water Department)                          
   3. Springfield Metro Sanitary District                                        
   4. Springfield Engineer Department                                            
   5. Springfield Fire Department                                                
   6. Appropriate school district                                                
   7. County Highway Department, if applicable                                   
   8. County Department of Public Health, if applicable                          
   9. County Soil and Water Conservation, if applicable                          
   10. Appropriate Township Commissioner, if applicable                          
   11. State Department of Transportation, if applicable                         
   12. Any additional utility provider, if applicable                            
      (List utility name):                                                    
      (List utility name):                                                    
      (List utility name):                                                    
D. Village Clerk received comments within seven calendar days from the              
following
   1. Each Board member                                                          
      A. Board member                                                         
      B. Board member                                                         
      C. Board member                                                         
      D. Board member                                                         
      E. Board member                                                         
      F. Board member                                                         
   2. Village President                                                          
   3. Village Engineer                                                           
   4. Village Water, Light and Power (Water Department)                          
   5. Springfield Metro Sanitary District                                        
   6. Springfield Engineer Department                                            
   7. Springfield Fire Department                                                
   8. Appropriate school district                                                
   9. County Highway Department, if applicable                                   
   10. County Department of Public Health, if applicable                         
   11. County Soil and Water Conservation, if applicable                         
   12. Appropriate Township Commissioner, if applicable                          
   13. State Department of Transportation, if applicable                         
   14. Any additional utility provider, if applicable                            
      (List utility name):                                                    
      (List utility name):                                                    
      (List utility name):                                                    
E. The Village Clerk compiled comments within two calendar days                     
F. The Village Clerk shall distribute the compiled comment to the Village
Board and Village President to evaluate at a special Board meeting within           
five calendar days from date of receipt of comments
G. The Village Clerk shall submit comments from special Board meeting to the        
subdivider 14 calendar days prior to the next regular scheduled Board meeting
   1. Approval                                                                   
      a. One print so endorsed shall be retained on file in the Village
office, one endorsed print shall be sent to the Village Engineer and the            
third endorsed print and the endorsed original shall be returned to the
subdivider, or his or her representative
   2. Disapproval                                                                
      a. If the Village Board finds that the preliminary plan does not comply
with the requirements of this chapter, it shall inform the subdivider of its        
disapproval, in writing, and state the noncompliance found
      b. One print of the proposed preliminary plan with the written findings
of the Village Board disapproving the plan shall be retained by the Village         
Board, Village Clerk and one copy of all comments and plans shall be sent to
the subdivider and the engineer
      c. If the subdivider desires to amend the disapproved preliminary plan,
the subdivider shall begin the review process again. No filing fee shall be         
necessary if the amended preliminary plan is filed within two months of
disapproval
 
COMMENTS:
Completed by:
_______________________________________________________________________
Address:
____________________________________________________________________________
Date:
_______________________________________________________________________________
Completed Copy to Village Clerk:      Date: ____________________
                  By:_________________________________________
Date Received: _________________   By:
_________________________________________
                        Village Clerk
(Prior Code, § 153.055) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.056 PRELIMINARY PLAN; FLOW DIAGRAM.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/70e6db68e9bd52c73ebac3b5ba2d3edbe6d9cbb0/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1691.png]
 
(Prior Code, § 153.056) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
CONSTRUCTION PLANS
§ 153.070 PURPOSE.
   Construction plans are intended to show the design of public improvements
for the subdivision so that a determination can be made as to whether village
standards are met and whether the improvements are compatible with existing
public improvements.
(Prior Code, § 153.070) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.071 SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Construction plans shall be submitted on sheets not larger than 24 by
36 inches and to a scale of not more than 50 feet to the inch.
   (B)   Construction plans shall include the following information:
      (1)   Cover sheet showing the location of the development, scales and
symbols that are used, index to sheets, summary of quantities, appropriate
place for approval of the Village Engineer, and the signature and seal of a
registered professional engineer;
      (2)   North arrow and bench marks with their elevations noted. Bench
marks shall be referenced to mean sea level datum, as determined by the U.S.
Geological Society;
      (3)   Plan sheets showing the locations of all existing streets, right-
of-way lines, sanitary sewers, storm sewers, sidewalks, drainage ditches,
easements, rear lot drainage, direction of storm drainage flow, survey
monuments, water mains, fire hydrants and any other appurtenance or structure
that might influence design considerations;
      (4)   Profile sheets indicating the existing ground line and proposed
grades and elevations for all proposed streets, sanitary sewers, drainage
structures, drainage ditches and rear lot drainage. Elevations shall be
referenced to the U.S. Geological Society datum;
      (5)   Typical sections showing the right-of-way lines, proposed pavement
widths, pavement thickness, base thickness, sub-base thickness, subgrade,
crown, curbs and gutters, sidewalks and design data when required;
      (6)   Detail sheets showing the details of manholes, inlets, catch
basins, curbs and gutter, drainage structures and any other structure or
appurtenance to be constructed, or reference made to the Standard
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction in Illinois and/or Highway
Standards published by the State Department of Transportation;
      (7)   Design computations for storm sewer design, for special structures
and for pavement designs where required;
      (8)   Detailed description of erosion control measures to be taken during
construction;
      (9)   Proof of application for an access permit from the Township Road
Commissioner, County Highway Department or State Department of Transportation
when access to a township, county or state highway is involved;
      (10)   Proof of application for a 404 permit if any dredging, riprapping,
fill work or similar activities will be conducted in or around streams;
      (11)   Other specific additional information may be requested by the
Village Engineer;
      (12)   Permits for sanitary sewer construction, if required;
      (13)   Percolation test results for each lot if private sewage disposal
systems are to be utilized;
      (14)   A detailed estimate of construction costs, which shall also
include the sum of quantities and unit prices of each pay item, shall be
submitted to the Village Engineer;
      (15)   A letter from the utility company stating that the proposed street
lighting system meets their minimum requirements;
      (16)   Grading plan showing overall existing and proposed elevations with
the contours of one or two feet;
      (17)   Any and all permits required; and
      (18)   Proof of acquisition of any and all properties, permanent
easements and temporary easements.
(Prior Code, § 153.071) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.072 CONSTRUCTION PLAN REVIEW PROCESS.
   (A)   After receiving approval of the preliminary plan, the subdivider shall
submit two sets of construction plans and specifications to the Village Clerk,
who shall retain one set on file and distribute one set to the Village Board
for review and comment.
   (B)   The subdivider shall also submit sets of the plans and specifications
and support data along with the review schedule, as established by the Village
Board, to the following:
      (1)   One print to the Village Engineer; and
      (2)   One print to any appropriate agency that is required for approval
and construction of the subdivision.
   (C)   Construction plans shall be submitted a minimum of 30 calendar days
before the final plat is to be submitted for review.
   (D)   The Village Engineer shall complete his or her review within 30
calendar days after all items of information required by this section have been
submitted in writing.
   (E)   (1)   Within 30 calendar days after complete submission, the Village
Engineer shall notify the subdivider’s engineer of approval of the plans or of
any required changes unless the review time is extended for no more than 14
calendar days by the Village Engineer in a letter to the subdivider’s engineer
listing reasons for the extension.
      (2)   If plans must be resubmitted, the Village Engineer shall also
inform the subdivider’s engineer of the number of sets of plans to be
submitted.
   (F)   When construction plans are resubmitted with the required changes,
they shall be re-reviewed within 14 calendar days unless the review time is
again extended by the Village Engineer in the manner set forth in division (D)
above.
   (G)   (1)   The Village Engineer shall notify the subdivider’s engineer and
the Village President of the approval of the construction plans.
      (2)   Construction plans shall not be approved until proof of acquisition
of a township, state or county access permit or 404 permit, if applicable, is
submitted.
      (3)   The Village Clerk shall also send a notice of approval to the
Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 153.072) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.073 CHECKLIST FOR CONSTRUCTION PLANS.
   (A)   Submission requirements.
Checklist for Construction Plans Yes No N/A
Checklist for Construction Plans                                                Yes No N/
                                                                                       A
A. General                                                                            
   1. Sheets no larger than 24 inches by 36 inches                                 
   2. Scales no larger than one inch equals 50 feet                                
B. Cover sheet                                                                        
   1. Location map showing location of development                                 
   2. Title of construction plans                                                  
   3. Scale and symbols used                                                       
   4. Index of sheets                                                              
   5. Summary of quantities                                                        
   6. Appropriate places for approval signatures                                   
      a. Village Engineer of Southern View                                      
      b. IEPA construction permit*                                              
      c.                                                                        
      d.                                                                        
   7. Signature and seal of registered professional engineer                       
   8. All plan sheets shall have north arrow and scale                             
   9. All plan sheets shall show benchmarks with elevations. Benchmarks shall
be referenced to mean sea level datum as determined by the U.S. Geological            
Society (USGS)
   10. Typical sections shall show all existing and proposed                       
      a. Right-of-way                                                           
      b. Pavement width, thickness and type                                     
      c. Pavement base width, thickness and type                                
      d. Sub-grade width, thickness and type                                    
      e. Crown                                                                  
      f. Curb and gutter, size and type                                         
      g. Sidewalks, size and type                                               
      h. Any other items that might be of importance of the design              
   11. Plan sheets shall show locations of all existing                            
      a. Streets and roads                                                      
      b. Right-of-way lines                                                     
      c. Sanitary sewers and structures                                         
      d. Storm sewer and structures                                             
      e. Sidewalks                                                              
      f. Drainage ditches                                                       
      g. Easements                                                              
      h. Rear lot drainage                                                      
      i. Direction of storm drainage flow                                       
      j. Survey monument                                                        
      k. Water mains, valves                                                    
      l. Fire hydrants                                                          
      m. Gas mains and valves                                                   
      n. Electrical supply and structures                                       
      o. All other utilities and structures                                     
      p. Any other appurtenances of structure that might influence design       
considerations
   12. Profile sheets shall show all existing                                      
      a. Ground line and or street grades with elevations                       
      b. All existing utilities                                                 
   13. Plan sheets shall show locations of all proposed                            
      a. Streets and roads                                                      
      b. Right-of-way lines                                                     
      c. Sanitary sewers and structures                                         
      d. Storm sewer and structures                                             
      e. Sidewalks                                                              
      f. Drainage ditches                                                       
      g. Easements                                                              
      h. Rear lot drainage                                                      
      i. Direction of storm drainage flow                                       
      j. Survey monument                                                        
      k. Water mains, valves                                                    
      l. Fire hydrants                                                          
      m. Gas mains and valves                                                   
      n. Electrical supply and structures                                       
      o. All other utilities and structures                                     
      p. Any other appurtenances of structure that might influence design       
considerations
   14. Profile sheets shall show all proposed                                      
      a. Ground line and or street grades with elevations                       
      b. All existing utilities                                                 
   15. Detail sheets showing details of                                            
      a. Manholes                                                               
      b. Inlets                                                                 
      c. Catch basins                                                           
      d. Curb and gutter                                                        
      e. Drainage structures                                                    
      f. Any other drainage structure or item to be constructed                 
      g. Reference to IDOT Standards                                            
   16. Design computations for                                                     
      a. Storm sewer                                                            
      b. Special structures                                                     
      c. Pavement (when required)                                               
   17. Erosion control plan showing temporary and permanent measurements           
      a. Location and types of all items                                        
      b. Any descriptions required                                              
   18. Cross sections showing                                                      
      a. All existing features                                                  
      b. All proposed features                                                  
      c. Earthwork quantities (if required)                                     
   19. Proof of application for an access permit from (if required)                
      a. Township Roadway Commissioner                                          
      b. County Highway Department                                              
      c. State Department of Transportation                                     
   20. Proof of application for 404 permit (if required)                           
   21. Other specific additional information requested by the Village Enginee      
   22. Permits for sanitary sewer construction, if required                        
   23. Percolation test results for each lot, if required                          
   24. Detailed cost estimate for construction cost including sum of quantiti      
and unit prices for each item
   25. Letter from the utility company stating that the street lighting syste      
meets their minimum requirements (if applicable)
   26. Grading plan sheet showing overall existing and proposed contours with      
elevations. Contours shall be one or two-foot intervals
   27. Any or all permits required                                                 
   28. Proof of acquisition of all properties and easements
 
   (B)   Review process.
Checklist for Construction Plans Yes No N/A
Checklist for Construction Plans                                            Yes No N/
                                                                                   A
A. Subdivider submit two sets of construction plans with support data to          
the Village Clerk
B. Village Clerk shall distribute the construction plans with support data        
as follows
   1. Retain one on file                                                       
   2. One to Village Board members and Village President                       
C. Subdivider shall submit one set of construction plans with support data        
to the following
   1. Village Engineer                                                         
   2. Village Water, Light and Power (Water Department)                        
   3. Springfield Metro Sanitary District                                      
   4. Springfield Engineer Department                                          
   5. Springfield Fire Department                                              
   6. Appropriate school district                                              
   7. County Highway Department, if applicable                                 
   8. County Department of Public Health, if applicable                        
   9. County Soil and Water Conservation, if applicable                        
   10. Appropriate Township Commissioner, if applicable                        
   11. State Department of Transportation, if applicable                       
   12. Any additional utility provider, if applicable                          
      (List utility name):                                                  
      (List utility name):                                                  
      (List utility name):                                                  
D. Village Clerk received comments within 30 calendar days from the               
following
   1. Each Board member                                                        
      A. Board member                                                       
      B. Board member                                                       
      C. Board member                                                       
      D. Board member                                                       
      E. Board member                                                       
      F. Board member                                                       
   2. Village President                                                        
   3. Village Engineer                                                         
   4. Village Water, Light and Power (Water Department)                        
   5. Springfield Metro Sanitary District                                      
   6. Springfield Engineer Department                                          
   7. Springfield Fire Department                                              
   8. Appropriate school district                                              
   9. County Highway Department, if applicable                                 
   10. County Department of Public Health, if applicable                       
   11. County Soil and Water Conservation, if applicable                       
   12. Appropriate Township Commissioner, if applicable                        
   13. State Department of Transportation, if applicable                       
   14. Any additional utility provider, if applicable                          
      (List utility name):                                                  
      (List utility name):                                                  
      (List utility name):                                                  
E. The Village Clerk compiles comments within two days                            
F. Construction plans shall be submitted a minimum of 30 calendar days            
before the final plat is to be submitted for review
G. The Village Engineer shall complete his or her review within 30 calendar
days after all items of information required by §                                
153.072 have been submitted in writing
H. Within 30 calendar days after complete submission, the Village Engineer
shall notify the subdivider’s engineer of approval of the plans or of any
required changes unless the review time is extended for no more than 14
calendar days by the Village Engineer in a letter to the subdivider’s           
engineer listing reasons for the extension. If plans must be resubmitted,
the Village Engineer shall also inform the subdivider’s engineer of the
number of sets of plans to be submitted
I. When construction plans are resubmitted with the required changes, they
shall be re-reviewed within 14 calendar days unless the review time is            
again extended by the Village Engineer in the manner set forth in D. above
J. The Village Engineer shall notify the subdivider’s engineer and the
Village President of the approval of the construction plans. Construction
plans shall not be approved until proof of acquisition of a township, state       
or county access permit or 404 permit, if applicable, is submitted. The
Village Clerk shall also send a notice of approval to the Village Board
 
CHECKLIST FOR CONSTRUCTION PLANS
1. Approval
2. Disapproval
COMMENTS:
Completed by:
_________________________________________________________________________
Address:
____________________________________________________________________________
Date:
_______________________________________________________________________________
Completed Copy to Village Clerk:       Date: ________________________________
                     By: _________________________________
Date Received: _____________________   By: __________________________________
                           Village Clerk
(Prior Code, § 153.073) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.074 CONSTRUCTION PLANS; FLOW DIAGRAM.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/70e6db68e9bd52c73ebac3b5ba2d3edbe6d9cbb0/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1697.png]
 
(Prio r Code , § 153. 074) (Ord . 06- 01- 01, pass ed 1- 9- 2006 )
CONSTRUCTION AND BONDING OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
§ 153.085 NOTIFICATION OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)    Approval of the construction plans shall give the subdivider the
right to begin construction of the subdivision improvements. Construction must
be started within one year of approval of the construction plans. If
construction is not started within the year, reapproval by the Village Engineer
shall be required before construction is started.
   (B)   The Village Engineer shall be notified at least 24 hours before
construction begins. Construction shall begin only after approval of
construction plans and payment of the review and inspection fee, as set forth
in §
153.086. Whenever construction stops for 24 hours or longer, the Village
Engineer shall be notified 24 hours before construction begins again.
(Prior Code, § 153.085) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.086 REVIEW AND INSPECTION FEES.
   (A)   Before starting construction of any public improvements, the
subdivider shall be assessed and shall deposit with the Village Clerk an amount
equal to 0.3% of the estimated construction cost (including, but not limited
to, grading, drainage, roadway, sidewalk, sewer, waterline and other
improvements which are to be dedicated to public use or which benefit the
subdivision generally) as approved by the Village Engineer. The Village Clerk
shall cause such funds to be deposited in the General Fund of the village.
   (B)   (1)   The foregoing fee is intended to reimburse the village for
charges of the Village Engineer in connection with the review and inspection of
the preliminary and final plats and the construction of public improvements.
      (2)   In the event that the engineering expenses incurred by the village
are in excess of the amount initially paid by the subdivider, the village shall
bill the subdivider for the difference, and such amount shall be paid by the
subdivider prior to acceptance by the village of the final plat; however, the
subdivider shall not be entitled to any refund in the event the fees actually
charged to the village by the Village Engineer is less than 0.3% of the
estimated construction costs.
(Prior Code, § 153.086) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.087 INSPECTION OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Presence of subdivider’s observer. The subdivider’s engineer shall
have a full-time qualified resident observer present on the construction site
for the following:
      (1)   Approval of the subgrade prior to paving; and
      (2)   Continuous observation of all phases of the curb paving operation,
construction of sanitary sewer mains and appurtenances, construction of storm
sewer and appurtenances.
   (B)   Presence of subdivider’s contractor superintendent. The subdivider’s
contractor shall have a superintendent on the job site, at all times, while
construction is in progress. The superintendent shall be responsible for the
entire construction procedure. In his or her absence, the superintendent shall
indicate to the subdivider’s observer, the person temporarily responsible for
the conduct of the work.
   (C)   Inspection by Village Engineer. All required improvements to be
installed under the provisions of this chapter shall be checked during the
course of construction by the Village Engineer. The cost of any reinspection of
any required improvement found to be faulty or not in accordance with the
approved plans and specifications shall be paid by the subdivider to the
village. The testing of any concrete, asphalt, soil, other materials or
workmanship shall be done at the direction of the village and at the expense of
the subdivider.
(Prior Code, § 153.087) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.088 SECURITY FOR PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   If construction has not been completed and approved by the
Village Engineer before the final plat is submitted to the Village Board,
security in the amount equal to 125% of the estimated construction costs
(including, but not limited to, grading, drainage, roadway, sidewalk, sewer and
other improvements which are to be dedicated to public use or which benefit the
subdivision generally) of the public improvements shall be filed with the
Village Clerk in order to ensure completion of the public improvements as
required by this chapter within a reasonable length of time without cost to the
village.
      (2)   The form and sufficiency of security shall be subject to the
approval of the Village Attorney and Village Engineer. Security may be in the
form of a bond issued by a commercial surety licensed to do business in the
state, or it may be in the form of an irrevocable letter of credit issued by a
state or national bank of at least one year in duration, which provides for
automatic annual renewals thereof unless at least 60 days prior to the
expiration of its term or any renewal thereof, written notice of nonrenewal is
sent by certified mail to the village.
   (B)   The bond or letter of credit shall, by its terms, secure payment of
not only the construction of the public improvements but also of any additional
review and inspection fees charged by the Village Engineer and imposed by the
village pursuant to §
153.086.
(Prior Code, § 153.088) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.089 LENGTH SECURITY IN EFFECT; FORFEITURE.
   (A)   The security shall remain in effect until it is released by the
Village Board upon acceptance of the public improvements (§
153.111). All public improvements must be completed within two years from the
date when the security was approved.
   (B)   If public improvements have not been completed within said two years,
the subdivider shall forfeit the security in the amount necessary for the
village to carry out the construction or repairs so that the public
improvements meet the standards of this chapter, plus administrative costs
involved.
(Prior Code, § 153.089) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.090 APPROVAL OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   After the Village Engineer informs the village that the following conditions
have been met, the public improvements shall be accepted by the village.
   (A)   The Village Engineer has inspected the construction and all necessary
repairs and corrections, and certifies that the public improvements required by
this chapter have been constructed.
   (B)   “As built plans” have been prepared by the subdivider’s engineer and
delivered to the Village Engineer.
   (C)   The Village Engineer has received a signed statement of a registered
professional engineer stating that the public improvements have been observed
during construction and are installed to the specifications shown on the
construction plans.
   (D)   The improvements, such as drainage swales and the like, which are not
to be dedicated to public use but which benefit the subdivision generally, have
been built to specifications shown in the construction plans.
(Prior Code, § 153.090) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.091 CHECKLIST FOR CONSTRUCTION AND BONDING.
Checklist for Construction and Bonding Yes No N/A
Checklist for Construction and Bonding                                              Yes No N/
                                                                                           A
A. General                                                                                
   1. The Village Engineer has inspected the construction and all necessary repairs
and corrections, and certifies that the public improvements required by this              
chapter have been constructed
   2. “As built plans” have been prepared by the subdivider’s engineer and       
delivered to the Village Engineer
   3. The Village Engineer has received a signed statement of a registered
professional engineer stating that the public improvements have been observed             
during construction and are installed to the specifications shown on the
construction plans
   4. The improvements, such as drainage swales and the like, which are not to be
dedicated to public use but which benefit the subdivision generally, have been            
built to specifications shown in the construction plans
B. Approval                                                                               
C. Disapproval                                                                            
 
COMMENTS:
Completed by:
_______________________________________________________________________
Address:
____________________________________________________________________________
Date:
________________________________________________________________________________
Completed Copy to Village Clerk:         Date: _____________________________
                     By: ______________________________
Date Received: ________________________   By: ______________________________
                        Village Clerk
(Prior Code, § 153.091) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
FINAL PLAT
§ 153.105 PURPOSE.
   The final plat is intended to provide the accurate location of lots,
monuments and property dedicated to public use.
(Prior Code, § 153.105) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.106 SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS.
   The final plat need not cover the entire preliminary plan area. It may cover
only the portion which the subdivider presently wishes to record and develop in
accordance with the staging approved with the preliminary plan; the final plat
submission shall include the following information on the plat and accompanying
documents.
   (A)   Final plat. The final plat shall be drawn in black ink on a
reproducible material to a scale of not more than 100 feet to the inch. Maximum
size of the plan sheets shall be 24 by 36 inches. If more than one sheet is
used, an index map shall be included on the first sheet. The final plat shall
show:
      (1)   The title of the proposed subdivision and the names and addresses
of the engineer, registered land surveyor, subdivider and owner with the name,
address and phone number of the contact person;
      (2)   North point, scale and date of preparation and latest revisions;
      (3)   Boundary lines with accurate distances and angles;
      (4)   General land legal description of the plat with total acreage;
      (5)   All lots designated by numbers and other grounds designated by
names and numbers;
      (6)   Location of all survey monuments and their descriptions;
      (7)   The location of all easements provided for public use, services or
utilities. Easements shall include anchor space for pole lines;
      (8)   An accurate outline of any portions of the property intended to be
dedicated for public use;
      (9)   Lines of all proposed streets with their widths and names;
      (10)   The line of departure of one street from another;
      (11)   The names and widths of adjoining streets;
      (12)   The dimensions, both linear and angular, necessary for locating
the boundaries of the subdivision, lots, streets, easements and other areas for
public or private use. Linear dimensions shall be given to the nearest one-one-
hundredths of a foot;
      (13)   Radii, arcs, chords, points of tangency and central angles for all
curvilinear streets and radii for rounded corners;
      (14)   If applicable, a note on the final plat stating: “Approval of this
final plat by the village does not constitute a guarantee that a suitable
sewage disposal system can be constructed on each lot”. Any guarantees are the
subdivider’s responsibility;
      (15)   A statement indicating whether or not any part of the plat is
located in a special flood hazard area as identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency; and
      (16)   A notation stating any setback required through covenants if the
setbacks are different from those of the appropriate zoning district.
   (B)   Accompanying documents. The following documents shall accompany the
final plat:
      (1)   Letter from the Village Engineer approving the construction plans;
      (2)   Proof of acquisition of an access permit from either the state,
Township Road Commissioner or the County Highway Department, whichever applies;
      (3)   The certificate of a registered state land surveyor attesting to
the accuracy of the survey and the location of all monuments shown. The
certificate may be filed as a supplement to the final plat (see §
153.112);
      (4)   Notarized acknowledgment of the plat by the owner or a duly
authorized attorney. This item may be a separate document or on the plat itself
(see §
153.113);
      (5)   Certification of perpetual maintenance of drainage areas and common
areas (see §
153.114);
      (6)   Any covenants or restrictions relating to the requirements of this
chapter;
      (7)   A signed statement of a registered professional engineer and the
owner of the land or his or her duly authorized attorney as required by the
state statutes concerning drainage (see §
153.114); and
      (8)   Notarized statement by owner indicating the school district(s) in
which the subdivision is located (see §
153.115).
(Prior Code, § 153.106) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.107 FINAL PLAT REVIEW PROCESS.
   (A)   (1)   The subdivider shall submit nine prints of the final plat of the
proposed subdivision to the Village Clerk with a filing fee of $100, plus, if
it has not already been paid, the review and inspection fee established
pursuant to §
153.087.
      (2)   The subdivision will be reviewed according to the filing deadline
and review schedule established by the Village Board.
      (3)   A final plat shall be reviewed only after approval of the
preliminary plan by the Village Board and approval of the construction plans by
the Village Engineer.
      (4)   Preliminary plans and final plats will not be reviewed at the same
meeting; however, if the preliminary plan is being reaffirmed, the preliminary
plan being reaffirmed and its final plat may be reviewed and approved at the
same meeting if there are not major changes required to reaffirm the
preliminary plan.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall retain two prints on file and distribute the
final plat and support data as follows:
      (1)   One print to each Village Board member; and
      (2)   One print to the Village President.
   (C)   The subdivider shall also submit prints of the final plat and support
data along with the review schedule, as established by the Village Board, to
the following:
      (1)   One print to the Village Engineer;
      (2)   One to Village Water, Light and Power - Water Department;
      (3)   One to Springfield Metro Sanitary District;
      (4)   One to Springfield Engineering Department;
      (5)   One to Springfield Fire Department;
      (6)   One to the appropriate school district;
      (7)   One to the County Highway Department, if applicable;
      (8)   One to the County Department of Public Health, if applicable;
      (9)   One to the County Soil and Water Conservation District, if
applicable;
      (10)   One to the appropriate Township Commissioner, if applicable;
      (11)   One to the State Department of Transportation, if applicable; and
      (12)   One to any additional utility provider that may be affected by the
development.
   (D)   The entities listed in divisions (B) above shall transmit any comments
on the suitability of the site, in writing, the Village Clerk within seven
calendar days of receipt. Receipt of plans must be acknowledged.
   (E)   The Village Clerk then will compile the comments from all the
entities, as listed in division (C) above, within two calendar days.
   (F)   The compiled comments will then be distributed to the Village Board
and Village President to evaluate at a special meeting within five calendar
days from the date of receipt from the Village Clerk. During the special
meeting, the Village Board shall make recommendations to approve or disapprove
the final plat with corrections. Lack of a recommended action at the special
Board meeting shall constitute a negative recommendation.
   (G)   After the special Board meeting, the Village Clerk shall submit all
comments and recommendations to the subdivider. The subdivider shall address
comments and review recommendations received from the Village Board. The
subdivider shall submit all comments and any revisions to the Village Clerk
within 14 calendar days for the next regular scheduled Village Board meeting.
   (H)   At the next regular Board meeting, the Village Board shall review the
comments and revisions received from the subdivider. The Village Board shall
approve or disapprove the final plat based on the suitability criteria as
previously outlined.
(Prior Code, § 153.107) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.108 SUBMISSION OF FINAL PLAT TO THE VILLAGE BOARD.
   (A)   The subdivider shall submit an original final plat and two prints; the
Village Clerk shall retain one print on file.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall deliver the original final plat to the Village
Board, at its next regular session, along with the applicable documents with
respect to the final plat.
   (C)   The final plat shall remain pending on the agenda of the Village Board
and shall not be approved by the Village Board until the following have been
received:
      (1)   Written certification from the Village Engineer that the public
improvements required by this chapter have been approved, as described in §
153.090 or, in lieu of construction, a security has been provided, as described
in §
153.088; and
      (2)   A certificate provided by the subdivider from the County Clerk
indicating that payment of taxes is not delinquent. (See §
153.116.)
   (D)   If the requirements of this section have not been met within two years
from the final plat approval by the Village Board, the existing final plat
shall expire and must be resubmitted and reviewed as a new final plat.
(Prior Code, § 153.108) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.109 VILLAGE BOARD APPROVAL.
   (A)   When the requirements of §
153.108 have been met, the Village Board may, by resolution, approve the final
plat; accept the security, if any; and authorize the Village President to sign
the plat for and in the name of the village, with the Village Clerk attesting
to it.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall retain one print on file.
(Prior Code, § 153.109) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.110 RECORDING THE FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   When the final plat has been approved by the Village Board and signed
by the Village President and the Village Clerk, the original tracing shall be
recorded in the office of the County Recorder of Deeds by the developer.
   (B)   If the final plat is not recorded within two years after approval by
the Village Board, the plat must be resubmitted to the Village Board to
determine if any changes in the final plat are needed to meet the requirements
of this chapter.
   (C)   No title to any lots shall be conveyed until the original tracing is
recorded.
   (D)   A permission to record certificate from the licensed land surveyor
shall accompany the plat when being recorded.
(Prior Code, § 153.110) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.111 ACCEPTANCE OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   After the Village Engineer has approved the public improvements, as
described in §
153.090, and has received a signed statement from the subdivider stating that
all contractors and subcontractors have been paid and that there are no liens
against the property, the Village Engineer shall issue a letter to the
subdivider and the Village Board stating that the public improvements meet the
village’s standards. Within one month after receiving the Village Engineer’s
approval, the Village Board shall release the security, if any, and accept the
public improvements.
   (B)   In areas within the village’s subdivision limits, but outside the
village’s corporate limits, the Village Engineer, the County Superintendent of
Highways and Springfield Metro Sanitary District, if appropriate, shall jointly
determine whether the standards of this chapter have been met. If met, the
Village Engineer shall so indicate in a letter to the subdivider and the
Village Board.
      (1)   The Village Board shall then release the bond, if any.
      (2)   The County Superintendent of Highways, as a representative of the
appropriate Township Highway Commissioner, shall indicate in a letter to the
Village Engineer, approval of the streets to the county standards, which shall
constitute acceptance of the streets by the appropriate Township Highway
Commissioner; the Executive Director of the Springfield Metro Sanitary District
shall indicate in a letter to the Village Engineer approval of applicable
sanitary sewer facilities, but acceptance of the dedication by the Springfield
Metro Sanitary District shall be by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 153.111) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.112 SAMPLE SURVEYOR’S CERTIFICATE.
SURVEYOR’S CERTIFICATE
STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
COUNTY OF SANGAMON   )
I, ______________________________, a Licensed Professional Land Surveyor
No.____, do hereby certify that I have surveyed in accordance with the laws and
usages of the State of Illinois, and with the laws of Sangamon County,
Illinois, for ________________ the following described property to wit:
Insert legal here
Said subdivision is to be known as _______________________.
I further certify that the foregoing plat accompanying this certificate
correctly represents the said premises as surveyed.
                                       ____________________________________
Licensed Professional Land Surveyor
No.________
(Prior Code, § 153.112) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.113 SAMPLE OWNERSHIP CERTIFICATE.
OWNERSHIP CERTIFICATE
STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
COUNTY OF SANGAMON   )
   This is to certify that the undersigned is (are) the Owner(s) of the land
described in the plat, and the he (they) has (have) caused the same to be
surveyed and subdivided as indicated hereon, for the uses and purposes herein
set forth, and do hereby acknowledge and adopt the same under the style and
title hereon indicated.
Dated this ___________ day of _________________, A.D., 20_____.
______________________________
OWNER
STATE OF ILLINOIS      )
COUNTY OF SANGAMON   )
   I, ___________________________________, a Notary Public in and for the
County of ________, do hereby certify that ______________________, personally
known to me to the same person(s) whose name(s) is (are) subscribed to the
foregoing instrument, appeared before me this day in person and acknowledged
that he (they) signed, sealed and delivered the said instrument as their free
and voluntary act. Given under my hand and Notarial Seal this _________day of
_____________A.D., 20____.
(SEAL)
                         __________________________________
                              NOTARY PUBLIC
(Prior Code, § 153.113) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.114 SAMPLE DRAINAGE CERTIFICATE.
DRAINAGE
   The undersigned, a Licensed Professional Engineer, and the Owner of the land
shown on the attached plat, entitled _____________________, being submitted to
the Springfield and Sangamon County Regional Planning Committee, do hereby
certify and state that to the best of their knowledge and belief whereas the
surface water drainage will be changed by the construction of this subdivision,
adequate provisions have been made for the collection and diversion of such
surface water into public areas or drains which the subdivider has the right to
use and that such surface water will not be deposited on the property of
adjoining landowners in such a concentration as may cause damage to the
adjoining property because of the construction of said subdivision.
   Dated this _________ day of ___________________ A.D., 20_________.
___________________________       _______________________________________
OWNER                  LICENSED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER
                     # _______________________
(Prior Code, § 153.114) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.115 SAMPLE SCHOOL DISTRICT CERTIFICATE.
SCHOOL DISTRICT
   The undersigned, the Owner of the land shown on the attached plat, entitled
____________, does hereby certify and state to the best of their knowledge and
belief the property is within SCHOOL DISTRICT NO._________.
Dated this _________ day of _________________ A.D., 20____.
___________________________
OWNER
By: ________________________
Its: ________________________
STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
COUNTY OF SANGAMON   )
   I, __________________, a Notary Public in and for the County of__________,
do hereby certify that ____________________________, personally known to me to
the same person(s) whose name(s) is (are) subscribed to the foregoing
instrument, appeared before me this day in person and acknowledged that he
(they) signed, sealed and delivered said instrument a their free and voluntary
act. Given under my hand and Notarial Seal this _____________________day of
___________, A.D., 20____.
(SEAL)                                      _________________________________
   NOTARY PUBLIC
(Prior Code, § 153.115) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.116 SAMPLE TAX CERTIFICATE.
TAXES
STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
COUNTY OF SANGAMON   )
   I, ____________________, County Clerk of SANGAMON County, Illinois hereby
certify that I find no delinquent general taxes, unpaid current general taxes,
delinquent special assessments or unpaid current special assessments against
the tract of land described in the above plat. Date at Springfield, Illinois
this ______________ day of ________________, A.D., 20_____.
   (SEAL)                                         __________________________
                                                COUNTY CLERK
TAX ID# _________________________
(Prior Code, § 153.116) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.117 SAMPLE PERMISSION TO RECORD CERTIFICATE.
DATE:
PLAT:
I, _______________, an Illinois Professional Land Surveyor No. _____ do hereby
designate
____________________________
as my representative to record the above listed plat.
_______________________________________
Professional Land Surveyor
#________________________
(Prior Code, § 153.117) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.118 CHECKLIST FOR FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   General.
Checklist for Final Plat Yes No N/A
Checklist for Final Plat                                                       Yes No N/
                                                                                      A
1. The final plat shall be drawn in black ink on a reproducible material to a
scale of not more than 100 feet to the inch. Maximum size of the plan sheets         
shall be 24 by 36 inches. If more than one sheet is used, an index map shall
be included on the first sheet
2. The title of the proposed subdivision and the names and addresses of the
engineer, registered land surveyor, subdivider and owner with the name,              
address and phone number of the contact person
3. North point, scale and date of preparation and latest revisions                   
4. Boundary lines with accurate distances and angles                                 
5. General land legal description of the plat with total acreage                     
6. All lots designated by numbers and other grounds designated by names and          
numbers
7. Location of all survey monuments and their descriptions                           
8. The location of all easements provided for public use, services or                
utilities. Easements shall include anchor space for pole lines
9. An accurate outline of any portions of the property intended to be                
dedicated for public use
10. Lines of all proposed streets with their widths and names                        
11. The line of departure of one street from another                                 
12. The names and widths of adjoining streets                                        
13. The dimensions, both linear and angular, necessary for locating the
boundaries of the subdivision, lots, streets, easements and other areas for          
public or private use. Linear dimensions shall be giving to the nearest one-
one-hundredth of a foot
14. Radii, arcs, chords, points of tangency and central angles for all               
curvilinear streets and radii for rounded corners
15. If applicable, a note on the final plat stating: “Approval of this final
plat by the Village of Southern View does not constitute a guarantee that a          
suitable sewage disposal system can be constructed on each lot”. Any
guarantees are the subdivider’s responsibility
16. A statement indicating whether or not any part of the plat is located in a
special flood hazard area as identified by the Federal Emergency Management          
Agency
17. A notation stating any setback required through covenants if the setbacks        
are different from those of the appropriate zoning district
 
   (B)   Accompanying documents.
Checklist for Final Plat Yes No N/A
Checklist for Final Plat                                                      Yes No N/
                                                                                     A
1. Letter from the Village Engineer approving the construction plans                
2. Proof of acquisition of an access permit from either the state, Township         
Road Commissioner or the County Highway Department, whichever applies
3. The certificate of a registered state land surveyor attesting to the
accuracy of the survey and the location of all monuments shown. The                 
certificate may be filed as a supplement to the final plat (see §
153.112)
4. Notarized acknowledgment of the plat by the owner or a duly authorized
attorney. This item may be a separate document or on the plat itself (see §        
153.113)
5. Certification of perpetual maintenance of drainage areas and common areas
(see §                                                                             
153.114)
6. Any covenants or restrictions relating to the requirements of this chapter       
7. A signed statement of a registered professional engineer and the owner of
the land or his or her duly authorized attorney as required by the state            
statutes concerning drainage (see §
153.114)
8. Notarized statement by owner indicating the school district(s) in which
the subdivision is located (see §                                                  
153.115)
      
   (C)   Review process.
Checklist for Final Plat Yes No N/A
Checklist for Final Plat                                             Yes No N/A
A. Subdivider submit nine prints of final plat with a check in the         
amount of $100 and support data to the Village Clerk
B. Village Clerk shall distribute the final plat with support data         
as follows
   1. Retain two on file                                                
   2. One to each Village Board member                                  
   3. One to the Village President                                      
C. Subdivider shall submit one print of final plat with support data       
to the following
   1. Village Engineer                                                  
   2. Village Water, Light and Power (Water Department)                 
   3. Springfield Metro Sanitary District                               
   4. Springfield Engineer Department                                   
   5. Springfield Fire Department                                       
   6. Appropriate school district                                       
   7. County Highway Department, if applicable                          
   8. County Department of Public Health, if applicable                 
   9. County Soil and Water Conservation, if applicable                 
   10. Appropriate Township Commissioner, if applicable                 
   11. State Department of Transportation, if applicable                
   12. Any additional utility provider, if applicable                   
      (List utility name):                                           
      (List utility name):                                           
      (List utility name):                                           
D. Village Clerk received comments within seven calendar days from         
the following
   1. Each Board member                                                 
      a. Board member                                                
      b. Board member                                                
      c. Board member                                                
      d. Board member                                                
      e. Board member                                                
      f. Board member                                                
   2. Village President                                                 
   3. Village Engineer                                                  
   4. Village Water, Light and Power (Water Department)                 
   5. Springfield Metro Sanitary District                               
   6. Springfield Engineering Department                                
   7. Springfield Fire Department                                       
   8. Appropriate school district                                       
   9. County Highway Department, if applicable                          
   10. County Department of Public Health, if applicable                
   11. County Soil and Water Conservation, if applicable                
   12. Appropriate Township Commissioner, if applicable                 
   13. State Department of Transportation, if applicable                
   14. Any additional utility provider, if applicable                   
      (List utility name):                                           
      (List utility name):                                           
      (List utility name):                                           
E. The Village Clerk compiled comments within two calendar days            
F. The Village Clerk shall distribute the compiled comment to the
Village Board and Village President to evaluate at a special Board         
meeting within five calendar days from date of receipt of comments
G. The Village Clerk shall submit comments from special Board
meeting to the subdivider 14 calendar days prior to next regular           
scheduled Board meeting
H. Next regular Board meeting, Village Board shall make                    
recommendations for
   1. Approval                                                          
   2. Disapproval
 
CHECKLIST FOR FINAL PLAT
COMMENTS:
Completed by:
_______________________________________________________________________
Address:
____________________________________________________________________________
Date:
_______________________________________________________________________________
Completed Copy to Village Clerk:         Date: ____________________________
                     By: ______________________________
Date Received: __________________      By: ______________________________
                        Village Clerk
SUBMISSION OF FINAL PLAT TO THE VILLAGE BOARD
 
Submission of final plat to the Village Board                                Yes No N/
                                                                                    A
A. The subdivider shall submit an original final plat and two prints, the          
Village Clerk shall retain one print on file
B. The Village Clerk shall deliver the original final plat to the Village
Board at its next regular session, along with the applicable documents with        
respect to the final plat
C. The final plat shall remain pending on the agenda of the Village Board
and shall not be approved by the Village Board until the following have been       
received
   1. Written certification from the Village Engineer that the public
improvements required by this chapter have been approved as described in §        
153.115
   2. A certificate provided by the subdivider from the County Clerk
indicating that payment of taxes is not delinquent (see §                         
153.115)
D. If the requirements of this section have not been met within two years from the
final plat approval by the Village Board, the existing final plat shall expire and
must be resubmitted and reviewed as a new final plat
 
(Prior Code, § 153.118) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.119 FINAL PLAT; FLOW DIAGRAM.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/70e6db68e9bd52c73ebac3b5ba2d3edbe6d9cbb0/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1699.png]
 
(Prior Code, § 153.119) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
DESIGN STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS FOR REQUIRED PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
§ 153.130 STATE SPECIFICATIONS.
   Unless stated otherwise in this chapter, all construction of public
improvements shall be performed in accordance with the current edition of the
State of Illinois Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction,
adopted by the State Department of Transportation, and the current Standard
Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in the state. If an
engineering design or construction situation arises not covered by the above
cited standard specifications or in the following sections, the decision of the
Village Engineer shall be followed.
(Prior Code, § 153.130) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.131 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF STREETS.
   (A)   The location and width of all streets shall not be less than the
following:
Street Type Right-of-Way
Street Type               Right-of-Way
1. Major highway          120 feet
2. Major street           80 to 100 feet
3. Collector street       60 feet
4. Local street           50 feet
5. Cul-de-sac             110 feet diameter
6. Alley                  20 feet
7. Existing township road 70 to 80 feet
8. Proposed township road 70 feet
 
   (B)   Additional rights-of-way may be required for drainage, slope,
maintenance or other reasons not directly related to street classifications.
   (C)   For subdivisions that adjoin existing streets, additional rights-of-
way shall be dedicated, as needed, to meet the above requirements. This shall
be done as follows.
      (1)   The entire additional right-of-way shall be provided when the
subdivision is located on both sides of the existing street.
      (2)   One-half of the required right-of-way shall be provided when the
subdivision is located on only one side of the existing street; however, in no
case shall the resulting right-of-way width be less than 50 feet.
(Prior Code, § 153.131) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.132 STREET DESIGN.
   The following requirements shall be incorporated into the design of all
streets.
   (A)   Vertical alignment.
      (1)   Grades. The maximum grade on a major street shall be 5%. The
maximum grade on all other streets (other than a major highway) shall be 8%.
The minimum grade on all streets shall be 0.40%. All street grades shall be
subject to the approval of the Village Engineer.
      (2)   Vertical curves. All grade changes shall be connected by vertical
curves. The length of vertical curves shall not be less than 30 times the
algebraic difference in rates of grade for crest curves and 35 times the
algebraic difference for sag curves. When speed limits are to be posted greater
than 30 mph, vertical curvature standards shall be used as contained within the
latest revision of A Policy on Geometric Design of Highways and Streets
(AASHTO) for urban local, collector and arterial streets by the respective
classification. The minimum length of vertical curves on all types of streets
shall be ten feet.
   (B)   Horizontal alignment.
      (1)   Horizontal curves. When a centerline deflection angle is greater
than one degree, the following curves shall be required in the street: major
and collector streets shall have a minimum centerline radius of 300 feet and a
minimum length of curve of 100 feet; major and collector streets having a
design speed and/or expected posted speed greater than 30 mph shall be
consistent with the latest revision of the horizontal curvature requirements of
AASHTO, A Policy on Geometric Design of Highways and Streets for the
appropriate roadway classification; all other types of streets shall have a
minimum center line radius of 100 feet. The pavement, in all cases, shall be
wide enough to allow the movement of a WB-50 design vehicle, as described in
the State Department of Transportation Bureau Design and Environmental Manual.
      (2)   Intersections. Intersections of major and collector streets with
roadways of the same classes shall not be closer than one-quarter of a mile
from any other such functionally classed roadways’ intersections. These
intersections shall be located at the quarter mile grid points.
      (3)   Street offsets. Street centerline offsets shall not be less than
125 feet unless otherwise warranted to the satisfaction of the Village
Engineer.
      (4)   Curb corners. All curb corners shall have a minimum radius of 25
feet.
   (C)   Collector and local streets; installed in accordance with pavement
standards. All collector and local streets shall be installed in accordance
with the following pavement standards.
      (1)   Subgrade. At the option of the subdivider, 12 inches lime
stabilized soil per current IDOT Standard shall be employed within the street
area (omit curb).
      (2)   Asphalt - pavement alternatives.
         (a)   Alternate A: If the subgrade is treated as in above, the
pavement design will consist of five inches of bituminous concrete binder
course, Class I (A Binder), and two inches of bituminous concrete surface
course, Class I (Gradation of coarse aggregate to be CA 16).
         (b)   Alternate B: If the subgrade is not lime treated, the pavement
shall consist of five inches bituminous concrete binder course, Class l (A
Binder), and two inches of bituminous concrete surface course, Class I
(Gradation of coarse aggregate to be CA 16).
         (c)   All subgrades shall be inspected by the Village Engineer and, if
he or she deems necessary, proof rolled prior to paving.
         (d)   If the street is a major street, the above binder and surface
shall be increased to six inches and two inches for the lime treated and eight
inches and two inches to the non-lime treated subgrade.
      (3)   Concrete - pavement alternate.
         (a)   A minimum of six inches unreinforced portland cement concrete
pavement, according to § 420 of IDOT specifications, and a minimum of four
inches of Subbase Granular Material, according to § 311 of IDOT specifications,
shall be used.
         (b)   If the street is a major street, the P.C.C. pavement shall be
increased to eight inches. All transverse contraction joints shall be 20 feet
and sealed per ASTM D3405.
      (4)   Pavement design. In all cases, the minimum street will govern if
the above major street design is less.
         (a)   All major street pavements shall be designed in accordance with
the requirements contained in the latest, revised edition of the State IDOT BDE
Manual and shall be designed for a 20-year period. The minimum requirements
listed in the tables of the BDE Manual shall govern at all times.
         (b)   An Illinois Bearing Ratio of 3.0 (IBR = 3.0) shall be used in
pavement design unless the subdivider’s engineer submits soil tests justifying
a different IBR.
         (c)   Vehicular traffic volumes and vehicle classifications
percentages used in the design shall be approved by the Village Engineer.
   (D)   Pavement width.
      (1)   All streets shall be improved with pavements to an overall width in
accordance with the following general guidelines, which are subject, in every
case, to the discretion of the village:
 
Type of Street   Pavement Width (Edge of Pavement to Edge of Pavement)
Alley            20 feet minimum
Collector street 36 feet minimum
Cul-de-sac       90 feet diameter
Local street     27 feet minimum
Major highway    As required by IDOT or applicable agency
Major street     40 feet minimum
 
      (2)   Different widths may be used depending on the anticipated traffic
volumes and parking demand. These widths of pavement shall be determined by the
Village Board and the Village Engineer in consultation with the engineer for
the subdivider. If a pavement width narrower than the above stated minimum
results from this consultation, the subdivider shall install “No Parking” signs
at his or her expense.
   (E)   Curb and gutter.
      (1)   The standard curb and gutter required adjacent to flexible pavement
shall be a mountable type constructed of portland cement concrete with the
following dimensions: 24 inches wide, eight inches thick on the front face
(pavement side); ten inches thick on the back face; seven inches thick at
center line (flow line); and a ten-inch radius in the flow line. The curb and
gutter adjacent to concrete pavement, if poured monolithically, may be limited
to the thickness of the pavement.
      (2)   In subdivisions proposed to have streets with an anticipated daily
traffic volume of 2,500 or more, a barrier type curb and gutter similar to Type
B6.18, as described in the State Department of Transportation Highway
Standards, shall be used. Other locations where a barrier type curb and gutter
are required shall be determined by the engineer for the subdivision and the
Village Engineer.
   (F)   Pavement crown. The minimum crown used on all pavements shall be one
quarter inch per foot measured from the edge of the pavement to the centerline
of the street.
   (G)   Cul-de-sac streets. Local streets that are also cul-de-sac streets
shall be no more than 600 feet long unless necessitated by topography, in which
case, they shall be no longer than 1,000 feet unless provision is made for an
interim turnaround with a radius sufficient to accommodate emergency vehicles
and/or a median entrance (see division (I) below). A turnaround shall be
provided at the closed end having an outside roadway diameter of at least 90
feet edge to edge of pavement and a street right-of-way diameter of 110 feet.
No obstructions shall be permitted in the cul-de-sac turnaround.
   (H)   Stub streets. Access shall be provided to adjoining property not yet
subdivided. Proposed streets shall be extended by dedication to the boundary of
such unsubdivided property. At the end of all temporary stub streets, a
barricade meeting the provisions of the Illinois Manual on Uniform Traffic
Control Devices shall be installed by the subdivider. Stub streets in excess of
250 feet shall be provided with a temporary cul-de-sac with an outside roadway
diameter of at least 90 feet. The type of construction shall be determined by
the Village Engineer. The subdivider shall dedicate a temporary easement to the
appropriate street authority in the amount needed in excess of the normally
required right-of-way for the temporary turnaround. When the street is extended
in the future, the extra turnaround pavement shall be removed and curb and
gutters and sidewalks constructed by the subdivider who is constructing the
street extension.
   (I)   Multiple access. Any area of development containing 70 or more single-
family lots (or equivalent population) shall be served by two functioning
points of access. Where higher densities of development are proposed, a divided
type entrance roadway may suffice with a median of adequate width to ensure
continued emergency access lanes on one side. Depending on location and height
of nearby poles or trees, the required median width shall range between 12 and
30 feet. This type of roadway construction is intended to accommodate higher
density developments and not to lengthen the overall length of a cul-de-sac.
   (J)   Restriction of access. When a subdivision or a portion of it adjoins a
major street, no lot shall have direct access to the major street. The lot
shall have adequate depth for screen planting on the portion of the lot
contiguous to the major street.
   (K)   Street names and street signs.
      (1)   A proposed street that is in alignment with and/or joins an
existing named street shall bear the name of the existing street. In no case
shall the proposed name of a street duplicate the name of an existing street
within the plat jurisdiction of this chapter. The use of the suffix “street”,
“avenue”, “boulevard”, “driveway”, “place”, “court” or similar description
shall not be a distinction sufficient to constitute compliance with this
requirement.
      (2)   Street name signs shall be erected at all intersections within the
village’s jurisdiction at the expense of the subdivider and shall be subject to
the specifications of the current Illinois Manual on Uniform Traffic Control
Devices.
   (L)   Private streets. There shall be no private streets platted in any
subdivision. Every subdivision lot shall be served from a publicly dedicated
street.
   (M)   Alleys. Alleys are not recommended in residential subdivisions unless
deemed necessary by the Village Board.
   (N)   Ramps. Where sidewalks cross a barrier type curb and gutter, as
described in division (E) above, ramps shall be constructed to accommodate the
handicapped. These ramps shall be constructed to the lines and grades shown on
the standard sidewalk ramp standards. Ramps shall comply with the latest ADA or
IAC Standards. In case of conflict, the more restrictive specifications shall
apply. Inlets for storm drainage shall not be located so that a pedestrian way
will be interrupted by the inlet grates. Other locations where these ramps are
required shall be determined by the Village Engineer.
   (O)   Typical street section.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/70e6db68e9bd52c73ebac3b5ba2d3edbe6d9cbb0/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1701.png]
 
   (P)    Median and islands.
      (1)    Where medians or islands are proposed, they shall be constructed
with barrier or curbing. All medians and islands shall be the responsibility of
the subdivider and/or a subdivision association to maintain. No sign may be
installed in the median which blocks the sight distance at the intersection. If
such a sign is to be installed, detailed plans for the sign shall be submitted
with the construction plans for approval. In no case shall an island or median
contain any other sign or structure, except as may be placed for traffic
control under the direction of the Village Engineer.
      (2)   The subdivider or subdivision association may landscape medians or
islands. Ground cover may not exceed a maximum height of 12 inches. Any
additional living plant material must be maintained to allow visibility across,
over or through medians and islands at a height of three to ten feet above the
adjacent roadway pavements.
(Prior Code, § 153.132) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.133 LOT AND BLOCK DESIGN.
   (A)   Size of lots. Minimum lot sizes shall be the minimum for the
applicable zoning district of the village or the county, except when a private
sewage system is necessary. When a private sewage disposal system will be used
for any length of time, lots shall be a minimum of 20,000 square feet.
   (B)   Lot arrangement.
      (1)   Side lot lines shall be at right angles to straight street lines or
substantially radial to curved street lines; however, for purposes of solar
orientation, side lot lines need not be at right angles to straight street
lines or radial to curved street lines, provided that side lot lines run within
20 degrees east or west from due north to due south. If side lot lines are
being varied for solar orientation, layout and building setbacks shall also be
oriented with their long axis running from east to west, with a possible
variation of 20 degrees to the southwest or 20 degrees to the southeast.
      (2)   Each lot shall front upon a public street.
      (3)   Flag lots shall be permitted only if the Village Board determines
that no public health and safety problems or additional costs or difficulties
providing municipal services will result.
      (4)   Through lots shall be permitted only when access is prohibited to
one street, as described in §
153.132(J).
      (5)   All lots must contain sufficient buildable area.
   (C)   Sizes of blocks. Blocks shall not be less than 400 feet, nor more than
1,200 feet, in length measured along the greatest dimension of the enclosed
block area. In blocks over 800 feet in length, the Village Board may require
one or more public crosswalks with a right-of-way of not less than ten feet in
width to extend entirely across the block at locations deemed necessary at
intervals not closer than 400 feet.
   (D)   Survey monuments. All survey monuments shall be located and be made of
the appropriate material as required by state law.
   (E)   Lot grading.
      (1)   Trees that cannot be saved, stumps, boulders and other similar
items shall be removed.
      (2)   All grading in the subdivision shall be related to the topography
of the surrounding area. All street embankments shall be raised at least one
and one-half feet above the high water elevation.
      (3)   All building lots shall be graded or have natural slopes that will
properly allow surface drainage to flow away from the principal structures to
be located on the lot.
      (4)   Grading in the subdivision shall provide alternate drainage ways
for the purpose of carrying water away from homes and preventing damage during
periods of heavy rainfall.
(Prior Code, § 153.133) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.134 EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL.
   (A)   During construction of public improvements, measures shall be taken to
control erosion and sedimentation to ensure that sediment will not be
transported from the site by a storm event of two-year frequency or less. The
erosion and sediment control plan shall include measures to stabilize and
protect disturbed areas, keep runoff velocities low, retain sediment on site
and protect disturbed areas from runoff. The location, type and configuration
of controls such as swales, berms, dams, sediment basins and release mechanisms
shall be included with the construction plans.
   (B)   Temporary or permanent soil stabilization measures, whichever is
applicable, shall be applied within 15 days after final grading to all areas
where the soil has been disturbed or the vegetative cover removed. Seeding
mixtures and rates, types of sod, method of seed bed preparation, expected
seeding dates, type and rate of time and fertilizer application and kind and
quantity of mulch for temporary or permanent vegetative control measures shall
be included with the construction plans.
(Prior Code, § 153.134) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.135 UTILITY EASEMENTS LOCATION OF UTILITIES.
   (A)   Utility easements.
      (1)   Utility easements shall be provided along front, rear or side lot
lines for the purpose of erecting and maintaining one or more of the following
facilities: storm sewers, sanitary sewers, surface drainage, gas mains,
underground electric lines, telephone lines, cable TV and such other utilities
reasonably required for an urban building.
      (2)   Easements shall be minimum of 15 feet in width. A utility may be
located in the street right-of-way if the respective company so desires and
appropriate permits have been obtained.
      (3)   Alternate locations for various utilities shall be decided upon by
the appropriate utility companies, subject to the approval of the Village
Engineer. In no case shall streets, permanent buildings or other human-made
improvements that obstruct surface drainage be placed on rear or side lot
easements.
      (4)   It is the responsibility of the subdivider to notify all utility
companies, in writing, when the land to be developed has been graded in
accordance with the construction plans and is ready for installation of a given
utility.
   (B)   Location of utilities.
      (1)   Utilities (sewers, electric, water, gas and cable television),
whenever possible, shall be located in the public right-of-way or front lot
easement in the following manner: water and electric lines shall be located on
the south and east sides; sanitary sewer and gas lines shall be located on the
north and west sides. In some cases, however, electric lines may also be
located on the north and west sides.
      (2)   The placement of storm sewers or electric lines in the rear of a
lot is not acceptable unless circumstances determined by the Village Engineer
require their placement in the rear, in which case the following easement
diagrams indicate placement:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/70e6db68e9bd52c73ebac3b5ba2d3edbe6d9cbb0/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1703.png]
 
 
         (a)   Ten-foot easements. When an easement will not include sanitary
sewer or surface drainage systems, a ten-foot easement width shall be
sufficient and the utilities shall be located as follows:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/70e6db68e9bd52c73ebac3b5ba2d3edbe6d9cbb0/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1705.png]
 
         (b)   Fifteen-foot easements. When an easement will include either a
sanitary sewer system or a surface drainage system, but not both systems, a 15-
foot easement shall be required and the utilities shall be located as follows:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/70e6db68e9bd52c73ebac3b5ba2d3edbe6d9cbb0/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1709.png]
 
         (c)   Twenty-foot easements. When a utility easement will include both
a sanitary sewer system and a surface drainage system, a 20-foot easement shall
be required and the utilities shall be located as follows:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/70e6db68e9bd52c73ebac3b5ba2d3edbe6d9cbb0/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1711.png]
 
         (d)   Ten-foot access easement. When sanitary or storm sewers are
located in the rear of a lot, a ten-foot easement in the side yard shall be
required from the street right-of-way to each manhole or inlet.
(Prior Code, § 153.135) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.136 SURFACE WATER DRAINAGE.
   (A)   All subdivisions shall be developed with adequate surface drainage.
Surface water drainage improvements shall consist of storm sewers and/or open
channels, inlets, catch basins and manholes designed and constructed to conform
with standards established by the Village Engineer and shall adequately drain
the area being developed, including drainage from other areas which naturally
drain through the area being developed.
   (B)   If, as the result of subdivision development, surface water is
deposited in existing roadside ditches in quantities exceeding their capacity,
the developer shall improve the ditches and replace culverts as needed to
handle the flow.
   (C)   Unless engineering evidence is presented to the Village Engineer
warranting exceptions, storm sewers which drain 20 acres or less for
residential development shall be designed and constructed to meet the following
criteria:
      (1)    Major streets: ten-year storm frequency; and
      (2)   All other area: five-year storm frequency.
   (D)   It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider to provide grade
control for rear lot drainage to each lot owner. Swales are not public works
which shall be dedicated to and accepted by the village; nevertheless, no
construction surety shall be fully released until the Village Engineer has
approved the swales in the subdivision. The Village Engineer will not approve
any swale until adequate turf and/or grass has been established at the
elevations set forth in the construction plans. Upon approval by the Village
Engineer, it shall be the lot owner’s responsibility to maintain the drainage
course and to keep it free from features that restrict natural drainage.
   (E)   The controlled release and storage of excess storm water runoff shall
be required in combination for all of the areas indicated on the preliminary
plan.
      (1)   The controlled release of storm water runoff shall not exceed the
release or discharge rate which existed at the site prior to development. This
rate shall be known as the pre-developed discharge rate. In the case of
multiple discharge locations, no location shall discharge at a rate higher than
the pre-developed discharge rate for that location under any set of conditions.
The controlled release rate, in any case, shall not exceed the rated capacity
of the existing natural downstream outlet channel or storm sewer system as
determined by the Village Engineer. The rate at which storm water runoff is
transported into a designated storage area may be as determined by the design
engineer and is unrestricted.
      (2)   A natural or surface channel system shall be designed with adequate
capacity to convey the storm water runoff from all tributary upstream areas
through the development. This by-pass channel shall be designed to carry the
peak rate of runoff from a 50-year storm assuming all storm sewers are blocked
and that the upstream areas are fully developed and have been saturated with
antecedent rainfall. No habitable structures shall be constructed within this
channel; however, streets and parking or playground areas and utility easements
shall be considered compatible primary uses.
      (3)   Storm water runoff capacity of detention facilities and discharge
rates from such facilities shall be calculated by analyzing volume and rate of
runoff during pre- and post-development conditions for the ten-year and the
100-year recurrence intervals.
         (a)   Storage capacity and discharge rates shall be based on the
maximum calculated volume and peak flow of storm waters, respectively.
         (b)   Storage facilities shall be designed using the Soil Conservation
Service (SCS) method of calculating runoff discharge rate and total volume of
storage. The rational method of calculating runoff may be used for subdivision
less than 20 acres.
         (c)   The storage volume shall be provided for the fully developed
watershed that is tributary to the area designated for detention purposes. The
control structure for discharge shall maintain the release rate at or below the
rate established in division (E)(1) above for all rainfall events of 100 year
or less frequency.
      (4)   (a)   Detention reservoirs or dry bottom storm water storage areas
shall be designed to serve a secondary purpose for recreation, open space or
other types of uses that will not be adversely affected by occasional or
intermittent flooding. A method of carrying the low flow through these areas
shall be provided in addition to a system of drains, and both shall be provided
with a positive gravity outlet to a natural channel or other storm sewer
facility with adequate capacity. The combination of storage of the water from a
100-year storm and the design release rate shall not result in a storage
duration in excess of 72 hours. Maximum depths of planned storm water storage
shall not exceed four feet unless the existing natural ground contours and
other conditions lend themselves to greater storage depth, which shall be
approved by the Village Engineer. Minimum grades for turf areas shall be 0.6%
and maximum slopes shall be 10%. Storage area side slopes shall be kept as
close to the natural land contours as practical and a 10% slope or less shall
be used whenever possible. If slopes greater than 10% are necessary to meet
storage requirements or area restrictions, approval shall be obtained from the
Village Engineer, and suitable erosion control shall be provided in addition to
the protection required to ensure public health and safety.
         (b)   Outlet control structures shall be designed as simply as
possible and shall require little or no maintenance and/or attention for proper
operation. Each storm water storage area shall be provided with a method of
emergency overflow in the event that a storm in excess of the 100-year return
frequency storm occurs. The emergency overflow facility shall be designed to
function without maintenance and/or attention and shall become part of the
natural or surface channel system described in a preceding paragraph. Hydraulic
calculations shall be submitted to substantiate all design features. Both
outlet control structures and emergency overflow facilities shall be designed
and constructed to fully protect the public health and safety. Storm water
runoff velocities shall be kept to a minimum and turbulent conditions at an
outfall control structure will not be permitted without complete protection for
the public safety. The use of restrictive fences shall be kept to a minimum and
shall be used only as a last resort when no other method is feasible.
      (5)   Retention reservoir or wet bottom storm water storage areas shall
be designed with all of the items required for detention reservoir storage
areas, except that a low flow conduit and a system of drains with a positive
gravity outlet shall not be required; however, the following additional
conditions shall be complied with:
         (a)   Water surface area shall not exceed one-tenth of the tributary
drainage area;
         (b)   Shoreline protection shall be provided to prevent erosion from
wave action;
         (c)   Minimum normal water depth shall be six feet. If fish are to be
used to keep the pond clean, a minimum of one-fourth of the pond area shall be
a minimum of ten feet deep;
         (d)   Facilities shall be available, if possible, to allow the pond
level to be lowered by gravity flow for cleaning purposes and shoreline
maintenance;
         (e)   Control structures for storm water release shall be designed to
operate at full capacity with only a minor increase in the water surface water
level. Hydraulic calculations shall be submitted to substantiate all design
features; and
         (f)   Aeration facilities to prevent pond stagnation shall be
provided, if necessary. Design calculations to substantiate the effectiveness
of these aeration facilities shall be submitted with construction plans.
Agreement for the perpetual operation and maintenance of aeration facilities
shall be prepared to the satisfaction of the Village Engineer and Plan
Commission.
      (6)   Where developments form only a portion of the watershed or contain
portions of several watersheds, the requirements for providing storage shall be
based upon that portion of the area being developed as compared to the total
watershed tributary to the storage area. Compensating storage will be
acceptable whenever it is justified and feasible. As a watershed is developed
with a series of storm water storage facilities, due consideration will be
given for calculations of the allowable release rate and capacity of the
natural or surface channel system, as described in division (E)(2) above.
      (7)   Where development of a property presents the threat of flooding or
damage by flash flood runoff to downstream residents, the facilities for storm
water runoff control shall be constructed prior to any earthmoving or drainage
construction on the project site.
      (8)   The construction of the storm water control systems shall be
accomplished as part of the cost of land development. If the amount of storage
capacity can be increased to provide certain benefits to the surrounding
properties, negotiations for public participation in the cost of such
development may be feasible.
      (9)   The ability to retain and maximize the ground water recharge
capacity to the area being developed is encouraged. Design of the storm water
runoff control system as provided in division (E)(4) above shall give due
consideration to providing ground water recharge to compensate for the
reduction in the percolation that occurs when the ground surface is paved and/
or roofed over. The use of natural gravel deposits for the lower portions of
storm runoff storage areas, the flattening of drainage slopes and the retention
of existing topography are samples of possible recharge methods.
      (10)   During the construction phase of land development, facilities
shall be provided by appropriate stock-pile design, to prevent the erosion and
washing away of the earth. Silting of downstream areas shall be prevented
through the strategic use of silting basins, sodding of runoff channels and by
limiting the period of time during which the earth is stripped of vegetation.
      (11)   Final engineering plans shall show complete details for all items
covered in this section. Plans, specifications and all calculations for storm
water runoff control and storm sewers shall be submitted for review and
approval as part of the construction plan submittal or as part of the site plan
submittal for large scale developments.
(Prior Code, § 153.136) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.137 BACKFILL OVER UNDERGROUND UTILITIES.
   (A)   Where an underground utility is to be placed in an area which has a
permanent type street or sidewalk surface, or upon which such a surface is to
be constructed within a period of one year, the backfill above the utility or
in case of sewers, above the top of the granular cradle, to the level of the
bottom of the permanent type pavement shall be made. This material will be in
all areas where utility trenches cross the pavement subgrade except in areas
which will be lime treated or areas where rock will be used to stabilize the
subgrade. The backfill shall be IDOT CA-6 or CA-7 crushed stone. Boiler slag
will not be permitted.
   (B)   As an alternate, the use of “flowable fill” will be permitted. This
mix shall consist of a lean concrete mix with no less than 50 pounds of cement
per cubic yard, 200 to 600 pounds of fly ash, 2,000 to 3,000 pounds of fine
aggregate and 35 to 65 gallons of water. Minimum 28-day compressive strength
shall not be less than 150 psi.
   (C)   In areas not now subject to vehicular traffic, nor in the opinion of
the Village Engineer likely to be within a period of one year, backfill may be
made with selected excavation material which is free from clods and stones;
provided such trench backfill is adequately jetted from the bottom up
completely filling the trench immediately after backfilling.
(Prior Code, § 153.137) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.138 SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Sanitary sewers. When a subdivision is located within the service area
of a public sanitary sewerage system, sanitary sewers shall be constructed
throughout the entire subdivision in such a manner as to serve adequately each
building lot.
      (1)   Public sanitary sewers shall be located in the north or west
boulevard (between curb and sidewalk) within the street right-of-way or in a
15-foot easement behind the sidewalk within the house setback area. Parallel
sewer lines along the street may be used. Sanitary sewers shall not be located
in the rear yard.
      (2)   Under no circumstances shall the entrance of storm water or ground
water to the sanitary sewers be permitted.
      (3)   All sanitary sewers collections and disposal systems shall comply
with the ordinances of the village, the Springfield Metro Sanitary District and
the requirements of the State Environmental Protection Agency.
   (B)   Private sewage disposal system: Where no public sanitary sewerage
system is available (see §
153.032(A)(1)), individual sanitary disposal systems shall be installed to
service individual dwelling units according to conditions set forth in §
153.032. These sanitary disposal systems shall be installed in accordance with
the latest revised edition of the Illinois Private Sewage Disposal Licensing
Act, being 225 ILCS 225, and private sewage disposal code promulgated by the
State Department of Public Health and applicable ordinance of the village.
Sufficient area shall be provided to accommodate two seepage fields.
(Prior Code, § 153.138) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.139 WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   Public water supply.
      (1)   Water mains not less than six inches in diameter shall be
constructed throughout the entire subdivision. Larger diameter pipes may be
required by Village Water, Light and Power (CWLP) to provide for future
transmission needs; in which case, the village shall pay any additional costs.
      (2)   Every water supply system shall be designed in such a manner as to
provide an area fire flow meeting the requirements established by the
Springfield Fire Department. Water mains larger than six inches in diameter
shall be installed at the subdivider’s expense if needed to provide the area
fire flow required by the Insurance Services Office guild for determination of
required fire flow. A minimum of 1,000 gallons per minute with a residual
pressure of 20 pounds per square inch shall be required. Fire hydrants with
shut-off valves at each hydrant shall be installed throughout the entire system
at maximum intervals of 600 feet or less if required by the Fire Department.
All fire hydrants shall be three nozzle hydrants with threads as specified by
the Springfield Fire Department and shall have flow characteristics similar to
those of a five and a quarter inch hydrant valve.
   (B)   Private water supply. When a public water supply is not feasible and
the subdivision is outside the corporate limits of the village, a private well
may be used. Wells shall be constructed according to the Illinois Water Well
Pump Installation Code, being 415 ILCS 35/1 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 153.139) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.140 ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION.
   The underground electric distribution system shall be installed on utility
easements along front lot lines. Transformers shall normally be placed on every
other lot line with secondary conductors and distribution pedestals installed
on the opposite side of the street. In some instances, transformers may be
installed on both sides of the street. All primary and secondary cables shall
be in conduit.
(Prior Code, § 153.140) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.141 STREET LIGHTING.
   Street lights shall be installed along public streets in the village by the
subdivider. The utility company shall design or approve the design of the
street lighting system. Street lights shall be placed at all intersection
streets and at a maximum interval of 400 feet.
(Prior Code, § 153.141) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.142 PUBLIC AREAS AND OPEN SPACES.
   (A)   Due consideration shall be given to the allocation of areas suitably
located and of adequate size for playgrounds and parks for local or
neighborhood use as well as public service areas.
   (B)   When a proposed school, neighborhood park, electric substation, water
storage tank, recreation area or public access to water frontage shown on the
official map is located in whole or in part in a proposed subdivision, the
Village Board may require, as a condition of final plat approval, that such
space within the subdivision be reserved and not developed for a period not to
exceed one year from the date of such final plat approval. Within the one-year
period, the appropriate public agency may acquire the reserved property in the
manner provided by law. If the reserved site is not acquired and no legal
action is filed within the one-year period, the reservation shall become void
and the site previously reserved may then be used by the developer for other
purposes.
(Prior Code, § 153.142) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.143 SIDEWALKS.
   Concrete sidewalks at least four feet wide and four inches thick shall be
constructed on both side of each street at least four and one-half feet from
and at least four inches above the backs of the curbs. Sidewalks shall be
located one foot inside the street right-of-way. Sidewalks shall be constructed
along all streets bordering the subdivision.
(Prior Code, § 153.143) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006) Penalty, see §
153.999
MINOR SUBDIVISIONS
§ 153.155 PURPOSE.
   (A)   A minor subdivision is the creation of a total of up to four lots
(counting the original tract from which the lots are created) which front along
a public road.
   (B)   The minor subdivision is designed to allow the sale of said lots
without the delay and expense of the conventional subdivision process.
(Prior Code, § 153.155) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.156 LOCATION MAP.
   (A)   Location map submission requirements. The location map shall consist
of data added to an existing base map of a suitable scale covering an area of
at least one mile radius from the tract proposed for development; the location
map shall show the following information:
      (1)   Title of proposed subdivision;
      (2)   North point, scale and date;
      (3)   Names, addresses and phone numbers of the owner, subdivider,
engineer and registered land surveyor, with the name and address of the contact
person to whom any notice is to be sent;
      (4)   Outline of the entire area owned or controlled by the subdivider
with approximate boundary dimensions and total acreage;
      (5)   Existing streets and roads expected to serve the area to be
subdivided;
      (6)   Existing utility lines expected to serve the area to be subdivided;
      (7)   Existing and proposed zoning;
      (8)   Method of sewage disposal;
      (9)   Method of water supply;
      (10)   Electric service provider;
      (11)   Method of fire protection;
      (12)   School district; and
      (13)   Gas service provider.
   (B)   Location map review process.
      (1)   The subdivider shall submit nine prints of the location map and
support data to the Village Clerk. The subdivision will be reviewed according
to the filing deadline and review schedule as established by the Village Board.
      (2)   The Village Clerk shall retain two prints on file and distribute
the location map and support data as follows:
         (a)   One to each Village Board member; and
         (b)   One to the Village President.
      (3)   The subdivider shall also submit prints of the location map and
support data along with the review schedule as established by the Village Board
to the following:
         (a)   One print to the Village Engineer;
         (b)   One to Village Water, Light and Power - Water Department;
         (c)   One to Springfield Metro Sanitary District;
         (d)   One to Springfield Engineering Department;
         (e)   One to Springfield Fire Department;
         (f)   One to the appropriate school district;
         (g)   One to the County Highway Department, if applicable;
         (h)   One to the County Department of Public Health, if applicable;
         (i)   One to the County Soil and Water Conservation District, if
applicable;
         (j)   One to the appropriate Township Commissioner, if applicable;
         (k)   One to the State Department of Transportation, if applicable;
and
         (l)   One to any additional utility provider that may be affected by
the development.
      (4)   The entities listed in divisions (B)(2) and (B)(3) above shall
transmit any comments on the suitability of the site in writing the Village
Clerk within seven calendar days of receipt. Receipt of plans must be
acknowledged.
      (5)   The Village Clerk then will compile the comments from all the
entities as listed in division (B)(4) above within two calendar days.
      (6)   The compiled comments will then be distributed to the Village Board
and Village President to evaluate at a special meeting within five calendar
days from the date of receipt from the Village Clerk. During the special
meeting, the Village Board shall make recommendations to approve or disapprove
the location map with corrections. Lack of a recommended action at the special
Board meeting shall constitute a negative recommendation.
      (7)   After the special Board meeting, the Village Clerk shall submit all
comments and recommendations to the subdivider. The subdivider shall address
comments and review recommendations received from the Village Board. The
subdivider shall submit all comments and any revisions to the Village Clerk
within 14 calendar days for the next regular scheduled Village Board meeting.
      (8)   At the next regular Board meeting, the Village Board shall review
the comments and revisions received from the subdivider. The Village Board
shall approve or disapprove the location map based on the suitability criteria
as previously outlined. If the location map is disapproved, the owners shall be
informed, in writing, of the noncompliance found. The Village Board decision
may be appealed to the Village Board as described in §
153.008.
(Prior Code, § 153.156) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.157 FINAL PLAT SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Final plat submission requirements. The final plat shall be consistent
with the current zoning classification of the property; the following shall be
submitted on a plan drawn to the scale of no more than 100 feet to the inch or
in accompanying documents:
      (1)   North point, scale and date of preparation and any revisions;
      (2)   Names and addressed of the owner, engineer and registered land
surveyor;
      (3)   Total acreage;
      (4)   Lot numbers;
      (5)   Existing utilities and drainage courses within and adjacent to the
site;
      (6)   Location of all present property lines, section lines, streets,
building and watercourses within 100 feet of the area;
      (7)   Location of proposed lots, setback lines and utility easements;
      (8)   Contours referring to the U.S. Geological Survey datum with
intervals of two feet or less unless a greater interval is required because of
terrain. This requirement may be waived by the Village Engineer at his or her
sole discretion;
      (9)   If applicable, a note on the final plat stating: “Approval of this
final plat by the Village of Southern View does not constitute a guarantee that
well water is of adequate quantity or quality for residential needs or that a
suitable sewage disposal system can be constructed on each lot”. Any guarantees
are the subdivider’s responsibility;
      (10)   A statement indicating whether or not any part of the plat is
located in a special flood hazard area as identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency; and
      (11)   A notation stating any setback required through covenants if the
setbacks are different from those of the appropriate zoning district.
   (B)   Accompanying documents. The following documents shall accompany the
final plat:
      (1)   A signed statement of a registered professional engineer and the
owner of the land, or his or her duly authorized attorney, as required by state
statutes concerning drainage (see §
153.114);
      (2)   Notarized acknowledgment of the plat by the owner or a duly
authorized attorney. This item may be a separate document or on the plat itself
(see §
153.113);
      (3)   The certificate of a registered state land surveyor attesting to
the accuracy of the survey and the location of all monuments shown. The
certificate may be filed as a supplement to the final plat (see §
153.112);
      (4)   Exhibit showing the location of wells and seepage field areas (must
be large enough to accommodate two seepage fields) on each lot, if applicable;
and
      (5)   Any covenants or restrictions relating to the requirements of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 153.157) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.158 REVIEW PROCESS.
   (A)   The subdivider shall file nine prints of the minor subdivision in the
office of the Village Clerk with a filing fee of $100 to be deposited to the
appropriate village account. The subdivision will be reviewed according to the
filing deadline and review schedule established by the Village Board.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall retain two prints on file and distribute the
location map and sketch maps and support data as follows:
      (1)   One print to each Village Board member; and
      (2)   One print to the Village President.
   (C)   The subdivider shall also submit prints of the minor subdivision and
support data along with the review schedule, as established by the Village
Board, to the following:
      (1)   One print to the Village Engineer;
      (2)   One to Village Water, Light and Power - Water Department;
      (3)   One to Springfield Metro Sanitary District;
      (4)   One to Springfield Engineering Department;
      (5)   One to Springfield Fire Department;
      (6)   One to the appropriate school district;
      (7)   One to the County Highway Department, if applicable;
      (8)   One to the County Department of Public Health, if applicable;
      (9)   One to the County Soil and Water Conservation District, if
applicable;
      (10)   One to the appropriate Township Commissioner, if applicable;
      (11)   One to the State Department of Transportation, if applicable; and
      (12)   One to any additional utility provider that may be affected by the
development.
   (D)   The entities listed in divisions (B) and (C) above shall transmit any
comments on the suitability of the site in writing the Village Clerk within
seven calendar days of receipt. Receipt of plans must be acknowledged.
   (E)   The Village Clerk then will compile the comments from all the entities
as listed in division (D) above within two calendar days.
   (F)   The compiled comments will then be distributed to the Village Board
and Village President to evaluate at a special meeting within five calendar
days from the date of receipt from the Village Clerk. During the special
meeting, the Village Board shall make recommendations. Lack of a recommended
action at the special Board meeting shall constitute a negative recommendation.
   (G)   After the special Board meeting, the Village Clerk shall submit all
comments and recommendations to the subdivider. The subdivider shall address
comments and review recommendations received from the Village Board. The
subdivider shall submit all comments and any revisions to the Village Clerk
within 14 calendar days for the next regular scheduled Village Board meeting.
   (H)   At the next regular Board meeting, the Village Board shall review the
comments and revisions received from the subdivider. The Village Board shall
approve or disapprove the final plat of the minor subdivision.
(Prior Code, § 153.158) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.159 SUBMISSION OF MINOR SUBDIVISION PLAT TO THE VILLAGE BOARD.
   (A)   Upon receipt of the endorsed original minor subdivision plat and two
prints, the Village Clerk shall retain one print on file and shall deliver one
print to the Village Engineer.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall deliver the original minor subdivision plat to
the Village Board at its next regular session after receiving the documents
from the Village Board and other agencies.
   (C)   The minor subdivision plat shall remain pending on the agenda of the
Village Board and shall not be approved by the Village Board until the
following have been received:
      (1)   Written certification from the Village Engineer that the plat has
been reviewed and any required public improvements have been approved, as
described in §
153.111 or, in lieu of construction, a security has been provided, as described
in §
153.088; and
      (2)   A certificate provided by the subdivider from the County Clerk
indicating that payment of taxes is not delinquent. See §
153.116.
   (D)   If the requirements of this section have not been met within two years
from Plan Commission approval, the existing approvals and recommendations shall
expire and the plat must be resubmitted and reviewed as a new minor
subdivision.
(Prior Code, § 153.159) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.160 RECORDING THE MINOR SUBDIVISION PLAT.
   (A)   When the minor subdivision plat has been approved by the Village Board
and signed by the Village President and Village Board, the original tracing
shall be recorded in the office of the County Recorder of Deeds by the
developer.
   (B)   If the minor subdivision plat is not recorded within two years after
approval by the Village Board, the plat must be resubmitted to the Village
Board to determine if any changes in the plat are needed to meet the
requirements of this chapter. No title to any lots shall be conveyed until the
original tracing is recorded.
(Prior Code, § 153.160) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.161 LIMITATIONS ON MINOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Only one minor subdivision shall be allowed for any parcel of record
existing (March 24, 1987).
   (B)   If three lots have been created from a parcel of record after said
date, all additional divisions at a later time shall follow conventional
subdividing procedures.
(Prior Code, § 153.161) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.162 CHECKLIST FOR MINOR SUBDIVISION.
Checklist for Minor Subdivision Yes No N/A
Checklist for Minor Subdivision                                                   Yes No N/
                                                                                         A
A. Location map submission requirements                                                 
   1. The location map shall consist of data added to an existing base map of a
suitable scale covering an area of at least one mile radius from the tract              
proposed for development. The location map shall show the following information
      a. Title of proposed subdivision                                            
      b. North point, scale and date                                              
      c. Names, addresses and phone numbers of the owner, subdivider, engineer
and registered land surveyor, with the name and address of the contact person to        
whom any notice is to be sent
      d. Outline of the entire area owned or controlled by the subdivider wi      
approximate boundary dimensions and total acreage
      e. Existing streets and roads expected to serve the area to be subdivi d    
      f. Existing utility lines expected to serve the area to be subdivided       
      g. Existing and proposed zoning                                             
      h. Method of sewage disposal                                                
      i. Method of water supply                                                   
      j. Electric service provider                                                
      k. Method of fire protection                                                
      l. School district                                                          
      m. Gas service provider                                                     
B. Location map review process                                                          
   1. The subdivider shall submit nine prints of the location map and support
data to the Village Clerk. The subdivision will be reviewed according to the            
filing deadline and review schedule as established by the Village Board
   2. The Village Clerk shall retain two prints on file and distribute the           
location map and support data as follows
      a. One to each Village Board member                                         
      b. One to the Village President                                             
   3. The subdivider shall also submit prints of the location map and support
data along with the review schedule as established by the Village Board to the          
following
      a. One print to the Village Engineer                                        
      b. One to Village Water, Light and Power - Water Department                 
      c. One to Springfield Metro Sanitary District                               
      d. One to Springfield Engineering Department                                
      e. One to Springfield Fire Department                                       
      f. One to the appropriate school district                                   
      g. One to the County Highway Department, if applicable                      
      h. One to the County Department of Public Health, if applicable             
      i. One to the County Soil and Water Conservation District, if applicab      
      j. One to the appropriate Township Commissioner, if applicable              
      k. One to the State Department of Transportation, if applicable             
      l. One to any additional utility provider that may be affected by the       
development
   4. The entities listed in divisions B. and C. above shall transmit any
comments on the suitability of the site in writing the Village Clerk within seven       
calendar days of receipt. Receipt of plans must be acknowledged
   5. The Village Clerk then will compile the comments from all the entities as      
listed in division D. above within two calendar days
   6. The compiled comments will then be distributed to the Village Board and
Village President to evaluate at a special meeting within five calendar days from
the date of receipt from the Village Clerk. During the special meeting, the             
Village Board shall make recommendations to approve or disapprove the location
map with corrections. Lack of a recommended action at the special Board meeting
shall constitute a negative recommendation
   7. After the special Board meeting, the Village Clerk shall submit all
comments and recommendations to the subdivider. The subdivider shall address
comments and review recommendations received from the Village Board. The                
subdivider shall submit all comments and any revisions to the Village Clerk
within 14 calendar days for the next regular scheduled Village Board meeting
   8. At the next regular Board meeting, the Village Board shall review the
comments and revisions received from the subdivider. The Village Board shall
approve or disapprove the location map based on the suitability criteria as
previously outlined. If the location map is disapproved, the owners shall be            
informed in writing of the noncompliance found. The Village Board decision may be
appealed to the Village Board as described in §
153.008
      1. Approval                                                                 
      2. Disapproval                                                              
 
COMMENTS:
Completed by:
_______________________________________________________________________
Address:
____________________________________________________________________________
Date:
_______________________________________________________________________________
Completed Copy to Village Clerk:       Date:
________________________________________
                     By: _________________________________________
Date Received: ______________________    By:
________________________________________
                           Village Clerk
Checklist for Minor Subdivision Final Plat Yes No N/A
Checklist for Minor Subdivision Final Plat                                      Yes No N/
                                                                                       A
A. Final plat submission requirements                                                 
   The final plat shall be consistent with the current zoning                      
   The following shall be submitted on a plan drawn to the scale of no more        
than 100 feet to the inch or in accompanying documents
   1. North point, scale and date of preparation and any revisions                 
   2. Names and addressed of the owner, engineer and registered land surveyor      
   3. Total acreage                                                                
   4. Lot numbers                                                                  
   5. Existing utilities and drainage courses within and adjacent to the site      
   6. Location of all present property lines, section lines, streets, buildin      
and watercourses within 100 feet of the area
   7. Location of proposed lots, setback lines and utility easements               
   8. Contours referring to the U.S. Geological Survey datum with intervals of
two feet or less unless a greater interval is required because of terrain. This       
requirement may be waived by the Village Engineer at his or her sole discretion
   9. If applicable, a note on the final plat stating: “Approval of this final
plat by the Village of Southern View does not constitute a guarantee that well
water is of adequate quantity or quality for residential needs or that a              
suitable sewage disposal system can be constructed on each lot”. Any guarantees
are the subdivider’s responsibility
   10. A statement indicating whether or not any part of the plat is located in
a special flood hazard area as identified by the Federal Emergency Management         
Agency
   11. A notation stating any setback required through covenants if the            
setbacks are different from those of the appropriate zoning district
B. Accompanying documents                                                             
   The following documents shall accompany the final plat                          
   1. A signed statement of a registered professional engineer and the owner of
the land, or his or her duly authorized attorney, as required by state statutes       
concerning drainage (see §
153.114)
   2. Notarized acknowledgment of the plat by the owner or a duly authorized
attorney. This item may be a separate document or on the plat itself (see §          
153.113)
   3. The certificate of a registered state land surveyor attesting to the
accuracy of the survey and the location of all monuments shown. The certificate       
may be filed as a supplement to the final plat (see §
153.112)
   4. Exhibit showing the location of wells and seepage field areas (must be       
large enough to accommodate two seepage fields) on each lot, if applicable
   5. Any covenants or restrictions relating to the requirements of this chapter
Review Process Yes No N/A
Review Process                                                               Yes No N/
                                                                                    A
A. The subdivider shall file nine prints of the minor subdivision in the
office of the Village Clerk with a filing fee of $100 to be deposited to the       
appropriate village account. The subdivision will be reviewed according to
the filing deadline and review schedule established by the Village Board
B. The Village Clerk shall retain two prints on file and distribute the            
location map and sketch maps and support data as follows
   1. One print to each Village Board member                                    
   2. One print to the Village President                                        
C. The subdivider shall also submit prints of the minor subdivision and
support data along with the review schedule as established by the Village          
Board to the following
   1. One print to the Village Engineer                                         
   2. One to Village Water, Light and Power - Water Department                  
   3. One to Springfield Metro Sanitary District                                
   4. One to Springfield Engineering Department                                 
   5. One to Springfield Fire Department                                        
   6. One to the appropriate school district                                    
   7. One to the County Highway Department, if applicable                       
   8. One to the County Department of Public Health, if applicable              
   9. One to the County Soil and Water Conservation District, if applicabl      
   10. One to the appropriate Township Commissioner, if applicable              
   11. One to any additional utility provider that may be affected by the       
development
   12. One to the State Department of Transportation, if applicable             
D. The entities listed in divisions B. and C. above shall transmit any
comments on the suitability of the site in writing the Village Clerk within        
seven calendar days of receipt. Receipt of plans must be acknowledged
E. The Village Clerk then will compile the comments from all the entities as       
listed in division D. above within two calendar days
F. The compiled comments will then be distributed to the Village Board and
Village President to evaluate at a special meeting within five calendar days
from the date of receipt from the Village Clerk. During the special meeting,       
the Village Board shall make recommendations. Lack of a recommended action
at the special Board meeting shall constitute a negative recommendation
G. After the special Board meeting, the Village Clerk shall submit all
comments and recommendations to the subdivider. The subdivider shall address
comments and review recommendations received from the Village Board. The           
subdivider shall submit all comments and any revisions to the Village Clerk
within 14 calendar days for the next regular scheduled Village Board meeting
H. At the next regular Board meeting, the Village Board shall review the comments and
revisions received from the subdivider. The Village Board shall approve or disapprove
the final plat of the minor subdivision
Submission of Minor Subdivision Plat to the Village Board Yes No N/A
Submission of Minor Subdivision Plat to the Village Board                       Yes No N/
                                                                                       A
A. Upon receipt of the endorsed original minor subdivision plat and two prints,
the Village Clerk shall retain one print on file and shall deliver one print to       
the Village Engineer
B. The Village Clerk shall deliver the original minor subdivision plat to the
Village Board at its next regular session after receiving the documents from          
the Village Board and other agencies
C. The minor subdivision plat shall remain pending on the agenda of the Village
Board and shall not be approved by the Village Board until the following have         
been received
   1. Written certification from the Village Engineer that the plat has been
reviewed and any required public improvements have been approved, as described        
in §
153.088
   2. A certificate provided by the subdivider from the County Clerk indicating
that payment of taxes is not delinquent (see §                                       
153.116)
D. If the requirements of this section have not been met within two years from
Plan Commission approval, the existing approvals and recommendations shall            
expire and the plat must be resubmitted and reviewed as a new minor subdivision
8. At the next regular Board meeting the Village Board shall review the
comments and revisions received from the subdivider. The Village Board shall
approve or disapprove the location map based on the suitability criteria as
previously outlined. If the location map is disapproved, the owners shall be          
informed in writing of the noncompliance found. The Village Board decision may
be appealed to the Village Board as described in §
153.008
   1. Approval                                                                     
   2. Disapproval                                                                  
 
COMMENTS:
Completed by:
________________________________________________________________________
Address:
____________________________________________________________________________
Date:
________________________________________________________________________________
Completed Copy to Village Clerk      Date:
_____________________________________________
                  By: ____________________________________________
Date Received: ________________   By:
____________________________________________
                                 Village Clerk
(Prior Code, § 153.162) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.163 MINOR SUBDIVISION; FLOW DIAGRAM.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/70e6db68e9bd52c73ebac3b5ba2d3edbe6d9cbb0/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1713.png]
 
(Prior Code, § 153.163) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.164 MINOR SUBDIVISION FINAL PLAT; FLOW DIAGRAM.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/70e6db68e9bd52c73ebac3b5ba2d3edbe6d9cbb0/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1715.png]
 
(Prior Code, § 153.164) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
SITE DEVELOPMENT
§ 153.175 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The site development plan is intended to provide a detailed layout of
buildings, utilities, other improvements and construction details to ensure
that village public health and safety standards, subdivision and zoning
requirements are met.
   (B)   A site development plan is required when shared access easements are
being used, when the development is a large scale development or in other
instances determined by the Plan Commission.
   (C)   The permitted uses and densities and other requirements of the site’s
existing zoning district shall be met; however, yard and other bulk
requirements can be varied within the site if more than one building is
proposed.
(Prior Code, § 153.175) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.176 SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS.
   The site plan shall include the following information at a scale of no more
than 100 feet to the inch:
   (A)   Title of the development;
   (B)   North point, scale and date;
   (C)   Names, addresses and phone numbers of the owner, subdivider, engineer
and land surveyor. A contact person should be designated;
   (D)   Boundary lines with accurate distances and angles;
   (E)   Acreage;
   (F)   On-site vehicular circulation;
   (G)   Parking;
   (H)   Sidewalks;
   (I)   Sewer distribution;
   (J)   Site grading;
   (K)   Storm drainage and detention;
   (L)   Location of structures;
   (M)   Water distribution and size of mains;
   (N)   Location of fire hydrants and valves;
   (O)   Street profiles and typical cross-sections;
   (P)   Yard setbacks;
   (Q)   Landscape plans;
   (R)   Location of outdoor lighting and signs;
   (S)   Traffic analysis if more than 200 cars are to be accommodated on site;
and
   (T)   Seal and signatures of a registered professional engineer.
(Prior Code, § 153.176) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.177 STANDARD AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The plans must comply with all standards and requirements of
applicable village codes, including land subdivision ordinance, zoning
ordinance, official map and any building, housing and fire codes.
   (B)   The following exceptions shall be observed:
      (1)   Yard requirements.
 
For All Residential Developments
Front yard 30 feet
Rear yard  20 feet
Side yard  20 feet each
 
For All Commercial and Industrial Districts
Front yard 20 feet
Rear yard  15 feet
Side yard  15 feet each
 
         (a)   Yard area shall be open area and not be used for parking.
         (b)   When a commercial or industrial development abuts or adjoins a
residential district on a side or rear yard, an additional ten feet shall be
required for each yard that abuts or adjoins a residential district. The
proposed commercial or industrial development shall be screened on each side
abutting or adjoining a residential district by a wall, opaque fence or densely
planted compact hedge not less than five feet in height.
         (c)   For all developments, the front yard shall be that area fronting
a public street and which contains the main entrance to the main building or
development. Only one front yard shall be required for each development.
      (2)   Pavement width. Streets and drives within the development shall be
of sufficient width to accommodate unimpeded movement of fire vehicles.
Pavement width shall vary depending upon parking along the street and direction
of vehicle movement.
      (3)   Sidewalks. Sidewalks shall provide pedestrian movement within the
development and to existing public streets or sidewalks. Sidewalks shall also
be constructed along streets adjoining the development. Sidewalks shall be a
minimum of four feet wide, four inches thick and be constructed of portland
cement concrete.
      (4)   Right-of-way. The developer shall dedicate right-of-way as required
by this chapter for all public streets adjacent to the site development.
(Prior Code, § 153.177) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.178 REVIEW PROCESS.
   (A)   The developer shall file nine copies of the site plan of the proposed
development in the office of the Village Clerk with a filing fee of $100 to be
deposited in the appropriate village account. The site plan will be reviewed
according to the filing deadline and review schedule established by the Village
Board.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall retain two prints on file and distribute site
plan and support data as follows:
      (1)   One print to each Village Board member; and
      (2)   One print to the Village President.
   (C)   The developer shall also submit prints of the site plan and support
data along with the review schedule as established by the Village Board to the
following:
      (1)   One print to the Village Engineer;
      (2)   One to Village Water, Light and Power - Water Department;
      (3)   One to Springfield Metro Sanitary District;
      (4)   One to Springfield Engineering Department;
      (5)   One to Springfield Fire Department;
      (6)   One to the appropriate school district;
      (7)   One to the County Highway Department, if applicable;
      (8)   One to the County Department of Public Health, if applicable;
      (9)   One to the County Soil and Water Conservation District, if
applicable;
      (10)   One to the appropriate Township Commissioner, if applicable;
      (11)   One to the State Department of Transportation, if applicable; and
      (12)   One to any additional utility provider that may be affected by the
development.
   (D)   The entities listed in divisions (B) and (C) above shall transmit any
comments on the suitability of the site, in writing, to the Village Clerk
within seven calendar days of receipt. Receipt of plans must be acknowledged.
   (E)   The Village Clerk then will compile the comments from all the entities
as listed in division (D) above within two calendar days.
   (F)   The compiled comments will then be distributed to the Village Board
and Village President to evaluate at a special meeting within five calendar
days from the date of receipt from the Village Clerk. During the special
meeting, the Village Board shall make recommendations. Lack of a recommended
action at the special Board meeting shall constitute a negative recommendation.
   (G)   After the special Board meeting, the Village Clerk shall submit all
comments and recommendations to the developer. The developer shall address
comments and review recommendations received from the Village Board. The
developer shall submit all comments and any revisions to the Village Clerk
within 14 calendar days for the next regular scheduled Village Board meeting.
   (H)   At the next regular Board meeting, the Village Board shall review the
comments and revisions received from the developer. The Village Board shall
approve or disapprove the site plan based on the suitability criteria as
previously outlined.
(Prior Code, § 153.178) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.179 REVIEW BY THE VILLAGE BOARD.
   (A)   The site development plans shall be reviewed by the Village Board as
soon as practicable after review by the Plan Commission.
   (B)   The developer may appear and be heard at the Village Board meeting at
which the site development plan is considered.
   (C)   The Village Board shall approve or disapprove the plan by ordinance or
resolution, and the Village President shall endorse the site development plan
in the same manner as prescribed herein for subdivision preliminary plans.
   (D)   Approved plans shall expire if not completed in the same manner as set
forth herein for final subdivision plats.
      (1)   Recommendation of approval. If the Village Board finds that the
site plan meets the requirements of this chapter; that the site plan meets the
requirements of other village ordinances pertaining to zoning, building and
fire safety; and utilities will be adequate, the Village Board shall indicate a
recommendation for approval on three copies of the plan in substantially the
following language:
         “This site development is recommended for approval by the Southern
View Village Board.”
         By: ______________________________
            Village President
         Date: _____________________________
      (2)   Recommendation of disapproval.
         (a)   If the Village Board does not make the findings in division (A)
above, it shall inform the developer of its findings in writing and state the
noncompliance found, and shall endorse three copies of the site plan with its
recommendation of disapproval, and shall forward the plans to the Village Board
for further disposition, along with minutes of the meeting at which the plans
were disapproved.
         (b)   If the developer desires to amend the disapproved large scale
plans prior to consideration by the Village Board, the developer shall begin
the review process over again without the filing fees.
(Prior Code, § 153.179) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.180 CONSTRUCTION PLANS.
   The developer shall submit construction plans for private drives, streets,
sidewalks, grading, drainage and utilities to the Village Engineer for review
in the same manner and for the same review and inspection fees as prescribed
herein for subdivision plats.
(Prior Code, § 153.180) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.181 CONSTRUCTION AND SECURITIES.
   (A)   No building permits shall be issued for any structure or mobile homes
unless the large scale development plan has been approved by the Village Board
and construction work either has been installed according to the approved
construction plans or a security provided in the same manner as set forth in
this chapter for final plans of subdivisions.
   (B)   Security for completion of private drives, streets, grading and
drainage shall not be required for purely residential developments containing
less than eight living units; however, utilities and other facilities serving a
public function must be built or security provided.
(Prior Code, § 153.181) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.182 CHECKLIST FOR SITE DEVELOPMENT.
Checklist for Site Development Yes No N/A
Checklist for Site Development                                                     Yes No N/
                                                                                          A
A. Site development submission requirements                                              
   1. Title of the development                                                        
   2. North point, scale and date (no larger than one inch equals 100 feet)           
   3. Names, addresses and phone numbers of the owner, subdivider, engineer and       
land surveyor. A contact person should be designated
   4. Boundary lines with accurate distances and angles                               
   5. Acreage                                                                         
   6. On-site vehicular circulation                                                   
   7. Parking                                                                         
   8. Sidewalks                                                                       
   9. Sewer distribution                                                              
   10. Site grading                                                                   
   11. Storm drainage and detention                                                   
   12. Location of structures                                                         
   13. Water distribution and size of mains                                           
   14. Location of fire hydrants and valves                                           
   15. Street profiles and typical cross-sections                                     
   16. Yard setbacks                                                                  
   17. Landscape plans                                                                
   18. Location of outdoor lighting and signs                                         
   19. Traffic analysis if more than 200 cars are to be accommodated on site          
   20. Seal and signatures of a registered professional engineer                      
B. Standard requirement                                                                  
   1. The plans must comply with all standards and requirements of applicable
village codes including land subdivision ordinance, zoning ordinance, official map       
and any building, housing and fire codes. The following exceptions shall be
observed
      A. Yard requirements                                                         
         1. For all residential developments                                    
            Front yard: 30 feet                                              
            Side yard: 20 feet each                                          
            Rear yard: 20 feet                                               
         2. For all commercial and industrial districts                         
            Front yard 20 feet                                               
            Side yard: 15 feet each                                          
            Rear yard: 15 feet                                               
      B. Yard area shall be open area and not be used for parking                  
   2. When a commercial or industrial development abuts or adjoins a residential
district on a side or rear yard, an additional ten feet shall be required for each
yard that abuts or adjoins a residential district. The proposed commercial or            
industrial development shall be screened on each side abutting or adjoining a
residential district by a wall, opaque fence or densely planted compact hedge not
less than five feet in height
   3. For all developments, the front yard shall be that area fronting a public
street and which contains the main entrance to the main building or development.         
Only one front yard shall be required for each development
      A. Pavement width                                                            
      Streets and drives within the development shall be of sufficient width to
accommodate unimpeded movement of fire vehicles. Pavement width shall vary               
depending upon parking along the street and direction of vehicle movement
      B. Sidewalks                                                                 
      Sidewalks shall provide pedestrian movement within the development and to
existing public streets or sidewalks. Sidewalks shall also be constructed along          
streets adjoining the development. Sidewalks shall be a minimum of four inches
wide, four inches thick and be constructed of portland cement concrete
      C. Right-of-way                                                              
      The developer shall dedicate right-of-way as required by this chapter f      
all public streets adjacent to the side development
C. Review process                                                                        
   1. The developer shall file nine copies of the site plan of the proposed
development in the office of the Village Clerk with a filing fee of $100 to be
deposited in the appropriate village account. The site plan will be reviewed             
according to the filing deadline and review schedule established by the Village
Board
   2. The Village Clerk shall retain two prints on file and distribute site plan      
and support data as follows
      A. One print to each Village Board member                                    
      B. One print to the Village President                                        
   3. The developer shall also submit prints of the site plan and support data
along with the review schedule as established by the Village Board to the                
following
      A. One print to the Village Engineer                                         
      B. One to Village Water, Light and Power - Water Department                  
      C. One to Springfield Metro Sanitary District                                
      D. One to Springfield Engineering Department                                 
      E. One to Springfield Fire Department                                        
      F. One to the appropriate school district                                    
      G. One to the County Highway Department, if applicable                       
      H. One to the County Department of Public Health, if applicable              
      I. One to the County Soil and Water Conservation District, if applicabl      
      J. One to the appropriate Township Commissioner, if applicable               
      K. One to the State Department of Transportation, if applicable              
      L. One to any additional utility provider that may be affected by the        
development
   4. The entities listed in divisions 2. and 3. above shall transmit any comments
on the suitability of the site in writing the Village Clerk within seven calendar        
days of receipt. Receipt of plans must be acknowledged
   5. The Village Clerk then will compile the comments from all the entities as       
listed in division 4. above within two calendar days
   6. The complied comments will then be distributed to the Village Board and
Village President to evaluate at a special meeting within five calendar days from
the date of receipt from the Village Clerk. During the special meeting, the              
Village Board shall make recommendations. Lack of a recommended action at the
special Board meeting shall constitute a negative recommendation
   7. After the special Board meeting, the Village Clerk shall submit all comments
and recommendations to the developer. The developer shall address comments and
review recommendations received from the Village Board. The developer shall submit       
all comments and any revisions to the Village Clerk within 14 calendar days for
the next regular scheduled Village Board meeting
   8. At the next regular Board meeting, the Village Board shall review the
comments and revisions received from the developer. The Village Board shall              
approve or disapprove the site plan based on the suitability criteria, as
previously outlined
D. Review by the Village Board                                                           
   1. The site development plans shall be reviewed by the Village Board as soon as
practicable after review by the Plan Commission. The developer may appear and be
heard at the Village Board meeting at which the site development plan is
considered. The Village Board shall approve or disapprove the plan by ordinance or       
resolution; and the Village President shall endorse the site development plan in
the same manner as prescribed herein for subdivision preliminary plans. Approved
plans shall expire if not completed in the same manner as set forth herein for
final subdivision plats.
      a. Recommendation of approval                                                
      If the Village Boards finds: 1) that the site plan meets the requirements of
this chapter; 2) that the site plan meet the requirements of other Village
Ordinances pertaining to zoning, building and fire safety; and 3) utilities will         
be adequate, the Village Board shall indicate a recommendation for approval on
three copies of the plan in substantially the following language:
      “This site development is recommended for approval by the Southern View
Village Board”.
                  By:_____________________                             
       Village President
Date: ____________________
      b. Recommendation of disapproval                                             
      If the Village Board does not make the findings in division A. above, it
shall inform the developer of its findings in writing and state the noncompliance
found, and shall endorse three copies of the site plan with its recommendation of        
disapproval, and shall forward the plans to the Village Board for further
disposition, along with minutes of the meeting at which the plans were disapproved
      If the developer desires to amend the disapproved large scale plans prior to
consideration by the Village Board, the developer shall begin the review process         
over again without the filing fees
E. Construction plans                                                                    
   1. The developer shall submit construction plans for private drives, streets,
sidewalks, grading, drainage and utilities to the Village Engineer for review in         
the same manner and for the same review and inspection fees as prescribed herein
for subdivision plats
F. Construction and securities                                                           
   1. No building permits shall be issued for any structure or mobile homes unless
the large scale development plan has been approved by the Village Board and
construction work either has been installed according to the approved construction
plans or a security provided in the same manner as set forth in this chapter for         
final plans of subdivision. Security for completion of private drives, streets,
grading and drainage shall not be required for purely residential developments
containing less than eight living units; however, utilities and other facilities
serving a public function must be built or security provided
 
(Prior Code, § 153.182) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.183 SITE DEVELOPMENT; FLOW DIAGRAM.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/70e6db68e9bd52c73ebac3b5ba2d3edbe6d9cbb0/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1717.png]
 
(Prior Code, § 153.183) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1- 9-2006)
TRACT SURVEY
§ 153.195 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Tract survey approval shall be required as set forth in §
153.004.
   (B)   Tract survey approval is designed to ensure that all divisions of land
comply with the State Plats Act, being 765 ILCS 205/0.01 et seq.; this chapter;
and the appropriate zoning ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 153.195) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.196 SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS.
   When a tract survey is required by this chapter, the following shall be
submitted:
   (A)   Land survey; and
   (B)   Certification by a professional state land surveyor, together with a
surveyor’s seal, attesting to the accuracy of the survey.
(Prior Code, § 153.196) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.197 REVIEW PROCESS.
   (A)   Five copies of the tract survey shall be submitted to the Plat Officer
accompanied by the appropriate fee.
   (B)   (1)   The Plat Officer shall review the survey to ensure that it
conforms to the pertinent requirements of this chapter and applicable zoning
regulations.
      (2)   The owner shall be notified of tract survey approval or disapproval
within one working day.
         (a)   Disapproval. If the Plat Officer finds that the tract survey
does not meet the requirements of this code, the disapproval and noncompliance
found shall be specified in writing.
         (b)   Approval. If the Plat Officer finds that the tract survey does
meet the requirements of this code, the following shall be printed or stamped
on the original and prints signed by the Plat Officer:
County of Sangamon   )
               )   SS
State of Illinois      )
   I, the Sangamon County Plat Officer, do hereby approve this tract survey
this day of ______, 20__.
________________________________________
Sangamon County Plat Officer
   (C)   The Plat Officer shall keep one copy and transmit four copies of the
approved tract survey to the owner for recording.
(Prior Code, § 153.197) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.198 RECORDING THE TRACT SURVEY.
   After the tract survey has been recorded, the original shall be recorded in
the office of the County Recorder of Deeds. If the tract is not recorded within
180 days of Plat Officer approval, the approval shall be null and void.
(Prior Code, § 153.198) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.199 CHECKLIST FOR TRACT SURVEY.
Checklist for Tract Survey Yes No N/A
Checklist for Tract Survey                                                         Yes No N/
                                                                                          A
A. Submission requirements                                                               
   1. When a tract survey is required by this chapter, the following shall be         
submitted
      a. Land survey                                                               
      b. Certification by a professional state land surveyor, together with a      
surveyor’s seal, attesting to the accuracy of the survey
B. Review process                                                                        
   1. Five copies of the tract survey shall be submitted to the Plat Officer          
accompanied by the appropriate fee
   2. The Plat Officer shall review the survey to ensure that it conforms to the
pertinent requirements of this chapter and applicable zoning regulations. The            
owner shall be notified of tract survey approval or disapproval within one working
day
      a. Disapproval. If the Plat Officer finds that the tract survey does not
meet the requirements of this code, the disapproval and noncompliance found shall        
be specified in writing
      b. Approval. If the Plat Officer finds that the tract survey does meet the
requirements of this code, the following shall be printed or stamped on the              
original and prints signed by the Plat Officer
      County of Sangamon )
            ) ss
      State of Illinois )
      I, the Sangamon County Plat Officer, do hereby approved this tract surv      
this ______ day of _____________, 20____.
                        ________________________________
                        Sangamon County Plat Officer
   3. The Plat Officer shall keep one copy and transmit four copies of the            
approved tract survey to the owner for recording
C. Recording the tract survey                                                            
   1. After the tract survey has been recorded, the original shall be recorded in the office
of the County Recorder of Deeds. If the tract is not recorded within 180 days of Plat
Officer approval, the approval shall be null and void
 
(Prior Code, § 153.199) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in a sum
not to exceed $500. Each day that a violation of this chapter continues shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense and shall be punishable as such.
(Prior Code, § 153.999) (Ord. 06-01-01, passed 1-9-2006)
CHAPTER 154: ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Definitions
   
154.002   Special use permits
   
154.003   Nonconforming uses
   
154.004   Zoning map
   
154.005   Building permit fee
Districts
   
154.020   General
   
154.021   R-1 Residential District regulations
   
154.022   C-1 Commercial District regulations
   
154.023   R-2 Residential District regulations
   
154.024   C-2 Commercial District regulations
   
154.025   R-3 Residential District regulations
   
154.026   Additional regulations
   
154.027   Sexually-oriented businesses
   
154.028   Adult-use cannabis
Sign Regulations
   
154.040   General
   
154.041   Determination of size of signs
   
154.042   Residential District sign regulations
   
154.043   Commercial District sign regulations
Accessory Off-Street Parking and Loading Regulations
   
154.055   General purposes
   
154.056   Definitions
   
154.057   Required accessory off-street parking spaces for all uses
   
154.058   Required off-street loading spaces for all uses
Wireless Telecommunication Facilities, Antennas,
Monoples, Towers and Satellite Dishes
   
154.070   Definitions
   
154.071   Purpose and goals
   
154.072   Exemptions
   
154.073   Applicability
   
154.074   General regulations
   
154.075   Use regulations
   
154.076   Bulk regulations
   
154.077   Parking requirements
   
154.078   Landscaping and aesthetic requirements
   
154.079   Administrative review
   
154.080   Conditional permitted use
   
154.081   Legal non-complying structures
   
154.082   Termination of use
Administration and Enforcement
   
154.095   Building Inspector
   
154.096   Zoning Board of Appeals
   
154.097   Proposed amendments
   
154.098   Certificate of occupancy
 
   
154.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words
used in the present tense shall include the future; the singular number shall
include the plural and the plural the singular; the word BUILDING shall include
the word STRUCTURE; and the word SHALL is mandatory and not directory.
   ACCESSORY BUILDINGS. A subordinate building or a portion of the main
building, the use of which is incidental to that of the main building or the
main use of the premises. An ACCESSORY USE is one which is incidental to the
main use of the premises, including a private garage.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT. An adult-use cannabis cultivation
center, craft grower, processing organization, infuser organization, dispensing
organization or transporting organization.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER. A facility operated by an organization or
business that is licensed by the State Department of Agriculture to cultivate,
dry, cure and package cannabis and perform other necessary activities to make
cannabis available for sale at a dispensing organization or use at a processing
organization, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (Public Act 101-0027),
being 410 ILCS 705/1-1 et seq., as it may be amended from time to time, and
regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER. A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the State Department of
Agriculture to cultivate, process, transport and perform necessary activities
to provide cannabis and cannabis-infused products to licensed cannabis business
establishments, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (Public Act 101-0027),
as it may be amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION. A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the State Department of Financial
and Professional Regulation to acquire cannabis from licensed cannabis business
establishments for the purpose of selling or dispensing cannabis, cannabis-
infused products, cannabis seeds, paraphernalia or related supplies to
purchasers or to qualified registered medical cannabis patients and caregivers,
per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (Public Act 101-0027), as it may be
amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS INFUSER ORGANIZATION OR INFUSER. A facility operated by
an organization or business that is licensed by the State Department of
Agriculture to directly incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis-infused product, per the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act (Public Act 101-0027), as it may be amended from time to
time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS PROCESSING ORGANIZATION OR PROCESSOR. A facility operated
by an organization or business that is licensed by the State Department of
Agriculture to either extract constituent chemicals or compounds to produce
cannabis concentrate or incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis product, per the Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act (Public Act 101-0027), as it may be amended from time to time, and
regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS TRANSPORTING ORGANIZATION OR TRANSPORTER. An organization
or business that is licensed by the State Department of Agriculture to
transport cannabis on behalf of a cannabis business establishment or a
community college licensed under the Community College Cannabis Vocational
Training Pilot Program, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (Public Act
101-0027), as it may be amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated
thereunder.
   ALLEY. A public or private thoroughfare which affords a secondary means of
access to property abutting thereon.
   BASEMENT. A story having part but not more than one-half of its height below
grade. A BASEMENT shall not be counted as a story for the purpose of height
regulation.
   BUILDING. Any structure designed or intended for the support, enclosure,
shelter or protection of persons, animals, chattels or property. When a
structure is divided into separate parts by unpierced walls extending from the
ground up, each part is deemed a separate BUILDING.
   BUILDING, HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance from the grade to the highest
point of the coping of a flat roof or to the deck line of a mansard roof or the
mean height level between eaves and ridge for gable, hip and gambrel roofs.
   BUSINESS. Any occupation, employment or enterprise wherein goods,
merchandise or other property is exhibited or sold or which occupies time,
attention, labor or materials or where services are offered for compensation.
   CAR WASH. Any building or area constructed for the purpose of providing
stalls, spaces or other areas for washing and cleaning of motor vehicles by the
general public.
   CELLAR. A story having more than one-half of its height below grade. A
CELLAR is not included in computing the number of stories for the purpose of
height measurement.
   DRIVE-IN ESTABLISHMENT. A business which accommodates patrons’ motor
vehicles, in which patrons may be served or may use goods or merchandise sold
by such business.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE. A building designed as or consisting of more than two
dwelling units.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building designed as or consisting of one
dwelling unit.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building designed as or consisting of two dwelling
units.
   DWELLING UNIT. A group of rooms constituting all or part of a structure,
which are arranged, designed, used or intended exclusively as living quarters
for one family, and which includes complete kitchen and bathroom facilities,
permanently installed and not shared with another dwelling unit.
   DWELLINGS. Any building or portion thereof, but not hotels, motels, nursing
homes, tourist homes, mobile homes, trailers or tents, which is designed or
used exclusively for residential purposes.
   FAMILY. One or more persons occupying a dwelling unit and living as a single
housekeeping unit, whether or not related to each other by birth, adoption or
marriage, but no unrelated group consisting of more than five persons shall be
considered a family.
   FENCE. A barrier intended to prevent ingress or egress, to mark a boundary
or to create a sense of privacy or security.
   FILLING STATION. See SERVICE STATION.
   FRONTAGE. All property on one side of a street between two intersecting
streets (crossing or terminating), measured along the line of the street, or if
the street is dead ended, then all of the property abutting on one side between
an intersecting street and the dead end of the street.
   GARAGE, CLASS II. Any building or premises, except those used as a private
garage, used for equipping, repairing, leasing, selling or storing motor
vehicles.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building or portion of a main building housing
motor vehicles which are the property of and for the private use of the
occupants of the lot on which the private garage is located. Not more than one
of the vehicles may be a commercial vehicle of more than three tons capacity.
An open-sided garage, commonly known as a carport, shall be considered a
PRIVATE GARAGE for purposes of this chapter.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any occupation, profession, avocation or hobby, whether or
not for profit, carried on in a residential district.
   HOTEL. A building containing lodging rooms, a general kitchen and dining
room, a common entrance lobby and halls, stairways or elevators, where each
lodging room does not have a doorway opening to the outdoors in which lodging
is provided and offered to the public for compensation and which is open to
transient guests, in contradistinction to a boarding house or lodging house.
   INSTITUTION. A building occupied by a non-profit corporation or a non-profit
establishment for public use.
   LODGING HOUSE. A building or place where lodging is provided (or which is
equipped regularly to provide lodging) by prearrangement for a definite period,
for compensation, for three or more, but not exceeding 12, individuals, not
open to transient guests, in contradistinction to hotels or motels open to
transients. A BOARDING HOUSE shall be synonymous with a LODGING HOUSE.
   LOT. A parcel of land, whether as described on a plat of subdivision or
further divided, which is occupied, or intended for occupancy, by one principal
building or one principal use permitted in this chapter, together with
accessory buildings, and together with yards and parking spaces required by
this chapter, and having at least 60 feet of frontage upon a street and a
minimum area of 6,000 square feet, or, in the case where it is a separately
platted lot which existed in the village prior to the adoption of this chapter,
the number of feet of frontage as indicated thereon and a minimum area of the
square feet indicated thereon, and 50% or more of which remains as open area.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting upon two streets at their intersection.
   LOT, DEPTH OF. The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot
lines.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot having a frontage on two non-intersecting
streets, as distinguished from a corner lot.
   LOT LINE. The dividing line between a lot, tract or parcel of land and the
contiguous street, alley or adjacent lots, tracts or parcels of land. A street
line shall be synonymous with a front LOT LINE.
   MOBILE HOME. A structure designed or intended for permanent habitation and
designed with a fixed axle and wheels, whether the wheels, axle or tongue are
attached or not.
   MOTEL. A building containing lodging rooms, where each lodging room has a
doorway opening to the outdoors, in which lodging is provided and offered to
the public for compensation, and which is open to transient guests, in
contradistinction to a boarding house or lodging house.
   NONCONFORMING USE. Any building or land occupied by a use, lawful at the
time of passage of this zoning code or any amendment thereto, which does not
conform after the passage of this zoning code or amendment thereto with the use
regulations of the district in which it is situated.
   PARKING SPACE. A durably surfaced area, enclosed in the main building, in an
accessory building or unenclosed, sufficient in size to store one standard
automobile, exclusive of a durably surfaced driveway connecting the parking
space with a street or alley and permitting satisfactory ingress and egress of
an automobile. Any PARKING SPACE designated for use by handicapped motorists
shall be sized in accordance with standards promulgated by the State Department
of Transportation.
   SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS. Businesses or offices wherein services are offered
for compensation, and where the sale of goods or merchandise are incidental to
the main activity.
   SERVICE STATION. Any building, structure, land area or other premises, or a
portion thereof, abutting Business Loop 55 within the village, used for the
sale at retail of motor vehicle fuels or oils, which activity may be
accompanied by accessory uses and sales.
   SIGN. Any structure or part thereof, or any device attached to, painted on
or represented on a building or other structure, on which is displayed or
included any letter, work, model, banner, flag, pennant, insignia, decoration,
device or representation used as an announcement, direction, advertisement or
other attention directing device. A SIGN does not include a similar structure
or device located within a building except for illuminated signs within show
windows visible from the street. A SIGN includes any billboard, but does not
include the flag or cloth pennant or insignia of any nation or association of
nations or of any state, city or other political unit or of any political,
charitable, educational, philanthropic, civic, professional, religious or like
campaign, drive, movement or event.
      (1)   ADVERTISING SIGN. A sign which directs attention to a business,
commodity, service or entertainment conducted, sold or offered elsewhere than
on the same zoning lot.
      (2)   BUSINESS SIGN. An accessory sign which directs attention to a
profession, business, commodity, service or entertainment conducted, sold or
offered on the same zoning lot. Including “for sale” or “for rent” sign
relating to the zoning lot on which it is displayed.
      (3)   FLASHING SIGN. Any illuminated sign on which the artificial or
reflected light is not maintained stationary and constant in intensity and
color, at all times, when in use, including any revolving illuminated sign.
      (4)   GROUND SIGN. An outdoor sign supported by uprights or braces in or
on the ground.
      (5)   ILLUMINATED SIGN. Any sign designed to reflect light from one or
more sources, natural or artificial.
   STORY. The portion of a building other than a cellar or basement included
between the surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next above it or,
if there is no floor above it, then the space between the floor and the ceiling
next above it.
   STORY, HALF. A space under a sloping roof which has the line of intersection
of roof decking and wall space not more than three feet above the top floor
level, and in which space not more than 60% of the floor area is finished off
for use.
   STREET. All property used, dedicated or intended for public or private
street or roadway purposes or subject to easements therefor.
   STREET LINE. The front lot line, dividing a lot, tract or parcel of land and
contiguous property used, dedicated or intended for use as a street.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires more
or less permanent location on the ground or attached to something having a
permanent location on the ground, including, but not limited to, signs, private
garages, sheds, decks, patios and canopies.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change in the supporting members of a building,
such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams or girders or any
substantial change in the roof or in the exterior walls.
   TRAILERS. A TRAILER is a vehicle or portable structure built on a chassis,
designed as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational or vacation use and
customarily towed behind a motor vehicle. A SELF-PROPELLED TRAILER, commonly
called a MOTOR HOME, shall be considered a TRAILER for purposes of this
chapter. A CAMPER, customarily designed for mounting upon the bed of a pick-up
truck, shall also be considered a TRAILER for purposes of this chapter.
   YARD. An open space on the same lot with a building unoccupied and
unobstructed by a portion of a structure from the ground upward, except as
otherwise provided herein. In measuring a YARD for the purpose of determining
the width of a side yard, the depth of the front yard or the depth of a rear
yard, the mean horizontal distance between the lot line, as platted, and the
main building shall be used.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the front of a lot between the side
yard lines, and being the minimum horizontal distance between the street line
and the main building or any projection thereof other than the projection of
the usual steps.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the rear of a lot, measured between the
side lot lines, and being the minimum horizontal distance between the rear lot
line and the rear of the main building or any projections other than steps. On
corner lots, the REAR YARD shall be considered as parallel to the street upon
which the lot has its least dimension. On both corner lots and interior lots,
the REAR YARD shall in all cases be at the opposite end of the lot from the
front yard.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard between the main building and the side line of the lots
and extending from the front line to the rear yard line.
   ZONING MAP. The map incorporated into this chapter as a part hereof in
accordance with the provisions of §
154.020.
(Prior Code, § 154.001) (Ord. 95-11-01, passed 11-13-1995; Ord. 95-12-03,
passed 12-11-1995; Ord. 98-11-01, passed - -1998; Ord. 06-02-01, passed 2-13-
2006; Ord. 19-09-04, passed 9-10-2019; Ord. 22-11-01, passed 11-28-2022)
§ 154.002 SPECIAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may, by special use permit, after notice and
public hearing held by the Zoning Board of Appeals and subject to such
protective restrictions that are deemed necessary, authorize the location,
extension or structural alteration of any of the following buildings or uses,
or an increase in their height, in the C-1 or C-2 Commercial Districts:
      (1)   Filling stations;
      (2)   Class II garages;
      (3)   Funeral homes and crematories;
      (4)   Group homes for mentally or physically disabled persons;
      (5)   Parking lots on land not more than 300 feet from the boundary of
the C-1 or C-2 Commercial Districts;
      (6)   Planned unit developments;
      (7)   Radio or television broadcasting towers;
      (8)   Radio or television antennas used in conjunction with commercial
broadcasting stations; and
      (9)   Any use which is generally similar to the uses permitted in the C-
1 or C-2 Commercial Districts, which conforms to the other regulations for
either such district.
   (B)   Before issuance of any special use permit for any of the above
buildings or uses, the Zoning Board of Appeals shall report to the President
and Board of Trustees regarding the public hearing thereon and also upon the
effect of such proposed building or use upon the character of the neighborhood,
surrounding land values, traffic conditions, public utility facilities and
other matters pertaining to the public health, public safety or general
welfare. No action shall be taken upon any application for a special use permit
until the report of the Zoning Board of Appeals has been filed, and such report
shall be made within 60 days after the matter has been referred to the Zoning
Board of Appeals by the President and Board of Trustees. If the Zoning Board of
Appeals recommends against the issuance of the special use permit, then it may
be issued only by an affirmative two-thirds vote of the President and Board of
Trustees.
   (C)   An applicant for a special use permit shall pay an application fee in
an amount fixed, from time to time, by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 154.002) (Ord. 95-11-01, passed 11-13-1995)
§ 154.003 NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   The lawful use of land or a building existing at the time of the
adoption of this chapter may be continued, subject to the provisions of this
chapter, although such use does not conform with the provisions hereof.
      (1)   A nonconforming use may not be changed to another nonconforming
use. Whenever a nonconforming use of land or a building has been changed to a
conforming use, such shall not thereafter be changed back to a nonconforming
use.
      (2)   These provisions, together with those found in the other divisions
of this section, shall also apply to a use based upon a variance granted under
prior zoning ordinances. No building which has been damaged by fire, storm,
explosion, act of God or public enemy to the extent of more than 50% of its
value shall be restored except in conformity with the regulations of this
chapter; provided, however, that if the lot upon which the building was located
is less than the requirement of this chapter, and the lot had been platted and
was in existence in the village prior to the adoption of this chapter, the lot
will be deemed to satisfy the definition of the term LOT as used in this
chapter solely for the purpose of meeting the minimum feet of frontage upon a
street and the minimum area of a lot.
   (B)   In the event that a nonconforming use is discontinued or its normal
operation stopped for a period of six months, the use of the same shall
thereafter conform to the regulations of the district in which it is located.
   (C)   Any nonconforming use existing at the time of the adoption of this
chapter may be transferred to a new owner, subject to all other restrictions in
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 154.003) (Ord. 95-11-01, passed 11-13-1995; Ord. 06-02-01,
passed 2-13-2006)
§ 154.004 ZONING MAP.
   The zoning map of the village (2021 edition), attached hereto the ordinances
incorporated herein and incorporated as a part of this chapter, has been
reviewed and approved by the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 154.004) (Ord. 14-01-01, passed 1-14-2014; Ord. 16-06-01, passed
6-14-2016; Ord. 20-11-09, passed 11-24-2020)
§ 154.005 BUILDING PERMIT FEE.
   (A)   A commercial building permit fee, equal to 0.002 of the stated project
cost, shall be paid to the village on all commercial construction projects. The
minimum fee shall be $40.
   (B)   Any required commercial building permit fee shall be paid to the
village prior to any building plan review and any commercial building occupancy
permit being issued by the village.
   (C)   In addition to the administrative commercial building permit fee, as
provided above, every commercial building permit applicant shall also be
responsible for all plan review and project inspection costs, including, but
not limited to, engineering, architectural, inspection and legal costs, related
to the project and incurred by the village.
(Prior Code, § 154.005) (Ord. 15-02-01, passed 2-5-2015; Ord. 15-03-01, passed
3-10-2015)
DISTRICTS
§ 154.020 GENERAL.
   (A)   In order to classify, regulate and restrict the locations of trades,
industries and the location of buildings designated for specified uses; to
regulate and limit the height and bulk of buildings hereafter erected or
structurally altered; to regulate and limit the intensity of the use of the lot
areas; and to regulate and determine the areas of yards, courts and other open
spaces within and surrounding such buildings, the village is divided into
districts, known as:
      (1)   R-1 Residential District;
      (2)   R-2 Residential District;
      (3)   C-1 Commercial District; and
      (4)   C-2 Commercial District.
   (B)   The boundaries of the districts are shown upon the map which is made a
part of this chapter, which map is designated as the zoning map. The zoning map
and all notations, references and other information shown thereon are a part of
this chapter and have the same force and effect as if the zoning map and all
the notations, references and other information shown thereon were all fully
set forth or described herein, the original of which zoning map is properly
attested and is on file with Village Clerk.
   (C)   All property hereafter annexed to the village shall be classified in
the R-1 Residential District until such classification is changed by amendment
to this chapter or publication of a new zoning map in accordance with 65 ILCS
5/11-13-19.
   (D)   Whenever any street, alley or other public way is vacated, the zoning
district adjoining each side of such street, alley or public way shall be
automatically extended to the center of such a vacation, and all area included
in the vacation shall then be subject to all appropriate regulations of the
extended districts.
   (E)   Except as hereinafter provided:
      (1)   No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed or
structurally altered, nor shall any building or land be used except for a
purpose permitted in the district in which the building or land is located;
      (2)   No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed or
structurally altered to exceed the height limit for the district in which the
building is located;
      (3)   No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed or
structurally altered, except in conformity with the area regulations of the
district in which the building is located;
      (4)   The minimum yards, off-street parking spaces and other open spaces,
including lot area per family, required by this chapter for each and every
building existing at the time of passage of this chapter or for any building
hereafter erected shall not be encroached upon or considered as yard, parking
spaces or open space requirements for any other building; and
      (5)   Every building hereafter erected or structurally altered shall be
located on at least one lot, as herein defined, and in no case shall there be
more than one main building on one lot unless otherwise provided in this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 154.020) (Ord. 95-11-01, passed 11-13-1995; Ord. 08-06-01,
passed 6-4-2008) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.021 R-1 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The regulations set forth in this section, or as set forth elsewhere
in this chapter when referred to in such sections, are the district regulations
in the R-1 Residential District.
   (B)   In the R-1 Residential District, no building or premises shall be used
and no building shall hereafter be erected or altered except for one or more of
the following purposes:
      (1)   Single-family dwellings (trailers and mobile homes are not
considered to be dwellings);
      (2)   Two-family dwellings;
      (3)   Churches, but only when off-street parking space is provided upon
the lot, or within 200 feet thereof, which space is adequate to accommodate one
car for every four persons for which seating is provided in the main auditorium
of the church;
      (4)   Publicly owned buildings, including schools, police or fire
stations, libraries, community centers or other public buildings, except
township, county, state or federal offices;
      (5)   Parks or playgrounds; and/or
      (6)   Accessory buildings, including private garages and accessory uses
customarily incident to the above uses, not involving the conduct of a
business. Any accessory building that is not a part of the main structure shall
be located at least 60 feet from the front lot line or even with the front wall
of the main structure, whichever distance is greater.
   (C)   In the R-1 Residential District, no building shall exceed two and one-
half stories or shall exceed 35 feet in height. No accessory building shall
exceed 18 feet in height or the height of the existing dwelling structure,
whichever is lower. Any accessory building larger than 900 square feet shall be
constructed with continuous concrete footings.
   (D)   In the R-1 Residential District, the minimum dimensions of yards, the
maximum percentage of lot occupancy and minimum lot area per family shall be as
follows.
      (1)   Front yard. There shall be a front yard on the front of each
building having a depth of not less than 25 feet; provided, however, that where
the average depth of the front yard fronting on any one side of the street
within a distance of 300 feet on each side of a particular lot exceeds or is
less than 25 feet, the depth of the front yard required under this chapter for
such a lot shall be such average depth. When the street is curved, the line
shall follow the curve rather than be a straight line.
      (2)   Corner lot; double frontage. No accessory building shall be
constructed nearer to the side lot line facing the side street on a corner lot
having a double frontage than is the principal building to the side lot line of
the lot.
      (3)   Side yard. There shall be a side yard on each side of a building of
not less than 8% of the width of the lot but in no instance shall the side yard
be less than three feet, including attached guttering.
      (4)   Rear yard. There shall be a rear yard having a depth of not less
than 25 feet or 16- 2/3% of the depth of the lot, whichever is smaller. There
shall be a utility easement of no less than five feet from the rear property
line to the outermost portion, including attached guttering, of any accessory
building.
      (5)   Intensity of use. Every lot or tract of land upon which a building
is erected shall have an area of not less than 6,000 square feet and an average
depth of not less than 75 feet.
      (6)   Minimum size of dwelling unit. Every dwelling unit constructed
shall have not less than 1,400 square feet of floor area.
      (7)   Off-street parking regulations. Whenever any structure or building
is altered or erected on premises used for one of the purposes permitted in
this district, there shall be provided off-street parking spaces in the ratio
of not less than two parking spaces for each family or dwelling unit.
   (E)   The owner or proprietor of a home occupation shall register with the
Board of Trustees, on forms provided for that purpose, which shall serve as a
license for operation in conformance with the limitations in this chapter. All
home occupations shall be conducted in accordance with the following
limitations:
      (1)   No person other than members of the family residing in such
dwelling unit shall be engaged in such occupation;
      (2)   The use of the dwelling unit for a home occupation shall be clearly
incidental to and subordinate to its use for residential purposes by its
occupants and not more than 25% of the floor area of the dwelling unit shall be
used in the conduct of a home occupation;
      (3)   There shall be no signs or display or other change in the outside
appearance of the building or premises or other visible evidence of the conduct
of a home occupation;
      (4)   No home occupation shall be conducted in any two-family dwelling or
multiple dwelling, in any accessory building or outdoors and no materials shall
be stored outdoors;
      (5)   There shall be no sales of goods or merchandise in a home
occupation, except for sales that are clearly incidental to conduct of a home
occupation;
      (6)   No traffic shall be generated by a home occupation in greater
volumes than would normally be expected in a residential neighborhood and any
need for parking generated by a home occupation shall be met off-street and
other than in a required front yard; and
      (7)   The conduct of a home occupation shall not generate noise, airborne
debris, odors, fumes, electrical interference, vibrations or any other
condition detrimental to adjacent dwelling units or lots. Any home occupation
not registered within 90 days of commencement or operated in violation of such
limitations shall be subject to license revocation after notice and hearing
before the Board of Trustees and to the imposition of a fine as set forth in
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 154.021) (Ord. 95-11-01, passed 11-13-1995; Ord. 95-12-03,
passed 12-11-1995; Ord. 96-09-02, passed 9-9-1996; Ord. 07-05-03, passed 5-21-
2007; Ord. 08-06-01, passed 6-4-2008; Ord. 11-08-03, passed 8-23-2011) Penalty,
see §
154.999
§ 154.022 C-1 COMMERCIAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The regulations set forth in this section, or as set forth elsewhere
in this chapter when referred to in such sections, are the district regulations
in the C-1 Commercial District.
   (B)   In the C-1 Commercial District, no structure shall hereafter be
erected or altered except for one or more of the following purposes:
      (1)   Any use permitted in the R-1 Residential District;
      (2)   Antique shops;
      (3)   Art galleries;
      (4)   Art supply stores;
      (5)   Automobile sales, service and accessories;
      (6)   Banks;
      (7)   Barber shops;
      (8)   Beauty shops;
      (9)   Boat sales;
      (10)   Book stores;
      (11)   Buildings or offices for a township, county, state or federal
agency;
      (12)   Business offices;
      (13)   Business schools;
      (14)   Camera and photography shops;
      (15)   Candy stores;
      (16)   Carpet and rug stores;
      (17)   Child day care centers;
      (18)   China and glassware stores;
      (19)   Clothing stores;
      (20)   Craft shops;
      (21)   Credit unions;
      (22)   Doughnut shops;
      (23)   Dry goods stores;
      (24)   Employment agencies;
      (25)   Dental clinics;
      (26)   Dental offices;
      (27)   Dry cleaning shops;
      (28)   Emergency health care centers;
      (29)   Florist shops;
      (30)   Furniture stores;
      (31)   Garden supply and seed stores;
      (31)   Gift shops;
      (32)   Greenhouses;
      (33)   Hardware stores;
      (34)   Health and exercise clubs;
      (35)   Heating, ventilation and air conditioning shops;
      (36)   Hobby shops;
      (37)   Household appliance stores;
      (38)   Ice cream shops;
      (39)   Insurance offices;
      (40)   Interior design shops;
      (41)   Jewelry and watch shops;
      (42)   Labor union offices;
      (43)   Leather and luggage shops;
      (44)   Loan companies;
      (45)   Locksmith shops;
      (46)   Medical clinics;
      (47)   Medical offices;
      (48)   Multiple dwellings;
      (49)   Music shops;
      (50)   Newspaps er offices;
      (51)   Newsstands;
      (52)   Nursery schools;
      (53)   Office supply stores;
      (54)   Optical offices;
      (55)   Paint and wallpaper shops;
      (56)   Pharmacies;
      (57)   Photography studios;
      (58)   Plumbing shops;
      (59)   Postal substations;
      (60)   Printing and photocopying shops;
      (61)   Professional offices;
      (62)   Restaurants;
      (63)   Savings and loan associations;
      (64)   School supply stores;
      (65)   Shoe shops;
      (66)   Sporting goods stores;
      (67)   Stationery stores;
      (68)   Tailor shops;
      (69)   Theaters, indoor;
      (70)   Toy stores;
      (71)   Travel agencies;
      (72)   Upholstery shops;
      (73)   Veterinary clinics, small animals; and
      (74)   Videotape shops.
   (C)   In the C-1 Commercial District, no building shall exceed two and one-
half stories, nor shall it exceed 35 feet in height.
   (D)   In the C-1 Commercial District, the following area regulations shall
apply.
      (1)   Front yard. No front yard is required, except where a front setback
has been established by structures upon 50% or more of the lots on one block;
any new construction or alteration of an existing structure shall conform to
such set back.
      (2)   Side yard. No side yard is required.
      (3)   Rear yard. No rear yard is required, except that where the rear
yard of a lot in this district abuts a lot in the R-1 Residential District,
there shall be a rear yard with a depth of not less than 15 feet.
   (E)   In the C-1 Commercial District, when a lot is improved with a single-
family dwelling or two-family dwelling or when one or more dwelling units are
erected above a use permitted in the C-1 Commercial District, the intensity of
use and minimum size regulations contained in §
154.021 apply.
(Prior Code, § 154.022) (Ord. 95-11-01, passed 11-13-1995; Ord. 98-11-01,
passed - -1998; Ord. 01-07-02, passed 7-9-2001; Ord. 08-06-01, passed 6-4-2008;
Ord. 02-05-01, passed 5-13-2002; Ord. 03-10-01, passed 10-30-2003; Ord. 09-09-
01, passed 9-8-2009) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.023 R-2 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The regulations set forth in this section, or as set forth elsewhere
in this chapter when referred to in such sections, are the district regulations
in the R-2 Residential District.
   (B)   In the R-2 Residential District, no structure shall hereafter be
erected or altered except for one or more of the following purposes:
      (1)   Any use permitted in the R-1 Residential District;
      (2)   Nursing homes;
      (3)   Institutions for the care of the aged; and
      (4)   Assisted living facilities.
   (C)   In the R-2 Residential District, no building shall exceed three
stories, nor shall it exceed 35 feet in height.
   (D)   In the R-2 Residential District, the following area regulations shall
apply:
      (1)   Front yard setback: 25 feet;
      (2)   Side yard setback: 25 feet; and
      (3)   Rear yard setback: 50 feet.
   (E)   The zoning map of the village is amended to reclassify all parcels
currently in the A Residential District as the R-1 Residential District. The
Village Clerk is directed to have the Village Engineer, or such other
individual as may be required, modify and publish an updated zoning map.    
(Prior Code, § 154.023) (Ord. 08-06-01, passed 6-4-2008)
§ 154.024 C-2 COMMERCIAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The regulations set forth in this section, or as set forth elsewhere
in this chapter when referred to in such sections, are the district regulations
in the C-2 Commercial District.
   (B)   In the C-2 Commercial District, no structure shall hereafter be
erected or altered except for one or more of the following purposes:
      (1)   Any use permitted in the R-1 Residential District;
      (2)   Any use permitted in the C-1 Commercial District;
      (3)   Hotels;
      (4)   Liquor stores;
      (5)   Motels;
      (6)   Taverns; and
      (7)   Adult use cannabis business establishment, as defined in §
154.002.
   (C)   The height regulations, area regulations and the intensity of use
regulations of §
154.022 shall also apply in the C-2 Commercial District.
   (D)   Operation of a liquor store or tavern in the C-2 Commercial District
shall be further restricted by compliance with the liquor control ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 154.024) (Ord. 95-11-01, passed 11-13-1995; Ord. 08-06-01,
passed 6-4-2008; Ord. 19-09-04, passed 9-10-2019; Ord. 22-11-01, passed 11-28-
2022) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.025 R-3 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Permitted uses. In the R-3 Residential District, no building or
premises shall be used and no building shall hereafter be erected or altered
except for one or more of the following purposes:
      (1)   Single-family dwellings;
      (2)   A managed limited access residential community of single-family
dwellings;
      (3)   Churches, but only when off-street parking space is provided upon
the lot, or within 200 feet thereof, which space is adequate to accommodate one
car for every four persons for which seating is provided in the main auditorium
of the church;
      (4)   Publicly owned or utilized buildings, including schools, police or
fire stations, libraries, community centers or other public buildings, except
township, county, state or federal offices; and
      (5)   Parks or playgrounds.
   (B)   Height regulations. In the R-3 Residential District, no building shall
exceed one and one-half stories or shall exceed 45 feet in height.
   (C)   Area regulations. In the R-3 Residential District, the minimum
dimensions of yards, the maximum percentage of lot occupancy and minimum lot
area per dwelling shall be as follows.
      (1)   Front yard. There shall be a front yard on the front of each
building having a depth of not less than 25 feet; provided, however, that where
the average depth of the front yard fronting on any one side of the street
within a distance of 300 feet on each side of a particular lot exceeds or is
less than 25 feet, the depth of the front yard required under this chapter for
such a lot shall be such average depth. When the street is curved, the line
shall follow the curve rather than to be a straight line.
      (2)   Corner lot - double frontage. No accessory building shall be
constructed nearer than ten feet to the side lot line facing the side street on
a corner lot having a double frontage.
      (3)   Side yard. There shall be a side yard on each side of a building or
an accessory building having a width of not less than five feet.
      (4)   Rear yard. There shall be a rear yard having a depth or not less
than 25 feet or 162/3% of the depth of the lot, whichever is smaller.
      (5)   Intensity of use. Every lot or tract of land upon which a building
is erected shall have an area of not less than 5,000 square feet and an average
depth of not less than 75 feet.
      (6)   Minimum size of dwelling unit. Every dwelling unit constructed
shall have not less than 1,400 square feet of floor area.
      (7)   Off-street parking regulations. Whenever any structure or building
is altered or erected on premises used for one of the purposes permitted in
this district, there shall be provided off- street parking spaces in the ratio
of not less than two parking spaces for each family or dwelling unit.
(Ord. 16-06-01, passed 6-14-2016) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.026 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person or other entity shall operate, in any district, a mobile
home park or a business for the sale of motor vehicles, mobile homes or
trailers.
   (B)   In any district, where otherwise permitted, public, semi-public or
public service buildings, hospitals, institutions or schools may be erected to
a height not exceeding 60 feet, and churches and temples may be erected to a
height not exceeding 75 feet if the building is set back from each yard line at
least one foot for each foot of additional building height above the height
limit otherwise provided in the district. Single-family and two-family
dwellings may be increased in height by not more than ten feet when the side
and rear yards are increased over the yard requirements of the district in
which they are located by not less than ten feet, but they shall not exceed
three stories in height. Fences, non-advertising signs, satellite dish
antennas, chimneys, cooling towers, elevators, bulkheads, fire towers,
monuments, stacks, stage towers or scenery lofts, tanks, water towers,
ornamental towers and spires, church steeples, radio towers or necessary
mechanical appurtenances may be located or erected to a height in accordance
with existing ordinances or ordinances hereafter adopted by the village.
   (C)   In any district, accessory buildings may be built in a required rear
yard, but such accessory buildings shall not occupy more than 50% of the
required rear yard. No accessory building shall be constructed upon a lot until
the construction of the main building has been actually commenced, and no
accessory building shall be used for dwelling purposes.
   (D)   In any district, every part of a required yard shall be open to the
sky, unobstructed, except for accessory buildings in a rear yard and except for
the ordinary projections of sills, belt courses, cornices and ornamental
features projecting not more than 12 inches.
   (E)   In any district, temporary buildings, that are used in conjunction
with construction work only, may be permitted during the period that the
building is being constructed, but such temporary buildings shall be removed
upon completion of the construction work.
   (F)   More than one commercial, multiple-dwelling or institutional building
may be erected upon a single lot or tract; provided such buildings are
developed as a unit, but the yards and open spaces required around the
boundaries of the lot or tract shall not be encroached upon by any such
buildings, nor shall there be any change in the intensity of use regulations.
   (G)   The installation of septic systems is prohibited in any district.
(Prior Code, § 154.025) (Ord. 95-11-01, passed 11-13-1995; Ord. 02-04-02,
passed 4-8-2002) Penalty, see §
154.999
 § 154.027 SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Purpose and findings.
      (1)   It is the purpose of this section to regulate sexually-oriented
businesses in order to promote the health, safety, morals and general welfare
of the citizens of the village, and to establish reasonable and uniform
regulations to prevent the deleterious location and concentration of sexually-
oriented businesses within the village. The provisions of this section have
neither the purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on the
content of any communicative materials, including sexually-oriented materials.
Similarly, it is not the intent or effect of this section to restrict or deny
access by adults to sexually-oriented materials protected by the First
Amendment, or to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of sexually-
oriented entertainment to their intended market. Neither is it the intent nor
effect of this section to condone or legitimize the distribution of obscene
material.
      (2)   Based on evidence concerning the adverse secondary effects of adult
uses on the community presented in reports made available to the Village Board,
and on findings incorporated in the cases of Young v. American Mini Theaters,
427 U.S. 50 (1976); Northend Cinema, Inc. v. City of Seattle, 585 P.2d 1153
(1978); Renton v. Playtime Theaters, Inc., 475 U.S. 41 (1986); Barnes v. Glen
Theatre, Inc., 501 U.S. 560 (1991); and City of Erie v. Pap’s A.M., 120 S. Ct.
1382 (2000), and on studies in other communities, including Arlington, Texas;
Harries County, Texas; and St. Croix County, Wisconsin, the Village Board finds
the following:
         (a)   Sexually-oriented businesses lend themselves to ancillary
unlawful and unhealthy activities that may be uncontrolled by the operators of
the establishments. There are no sexually-oriented businesses now located
within the village limits, nor are there any applications for such businesses
pending, nor is there presently any mechanism to make the owners of these
establishments responsible for the activities that may occur on their premises
in the event a sexually-oriented business, pursuant to this section, is located
within the village;
         (b)   Certain employees of sexually-oriented business, defined in
division (C) below, engage in higher incidents of certain types of illicit
sexual behavior than employees of other establishments;
         (c)   Sexual acts, including masturbation and oral and anal sex occur
at sexually- oriented businesses, especially those which provide private or
semi-private booths or cubicles for viewing films, videos or live sex shows;
         (d)   Offering and providing such space encourages such activities,
which creates unhealthy conditions;
         (e)   Persons frequent certain adult theaters, adult arcades and other
sexually- oriented businesses for the purpose of engaging in sex within the
premises of such sexually-oriented businesses;
         (f)   Communicable diseases may be spread by activities occurring in
sexually- oriented businesses, including, but not limited to, syphilis;
gonorrhea; human immuno deficiency virus infection (HIV-Aids); genital herpes;
hepatitis B, non A, non B; amebiasis; salmonella infections; and shigella
infections;
         (g)   The findings noted in divisions (A)(2)(a) through (A)(2)(f)
above raise substantial governmental concerns;
         (h)   Sexually-oriented businesses have operational characteristics
which should be reasonably regulated in order to protect those substantial
governmental concerns;
         (i)   A reasonable licensing procedure is an appropriate mechanism to
place the burden of that reasonable regulation on the owners and the operators
of the sexually-oriented businesses. Further, such a licensing procedure will
place an incentive on the operators to see that the sexually- oriented business
is run in a manner consistent with the health, safety and welfare of its
patrons and employees, as well as the citizens of the village. It is
appropriate to require reasonable assurances that the licensee is the actual
operator of the sexually-oriented business, fully in possession and control of
the premises and activities occurring therein;
         (j)   Prohibiting doors on adult booths and requiring sufficient
lighting on premises with adult booths advances a substantial governmental
interest in curbing the illegal and unsanitary sexual activity occurring in
adult theaters;
         (k)   Requiring licensees of sexually-oriented businesses to keep
information regarding current employees and certain past employees will help
reduce the incidence of certain types of criminal behavior by facilitating the
identification of potential witnesses or suspects and by preventing minors from
working in such establishments;
         (l)   The disclosure of certain information by those persons
ultimately responsible for the day-to-day operation and maintenance of the
sexually-oriented business, where such information is substantially related to
the significant governmental interest in the operation of such uses, will aid
in preventing the spread of sexually transmitted diseases;
         (m)   In the prevention of the spread of communicable diseases, it is
desirable to obtain a limited amount of information regarding certain employees
who may engage in the conduct which this section is designed to prevent, or who
are likely to be witnesses to such conduct;
         (n)   The fact that an applicant for an adult use license has been
convicted of a sexually related crime leads to the rational assumption that the
applicant may engage in that conduct in contravention of this section;
         (o)   The barring of such individuals from the management of adult
uses for a period of years serves as a deterrent to, and prevents conduct which
leads to, the transmission of sexually transmitted diseases; and
         (p)   The general welfare, health, morals and safety of the citizens
of the village will be promoted by the enactment of this section.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ADULT BOOKSTORE. An establishment having a substantial or significant
portion of its sales or stock in trade, books, magazines, films for sale or for
viewing on premises by use of motion picture devices or by coin operated means,
and periodicals which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on
matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas; or an establishment with a segment or section
devoted to the sale or display of such materials; or an establishment that
holds itself out to the public as a purveyor of such materials based upon its
signage, advertising displays, actual sales, presence of video preview or coin
operated booths, exclusion of minors from the establishment’s premises or any
other factors showing the establishment’s primary purpose is to purvey such
material.
      ADULT ENTERTAINMENT CABARET. A public or private establishment which
features topless dancers, strippers, male or female impersonators; not
infrequently features entertainers who display specified anatomical areas; or
features entertainers who, by reason of their appearance or conduct, perform in
a manner which is designed primarily to appeal to the prurient interest of the
patron or entertainers who engage in or are engaged in explicit simulation of
specified sexual activities.
      ADULT MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An enclosed building or drive-in
theater with a capacity for less than 50 persons used for presenting material
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing
or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for
observation by patrons therein.
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A building or area used for presenting
materials distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting,
describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas for observation by patrons therein.
      BODY SHOP or MODEL STUDIO. Any public or private establishment which
describes itself as a body shop or model studio, or where for any form of
consideration or gratuity, figure models who display “specified anatomical
areas” are provided to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured,
photographed or similarly depicted by persons paying such consideration or
gratuity, or where for any form of consideration or gratuity, nude and semi-
nude dancing, readings, counseling sessions, body painting and other activities
that present materials distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter
depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas are provided for observation by or communication to persons
paying such consideration or gratuity.
      SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
         (a)   Less than completely and opaquely covered: human genitals; pubic
region; buttock; female breasts below a point immediately above the top of the
areola; and
         (b)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Human genitals in the state of sexual
stimulation or arousal; acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or
sodomy; and fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttock or female breasts.
   (C)   Adult uses enumerated. The following shall be considered adult uses
for the purpose of this section:
      (1)   Adult book store;
      (2)   Adult motion picture theater;
      (3)   Adult mini motion picture theater;
      (4)   Adult entertainment cabaret;
      (5)   Body shop or model studio; and
      (6)   Other uses similar to those in divisions (C)(1) through (C)(5)
above.
   (D)   Limitations on adult uses. Adult uses shall be permitted subject to
the following restrictions.
      (1)   An adult use shall not be allowed within 500 feet of another
existing adult use.
      (2)   An adult use shall not be located within 700 feet of:
         (a)   Any residential zoning district;
         (b)   A church, synagogue, mosque, temple or building, which is used
primarily for religious worship and related religious activities;
         (c)   A public or private educational facility, including, but not
limited to, child day care facilities, nursery schools, pre-schools,
kindergartens, elementary schools and private schools. SCHOOL includes the
school grounds, but does not include facilities used primarily for another
purpose and only incidentally as a school;
         (d)   A public park or recreational area which has been designated for
park or recreational activities, including, but not limited to, a park,
basketball or tennis courts or other similar public land within the village
which is under the control, operation or management of the village; or
         (e)   An entertainment business which is oriented primarily towards
children or family entertainment.
      (3)   An adult use shall not be located in a building structure which
contains another business that sells or dispenses in some manner alcoholic
beverages.
      (4)   Alcoholic beverages shall not be possessed nor consumed on the lot
or parcel, or within the structure, containing the adult use.
   (E)   Measurement of distance. For the purposes of this section,
measurements shall be made in a straight line, without regard to intervening
structures or objects, from the nearest property line of the lot or parcel
containing the adult use to the nearest property line of the premises listed in
division (D) above.
   (F)   License required, filing of application, filing fee.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in, conduct, be
employed by or to permit to be engaged in, conducted or carried on, in or upon
any premises in the village the operation of an adult use as herein defined,
without first having obtained a separate license for such adult use from the
Mayor of the village.
      (2)   Every applicant for a license, new or renewal, to maintain,
operate, conduct or be employed by an adult use shall file a completed,
notarized application in duplicate under oath with the Village Clerk upon a
form provided by the Village Clerk. The applicant for a license to maintain,
operate or conduct the adult use shall pay with the submission, a non-
refundable filing fee of $500 to the Village Clerk; every applicant for a
license to be employed by an adult use shall submit, with the completed
application, a non-refundable filing fee of $300 to the Village Clerk. The
Village Clerk shall issue a receipt for all such filing fees which shall be
attached to the application filed with the Mayor.
      (3)   Within 30 days after receiving the application, the Mayor shall
notify the applicant that his or her application is granted, denied or held for
further investigation. Such additional investigation shall not exceed an
additional 30 days unless otherwise agreed to by the applicant. Upon the
conclusion of such additional investigation, the Mayor shall advise the
applicant in writing whether the application is granted or denied.
      (4)   Whenever an application is denied or held for further
investigation, the Mayor shall advise the applicant in writing of the reasons
for such action.
      (5)   Failure or refusal of the applicant to give any information
relevant to the investigation of the application or his or her refusal or
failure to appear at any reasonable time and place for examination under oath
regarding said application or his or her refusal to submit to or cooperate with
any inspection or investigation required by this chapter shall constitute an
admission by the applicant that he or she is ineligible for such permit and
shall be grounds for denial thereof by the Mayor.
   (G)   Contents of application for license. The term APPLICANT, as used in
this section, shall include any partner or limited partner of a partnership
applicant and any officer or director of a corporate applicant and any
stockholder owning more than 10% of the stock of a corporate applicant, another
person who is interested directly in the ownership or operation of the business
or person seeking employment by a business conducting an adult use; an
applicant for a license shall, furnish the following information under oath:
      (1)   Full true name and any other names used in the preceding five
years;
      (2)   Written proof that the individual is at least 18 years of age;
      (3)   Name and designated address of the business for which the license
is sought;
      (4)   The adult uses to be conducted at the designated address;
      (5)   A set of fingerprints of the applicant and the applicant’s Social
Security number, both to be used for conducting necessary background checks
pursuant to this section;
      (6)   A picture identification document issued by a governmental agency;
      (7)   The issuing jurisdiction and the effective dates of any license or
permit held by the applicant relating to a sexually-oriented business, and
whether any such license or permit has been denied, revoked or suspended, and,
if so, the reason or reasons therefor; and
      (8)   The information provided by an applicant in connection in
connection with the application for a license under this section shall be
maintained by the village on a confidential basis, and may be disclosed only to
other governmental agencies in connection with a law enforcement or public
safety function or as and may otherwise be required by law or a court order.
   (H)   Exhibition of sexually explicit films, videos or live entertainment in
viewing rooms. A person who operates, or causes to be operated, an adult use
which exhibits on the premises in a viewing room of less than 150 square feet
of floor space a film, video cassette, live entertainment or other video
reproduction which depicts specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas, shall:
      (1)   Provide, with the application for a license of those premises, a
diagram of the premises showing a plan specifying the location of one or more
manager stations and the location of all overhead lighting fixtures and
designating any portion of the premises in which patrons will not be permitted.
A manager station may not exceed 32 square feet of floor area. The diagram need
not be professionally prepared but shall be drawn to a designated scale or
drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of
plus or minus six inches;
      (2)   The licensee of the premises shall ensure that at least one
licensed employee is on duty and situated in each manager’s station, at all
times, any patron is present inside the premises;
      (3)   The interior of the premises shall be configured to provide an
unobstructed view from a manager’s station of every area of the premises to
which any patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding restrooms.
Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. The view required in
this division (H)(3) must be by direct line of sight from the manager’s
station;
      (4)   The licensee shall ensure that the view area specified in division
(H)(3) above is unobstructed by any item or material and, at all times, to
ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of the premises which has
been designated as an area in which patrons will not be permitted;
      (5)   No viewing room may be occupied by more than one person at any
time;
      (6)   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than five-foot candles as measured at the
floor level;
      (7)   The licensee shall ensure that the illumination described above is
maintained, at all times, that any patron is present in the premises;
      (8)   The licensee shall not permit any opening of any kind to exist
between viewing rooms or booths;
      (9)   The licensee shall, during each business day, regularly inspect the
walls between the viewing booths to determine if any openings or holes exist;
      (10)   The licensee shall cause all floor coverings in viewing booths to
be non-porous, easily cleanable surfaces, with no rugs or carpeting; and
      (11)   The licensee shall cause all wall surfaces and ceiling surfaces in
viewing booths to be constructed of, or permanently covered by, non-porous,
easily cleanable material. No wood, plywood, composition board or other porous
material shall be used within 48 inches of the floor.
   (I)   Issuance of adult use license.
      (1)   The Mayor shall issue a license to maintain, operate, conduct an
adult use or be employed by an adult use unless he or she finds:
         (a)   That the applicant is under the age of 18 years or under any
legal disability;
         (b)   That the applicant is a person who is not of good moral
character and reputation in the community in which he or she resides;
         (c)   That the applicant has been convicted, by plea or finding of
guilty, of a sexually related crime; or
         (d)   An applicant has falsely answered a question or request for
information on the application form.
      (2)   The license, if granted, shall state on its face the name of person
or persons to whom it is granted, the number of the license issued to that
applicant, the expiration date and, if the license is for a sexually-oriented
business, the address of the sexually-oriented business. A sexually- oriented
business employee license shall contain a photograph of the licensee. A
sexually-oriented business employee shall keep the employee’s license on his or
her person or on the premises where the licensee is then working or performing,
and shall produce such license for inspection upon request by a law enforcement
officer.
      (3)   Every adult use license issued pursuant to this section will
terminate at the expiration of one year from the date of its issuance unless
sooner revoked.
   (J)   Suspension or revocation of license for adult use.
      (1)   Any license issued for an adult use may be revoked or suspended by
the Mayor if the Mayor shall find:
         (a)   That the licensee has violated any of the provisions of this
chapter regarding adult uses;
         (b)   Refused to allow an inspection of the sexually-oriented business
premises as authorized hereunder;
         (c)   That the licensee has knowingly furnished false or misleading
information or withheld relevant information on any application for any license
or permit required by this chapter or knowingly caused or suffered another to
furnish or withhold such information on his or her behalf;
         (d)   A licensee has knowingly allowed possession, use or sale of
controlled substances on the premises;
         (e)   A licensee has knowingly allowed prostitution on the premises;
         (f)   A licensee has knowingly operated the sexually-oriented business
during the period of time when the licensee’s license was suspended;
         (g)   A licensee has knowingly allowed any sexual act to occur on the
licensed premises;
         (h)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no
effect on the revocation of the license; or
         (i)   A licensee has knowingly allowed the possession or consumption
of alcoholic beverages on the lot or parcel, or within the structure,
containing the adult use.
      (2)   The Mayor, before revoking or suspending any license, shall give
the licensee at least ten days’ written notice of the charges against him or
her. The licensee may, within five days of receipt of said notice, request a
public hearing before the Mayor, at which time the licensee may present
evidence bearing upon the question. Any notice by the Mayor may be delivered
personally to the licensee or be posted on the premises of the establishment
being used as an adult use.
      (3)   When and after the notice and hearing procedure described herein,
the Mayor revokes a license, the revocation shall continue for one year and the
licensee shall not be issued a sexually-oriented business license for one year
from the date revocation becomes effective. If subsequent to revocation the
Mayor finds that the basis for revocation found herein has been corrected or
abated, the applicant shall be granted a license if at least 90 days have
elapsed since the date the revocation became effective.
      (4)   The licensee shall be responsible for the acts of his or her
agents, servants and employees; provided, however, that in the case of a first
offense by a licensee where the conduct was solely that of an employee, the
penalty shall not exceed a suspension of 30 days if the Mayor shall find that
the licensee had no actual or constructive knowledge of such violation and
could not, by the exercise of due diligence, have had such actual constructive
knowledge.
   (K)   Exterior display. No adult use shall be conducted in any manner that
permits the observation of any material depicting, describing or relating to
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas by display,
decoration, sign, show window or other opening from any public way or from any
property not licensed as an adult use.
   (L)   Display of license and permit. Every licensee shall display a valid
license in a conspicuous place within the adult use business so that it may be
readily seen by persons entering the premises.
   (M)   Employment of persons under age of 18 prohibited. It shall be unlawful
for any adult use licensee, its manager or employee to employ, in any capacity
within the adult business, any person who is not at least 18 years of age.
   (N)   Inspection. For the purpose of ensuring compliance with this section,
an applicant, operator or licensee shall permit law enforcement officers and
any other federal, state, county or village agency in the performance of any
function connected with the enforcement of this chapter normally and regularly
conducted by such agencies, to inspect, at any time, the businesses occupied or
open for business, those portions of the premises of a sexually-oriented
business which patrons or customers are permitted to occupy.
   (O)   Illegal activities on premises. No licensee or any officer, associate,
member, representative, agent or employee of such licensee shall engage in any
activity or conduct or permit any other person to engage in any activity or
conduct in or about the licensed premises which is prohibited by an ordinance
of the village or law of the state or of the United States.
   (P)   Hours of operation. No sexually-oriented business, as defined herein,
may remain open at any time between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 1:00 p.m.
(Prior Code, § 154.026) (Ord. 02-04-02, passed 4-8-2002) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.028 ADULT-USE CANNABIS.
   (A)   Purpose and applicability. It is the intent and purpose of this
section to provide regulations regarding the cultivation, processing and
dispensing of adult-use cannabis occurring within the corporate limits of the
village. Such facilities shall comply with all regulations provided in the
Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (Public Act 101-0027) (Act), being 410 ILCS
705/1-1 et seq., as it may be amended, from time to time, and regulations
promulgated thereunder, and the regulations provided below. In the event that
the Act is amended, the more restrictive of the state or local regulations
shall apply.
   (B)   (1)   Adult-use cannabis craft grower. In those zoning districts in
which an adult-use cannabis craft grower may be located, the proposed facility
must comply with the following:
         (a)   Facility may not be located within 1,000 feet of the property
line of a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool, primary or
secondary school, day care center, day care home or residential care home.
Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as a
public or private school for purposes of this section;
         (b)   Facility may not be located within 200 feet of the property line
of a pre-existing property zoned or used for residential purposes;
         (c)   Facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis
other than as authorized by the Act; and
         (d)   For purposes of determining required parking, adult-use cannabis
craft grower shall be classified as “wholesale manufacturing and industrial
plants” per §
154.057(O) (one space for each four employees) (schedule of off-street parking
requirements: industrial uses).
      (2)   Adult-use cannabis cultivation center. In those zoning districts in
which an adult-use cannabis cultivation center may be located, the proposed
facility must comply with the following:
         (a)   Facility may not be located within 1,000 feet of the property
line of a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool, primary or
secondary school, day care center, day care home or residential care home.
Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as a
public or private school for purposes of this section;
         (b)   Facility may not be located within 200 feet of the property line
of a pre-existing property zoned or used for residential purposes;
         (c)   Facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis
other than as authorized by the Act; and
         (d)   For purposes of determining required parking, adult-use cannabis
cultivation centers shall be classified as “wholesale manufacturing and
industrial plants” per §
154.057(O) (one space for each four employees) (schedule of off-street parking
requirements: industrial uses).
      (3)   Adult-use cannabis dispensing organization. In those zoning
districts in which an adult-use cannabis dispensing organization may be
located, the proposed facility must comply with the following:
         (a)   Facility may not be located within 1,000 feet of the property
line of a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool, primary or
secondary school, day care center, day care home or residential care home.
Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as a
public or private school for purposes of this section;
         (b)   Facility may not be located in a dwelling unit or within 200
feet of the property line of a pre-existing property zoned or used for
residential purposes;
         (c)   At least 75% of the floor area of any tenant space occupied by a
dispensing organization shall be devoted to the activities of the dispensing
organization as authorized by the Act, and no dispensing organization shall
also sell food for consumption on the premises other than as authorized by
state law;
         (d)   Facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis
other than as authorized by the Act;
         (e)   Facility may be issued a permit to host on-site consumption of
cannabis if located in a freestanding structure occupied solely by the
dispensing organization and smoke from the facility does not migrate into an
enclosed area where smoking is prohibited. The security plan for the facility
required by division (B)(7) below shall also reflect adequate provisions to
respond to disruptive conduct and over-consumption. The on-site consumption
permit shall be reviewed annually and may be suspended or revoked following
notice and hearing as provided in this chapter;
         (f)   For purposes of determining required parking, said facilities
shall be classified as “Retail/Service Sales” per §
154.057(I) (schedule of off-street parking requirements: commercial uses); and
         (g)   No more than one adult use cannabis dispensary organization may
be located in the village.
      (4)   Adult-use cannabis infuser organization. In those zoning districts
in which an adult-use cannabis infuser organization may be located, the
proposed facility must comply with the following:
         (a)   Facility may not be located within 1,000 feet of the property
line of a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool, primary or
secondary school, day care center, day care home or residential care home.
Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as a
public or private school for purposes of this section;
         (b)   Facility may not be located in a dwelling unit or within 200
feet of the property line of a pre-existing property zoned or used for
residential purposes;
         (c)   At least 75% of the floor area of any tenant space occupied by
an infusing organization shall be devoted to the activities of the infusing
organization as authorized by the Act. Facility may not conduct any sales or
distribution of cannabis other than as authorized by the Act; and
         (d)   For purposes of determining required parking, said facilities
shall be classified as “wholesale manufacturing and industrial plants” per §
154.057(O) (schedule of off-street parking requirements: commercial uses).
      (5)   Adult-use cannabis processing organization. In those zoning
districts in which an adult-use cannabis processing organization may be
located, the proposed facility must comply with the following:
         (a)   Facility may not be located within 1,000 feet of the property
line of a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool, primary or
secondary school, day care center, day care home or residential care home.
Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as a
public or private school for purposes of this section;
         (b)   Facility may not be located in a dwelling unit or within 200
feet of the property line of a pre-existing property zoned or used for
residential purposes;
         (c)   At least 75% of the floor area of any tenant space occupied by a
processing organization shall be devoted to the activities of the processing
organization as authorized by the Act. Facility may not conduct any sales or
distribution of cannabis other than as authorized by the Act; and
         (d)   For purposes of determining required parking, said facilities
shall be classified as “wholesale manufacturing and industrial plants” per §
154.057(O) (schedule of off-street parking requirements: commercial uses).
      (6)   Adult-use cannabis transporting organization. In those zoning
districts in which an adult-use transporting organization may be located, the
proposed facility must comply with the following:
         (a)   Facility may not be located within 1,000 feet of the property
line of a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool, primary or
secondary school, day care center, day care home or residential care home.
Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as a
public or private school for purposes of this section;
         (b)   Facility may not be located in a dwelling unit or within 200
feet of the property line of a pre-existing property zoned or used for
residential purposes;
         (c)   The transporting organization shall be the sole use of the
tenant space in which it is located. Facility may not conduct any sales or
distribution of cannabis other than as authorized by the Act; and
         (d)   For purposes of determining required parking, said facilities
shall be classified as “wholesale manufacturing and industrial plants” per §
154.057(O) (schedule of off-street parking requirements).
      (7)   Additional requirements. Petitioner shall install building
enhancements, such as security
cameras, lighting or other improvements to ensure the safety of employees and
customers of the adult-use cannabis business establishments, as well as its
environs. Said improvements shall be determined based on the specific
characteristics of the floor plan for an adult-use cannabis business
establishment and the site on which it is located, consistent with the
requirements of the Act.
(Ord. 19-09-04, passed 9-10-2019; Ord. 22-11-01, passed 11-28-2022) Penalty,
see §
154.999
SIGN REGULATIONS
§ 154.040 GENERAL.
   Except as authorized in §
154.043 with respect to nonconforming signs, all signs shall be in compliance
with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 154.040) (Ord. 95-11-01, passed 11-13-1995) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.041 DETERMINATION OF SIZE OF SIGNS.
   For the purpose of the requirements of this chapter, the size of a sign is
determined in the following manner:
   (A)   When a sign is on a plate or framed, all of the plate or frame shall
be included in the dimensions;
   (B)   When a sign is not on a plate or framed, but is partly or entirely
outlined by a line or area of artificial light, or if on a plate or frame and
circumscribed by a larger line or area of artificial light, all of the area
circumscribed by a line or area of artificial light shall be included in the
dimensions; and
   (C)   When a sign consists only of letters, designs or figures engraved,
painted, projected or fixed on a wall or freestanding in front of a wall, the
total area of the sign shall be the area of the smallest rectangle or circle
within which all of the fixed lettering, designs or figures may be included.
(Prior Code, § 154.041) (Ord. 95-11-01, passed 11-13-1995) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.042 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT SIGN REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Permitted accessory signs. In all Residential Districts, subject to
the additional regulations set forth in §
154.041, accessory signs are permitted as set forth in divisions (B) and (D)
below.
   (B)   Non-illuminated nameplates and identification signs.
      (1)   For residential buildings other than multiple dwellings, one non-
illuminated nameplate, with an area not exceeding one square foot and
indicating only the name or address of the occupant or a permitted occupation,
is allowed for each dwelling unit or rooming unit.
      (2)   For multiple dwellings, including apartment hotels, and for
permitted non- residential buildings or other structures, one identification
sign with an area not exceeding 24 square feet and indicating only the name or
address of the building or the management thereof is permitted. The height of
letters on any side of awnings or canopies shall not exceed one foot.
      (3)   For community facility uses, a bulletin board with an area not
exceeding 16 square feet is permitted.
   (C)   Public right-of-way. No signs may be placed on the public right-of-
way, without the express consent of the Village Board. Any signs placed in the
right-of-way will be removed by the village and held by the Public Works
Department for seven days, and will then be discarded.
   (D)   Signs for parking areas. One sign with an area not exceeding two
square feet and a height no greater than three feet six inches above ground,
designating each entrance or exit of an off-street parking area is permitted.
   (E)   Illuminated signs. In any Commercial District, for a business,
professional office or clinic, one illuminated non-flashing sign, with an area
not exceeding 25 square feet, is permitted.
   (F)   Residential District sign conformance. In all Residence Districts, any
sign permitted under the provisions of divisions (A) through (D) above shall
conform to the following regulations:
      (1)   No sign shall extend more than 20 feet above the level of the
ground;
      (2)   Signs are permitted within the required front yard; provided no
portion of the sign is within ten feet of the front property line. On corner
lots, the same requirements shall apply to the side yard fronting a street,
except that on corner lots, no sign is allowed within 20 feet of a zoning lot
corner formed by the intersection of any two street lines; and
      (3)   Exclusively of signs for parking areas as permitted by division (D)
above not more than one sign is permitted for each use, building or dwelling
unit and not more than two signs are permitted for each office building;
however, on a corner lot, two signs, one facing each street, shall be permitted
for each use, building, office service establishment or funeral home.
   (G)   Advertising signs. Advertising signs are not permitted in any
Residential District.
(Prior Code, § 154.042) (Ord. 95-11-01, passed 11-13-1995; Ord. 21-01-01,
passed 1-26-2021) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.043 COMMERCIAL DISTRICT SIGN REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Permitted accessory business signs. In Commercial Districts, accessory
business signs are permitted as set forth in divisions (B) and (D) below,
subject to the additional regulations set forth in division (D) below.
   (B)   Non-illuminated signs. In the respective Commercial Districts
indicated, non-illuminated signs with areas not exceeding those shown in the
following table are permitted.
 
District Maximum Area (in square feet)
         of all Signs on a District Zoning Lot
C-1      100 or two times the street frontage of the zoning lot (in feet),
         whichever is greater
C-2      400 or five times the street frontage of the zoning lot (in feet),
         whichever is greater
 
   (C)   Illuminated signs. In Commercial Districts, illuminated or flashing
signs are permitted, but the total area of all signs (illuminated and non-
illuminated) on the same zoning lot shall not exceed the maximum area
prescribed in division (A) above.
   (D)   Additional regulations for business signs. In addition to the other
applicable regulations, permitted business signs in commercial districts are
subject to the restrictions of division (E) below.
   (E)   Height of signs.
      (1)   In the respective Commercial Districts as indicated, no permitted
ground sign shall extend above grade at a height greater than that shown in the
following table:
 
District Maximum Height (in feet)
C-1      20
C-2      35
 
      (2)   No sign attached to a building shall extend above grade at a height
greater than the applicable maximum building height prescribed in §
154.022.
   (F)   Special provisions applying along district boundaries. In commercial
districts, no advertising signs shall be located within 100 feet of the nearest
wall of a residence located in a residence district.
   (G)   Termination of nonconforming signs after amortization.
      (1)   In all districts, a nonconforming sign may be continued for 15
years after the effective date of this division or after such later date that
the sign becomes nonconforming. Upon the expiration of this 15-year period, the
nonconforming sign shall be removed.
      (2)   However, a nonconforming sign shall be allowed to continue if it is
of a type permitted by the applicable district regulations and is not more than
150% of the permitted size.
(Prior Code, § 154.043) (Ord. 95-11-01, passed 11-13-1995)
ACCESSORY OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING REGULATIONS
§ 154.055 GENERAL PURPOSES.
   The regulations in this subchapter for off-street parking and loadings are
adopted in order to provide needed off-street spaces in connection with all new
commercial and industrial development, including an enlargement or extension of
existing development; to prevent substantial amounts of traffic from
circulating and parking in residential areas near commercial and industrial
development; to reduce traffic congestion resulting from the use of streets as
places for storage of automobiles; to provide for higher standards of all types
of development within the village; and thus to promote and protect the public
health, safety, comfort, convenience, prosperity and other aspects of the
general welfare.
(Prior Code, § 154.055) (Ord. 95-11-01, passed 11-13-1995)
§ 154.056 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMPLOYEES. Wherever the number of employees is a factor in determining the
number of required off-street parking spaces, EMPLOYEES refers to the maximum
number of employees on duty at the same time.
   EXTENSIONS, MAJOR REPAIRS or SUBSTANTIAL ALTERATIONS. Reconstruction
activities increasing floor area, seating capacity or some other factor
affecting the parking or loading requirements hereby established which results
in an increase of 15% or more of the required number of parking or loading
spaces for the use or building which is the subject of the extension, major
repairs or substantial alteration, parking and loading spaces shall be provided
for the total use or building as called for in the applicable section of this
subchapter. These terms also include any increase in the number of dwelling
units. When such EXTENSION, MAJOR REPAIR or SUBSTANTIAL ALTERATION occurs,
parking spaces shall be provided for all dwelling units on the zoning lot as
called for in the applicable section of this division.
   FLOOR AREA. The gross floor area of a building used or intended to be used
for service to the public as customers, patrons, clients or patients, including
areas occupied by fixtures and equipment used for display or sale of
merchandise. Floors or parts of floors used principally for toilet or
restrooms, for utilities or for fitting rooms, dressing rooms and alteration
rooms are excluded. Floors or parts of floors used principally for non-public
purposes, such as storage, incidental repair, processing or packaging or
merchandise show windows or offices incidental to the management or maintenance
of stores or buildings shall be excluded.
(Prior Code, § 154.056) (Ord. 95-11-01, passed 11-13-1995)
§ 154.057 REQUIRED ACCESSORY OFF-STREET PARKING SPACES FOR ALL USES.
   (A)   General provisions. On or after November 23, 1995, no building or
other structure, other than a single-family or two-family dwelling, shall be
erected and no extension, major repair or substantial alterations shall be made
to an existing building or other structure, other than a single-family or two-
family dwelling, nor shall the use of a building or other structure, other than
a single-family or two-family dwelling, be changed unless there already exists,
or unless provision is made for the location of, concurrent with such erection
or change, accessory off-street parking spaces on the basis of the minimum
requirements set forth in this division.
   (B)   Multiple-family. For all multiple-family residences designed or
intended for permanent occupancy, including apartment hotels, but (for purposes
of this section only) excluding boarding or lodging houses, at least one and
one-quarter accessory off-street parking space is required for each dwelling
unit.
   (C)   Hotels, boarding or lodging houses, dormitories, fraternity and
sorority houses and private clubs and lodges. At least one accessory off-street
parking space, plus one off-street parking space for each two persons for whom
living accommodations are provided. If assembly halls, bars, restaurants, night
clubs, retail shops, service establishments or businesses are provided,
additional off-street parking spaces shall be required in accordance with the
regulations for such uses.
   (D)   Motels and similar places offering overnight accommodations. At least
one accessory off-street parking space for each dwelling unit or lodging room.
   (E)   Mobile home parks. At least one accessory off-street parking space for
each mobile home.
   (F)   Community facilities uses.
      (1)   Aquariums, art galleries, libraries and museums. At least one
accessory off-street parking space for each 800 square feet of floor area.
      (2)   Auditoriums, churches and similar places of worship, school
auditoriums, gymnasiums, stadiums and grandstands and other places of public
assembly. At least one accessory off-street parking space for each eight seats
or each 200 lineal inches of seating space in the main auditorium or assembly
hall.
      (3)   Schools, high, public and private, colleges and universities. At
least three accessory off-street parking spaces for each classroom.
      (4)   Schools, elementary or junior high, public or private. At least one
accessory off-street parking space for each classroom.
      (5)   Clubs, non-business and community centers. Accessory off-street
parking spaces equal in number to 30% of the capacity in persons.
      (6)   Cultural, civic or historic institutions (non-boarding). At least
one accessory off-street parking space for each two employees, plus one space
for each 800 square feet of space intended for public use.
      (7)   Fraternal, philanthropic or health institutions for care of the
aged or children, nursing homes and sanitariums. At least one accessory off-
street parking space for each four beds, plus one parking space for each two
employees (other than staff doctors), plus one parking space for each doctor
assigned to the staff.
   (G)   Public services and public utility facilities.
      (1)   Electric substations, gas valve and regulator sites, fire and
police stations, radio and television stations, telephone exchanges and water
or sewerage pumping stations. At least one accessory off-street parking space
for each two employees.
      (2)   Public transit or truck terminals and other similar facilities. At
least one accessory off-street parking space for each two employees.
   (H)   Office buildings.
      (1)   Business involving no retail sales, professional, governmental and
wholesale offices, banks and savings and loan associations. At least one
accessory off-street parking space for each 200 square feet of floor area used
or intended to be used for service to the public as customers, patrons and
clients, plus at least one additional parking space for each three employees.
      (2)   Dental, medical or osteopathic offices or clinics. At least one
accessory off-street parking space for each examining or treatment room, plus
one for each doctor and one for each three employees in the building.
   (I)   Retail or service establishments not otherwise covered in this
section. At least one accessory off-street parking space for each 200 square
feet of floor area used, or intended to be used, for service to the public as
customers, patrons and clients, plus one additional parking space for each
three employees.
   (J)   Automobile services.
      (1)   Automobile service stations. At least one accessory off-street
parking space for each two employees, plus one space for the owner or manager.
      (2)   Automobile laundries. At least one accessory off-street parking
space for each three employees, plus one space for the owner or manager, and,
in addition, reservoir parking spaces equal in number to five times the maximum
capacity of the automobile laundry. MAXIMUM CAPACITY shall mean the greatest
number of automobiles undergoing some phase of laundering at the same time.
   (K)   Eating and drinking establishments. At least one accessory off-street
parking space for each 100 square feet of floor area intended for use by the
public.
   (L)   Amusement facilities.
      (1)   Amusement parks, golf driving ranges, miniature golf courses and
trampoline centers. At least one accessory off-street parking space for each
500 square feet of lot area intended to be used by the public.
      (2)   Bowling alleys. At least five accessory off-street parking spaces
for each alley, plus additional space equal in number to 30% of the capacity in
persons of affiliated uses, such as bars, restaurants and the like.
      (3)   Arcades, dance halls, gymnasiums, pool halls, skating rinks and
swimming pools. Accessory off-street parking spaces shall be provided in equal
number to 30% of the capacity in persons of such establishments.
      (4)   Theaters, indoor and race tracks. At least one accessory off-street
parking space for each eight seats up to 400 seats, plus one for each five
seats above 400.
   (M)   Schools, business, dance, music or trade. At least one accessory off-
street parking space for each two employees, plus one space for each 100 square
feet of space used for instruction purposes.
   (N)   Undertaking establishments and funeral parlors. At least ten accessory
off-street parking spaces shall be provided for each chapel or parlor, plus one
space for each funeral vehicle maintained on the premises.
   (O)   Wholesale, manufacturing and industrial plants. Wholesale,
manufacturing and industrial plants, including warehouses and storage buildings
and yards, contractor equipment and lumberyards, business service
establishments, such as blueprinting, printing and engraving, soft drink
bottling establishments, breweries, fabricating plants, research laboratories
and all other establishments devoted to production, processing, cleaning,
servicing, testing or repairing, of material, goods or products. At least one
accessory off-street parking space for each four employees.
   (P)   Other uses; uses not specifically listed in this subchapter. Accessory
off-street parking spaces shall be provided as required herein for the most
similar use.
   (Q)   All drive-up service facilities. For all drive-up services, including,
but not limited to, banks, savings and loans, restaurants and all retail
stores, reservoir parking for five automobiles shall be provided for each
drive-in window or station. This requirement is in addition to, and not in lieu
of, any owner parking requirements as called for in this chapter.
   (R)   Computation of number of required spaces. When computation of the
number of accessory off-street parking spaces required by this subchapter
results in a requirement of a fractional space, any fraction of one-half or
less shall be disregarded and any fraction over one-half shall be counted as
one space.
   (S)   Collective provisions for mixed use or compatible uses. Accessory off-
street parking spaces for separate uses may be provided collectively upon
determination by the Village Building Inspector that substantial use of the
parking spaces by each user does not take place at approximately the same hour
of the same days of the week; provided all regulations governing the location
of accessory off-street parking spaces in relation to the use served are
observed. In the event any condition upon which the collective provisions of
parking spaces was based on shall no longer exist such as any change of use, in
availability of spaces, in hours of operation or otherwise, the full amount of
required parking spaces shall be provided for each use.
   (T)   Repair and service facilities in conjunction with accessory off-street
parking facilities. No motor vehicle repair work of any kind is permitted in
any required accessory off-street parking facility. No gasoline or motor oil
shall be sold in conjunction with an accessory off-street parking lot, except
where such lot is accessory to a business having such sale as a principal use.
   (U)   Size of parking spaces.
      (1)   An accessory off-street parking space must be at least eight and
one-half feet wide and be at least 18 feet long, having a minimum loading area
of 153 square feet, exclusive of access drives, aisles, ramps, columns or work
areas. On areas surfaced, the parking stalls shall be marked with paint or
other equivalent method. On lots containing eight or more required spaces,
provisions of up to 50% of the parking stalls with seven and one-half by 16
feet parking spaces will be permitted if each of the smaller parking spaces is
equally convenient to the use being served as the larger spaces, if each of the
parking stalls are double lined painted and if each of the smaller spaces is
signed “Small Cars Only”. The Village Traffic Engineer shall determine what is
equally convenient and what is not.
      (2)   Handicapped parking spaces must be in accord with the State
Accessibility Code.
   (V)   Access to off-street parking facilities. Each off-street parking space
shall open directly on an aisle or driveway of such width and design as to
afford adequate ingress and egress. Each off-street parking facility shall be
provided with an appropriate means of vehicular access to a street in a forward
manner only or to a paved alley in a manner which will least interfere with
traffic movements and shall be subject to the approval of the Village Building
Inspector. No driveway shall have a width exceeding 35 feet or be nearer than
20 feet to an intersecting street right-of-way line, exclusive of curb returns
and shall be approved by the Village Building Inspector. All driveways shall be
constructed with a portland cement concrete approach slab extending from the
edge of the roadway to the right-of-way line. The slab shall provide for
curbing and ramping of sidewalks, where applicable, and be subject to the
inspection and approval of the Village Building Inspector.
   (W)   Surfacing. All open off-street parking areas containing more than four
parking spaces shall be improved with an adequate storm water drainage system
and paved with a crushed stone base, or equal, not less than six inches thick,
and a wearing surface of asphaltic concrete or comparable hard-surfaced, all
weather dustless material not less than two inches thick. All open accessory
off-street parking areas containing not more than four parking spaces shall be
surfaced and maintained in such manner to make them dust-free.
   (X)   Screening.
      (1)   All open off-street parking areas containing more than four parking
spaces shall be effectively screened on each side adjoining or fronting on any
residential or institutional property by a wall, opaque fence or densely
planted compact hedge not less than four feet in height.
      (2)   Planting considered acceptable for screening includes, but is not
limited to:
         (a)   Evergreens: Oriental Arborvitae, Upright Juniper and Hicksii
Yews; and
         (b)   Shrubs: Honeysuckle, Forsythia, Privets and Viburnums.
      (3)   No screening shall be required:
         (a)   Along a street or alley;
         (b)   Between adjacent parking lots; or
         (c)   If a parking lot is more than 20 feet from a property line.
   (Y)   Regulations for the location of off-street parking facilities.
      (1)   Accessory off-street parking spaces shall be located on the same
zoning lot as the use served; however, uses other than single- or two-family
dwellings, which are in existence on November 23, 1995, may be served in
accordance with requirements of this division (Y)(1) by parking facilities
located on land other than the zoning lot on which the building or use served
is located; provided such facilities are located within 300 feet walking
distance from the structure served and are located on a zoning lot which is
zoned the same as the use served or is zoned in a less restrictive district or
has received a conditional permitted use.
      (2)   No parking space shall be located in a required front yard.
   (Z)   Regulations for safety curbing. Safety curbing in the form of a six-
inch concrete curb or other suitable barrier shall be provided along the street
line, excluding alleys, for all open off-street parking areas so as to define
driveways and prevent encroachment on sidewalks or public property by vehicles
utilizing the faculty. Such curb shall be at least three feet from the street
line.
   (AA)   Lighting. Illumination of an accessory, off-street parking area shall
be arranged so as not to reflect rays of light into adjacent districts and
streets.
(Prior Code, § 154.057) (Ord. 95-11-01, passed 11-13-1995)
§ 154.058 REQUIRED OFF-STREET LOADING SPACES FOR ALL USES.
   (A)   General provisions. No building or other structure shall be erected
and no extensions, major repairs or substantial alterations shall be made to an
existing building or other structure unless there already exists on the zoning
lot, or unless provision is made for the location on the lot concurrently with
such erection or change, off-street loading space on the basis of the following
minimum requirements. For the purposes of this chapter, OFF-STREET LOADING
SPACE shall include any designated or demarcated area provided for the loading
and/or unloading of goods, supplies or materials used on the premises.
   (B)   Multiple-family dwellings, boarding or lodging houses, dormitories,
fraternity and sorority houses and apartment hotels. One off-street loading
space shall be provided for each building having 10,000 to 150,000 square feet
of floor area, plus one additional loading space for each additional 150,000
square feet of floor area or fraction thereof.
   (C)   Hotels, motels, private clubs and lodges, containing no retail shops,
convention halls, auditoriums, exhibition halls or business or professional
offices. One off-street loading space shall be provided for each building
having 10,000 to 150,000 square feet of floor area, plus one additional loading
space for each additional 150,000 square feet of floor area or fraction
thereof.
   (D)   Hotels, motels, private clubs and lodges, containing retail shops,
convention halls, auditoriums, exhibition halls or business or professional
offices. One off-street loading space shall be provided for each building
having 10,000 to 150,000 square feet of floor area, plus one additional loading
space for each additional 100,000 square feet of floor area or fraction
thereof.
   (E)   Community facilities uses such as auditoriums, colleges, hospitals,
museums, nursing homes, sanitariums, school and similar institutions. One off-
street loading space shall be provided for each building having 10,000 to
150,000 square feet of floor area, plus one additional loading space for each
additional 150,000 square feet of floor area or fraction thereof.
      (1)   Public service and public utility facilities. Public transit, bus
terminals and post offices. One off-street loading space shall be provided for
each building having 10,000 to 50,000 square feet, plus one additional loading
space for each additional 50,000 square feet of floor area or fraction thereof.
      (2)   Electric substations, gas valve and regulator sites, fire and
police stations, radio and television stations, telephone exchanges and water
or sewerage pumping stations. One off-street loading space shall be provided
for each building having 10,000 to 150,000 square feet, plus one additional
loading space for each additional 150,000 square feet of floor area or fraction
thereof.
   (F)   Banks and all businesses retail sales, professional and governmental
offices and medical clinics. One off-street loading space shall be provided for
each building having 10,000 to 150,000 square feet, plus one additional loading
space for each additional 150,000 square feet of floor area or fraction
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 154.058) (Or. 95-11-01, passed 11-13-1995; Ord. 09-01-01, passed
1-12-2009)
WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES, ANTENNAS,
MONOPLES, TOWERS AND SATELLITE DISHES
§ 154.070 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BENEFICIAL INTEREST. Any interest, regardless of how small or minimal such
interest may be, in a land trust, held by a trustee for the benefit of
beneficiaries of such land trust.
   CO-LOCATION. The use of a wireless telecommunications facility by more than
one wireless telecommunications provider.
   COMMERCIAL. A use that involves the exchange of cash, goods or services,
barter, forgiveness of indebtedness or any other remuneration in exchange for
goods, services, lodging, meals, entertainment in any form or the right to
occupy space over any period of time.
   HEIGHT. The vertical measurement from an identified base such as the ground
or roof to the vertical apex of the measured wireless telecommunications
antenna, tower or satellite dish.
   LATTICE TOWER. A support structure constructed of vertical metal struts and
cross braces forming a triangular or square structure which often tapers from
the foundation to the top.
   MONOPOLE. A support structure constructed of a single, self-supporting
hollow metal tube securely anchored to a foundation.
   PERSONAL WIRELESS FACILITIES. A transmitter/receiver, antenna structure and
other types of installation used for the provision of personal wireless
services.
   PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICES. Commercial mobile services, unlicensed wireless
services and common carrier wireless exchange access services; facilities for
the provision of personal wireless services.
   TELECOMMUNICATION. The technology which enables information to be exchanged
through the transmission of voice, video or data signals by means of electrical
or electromagnetic systems.
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS ANTENNA. A physical device through which
electromagnetic, wireless communications signals authorized by the Federal
Communication Commission are transmitted or received.
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT SHELTER. The structure in which the
electronic receiving and relaying equipment for a wireless communications
facility is housed.
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITY. A facility consisting of the equipment
and structures involved in receiving, relaying and transmitting voice, video or
data signals by means of electrical or electromagnetic systems.
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWER. A dedicated structure intended to support
equipment used to transmit and/receive telecommunications signals including
monopoles, guyed and lattice construction steel structures.
   ZONING TRUSTEE. The member of the Board of Trustees designated to review
matters to which this chapter applies.
(Prior Code, § 154.070) (Ord. 2000-03-01, passed 3-13-2000)
§ 154.071 PURPOSE AND GOALS.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish requirements for the
siting of towers and antennas.
   (B)   The goals of this subchapter are to:
      (1)   Encourage the location of towers in non-residential areas and
minimize the total number of towers throughout the village;
      (2)   Encourage the joint use of new and existing tower sites;
      (3)   Encourage users of towers and antennas to locate them, to the
extent possible, in areas where the adverse impact on the village is minimal;
      (4)   Encourage users of towers and antennas to configure them in a way
that minimizes the adverse visual impact of the towers and antennas;
      (5)   Enhance the ability of the providers of telecommunication services
to provide such services to the village;
      (6)   Encourage the use of suitable public sites and structures for
wireless antenna location; and
      (7)   Comply with the Federal Telecommunications Act of 1996.
(Prior Code, § 154.071) (Ord. 2000-03-01, passed 3-13-2000)
§ 154.072 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following are considered exempt telecommunication facilities and are not
covered by this subchapter when erected as an accessory structure:
   (A)   Satellite dish antennas less than one meter in diameter in residential
districts and less than two meters in diameter in non-residential districts
including direct-to-home satellite services; and
   (B)   A single ground or building mounted radio or television antenna
including any mast on which the radio or television antenna is located for the
sole use of the tenant or owner occupying a residential parcel, with an antenna
height not exceeding height limitations by more than ten feet.
(Prior Code, § 154.072) (Ord. 2000-03-01, passed 3-13-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.073 APPLICABILITY.
   The requirements of this subchapter will govern the siting, operation and
maintenance of antennas and towers.
   (A)   All new antennas and/or tower placements within the village will be
required to obtain an antenna and/or tower use permit and shall be subject to
this subchapter, except as provided herein.
   (B)   Telecommunications facilities shall be located and co-located on
suitable village-owned property, subject to administrative approval and
provided that the operation of said facilities will not disrupt normal public
communications or operations.
(Prior Code, § 154.073) (Ord. 2000-03-01, passed 3-13-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.074 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Any wireless telecommunications facility, antenna, monopole, tower or
satellite dish not expressly permitted by this chapter is prohibited in the
village. All wireless telecommunications facilities, antennas, monopoles,
towers and satellite dishes must comply with all applicable codes. This
subchapter does not apply to wireless facilities used by amateur (HAM) radio
operators licensed by the Federal Communication Commission.
   (B)   This subchapter applies to radio and television transmission
facilities, cellular telephone facilities and personal wireless facilities.
   (C)   A wireless telecommunications antenna, monopole, tower or satellite
dish may constitute an accessory use on a lot containing a principal use.
(Prior Code, § 154.074) (Ord. 2000-03-01, passed 3-13-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.075 USE REGULATIONS.
   For R-1 Residential District and C-1 and C-2 Commercial Districts, the
following regulations apply:
   (A)   Commercial wireless telecommunications towers with a 125-foot height
limit are allowed with administrative review;
   (B)   Building mounted wireless telecommunications antennas are allowed with
administrative review; and
   (C)   Co-location commercial wireless telecommunications monopoles with a
150-foot height limit are allowed with administrative review.
(Prior Code, § 154.075) (Ord. 2000-03-01, passed 3-13-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.076 BULK REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All structures, principal and accessory, located at a wireless
telecommunications facility shall meet the required front yard and rear yard
setbacks of the underlying zoning district, except when the underlying lot
borders a lot with a residence, the setback from the residence shall be equal
to the height of the tower.
   (B)   The required side yard setbacks for all monopoles and lattice towers
at a commercial wireless telecommunications facility shall be one-half the
required front yard when adjoining an equal or more intensely zoned district
and the same as the front yard setback when adjoining a less intensely zoned
district. On corner lots, the required side street side yard setback shall be
the same as the required front yard.
   (C)   All commercial wireless communication equipment shelters shall meet
the side yard setbacks of the underlying district. Commercial wireless
communication equipment shelters are limited to 18 feet in height.
(Prior Code, § 154.076) (Ord. 2000-03-01, passed 3-13-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.077 PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   All ingress, egress, traffic plan and parking areas located at a commercial
wireless telecommunications facility shall be regulated by §§
154.055 through
154.058.
(Prior Code, § 154.077) (Ord. 2000-03-01, passed 3-13-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.078 LANDSCAPING AND AESTHETIC REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Existing vegetation (trees and shrubs) shall be preserved to the
maximum extent possible.
   (B)   All structures located at a commercial wireless telecommunications
facility shall be architecturally designed to blend in with the surrounding
environment. All structures shall be constructed out of a non-reflective
material.
   (C)   All traffic and parking areas located at a wireless telecommunications
facility shall be effectively screened on each side adjoining an equal or less
intensely zoned property with a six foot opaque fence. Any fence erected on the
side street of a corner lot shall be restricted to the same setback
requirements as a building or structure. No fence may be electrified.
   (D)   Security fencing may be constructed around the base of the tower.
Buffer evergreen plantings shall be located around the perimeter of the
security fence consisting of either a hedge planted three feet on center
maximum or a row of evergreen trees planted five feet on center maximum.
   (E)   Security lighting at a commercial wireless telecommunications facility
shall be arranged so as not to reflect rays of light into adjacent districts
and streets. Wireless telecommunication towers shall not be illuminated by
artificial means and shall not display strobe lights unless such lighting is
specifically required by the Federal Aviation Administration and the Federal
Communications Commission or other federal or state authority for a particular
site.
   (F)   Advertising of any type is prohibited at wireless telecommunications
facilities.
   (G)   Antennas, monopoles, towers and satellite dishes shall be painted in a
way that matches the typical sky color in that location or a color minimizing
its visibility unless otherwise required by the Federal Communications
Commission or the Federal Aviation Administration. These structures should
include anti-climbing measures to reduce potential for trespass and injury.
(Prior Code, § 154.078) (Ord. 2000-03-01, passed 3-13-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.079 ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW.
   (A)   This procedure has been developed to permit certain building mounted
antennas in certain zoning districts to be approved by the Zoning Trustee, or
his or her designee, when such antennas meet established standards set forth in
this subchapter.
   (B)   Upon receiving an application for an antenna for administrative
approval, the Zoning Trustee, or his or her designee, shall process the
application to determine its conformity with the application standards. If the
antenna and its structure meets the standards, a building permit application
may be applied for. Approval of the administrative review does not ensure
issuance of the building permit. If the antenna or its structure does not meet
the standards, the permit shall be denied. The Zoning Trustee’s denial may be
appealed to the Zoning Board of Appeals, pursuant to §
154.096. Action on application shall take place within a reasonable amount of
time. Approval or denial of application shall be in writing.
   (C)   The standards for application review by the Zoning Board shall be as
follows.
      (1)   The request for administrative review shall be in writing, in
petition format, signed by the applicant or a legal representative and include
the legal description and common address, a site plan and an elevation drawing.
      (2)   The applicant shall be the owner of the property or have beneficial
interest in the property.
      (3)   The request for administrative review shall include two sets of
sealed plans from a structural engineer or architect.
      (4)   Photos of similar, previously constructed antennas shall be
included with the request.
   (D)   The standards for approval by the Zoning Board shall be as follows.
      (1)   The proposed location, design and method of operation of such
antenna will not have a detrimental effect on the surrounding properties.
      (2)   All construction shall conform to the best standards for safety and
meet the current building code of the village.
      (3)   All antennas and their structures shall be architecturally designed
to blend with the surrounding environment to minimize visibility. Antennas and
their structures shall be constructed of a non-reflective material.
   (E)   The Zoning Trustee is explicitly authorized, at his or her discretion,
to employ on behalf of the village an independent technical expert to review
any technical materials submitted, including, but not limited to, those
required under this subchapter and shall pay all the reasonable costs of said
review, including any administrative costs incurred by the village. Any
proprietary information disclosed to the village or the expert hired shall
remain confidential and shall not be disclosed to any third-party.
   (F)   The Zoning Trustee may revoke a use granted with administrative
approval upon giving the owner and any interested persons who applied for the
use at least ten days’
      (1)   The owner or interested person applying for the approval has
knowingly furnished false or misleading information or withheld relevant
information on any application;
      (2)   The owner, his or her agent, employee, officer, tenant, licensee or
occupant has violated any of the provisions of this chapter required to obtain
the facility, antenna, tower or satellite dish with administrative approval, or
that the property no longer complies with the standards necessary to obtain
such device with administrative approval; and
      (3)   The property has become a nuisance.
   (G)   The property owner shall be responsible for the acts of his or her
agents, employees, officers, tenants, licensees and occupants.
   (H)   A property shall be considered a nuisance when any of the following
shall occur:
      (1)   The antenna or its structure, in the opinion of the Building
Inspector, becomes structurally unsound, unsafe or dangerous; and
      (2)   The antenna interferes with the reception of other legal pre-
existing antennas in the area.
(Prior Code, § 154.079) (Ord. 2000-03-01, passed 3-13-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.080 CONDITIONAL PERMITTED USE.
   (A)   Application requirements include the following:
      (1)   Site plan drawn to scale showing principal and accessory
structures, with elevations;
      (2)   Proposed traffic plan, including ingress, egress, parking,
circulation and surfaced areas;
      (3)   Proposed screening, fencing, landscaping and aesthetics features;
      (4)   Proof of approval or compliance with FAA standards;
      (5)   Proof of approval or compliance with FCC standards; and
      (6)   Proof of co-location, contracts, agreements or statement that
petitioner will allow co-location and the like.
   (B)   The Zoning Board may permit commercial wireless telecommunications
facilities, antennas, towers or satellite dishes provided that the following
special findings are made:
      (1)   The telecommunications facility, antenna, tower or satellite dish
will conform to the established standards for safety in construction;
      (2)   The proposed location, design and method of operation of such
antenna will not have a detrimental effect on the surrounding properties;
      (3)   All antennas and their structures shall be architecturally designed
to blend with the surrounding environment to minimize visibility;
      (4)   All landscaping and aesthetic requirements have been met; and
      (5)   All applications requirements have been met.
   (C)   A request for a conditional permitted use to allow a commercial
wireless telecommunications facility, antenna, tower or satellite dish shall be
processed in the same manner as appeals under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 154.080) (Ord. 2000-03-01, passed 3-13-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.081 LEGAL NON-COMPLYING STRUCTURES.
   (A)   The use of a non-complying structure may be continued, except as
otherwise provided in this subchapter.
   (B)   If a non-complying structure is destroyed or damaged by any means, it
may be reconstructed as it existed prior to the destruction or damage; provided
that the reconstruction does not create a new compliance of any structure as it
previously existed.
   (C)   A non-complying structure may be enlarged, provided that no
enlargement is permitted which would either create a new non-compliance or
increase the degree of non-compliance of the structure or any portion thereof.
   (D)   Normal maintenance, repairs or structural alterations are permitted in
a non-complying structure, except that alterations creating enlargements are
subject to division (C) above.
(Prior Code, § 154.081) (Ord. 2000-03-01, passed 3-13-2000)
§ 154.082 TERMINATION OF USE.
   Any antenna, tower or satellite dish that is not operated for a continuous
period of 12 months shall be considered abandoned, and the owner of such
antenna, tower or satellite dish shall remove the same within 90 days of
receipt of notice from the governing authority notifying the owner of such
abandonment. If such antenna, tower or satellite dish is not removed within
said 90 days, the governing authority may remove such antenna, tower or
satellite dish at the owner’s expense. If there are two or more users of a
single tower, then this provision shall not become effective until all users
cease using the tower.
(Prior Code, § 154.082) (Ord. 2000-03-01, passed 3-13-2000)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 154.095 BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   All questions of the application of the terms of this chapter shall
first be directed to the Trustee who chairs the standing committee on public
property and building inspection, who shall act as the Building Inspector.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector to enforce this chapter
and amendments thereto. Appeals from the Building Inspector shall be taken to
the Zoning Board of Appeals.
(Prior Code, § 154.090) (Ord. 95-11-01, passed 11-13-1995)
§ 154.096 ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   Creation and membership. A Zoning Board of Appeals is authorized to be
established. The word BOARD, when used in this section, shall mean the Zoning
Board of Appeals. The Board shall consist of seven members appointed by the
President by and with the consent of the Board of Trustees. The term shall be
five years, provided that the members of the first Board shall serve
respectively for the following terms (or until their respective successors are
appointed and qualified): one for one year, one for two years, one for three
years, one for four years, three for five years and five years each for those
following the first appointment. One of the members of the Board shall be
designated by the President, with the consent of the Board of Trustees, as
Chairperson of the Board, and shall hold office as Chairperson until a
successor is appointed. Vacancies in office shall be filled for the unexpired
term of any member whose place has become vacant. The President may remove any
member of the Board for cause after public hearing.
   (B)   Oaths. The Chairperson of the Zoning Board of Appeals, or, in the
Chairperson’s absence, the acting Chairperson, may administer oaths and compel
the attendance of witnesses.
   (C)   Meetings. Meetings of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be held at the
call of the Chairperson, or any two members, or at such times as such Board may
determine. All hearings conducted by the Board shall be open to the public. The
Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing the vote of each member
upon each question, or, if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and
shall also keep records of its hearings and other official actions. Findings of
fact shall be included in the minutes of each case of a requested variation, or
special use permit, and the reasons for granting or denying such application
shall be specified. Every rule or regulation, every amendment or repeal thereof
and every order, requirement, decision or determination of the Board shall be
filed immediately in the office of the Village Clerk and shall be a public
record. Three members of the Board shall constitute a quorum.
   (D)   Compensation. The members of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall receive
such fees for their compensation as shall be established, from time to time, by
ordinance by the Board of Trustees.
   (E)   Powers and duties. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall exercise the
power and perform all the duties and proceed in the manner set forth in 65 ILCS
5/11-13-1, other applicable statutes of the state and this chapter.
   (F)   Appeals. All appeals from and review of any order, requirement,
decision or determination made by the Building Inspector in enforcing the
provisions of this chapter shall be made to the Zoning Board of Appeals. Any
appeal from the failure by the Building Inspector to act shall also be made to
the Zoning Board of Appeals. Such appeal may be taken by any person aggrieved
or by an officer or department or the Village President and Village Board of
Trustees. Failure of the Building Inspector to act within 30 days after
application to the Inspector shall be considered a determination adverse to the
applicant unless the applicant is in default to the village. A default occurs
when an applicant owes money to the village or is being prosecuted for
violation of a village ordinance; in which case, the Building Inspector or the
Zoning Board of Appeals shall defer action until such money is paid or such
prosecution completed.
   (G)   Time for appeals; grounds. Notices of appeal from decisions of the
Building Inspector shall be filed within 20 days from such decision, or, if no
decision has been made, within 30 days of application to the Building
Inspector. Notices of appeal shall be filed with the Building Inspector and/or
the Village Clerk and shall specify the grounds of appeal. Such notice shall be
delivered by the Building Inspector and/or Village Clerk to the Zoning Board of
Appeals, together with all papers constituting the record in such case.
   (H)   Fees.
      (1)   The fee for hearing appeals from decisions of the Building
Inspector or for variations of the terms of this chapter by the Zoning Board of
Appeals shall be as established, from time to time, by ordinance by the Board
of Trustees. In addition, the Board of Trustees may establish, from time to
time, a deposit fee which shall be paid by the applicant to cover the cost of a
court reporter’s services to record and transcribe proceedings before the
Zoning Board of Appeals.
      (2)   These fees shall be paid to the Village Clerk and the receipt of
the Clerk shall be made a part of the appeal or application for variation of
the ordinance. Any balance over the actual charges made by the court reporter
shall be refunded from the deposit of the applicant.
      (3)   The cost of publication of notice of a public hearing of matters
before the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be paid by the person seeking the
hearing and shall be in addition to any other fee mentioned in this chapter.
Proof of publication of notice of hearing must be presented in advance of any
such hearing. The Village Clerk shall be responsible for causing such notice to
be published.
   (I)   Variations in application of regulations. The following rules shall
govern the practice in zoning cases before the Board of Trustees and Zoning
Board of Appeals whenever a variation in the application of the regulations
contained in the zoning ordinance or amendments thereto is proposed.
      (1)   The person desiring a variation in the application of the
regulations contained in the zoning ordinance or amendments thereto must be an
owner or contract purchaser and shall file in triplicate with the Building
Inspector a petition describing the variation sought to be made and a
resolution by which the Board of Trustees may refer such petition to the Zoning
Board of Appeals. The petition must include the names and addresses of the
owners of all parcels of land that abut the land for which a variance is
sought. For this purpose, the names and addresses used for the most recent tax
bills on such abutting land shall be sufficient.
      (2)   The Building Inspector shall transmit the petition and resolution
set out in division (I)(1) above to the Village Clerk who shall present them to
the Board of Trustees at its next regular meeting or at any special meeting
called for the purpose of hearing such matter. The Board of Trustees shall
refer the petition to the Zoning Board of Appeals for hearing and
recommendation.
      (3)   The Zoning Board of Appeals may recommend variance of the
application of the regulations of the zoning ordinance in cases, where there
are practical difficulties or particular hardships in the way of carrying out
the strict letter of any of those regulations relating to the use, construction
or alteration of buildings or consideration of the standards of practical
difficulties or particular hardship the Zoning Board of Appeals shall require
evidence that:
         (a)   The property in question cannot yield a reasonable return if
permitted to be used only under the conditions allowed by the ordinance;
         (b)   The plight of the owner is due to unique circumstances; and
         (c)   The variation, if granted, will not alter the essential
character of the locality. A variation will be permitted only if the evidence
sustains each of the three conditions enumerated. The recommendation of the
Zoning Board of Appeals to grant or deny a variance shall be passed on to the
Board of Trustees for final action at the next regular or special meeting.
Every variation made by the Board of Trustees shall be made by written order,
which shall contain a finding of fact specifying the reason for making the
variation, a copy of which order shall be furnished to the applicant by such
Board.
      (4)   No variation shall be made, except in a specific case and after a
public hearing before the Zoning Board of Appeals. Upon the hearing, the
proponents and the opponents of the petition and their respective attorneys may
appear and be heard. All testimony shall be made under oath or affirmation.
      (5)   Notice of the time and place of the public hearing of the Zoning
Board of Appeals shall be given in each case by publishing a notice thereof in
a newspaper of general circulation within the village not more than 30 days nor
less than 15 days before the hearing. This notice shall contain the particular
location for which the variation is requested as well as a brief description of
the proposed variation. A notice of the time and place of the public hearing
shall also be posted on or as close as possible to the land for which a
variance is sought. Additionally, notice of the time and place of the public
hearing shall be mailed not less than ten days before the hearing to the
persons identified as owners of abutting land in the variance petition.
      (6)   Action by Village Board includes the following.
         (a)   After any application for a variance has been acted on by the
Village Board of Trustees, another application requesting the same relief shall
not be accepted or considered by the Zoning Board of Appeals or Village Board
for a period of 18 months after such action unless the applicant shows that
there has been a substantial change in circumstances since such action.
         (b)   For the purpose of this section, REQUESTING THE SAME RELIEF
means requesting a variance from the same provision or combination of
provisions from the zoning ordinance for the same premises sought in such prior
petition, seeking the same change in a nonconforming use as sought in such
prior petition or seeking a special use of the same premises as sought in such
prior petition.
         (c)   A change in circumstances must be demonstrated by a written
request for leave to file an application for a variance and the written request
must be accompanied by affidavits, maps and other documentary evidence. Within
30 days of the date the request is submitted, the Village Board shall decide
whether there has been a substantial change in circumstances. That decision
shall be final, subject to judicial review. If the Village Board decides there
has been no substantial change in circumstances since such action, the request
will be denied and no application for a variance will be accepted. If the
Village Board does conclude there has been a substantial change in
circumstances since such action, then the request shall be granted and an
application shall be accepted and shall be acted on in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (J)   Previous variations. All variations still in use, granted under the
village’s prior zoning ordinances, are ratified.
(Prior Code, § 154.091) (Ord. 95-11-01, passed 11-13-1995)
§ 154.097 PROPOSED AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The regulations set forth in this chapter and the districts shown on
the zoning map shall be amended only in accordance with the requirements of 65
ILCS 5/11-13-1 through 11-13-19.
   (B)   After receiving a report and recommendation concerning amendments, the
Village Board shall take action on such recommendation without hearing
testimony or argument on the matter. The Village Board may affirm, reject or
modify the recommendations or it may continue the case to another date. If an
application for a proposed amendment is not acted on finally by the Village
Board within six months of the date on which the recommendation is reported to
the Board, the application shall be deemed to have been denied.
   (C)   After any application for an amendment has been acted on by the Board,
another application requesting the same relief shall not be accepted or
considered by the Board for a period of 18 months after such action unless the
applicant shows that there has been a substantial change in circumstances since
such action.
   (D)   For purposes of this provision, requesting the same relief means
seeking reclassification of the same premises to the same zoning district as
sought in a petition acted upon within 18 months of a pending petition
requesting a variance from the same provision or combination of provisions to
the zoning ordinance sought in a prior petition or seeking the same conditional
permitted use as was sought in a prior petition.
   (E)   A change in circumstances must be demonstrated by a written request
for leave to file an application for a variance and the written request must be
accompanied by affidavits, maps and other documentary evidence. Within 30 days
of the date the request is submitted, the Village Board shall decide whether
there has been a substantial change in circumstances. That decision shall be
final subject to judicial review. If the Village Board decides there has been
no substantial change in circumstances since such action, the request will be
denied and no application for a variance will be accepted. If the Village Board
does conclude there has been a substantial change in circumstances since such
action, then the request shall be granted and an application shall be accepted
and shall be acted on in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 154.092) (Ord. 95-11-01, passed 11-13-1995)
§ 154.098 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Subsequent to the effective date of this chapter, no change in the use
of land, nor any change of use of an existing building shall be made, nor shall
any new building be occupied for any purposes until a certificate of occupancy
has been issued by the Building Inspector. Every certificate of occupancy shall
state that the new occupancy complies with all provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   No certificate of occupancy shall be issued until the erection,
construction or alteration, based on a valid building permit, has been
completed, inspected and approved by the Building Inspector, and no building
shall be occupied until such certificate issued.
   (C)   A record of all certificates of occupancy shall be kept on file in the
office of the Village Clerk and copies shall be furnished on request to any
person having proprietary or tenancy interest in land or in a building affected
by such certificate of occupancy.
   (D)   A certificate of occupancy shall be required for all nonconforming
uses of land or buildings existing after the passage of this chapter or any
amendment thereto. Application for such certificate of occupancy for
nonconforming uses shall be filed with the Village Clerk by the owner or
occupant of the land or building occupied by nonconforming use within one year
from the effective date of this chapter or amendment thereto. It shall be the
duty of the Building Inspector to issue a certificate of occupancy for such
nonconforming uses.
   (E)   Any nonconforming use for which an occupancy permit has not been
obtained in conformity with the requirements of this section shall be presumed
to be operating in violation of this chapter and such use shall thereupon be
prohibited and abated.
(Prior Code, § 154.093) (Ord. 95-11-01, passed 11-13-1995)
§ 154.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits,
neglects or refuses to comply with or who resists the enforcement of any of the
provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $200
nor more than $500 for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §
154.027 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. A person who is convicted shall be
punished by a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $500 or by imprisonment
for a period of not to exceed six months or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 154.999) (Ord. 95-11-01, passed 11-13-1995; Ord. 02-04-02,
passed 4-8-2002)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   FRANCHISES
      
III.   AGREEMENTS
      
IV.   SPECIAL PROPERTY USES
      
V.   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
      
VI.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
      
VII.   TAX INCREMENT DEVELOPMENT AREAS
      
VIII.   VACATING OF STREETS AND ALLEYS
      
IX.   CONSTRUCTION; IMPROVEMENTS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          Annexing territory not exceeding in area two square
-             3-30-1939   miles comprising the original boundaries of the
                          village
-             10-19-1951  Annexing part of Padfield Subdivision, part of Lot 17
-             6-2-1952    Annexing part of Woodlawn Subdivision, 1st Plat,
                          Block 1, Lot 1
                          Annexing part of Woodlawn Subdivision, 1st Plat, part
52-3          6-2-1952    of Southeast quarter of the Northeast quarter of
                          Section 16, or Blocks 2, 3 and 4
-             7-8-1953    Annexing part of Woodlawn Subdivision, 2nd Plat, the
                          Northeast quarter of Section 16
56-3          10-8-1956   Annexing a part of Woodlawn Subdivision, 3rd plat,
                          Block 1, Lot 2
56-5          12-10-1956  Annexing a part of the Northwest corner of Woodlawn
                          Subdivision, 2nd Plat
                          Annexing a part of Golden Gardens Addition, Block 2,
60-6          8-8-1960    Southwest corner of Lot 4 (portion of Cordelia
                          Street)
60-7          8-8-1960    Annexing a part of Golden Gardens Addition, Block 2,
                          west 80 feet of Lots 4 and 5
60-8          8-8-1960    Annexing a portion of Cordelia Street
                          Annexing a part of Golden Gardens Addition, Block 3,
65-6          10-11-1965  Southwest corner of Lot 8 (portions of Cordelia
                          Street and 4th Street)
77-1          1-10-1977   Annexing part of Woodlawn Subdivision, 3rd Plat,
                          Block 1, Lot 2
                          Annexing part of Woodlawn Subdivision, 3rd Plat,
77-6          7-11-1977   Block 1, Lot 2 and Block 2, Lots 9, 10, 11, 12, 13
                          and 14
89-04-02      4-4-1989    Annexing contiguous territory on Apple Orchard Road,
                          Second Street and Third Street
89-04-04      4-10-1989   Annexing contiguous territory on AARUP Street
89-04-06      4-17-1989   Annexing Lots 2 through 10 of Padfield’s Subdivision
89-05-01      5-13-1989   Annexing contiguous territory on South Sixth Street
                          and Flora Street
89-06-03      6-12-1989   Annexing territory surrounded by Business Route 66,
                          Apple Orchard Road
89-06-05      6-30-1989   Annexing territory along South Sixth Street, Adlai
                          Stevenson Drive
89-06-06      6-30-1989   Annexing territory wholly surrounded in AARUP
                          Subdivision
89-09-01      9-11-1989   Annexing contiguous territory in McCourtney’s
                          Subdivision
90-02-01      2-5-1990    Annexing territory wholly surrounded along Business
                          Route 66, South Sixth Street and Straight Street
90-03-01      3-5-1990    Annexing territory wholly surrounded along Business
                          Route 66, South Sixth Street and Straight Street
Res. 92-07-01 7-13-1992   Authorizing acquisition and conveyance of certain
                          realty at Sixth and Linton
97-02-01      2-10-1997   Annexing part of the South half of the Northeast
                          quarter of Section 16
Res. 04-09-01 9-13-2004   Annexing part of the South half of the Northeast
                          quarter of Section 16
                          Annexing part of the West half of the Southeast
12-09-01      9-11-2012   quarter of Section 9, Township 15 North, Range 5 West
                          of the Third Prinicpal Meridian
Res. 15-04-01 4-28-2015   Authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement
                          concerning CTCC Properties, LLC and the village
15-05-01      5-5-2015    Annexing property owned by CTCC Properties, LLC
                         
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISES
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          Granting a franchise to Central Illinois Light Co.
41-2          5-15-1941   (CILCO) to establish, maintain and operate a system
                          to furnish, sell, distribute, deliver and dispose of
                          gas for light, heat and power for 50 years
                          Granting a franchise to Illinois Bell Telephone Co.
51-2          2-5-1951    for a general telephone business for a term of 25
                          years
                          Granting a franchise to Central Illinois Light Co.
57-3          7-8-1957    (CILCO) to generate, transmit and distribute
                          electricity for light, heat and power until 1980
                          Granting a franchise to Illinois Bell Telephone Co.
63-7          12-9-1963   for a general telephone business for a term of 25
                          years
66-1          2-7-1966    Granting a franchise to First Illinois Cable TV, Inc.
                          to operate a community antenna television system
75-8          12-8-1975   Amending Ord. 66-1
                          Granting a franchise to the City of Springfield,
77-4          5-9-1977    Illinois to transmit and distribute electricity for
                          light, heat and power throughout the village until
                          June 9, 2027
78-4          10-9-1978   Amending Ord. 66-1
                          Granting a franchise to Illinois Bell Telephone Co.
79-5          11-12-1979  for a general telephone business for a term of 25
                          years
81-4          5-11-1981   Amending Ord. 78-4
                          Renewing a franchise to Times Mirror Cable Television
84-11-1       11-12-1984  of Springfield, Inc. (formerly First Illinois Cable
                          TV, Inc.) to operate and maintain a cable television
                          system
85-1-1        1-14-1985   Amending Ordinance 79-5, providing that the term of
                          the franchise shall be for a three-year period
91-05-01      5-13-1991   Granting a gas franchise to Central Illinois Light
                          Company for a period of 50 years
                          Approving the transfer of control of Times Mirror
Res. 94-08-08 8-22-1994   Cable Television from the Times Mirror Company to Cox
                          Cable Communications, Inc.
Res. 09-07-01 7-14-2009   Granting franchise to Comcast Cable Company for cable
                          communications system
Res. 17-10-01 10-10-2017  Granting cable television franchise agreement with
                          Comcast, Inc.
                         
 
TABLE III: AGREEMENTS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No.  Date Passed Description
Res. 64-7      9-23-1964   Agreement to cooperate with the state in the
                           preparation of a comprehensive transportation plan
Res. 79C       11-12-1979  Contract with City of Springfield for street
                           lighting
79-12          12-11-1979  Contract with City of Springfield for street
                           lighting
Res. 83-1      3-14-1983   Intergovernmental agreement to provide law
                           enforcement assistance
Res. 84-3-1    3-12-1984   Intergovernmental agreement to provide law
                           enforcement assistance
Res. 84-7-1    7-9-1984    Intergovernmental agreement to provide law
                           enforcement assistance
                           Approving membership in the State Municipal League
87-2-1         2-9-1987    Risk Management Association and authorizing the
                           execution of an intergovernmental cooperation
                           contract
87-8-2         8-10-1987   Contract with City of Springfield for street
                           lighting
                           Authorizing the negotiation of a contract to own any
Res. 90-11-01  11-12-1990  sewers built or improved with loan money from the
                           State Environmental Protection Agency for the
                           duration of the loan
91-12-01       12-9-1991   Agreement for use of the public way
93-05-03       5-10-1993   Contract with the Bureau of the Census
96-06-01       6-10-1996   Intergovernmental police service assistance
                           agreement with other municipalities in the county
96-06-02       6-10-1996   Intergovernmental police service assistance
                           agreement with the county
96-10-04       10-24-1996  Contract with Scruggs and Hammond, Inc.
                           Waiving certain requirements of the Local Government
Res. 97-02-01  2-10-1997   Professional Services Selection Act; selection of
                           firm to perform architectural services
                           Waiving certain requirements of the Local Government
Res. 97-02-02  2-10-1997   Professional Services Selection Act; selection of
                           firm to perform land surveying services
98-01-02       1-12-1998   Contract with Martin Engineering Company
98-04-01       4-13-1998   Contract with Martin Engineering Company
98-07-04       7-13-1998   Contract with Merrill’s Contractors, Inc.
98-08-01       8-12-1998   Contract with Kane, McKenna and Associates, Inc.
99-01-01       1-11-1999   Contract with Martin Engineering Company
99-01-03       1-11-1999   Project agreement with the State Department of
                           Natural Resources
                           Contract with the W.J. Scott Company for the removal
99-04-04       4-26-1999   of underground storage tanks and installation of
                           aboveground storage tanks
99-05-03       5-10-1999   Contract with Robert V. Denton
99-05-04       5-10-1999   Contract with the Petersburg Plumbing and Heating
                           Company
99-07-03       7-12-1999   Contract with Merrill’s Contractors, Inc.
99-10-01       10-11-1999  Intergovernmental agreement concerning Freedom of
                           Information Act requests
2000-01-02     1-10-2000   Execution of a right- of-way and easement agreement
                           in favor of Williams Communications, Inc.
02-04-01       4-8-2002    Agreement with Thornton Oil, Inc.
02-08-02       8-12-2002   Approving codification proposal and agreement with
                           American Legal Publishing
03-01-02       1-13-2003   Contract with Maslauski Partnership, Inc.
03-06-03       6-9-2003    Visa Corporate Card agreement with the Illinois
                           National Bank
05-08-01       8-15-2005   Amends contract for street lighting between village
                           and the City of Springfield
2009-09-09-02  9-17-2009   Ground lease of village property with Illinois
                           National Bank
Res. 11-04-01  4-12-2011   Authorizes Village President to enter into agreement
                           with CWLP on behalf of village
                           Intergovernmental agreement between the county and
12-04-01       4-24-2012   the village regarding enforcement of the 2006
                           International Building Code
Res. 14-05-01  5-13-2014   Law enforcement mutual aid agreement
Res. 15-07-02  7-14-2015   Intergovernmental agreement for animal control
                           services
Res. 15-07-03  7-28-2015   Agreement concerning sewer project financing
Res. 17-07-01  7-11-2017   Intergovernmental agreement concerning water service
                           and road expansion
Res. 17-09-01  9-12-2017   Intergovernmental agreement concerning police mutual
                           aid
Res. 17-10-02  10-10-2017  Intergovernmental cooperation agreement concerning
                           E-citation services with the county
Res. 19-06-002 6-25-2019   Intergovernmental mutual aid agreement
19-08-02       8-27-2019   Intergovernmental agreement for animal control
                           services
                           Approving membership in the State Municipal League
19-11-01       11-26-2019  Risk Management Association and authorizing the
                           execution of an intergovernmental cooperation
                           contract
19-11-02       11-26-2019  Contract with BCBS Illinois for employee health
                           insurance in 2020
19-12-04       12-10-2019  Approving a loan commitment with Bank of Springfield
                           Public works contract with 10FSS 900 E Straight
20-06-01       6-23-2020   Street Springfield Illinois LLC., pertaining to
                           drainage work
20-06-04       6-23-2020   Agreement with Schnapp Sewer Service to clean, jet
                           and maintain culverts
20-07-01       7-28-2020   Intergovernmental agreement for animal control
                           services
-              9-22-2020   Intergovernmental cooperation agreement for law
                           enforcement assistance
21-09-01       9-28-2021   Intergovernmental cooperation agreement for animal
                           control services
22-08-01       8-23-2022   Intergovernmental cooperation agreement for animal
                           control services
23-07-02       7-25-2023   Intergovernmental agreement for animal control
                           services
23-12-03       12-19-2023  Approving an agreement with Southern View
                           Neighborhood Watch
24-03-01       3-26-2024   Approving an agreement for the sale of surplus
                           property
24-08-01       8-27-2024   Approving an intergovernmental agreement for animal
                           control services
25-01-02       1-28-2025   Approving an agreement for the sale of surplus
                           property
                          
 
TABLE IV: SPECIAL PROPERTY USES
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          Adopting the Community Park Master Plan concept and
Res. 97-06-01 6-25-1997   applying to the State Department of Natural Resources
                          for a grant
99-06-05      6-14-1999   Closure of the 500 block of Kern Street
02-10-03      10-14-2002  Approving the petition of the Berean Baptist Church
                          for a special use of property
03-02-01      2-10-2003   Approving the petition of Erica Groesch-Hopper for a
                          special use of property
 
TABLE V: REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Res. 82-2     6-14-1982   Contract with Springfield School District No. 186 for
                          purchase of real estate
Res. 82-3     9-13-1982   Contract for purchase of real estate from Board of
                          Education
93-06-01      6-14-1993   Acquisition of part of the South half of the
                          Northeast quarter of Section 16
03-06-02      6-9-2003    Approving installment purchase of motor vehicle
19-08-04      8-27-2019   Approving repair of water fountains in the Village
                          Park and purchase of three new water fountains
19-08-05      8-27-2019   Approving purchase and installation of a hot water
                          heater in the kitchen at Village Hall
19-09-02      9-10-2019   Agreement for sale of three motor vehicles
19-09-03      9-10-2019   Sale and disposal of certain equipment and tools
20-06-05      6-23-2020   Agreement for sale of a surplus vehicle
21-05-03      5-25-2021   Approving purchase of a laser for the Public Works
                          Department
22-01-01      1-25-2022   Approving purchase of a refrigerator for a municipal
                          building
22-01-02      1-25-2022   Approving purchase and installation of security and
                          camera system in municipal buildings
22-01-03      1-25-2022   Approving purchase of codification services
22-01-04      1-25-2022   Approving purchase of paint for village streets
22-02-03      2-22-2022   Agreement for sale of a refrigerator
22-03-01      3-22-2022   Approving purchase of a pond aeration fountain system
22-04-01      4-26-2022   Approving purchase of new radios for the Village
                          Police Department
22-05-04      5-24-2022   Approving purchase of dirt for use on ball diamonds
22-05-05      5-24-2022   Approving purchase of a self-leveling drag for public
                          works
22-05-06      5-24-2022   Approving purchase of a sprayer cart for public works
22-05-07      5-24-2022   Approving purchase of a utility cart for public works
22-05-08      5-24-2022   Approving purchase of stain for the bridge in the
                          Village Park
22-06-02      6-29-2022   Disposal of certain surplus equipment
22-06-03      6-29-2022   Approving purchase of concrete blocks for public
                          works
22-06-04      6-29-2022   Approving purchase of benches in the Village Park
22-06-06      6-29-2022   Approving expenditures to purchase picnic tables for
                          the Village Park
22-07-01      7-26-2022   Approving purchase of a new outdoor sign
22-06-05      8-23-2022   Approving purchase of bleachers for the soccer field
                          in the Village Park
22-10-01      10-25-2022  Approving purchase of a truck for public works
22-11-03      11-22-2022  Agreement for sale of certain surplus property
23-02-02      2-28-2023   Approving expenditure of funds for security cameras
                         
 
TABLE VI: ZONING MAP CHANGES
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          Reclassifying the vacated portion of St. Joseph
77-3          4-11-1977   Street lying west of Carman Avenue as part of the A
                          Residential District
                          Establishing the zoning classification of R for newly
                          annexed territory unless there is a contrary
89-04-03      4-10-1989   agreement between the landowner and village or unless
                          the village elects to assign a less restrictive
                          zoning classification to all or any part of such
                          territory
08-06-02      6-4-2008    Reclassifies a parcel of land to R-2 Residential
16-02-01      2-23-2016   Reclassifies a parcel of land known as 610 - 614 East
                          St. Joseph Street from Residential to C-1 Commercial
19-08-03      8-27-2019   Granting a variance for a modular office building and
                          setback at the rest of Springfield Select Autos
                         
 
TABLE VII: TAX INCREMENT DEVELOPMENT AREAS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Res. 98-12-02 12- -1998   Establishment of a redevelopment project area
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
Res.  12- -
98-   1998   Establishment of a redevelopment project area
12-02
99-   5-10-  Approving the tax increment redevelopment project area redevelopment plan
05-06 1999   and project
99-   5-10-  Designating the tax increment redevelopment project area (Business Loop 55/
05-07 1999   St. Joseph Street area)
99-   5-10-  Adopting tax increment financing
05-08 1999
99-   12-13- Approving and adopting the first amended tax increment redevelopment
12-04 1999   project area
99-   12-13- Confirming tax increment financing
12-05 1999
Res.  6-10-  Ordering the transfer of funds from the Tax Increment Financing Fund to the
02-   2002   General Fund
06-01
Res.  12-9-  Approving the expenditure of tax increment financing funds to install
02-   2002   lighting on or near property located at 3600 South 6th Street Road
12-02
Res.  9-8-   Ordering the establishment of a reserve of funds in the Tax Increment
03-   2003   Financing Fund
09-01
Res.  12-8-  Approving the expenditure of tax increment financing funds to purchase
03-   2003   materials for the installation of a sidewalk along Flora Street
12-01
Res.  3-11-  Approving the expenditure of tax increment financing funds for engineering
05-   2005   services related to the design and construction of public works for the
04-01        improvement of drainage within the tax increment redevelopment project area
Res.  6-9-   Approving the expenditure of tax increment financing funds to construct
08-   2008   sanitary sewers in the vicinity of Straight Street
06-01
Res.  10-13- Approving the expenditure of tax increment financing funds to construct
09-   2009   sanitary sewers in the vicinity of Straight Street
10-01
Res.  10-25- Approving the expenditure of tax increment financing funds to repair and
11-   2011   resurface Straight Street
10-01
Res.  7-22-  Redevelopment agreement with Magnolia Lane for use of tax increment
14-   2014   financing funds for site improvement assistance and related expenses
07-01
Res.  10-27- Agreement with Tellus 1, LLC for use of tax increment financing funds for
15-   2015   site improvement assistance and related expenses
10-01
Res.  5-8-   Agreement with Fields Family, Inc. for use of tax increment finance funds
18-   2018   for site improvement assistance and related expenses
05-01
Res.  5-22-  Agreement with Tellus 1, LLC for use of tax increment financing funds for
18-   2018   site improvement assistance and related expenses
05-02
Res.  8-23-  Appropriating funds from the Special Tax Allocation Fund of the village’s
22-   2022   original tax increment redevelopment project area #1
07-01
22-   11-28- Allowing the substitution of Lincoln Labs, LLC for Fields Family, Inc.
11-4  2022
22-   2-28-  Redevelopment and economic incentive agreement with Share Consolidated, LLC
12-01 2023
23-   7-25-  Authorizing village expenditures pursuant to the redevelopment agreement
07-01 2023   relating to the development of a cannabis dispensary
 
   
TABLE VIII: VACATING OF STREETS AND ALLEYS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
77-2          4-11-1977   Vacating St. Joseph Street west of Carman Avenue
 
TABLE IX: CONSTRUCTION; IMPROVEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
72-2     4-10-1972   Construction of a municipal building
21-05-02 5-25-2021   Agreement to repair streets
22-05-02 5-24-2022   Expenditure for first phase of improvements to
                     infrastructure
22-05-03 5-24-2022   Expenditure to make drainage repairs
22-06-07 7-26-2022   Expenditure for sealing asphalt in the Village Park
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
ILCS Cites Code Section
ILCS Cites                         Code Section
5 ILCS 70/1.01                     10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.02                     10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.03                     10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.04                     10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.05                     10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.07                     10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.08                     10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.09                     10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.10                     10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.11                     10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.12                     10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.15                     10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.16                     10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.17                     10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.20                     10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.24                     10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.28                     10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.29                     10.02
5 ILCS 70/2                        10.04
5 ILCS 120                         30.07
5 ILCS 120/2.06(a)                 30.11
5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.               31.43
5 ILCS 160/1 et seq.               30.11
5 ILCS 430/1-1 et seq.             35.06
5 ILCS 430/5 through 15            35.06
5 ILCS 430/10-10 through 10-40     35.06
5 ILCS 430/10-10 et seq.           35.05
5 ILCS 430/20-23                   35.05
5 ILCS 430/25                      35.05
5 ILCS 430/70-5                    35.05,
                                   35.06
5 ILCS 430/70-5(a)                 35.06
5 ILCS 430/70-5(c)                 35.06
10 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.              Ch. 36
15 ILCS 505/17                     37.03
20 ILCS 1605                       135.02
20 ILCS 1605/7.12                  135.02
20 ILCS 2910/0.01 et seq.          137.02
20 ILCS 3305/1 et seq.             70.01
20 ILCS 3305/4                     30.31
20 ILCS 3305/11                    30.31
35 ILCS 105/1 et seq.              37.23
35 ILCS 115/9                      37.21,
                                   37.24
35 ILCS 120/1 et seq.              37.25
35 ILCS 120/3                      37.20
35 ILCS 200/1-1 et seq.            37.30
35 ILCS 630/1 et seq.              113.01,
                                   113.04
35 ILCS 635/1 seq.                 94.051
35 ILCS 636/5-25                   37.26
35 ILCS 636/5-30                   37.26
50 ILCS 45/1 et seq.               37.30
50 ILCS 150/1 et seq.              31.40
50 ILCS 205/1 et seq.              30.11
50 ILCS 705                        34.18
50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.              34.06
50 ILCS 710                        137.02
55 ILCS 5/3-9005                   137.02
55 ILCS 5/5-1127                   70.01
65 ILCS 5                          10.02,
                                   37.25
65 ILCS 5/1-1-2                    10.02
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1                    10.99
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1.1                  10.99
65 ILCS 5/1-2.2-1                  33.18
65 ILCS 5/1-2.2-1 et seq.          33.26
65 ILCS 5/1-3-2                    50.02
65 ILCS 5/8-3-14a                  37.29
65 ILCS 5/8-11-1                   37.20,
                                   37.27
65 ILCS 5/8-11-1.3                 37.22
65 ILCS 5/8-11-1.5                 37.23
                                   37.27,
65 ILCS 5/8-11-2                   37.99,
                                   113.04
65 ILCS 5/8-11-5                   37.21,
                                   37.24
65 ILCS 5/8-11-17                  113.04
65 ILCS 5/8-11-23                  37.28
65 ILCS 5/8-11-24                  37.31
65 ILCS 5/11-1-5                   132.02
65 ILCS 5/11-1-6                   30.31
65 ILCS 5/11-12-4 et seq.          153.003
65 ILCS 5/11-13-1                  154.096
65 ILCS 5/11-13-1 through 11-13-19 154.097
65 ILCS 5/11-13-19                 154.020
65 ILCS 5/11-31.1 et seq.          33.15
65 ILCS 5/11-40-1                  71.001,
                                   75.15
65 ILCS 5/11-42-5                  Ch. 111
70 ILCS 1205/3-9                   70.01
105 ILCS 5/2-3.51.5                71.999
205 ILCS 5/5g                      135.01,
                                   135.02
205 ILCS 205/7008                  135.01,
                                   135.02
205 ILCS 305/42.7                  135.01,
                                   135.02
205 ILCS 740                       132.01
210 ILCS 45                        132.01
210 ILCS 47                        132.01
210 ILCS 49                        132.01
210 ILCS 125/1                     150.27
220 ILCS 5/2-202                   113.04
220 ILCS 5/9-221                   113.01
220 ILCS 5/9-222                   113.01
220 ILCS 5/9-222.1                 113.01
220 ILCS 5/16-104                  37.27
220 ILCS 50/1 et seq.              94.065
220 ILCS 65/4                      94.054
225 ILCS 57/1 et seq.              116.01,
                                   116.12
225 ILCS 57/25                     116.01,
                                   116.04
225 ILCS 63/1 set seq.             116.02
225 ILCS 90/1 et seq.              116.02
225 ILCS 225                       153.138
225 ILCS 447                       137.02
225 ILCS 447/5-5 et seq.           137.02
230 ILCS 10                        135.02,
                                   135.03
230 ILCS 15                        135.02
230 ILCS 20                        135.02
230 ILCS 25                        135.02
230 ILCS 30                        135.02
230 ILCS 40                        135.01-
                                   135.03
230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.              115.11
230 ILCS 40/5                      115.02
230 ILCS 45                        135.02,
                                   135.03
235 ILCS 5/4-2                     112.10
235 ILCS 5/6-2                     112.07,
                                   112.11
235 ILCS 5/6-21                    112.01,
                                   112.09
325 ILCS 5/4                       132.01
335 ILCS 75/1 et seq.              116.02
410 ILCS 25/1                      150.26
410 ILCS 82/1 et seq.              112.04
410 ILCS 130/1 et seq.             37.28
410 ILCS 705/1-1 et seq.           154.001,
                                   154.028
415 ILCS 5/3.215                   71.098
415 ILCS 5/3.220                   71.098
                                   71.098,
415 ILCS 5/3.360                   136.01,
                                   136.02
415 ILCS 5/22.28                   91.11
415 ILCS 35/1 et seq.              153.139
415 ILCS 105/3                     71.098
415 ILCS 105/3(a)                  136.01
415 ILCS 105/4                     136.02
415 ILCS 105/5                     136.03
415 ILCS 105/6                     136.04
                                   136.02,
415 ILCS 105/8(a)                  136.03,
                                   136.99
                                   136.02,
415 ILCS 105/8(b)                  136.03,
                                   136.99
415 ILCS 105/8(c)                  136.07
415 ILCS 105/8(d)                  136.02,
                                   136.03
415 ILCS 105/8(e)                  136.02,
                                   136.03
415 ILCS 105/9                     136.05
415 ILCS 105/10                    136.06,
                                   136.99
425 ILCS 60/3                      150.21
425 ILCS 60/3(g)                   150.21
430 ILCS 30/3                      71.076
430 ILCS 65/0.01 through 16-3      Ch. 137
430 ILCS 66/1 et seq.              137.01
515 ILCS 5                         137.03
520 ILCS 5                         137.03
525 ILCS 30/3.11                   131.01
525 ILCS 30/3.14                   131.01
605 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.           94.051
605 ILCS 120/1 et seq.             70.45
605 ILCS 120/50                    136.02,
                                   136.03
625 ILCS 5                         34.15
625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq.           136.01
625 ILCS 5/1-102                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-105                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-106                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-107                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-108                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-111.8                 70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-112                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-113                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-116                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-117.7                 70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-120                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-120.7                 70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-125                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-126                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-130                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-131                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-132                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-135                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-136                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-137                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-138                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-139.1                 70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-140                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-140.10                70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-140.15                70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-141                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-145.001               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-146                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-147                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-148.2                 70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-148.3                 70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-148.3a-5              70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-151                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-153                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-154                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-155                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-156                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-157                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-157.5                 70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-158                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-159.1                 70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-162                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-162.3                 70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-162.5                 70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-163                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-166                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-166.1                 70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-167                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-167.5                 70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-168                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-169                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-171                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-171.6                 70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-171.8                 70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-172                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-174                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-176                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-177                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-178                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-179                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-181                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-182                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-187                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-187.1                 70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-188                   10.02,
                                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-193                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-194                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-195                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-196                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-197                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-199                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-200                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-201                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-203                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-205                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-205.1                 70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-207                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-208                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-209                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-210.01                70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-211                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-211.01                70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-212                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-214                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-214.8                 70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-217                   70.01,
                                   131.01
625 ILCS 5/3-101(d)                70.01
625 ILCS 5/3-609                   72.17
625 ILCS 5/3-616                   72.17
625 ILCS 5/4-203                   76.05
625 ILCS 5/4-212                   93.07
625 ILCS 5/4-213(b)                76.05
625 ILCS 5/6-204                   33.15
625 ILCS 5/6-205                   76.99
625 ILCS 5/7-601                   76.07
625 ILCS 5/11-203                  70.25,
                                   70.99
625 ILCS 5/11-205                  70.26
625 ILCS 5/11-206                  70.27
625 ILCS 5/11-301                  70.01,
                                   72.17
625 ILCS 5/11-302                  70.51
625 ILCS 5/11-305                  70.40
625 ILCS 5/11-306                  70.41
625 ILCS 5/11-307                  70.42
625 ILCS 5/11-308                  70.43
625 ILCS 5/11-309                  70.44
625 ILCS 5/11-310                  70.45
625 ILCS 5/11-311                  70.46,
                                   70.99
625 ILCS 5/11-312                  70.47,
                                   70.99
625 ILCS 5/11-313                  70.48
625 ILCS 5/11-401(a) - (b-1)       76.03
625 ILCS 5/11-401(e)               76.03
625 ILCS 5/11-402                  76.05
625 ILCS 5/11-403                  76.04
625 ILCS 5/11-404                  76.06
625 ILCS 5/11-406                  76.07
625 ILCS 5/11-406(a)               76.07
625 ILCS 5/11-406(b)               76.07
625 ILCS 5/11-409                  76.08
625 ILCS 5/11-410                  76.09
625 ILCS 5/11-415                  76.07
625 ILCS 5/11-503                  76.99
625 ILCS 5/11-503(a)               76.01
625 ILCS 5/11-506                  76.02,
                                   76.99
625 ILCS 5/11-601                  71.001,
                                   71.999
625 ILCS 5/11-601(a) - (c)         71.001
625 ILCS 5/11-604                  71.001
625 ILCS 5/11-605                  74.02
625 ILCS 5/11-605(a)               71.002
625 ILCS 5/11-605(c)               71.002
625 ILCS 5/11-605(e)               71.999
625 ILCS 5/11-605(f)               71.999
625 ILCS 5/11-605.1                71.002,
                                   71.999
625 ILCS 5/11-606(a)               71.004
625 ILCS 5/11-611                  71.003
625 ILCS 5/11-701                  71.035
625 ILCS 5/11-702                  71.036
625 ILCS 5/11-703                  71.999
625 ILCS 5/11-703(a) - (e)         71.037
625 ILCS 5/11-703(f)               71.999
625 ILCS 5/11-704                  71.038
625 ILCS 5/11-705                  71.039
625 ILCS 5/11-706                  71.039
625 ILCS 5/11-707                  71.042
625 ILCS 5/11-708                  71.041
625 ILCS 5/11-709                  71.043
625 ILCS 5/11-710                  71.091
625 ILCS 5/11-711                  71.101
625 ILCS 5/11-801                  71.015
625 ILCS 5/11-802                  71.016
625 ILCS 5/11-803                  71.017
625 ILCS 5/11-804                  71.018
625 ILCS 5/11-805                  71.019
625 ILCS 5/11-806                  71.020
625 ILCS 5/11-901                  71.055
625 ILCS 5/11-902                  71.056
625 ILCS 5/11-903                  71.057
625 ILCS 5/11-904                  71.058
625 ILCS 5/11-905                  71.059
625 ILCS 5/11-906                  71.060
625 ILCS 5/11-907                  71.035,
                                   71.061
625 ILCS 5/11-907(a)(1)            71.061
625 ILCS 5/11-907(b)               71.061
625 ILCS 5/11-908                  71.035
625 ILCS 5/11-1001                 74.01
625 ILCS 5/11-1002                 74.02
625 ILCS 5/11-1002.5               74.02,
                                   74.99
625 ILCS 5/11-1003                 74.03
625 ILCS 5/11-1003.1               74.04
625 ILCS 5/11-1004                 74.05
625 ILCS 5/11-1004.1               74.13
625 ILCS 5/11-1005                 74.06
625 ILCS 5/11-1005.1               74.14
625 ILCS 5/11-1006                 74.07
625 ILCS 5/11-1007                 74.08
625 ILCS 5/11-1008                 74.09
625 ILCS 5/11-1009                 74.10
625 ILCS 5/11-1010                 74.11
625 ILCS 5/11-1011                 74.12,
                                   74.99
625 ILCS 5/11-1201                 71.999
625 ILCS 5/11-1201(a) - (e)        71.075
625 ILCS 5/11-1202                 71.076
625 ILCS 5/11-1204                 70.51
625 ILCS 5/11-1205                 71.077
625 ILCS 5/11-1301                 72.16
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.1               72.17
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.2               72.17
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(a) - (a-2)    72.17
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(b)            72.17
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(c)            72.99
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(c-1)          72.99
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(d)            72.17
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(e)            72.17
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(g)            72.17
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(f)            72.99
625 ILCS 5/11-1302                 72.45
625 ILCS 5/11-1303                 72.15,
                                   72.99
625 ILCS 5/11-1304                 72.01,
                                   72.16
625 ILCS 5/11-1305                 72.46
625 ILCS 5/11-1401                 72.02
625 ILCS 5/11-1402                 71.090
625 ILCS 5/11-1403                 73.20
625 ILCS 5/11-1403.1               73.25
625 ILCS 5/11-1403.2               73.23
625 ILCS 5/11-1404                 73.21
625 ILCS 5/11-1405                 73.22
625 ILCS 5/11-1406                 71.092
625 ILCS 5/11-1407                 71.093
625 ILCS 5/11-1410                 71.094
625 ILCS 5/11-1411                 71.095
625 ILCS 5/11-1412                 71.095
625 ILCS 5/11-1412.1               71.096
625 ILCS 5/11-1412.2               71.096
625 ILCS 5/11-1413                 71.098
625 ILCS 5/11-1414                 71.999
625 ILCS 5/11-1414(a) - (e)        71.040
625 ILCS 5/11-1416                 71.099
625 ILCS 5/11-1418                 71.100
625 ILCS 5/11-1420                 71.062
625 ILCS 5/11-1425                 71.078,
                                   71.999
625 ILCS 5/11-1502                 73.01
625 ILCS 5/11-1503                 73.02
625 ILCS 5/11-1504                 73.03
625 ILCS 5/11-1505                 73.04
625 ILCS 5/11-1505.1               73.04
625 ILCS 5/11-1506                 73.05
625 ILCS 5/11-1507                 73.06
625 ILCS 5/11-1507.1               73.24
625 ILCS 5/12-101                  75.01
625 ILCS 5/12-101 et seq.          75.01
625 ILCS 5/12-208                  71.018,
                                   71.019
625 ILCS 5/12-215                  70.26
625 ILCS 5/12-215(b)(12)           72.16
625 ILCS 5/12-601                  74.10
625 ILCS 5/12-801                  70.01,
                                   71.076
625 ILCS 5/12-802(a)               70.01
                                   70.01,
625 ILCS 5/12-803                  71.040,
                                   71.076
                                   70.01,
625 ILCS 5/12-805                  71.040,
                                   71.076
625 ILCS 5/15-101                  75.15
625 ILCS 5/15-101 et seq.          75.15
625 ILCS 5/15-105                  75.16
625 ILCS 5/15-106                  75.17
625 ILCS 5/15-109                  75.18
625 ILCS 5/15-113                  75.41
625 ILCS 5/15-114                  75.19
625 ILCS 5/16-101 et seq.          70.99
625 ILCS 5/18b-101                 115.02
625 ILCS 40                        70.01
625 ILCS 40/1-1 et seq.            93.01
705 ILCS 405                       132.99
720 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.             34.07
720 ILCS 5/2-2                     130.01
720 ILCS 5/2-3                     130.01
720 ILCS 5/2-4                     130.01
720 ILCS 5/2-12                    130.01
720 ILCS 5/4-4                     130.02
720 ILCS 5/4-5                     130.03
720 ILCS 5/4-6                     130.04
720 ILCS 5/4-7                     130.05
720 ILCS 5/8-4                     130.06
720 ILCS 5/11-20(a) - (c)          134.02
720 ILCS 5/11-20(e) - (g)          134.02
720 ILCS 5/11-21                   134.03
720 ILCS 5/11-21(e)                134.03
720 ILCS 5/11-21(g)                134.03
720 ILCS 5/11-30                   134.04
720 ILCS 5/11-30(a)                134.01
720 ILCS 5/11-30(b)                134.01
720 ILCS 5/11-30(c)                134.01
720 ILCS 5/12C-60(a) - (d)         132.02
720 ILCS 5/12C-60(e)               132.99
720 ILCS 5/17-50 et seq.           135.01
720 ILCS 5/21-1                    131.02
720 ILCS 5/21-1(a) - (c)           131.02
720 ILCS 5/21-1(a)(8)              131.06
720 ILCS 5/21-1(d)(4)              130.99
720 ILCS 5/21-1.4                  131.03
720 ILCS 5/21-3                    131.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(1)              137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(2)              137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(2.5)            137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(3)              137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(4)              137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(5)              137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(6)              137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(7)              137.01,
                                   137.02
720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(8)              137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(9)              137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(10)             137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(11)             137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(13)             137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(c)                 137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(e)                 137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-2(a)                 137.02
720 ILCS 5/24-2(b)                 137.02
720 ILCS 5/24-2(d)                 137.02
720 ILCS 5/24-2(f)                 137.02
720 ILCS 5/24-2(g)                 137.02
720 ILCS 5/24-2(g-6)               137.02
720 ILCS 5/24-2(h)                 137.02
720 ILCS 5/24-2(i)                 137.02
720 ILCS 5/24-3.1                  137.03
720 ILCS 5/24-6                    137.04
720 ILCS 5/24.8-1                  137.16
720 ILCS 5/24.8-01                 137.15
720 ILCS 5/24.8-2                  137.17
720 ILCS 5/24.8-3                  137.18,
                                   137.19
720 ILCS 5/24.8-4                  137.19
720 ILCS 5/24.8-5                  137.17,
                                   137.20
720 ILCS 5/26-1                    132.99
720 ILCS 5/26-1(a)                 132.01
720 ILCS 5/28-1                    135.02
720 ILCS 5/28-1(a)                 135.02
720 ILCS 5/28-1(b)                 135.02
720 ILCS 5/28-1(d)                 135.02
720 ILCS 5/28-2                    135.01
720 ILCS 5/28-3                    135.03
720 ILCS 5/28-5(a)                 135.04
720 ILCS 5/28-5(b)                 135.04
720 ILCS 5/31-1                    133.01
720 ILCS 5/31-8                    133.02
720 ILCS 5/32-9                    133.03
725 ILCS 5/112A-3(7)               131.01
725 ILCS 5/112A-14(b)(2)           131.01
725 ILCS 5/124B-5 et seq.          134.02
725 ILCS 210/1 et seq.             137.02
730 ILCS 5                         137.02
735 ILCS 5/2-202                   131.01
735 ILCS 5/2-203                   33.25
735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.           33.25
735 ILCS 5/15-1200.5               131.01
735 ILCS 5/15-1505.8(l)            131.01
745 ILCS 10/1-101 et seq.          30.07
765 ILCS 205/0.01                  153.005
765 ILCS 205/0.01 et seq.          153.004,
                                   153.195
815 ILCS 5/3                       135.02
815 ILCS 5/8                       135.02
815 ILCS 333/1 et seq.             10.02
820 ILCS 305/1 et seq.             94.057
                                   
 
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section 2023 Code Section
Prior Code Section 2023 Code Section
10.01              10.01
10.02              10.02
10.03              10.03
10.04              10.04
10.05              10.05
10.06              10.06
10.07              10.07
10.08              10.08
10.09              10.09
10.10              10.10
10.11              10.11
10.12              10.12
10.13              10.13
10.14              10.14
10.15              10.15
10.16              10.16
10.17              10.17
10.99              10.99
11.01              11.01
11.02              11.02
11.03              11.03
30.01              30.01
30.02              30.02
30.03              30.03
30.04              30.04
30.05              30.05
30.06              30.06
30.07              30.07
30.08              30.08
30.09              30.09
30.10              30.10
30.25              30.25
30.26              30.26
30.27              30.27
30.28              30.28
30.29              30.29
30.30              30.30
30.45              30.45
30.46              30.46
31.01              31.01
31.02              31.02
31.03              31.03
31.04              31.04
31.05              31.05
31.06              31.06
31.07              31.07
31.08              31.08
31.09              31.09
31.10              31.10
31.11              31.11
31.12              31.12
31.25              31.25
31.26              31.26
31.27              31.27
31.28              31.28
31.29              31.29
32.01              32.01
32.02              32.02
32.03              32.03
32.04              32.04
32.05              32.05
32.06              32.06
32.20              32.20
32.21              32.21
32.22              32.22
32.23              32.23
32.24              32.24
32.25              32.25
33.01              33.01
33.15              34.01
33.16              34.02
33.17              34.03
33.18              34.04
33.19              34.05
33.20              34.06
33.21              34.07
33.22              34.08
33.23              34.09
33.24              34.10
33.25              34.11
33.26              34.12
33.27              34.13
33.28              34.14
33.29              34.15
33.30              34.16
33.31              34.17
33.32              34.18
Ch. 33, App. A     Ch. 34, App. A
34.01              35.01
34.02              35.02
34.03              35.03
34.04              35.04
34.05              35.05
34.06              35.06
34.07              35.07
34.08              35.08
34.09              35.09
35.01              36.01
35.02              36.02
35.03              36.03
35.04              36.04
35.05              36.05
35.06              36.06
35.07              36.07
35.08              36.08
35.09              36.09
35.10              36.10
36.01              37.01
36.02              37.02
36.03              37.03
36.04              37.04
36.05              37.05
36.06              37.06
36.20              37.20
36.21              37.21
36.22              37.22
36.23              37.23
36.24              37.24
36.25              37.25
36.26              37.26
36.27              37.27
36.99              37.99
50.01              50.01
50.02              50.02
50.03              50.03
50.04              50.04
50.05              50.05
50.06              50.06
51.01              51.01
51.02              51.02
51.03              51.03
51.04              51.04
51.05              51.05
51.06              51.06
51.07              51.07
51.08              51.08
51.09              51.09
51.10              51.10
51.11              51.11
51.12              51.12
51.25              51.25
51.26              51.26
51.27              51.27
51.28              51.28
51.29              51.29
51.40              51.40
51.41              51.41
51.42              51.42
52.01              52.01
53.01              53.01
53.99              53.99
70.01              70.01
70.02              70.02
70.03              70.03
70.04              70.04
70.05              70.05
70.06              70.06
70.07              70.07
70.08              70.08
70.09              70.09
70.10              70.10
70.25              70.25
70.26              70.26
70.27              70.27
70.28              70.28
70.40              70.40
70.41              70.41
70.42              70.42
70.43              70.43
70.44              70.44
70.45              70.45
70.46              70.46
70.47              70.47
70.48              70.48
70.49              70.49
70.50              70.50
70.51              70.51
70.52              70.52
70.99              70.99
71.001             71.001
71.002             71.002
71.003             71.003
71.004             71.004
71.020             71.015
71.021             71.016
71.022             71.017
71.023             71.018
71.024             71.019
71.025             71.020
71.040             71.035
71.041             71.036
71.042             71.037
71.043             71.038
71.044             71.039
71.045             71.040
71.046             71.041
71.047             71.042
71.048             71.043
71.060             71.055
71.061             71.056
71.062             71.057
71.063             71.058
71.064             71.059
71.065             71.060
71.066             71.061
71.067             71.062
71.080             71.075
71.081             71.076
71.082             71.077
71.083             71.078
71.095             71.090
71.096             71.091
71.097             71.092
71.098             71.093
71.099             71.094
71.100             71.095
71.101             71.096
71.102             71.097
71.103             71.098
71.104             71.099
71.105             71.100
71.106             71.101
71.120             71.115
71.121             71.116
71.122             71.117
71.123             71.118
71.124             71.119
71.125             71.120
71.126             71.121
71.127             71.122
71.128             71.123
71.129             71.124
71.130             71.125
71.131             71.126
71.145             71.140
71.146             71.141
71.147             71.142
71.148             71.143
71.149             71.144
71.150             71.145
71.151             71.146
71.152             71.147
71.153             71.148
71.154             71.149
71.155             71.150
71.156             71.151
71.157             71.152
71.158             71.153
71.999             71.999
72.01              72.01
72.02              72.02
72.15              72.15
72.16              72.16
72.17              72.17
72.30              72.30
72.31              72.31
72.32              72.32
72.45              72.45
72.46              72.46
72.60              72.60
72.61              72.61
72.62              72.62
72.63              72.63
72.64              72.64
72.99              72.99
73.01              73.01
73.02              73.02
73.03              73.03
73.04              73.04
73.05              73.05
73.06              73.06
73.20              73.20
73.21              73.21
73.22              73.22
73.23              73.23
73.24              73.24
73.25              73.25
74.01              74.01
74.02              74.02
74.03              74.03
74.04              74.04
74.05              74.05
74.06              74.06
74.07              74.07
74.08              74.08
74.09              74.09
74.10              74.10
74.11              74.11
74.12              74.12
74.13              74.13
74.14              74.14
74.99              74.99
75.01              75.01
75.15              75.15
75.16              75.16
75.17              75.17
75.18              75.18
75.19              75.19
75.30              75.30
75.31              75.31
75.32              75.32
75.33              75.33
75.34              75.34
75.35              75.35
75.36              75.36
75.37              75.37
75.38              75.38
75.39              75.39
75.40              75.40
75.41              75.41
75.55              75.55
75.56              75.56
75.57              75.57
76.01              76.01
76.02              76.02
76.03              76.03
76.04              76.04
76.05              76.05
76.06              76.06
76.07              76.07
76.08              76.08
76.09              76.09
76.99              76.99
Ch. 77, Sch. I     Ch. 77, Sch. I
Ch. 77, Sch. II    Ch. 77, Sch. II
90.01              90.01
90.02              90.02
90.03              90.03
90.04              90.04
90.05              90.05
90.06              90.06
90.07              90.07
90.08              90.08
90.09              90.09
90.99              90.99
91.01              91.01
91.02              91.02
91.03              91.03
91.04              91.04
91.05              91.05
91.06              91.06
91.07              91.07
91.08              91.08
91.09              91.09
91.10              91.10
91.99              91.99
92.01              92.01
92.02              92.02
92.03              92.03
92.04              92.04
92.05              92.05
92.06              92.06
93.01              93.01
93.02              93.02
93.03              93.03
93.04              93.04
93.05              93.05
93.06              93.06
93.07              93.07
93.08              93.08
93.09              93.09
93.10              93.10
93.99              93.99
94.001             94.001
94.002             94.002
94.015             94.015
94.016             94.016
94.017             94.017
94.018             94.018
94.019             94.019
94.020             94.020
94.035             94.035
94.036             94.036
94.037             94.037
94.038             94.038
94.050             94.050
94.051             94.051
94.052             94.052
94.053             94.053
94.054             94.054
94.055             94.055
94.056             94.056
94.057             94.057
94.058             94.058
94.059             94.059
94.060             94.060
94.061             94.061
94.062             94.062
94.063             94.063
94.064             94.064
94.065             94.065
94.066             94.066
94.067             94.067
94.068             94.068
94.069             94.069
94.070             94.070
94.071             94.071
94.999             94.999
Ch. 94, App. A     Ch. 94, App. A
110.01             110.01
110.02             110.02
110.03             110.03
110.04             110.04
110.20             110.15
110.21             110.16
110.22             110.17
110.23             110.18
112.01             112.01
112.02             112.02
112.03             112.03
112.04             112.04
112.05             112.05
112.06             112.06
112.07             112.07
112.08             112.08
112.09             112.09
112.10             112.10
112.11             112.11
112.12             112.12
112.13             112.13
112.14             112.14
112.99             112.99
113.01             113.01
113.02             113.02
113.03             113.03
113.04             113.04
113.05             113.05
113.06             113.06
113.07             113.07
113.08             113.08
113.99             113.99
131.01             131.06
131.05             131.04
131.06             131.05
132.03             132.03
132.04             132.04
132.05             132.05
132.99             132.99
133.03             133.04
134.04             134.04
134.05             134.05
134.06             134.06
134.07             134.07
134.08             134.08
134.09             134.09
136.99             136.99
137.15             137.15
137.16             137.16
137.17             137.17
137.18             137.18
137.19             137.19
137.20             137.20
137.35             137.35
137.36             137.36
150.01             150.01
150.02             150.02
150.03             150.03
150.04             150.04
150.05             150.05
150.06             150.06
150.07             150.07
150.08             150.08
150.20             150.20
150.21             150.21
150.22             150.22
150.23             150.23
150.24             150.24
150.25             150.25
150.26             150.26
150.27             150.27
150.28             150.28
150.99             150.99
151.01             151.01
151.02             151.02
152.01             152.01
152.02             152.02
152.03             152.03
152.04             152.04
152.05             152.05
152.06             152.06
152.07             152.07
152.08             152.08
152.09             152.09
152.10             152.10
152.11             152.11
152.12             152.12
152.13             152.13
152.14             152.14
152.15             152.15
152.16             152.16
153.001            153.001
153.002            153.002
153.003            153.003
153.004            153.004
153.005            153.005
153.006            153.006
153.007            153.007
153.008            153.008
153.009            153.009
153.010            153.010
153.011            153.011
153.012            153.012
153.013            153.013
153.014            153.014
153.015            153.015
153.016            153.016
153.030            153.030
153.031            153.031
153.032            153.032
153.033            153.033
153.034            153.034
153.035            153.035
153.036            153.036
153.050            153.050
153.051            153.051
153.052            153.052
153.053            153.053
153.054            153.054
153.055            153.055
153.056            153.056
153.070            153.070
153.071            153.071
153.072            153.072
153.073            153.073
153.074            153.074
153.085            153.085
153.086            153.086
153.087            153.087
153.088            153.088
153.089            153.089
153.090            153.090
153.091            153.091
153.105            153.105
153.106            153.106
153.107            153.107
153.108            153.108
153.109            153.109
153.110            153.110
153.111            153.111
153.112            153.112
153.113            153.113
153.114            153.114
153.115            153.115
153.116            153.116
153.117            153.117
153.118            153.118
153.119            153.119
153.130            153.130
153.131            153.131
153.132            153.132
153.133            153.133
153.134            153.134
153.135            153.135
153.136            153.136
153.137            153.137
153.138            153.138
153.139            153.139
153.140            153.140
153.141            153.141
153.142            153.142
153.143            153.143
153.155            153.155
153.156            153.156
153.157            153.157
153.158            153.158
153.159            153.159
153.160            153.160
153.161            153.161
153.162            153.162
153.163            153.163
153.164            153.164
153.175            153.175
153.176            153.176
153.177            153.177
153.178            153.178
153.179            153.179
153.180            153.180
153.181            153.181
153.182            153.182
153.183            153.183
153.195            153.195
153.196            153.196
153.197            153.197
153.198            153.198
153.199            153.199
153.999            153.999
154.001            154.001
154.002            154.002
154.003            154.003
154.004            154.004
154.005            154.005
154.020            154.020
154.021            154.021
154.022            154.022
154.023            154.023
154.024            154.024
154.025            154.026
154.026            154.027
154.040            154.040
154.041            154.041
154.042            154.042
154.043            154.043
154.055            154.055
154.056            154.056
154.057            154.057
154.058            154.058
154.070            154.070
154.071            154.071
154.072            154.072
154.073            154.073
154.074            154.074
154.075            154.075
154.076            154.076
154.077            154.077
154.078            154.078
154.079            154.079
154.080            154.080
154.081            154.081
154.082            154.082
154.090            154.095
154.091            154.096
154.092            154.097
154.093            154.098
154.999            154.999
                   
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No.   Date Passed Code Section
64-2       6-8-1964    70.01
64-7       9-23-1964   TSO Table III
71-4       10-11-1971  91.07
79C        11-12-1979  TSO Table III
82-2       6-14-1982   TSO Table V
82-3       9-13-1982   TSO Table V
83-1       3-14-1983   TSO Table III
84-3-1     3-12-1984   TSO Table III
84-7-1     7-9-1984    TSO Table III
84-7-2     7-9-1984    34.16
                       31.01,
87-1-1     1-12-1987   31.25,
                       31.29
90-11-01   11-12-1990  TSO Table III
92-07-01   7-13-1992   TSO Table I
94-08-08   8-22-1994   TSO Table II
97-02-01   2-10-1997   TSO Table III
97-02-02   2-10-1997   TSO Table III
97-06-01   6-25-1997   TSO Table IV
98-12-02   12- -1998   TSO Table VII
2000-01-01 1-10-2000   Ch. 94, App. A
02-06-01   6-10-2002   TSO Table VII
02-12-02   12-9-2002   TSO Table VII
03-06-01   6- -2003    Ch. 77, Sch. IV
03-09-01   9-8-2003    TSO Table VII
03-12-01   12-8-2003   TSO Table VII
04-09-01   9-13-2004   TSO Table I
05-04-01   3-11-2005   TSO Table VII
07-05-01   5-21-2007   30.03
08-06-01   6-9-2008    TSO Table VII
09-07-01   7-14-2009   TSO Table II
09-10-01   10-13-2009  TSO Table VII
10-01-01   1-12-2010   35.09
11-04-01   4-12-2011   TSO Table III
11-10-01   10-25-2011  TSO Table VII
14-05-01   5-13-2014   TSO Table III
14-07-01   7-22-2014   TSO Table VII
15-04-01   4-28-2015   TSO Table I
15-07-02   7-14-2015   TSO Table III
15-07-03   7-28-2015   TSO Table III
15-10-01   10-27-2015  TSO Table VII
17-07-01   7-11-2017   TSO Table III
17-09-01   9-12-2017   TSO Table III
17-10-01   10-10-2017  TSO Table II
17-10-02   10-10-2017  TSO Table III
18-05-01   5-8-2018    TSO Table VII
18-05-02   5-22-2018   TSO Table VII
19-03-01   3-12-2019   35.14
19-06-002  6-25-2019   TSO Table III
19-06-003  6-25-2019   30.11
19-12-01   12-10-2019  37.07
22-07-01   8-23-2022   TSO Table VII
23-04-01   4-25-2023   35.15
                      
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.      Date Passed Code Section
-             3-30-1939   TSO Table I
40-14         10-3-1940   33.02
41-2          5-15-1941   TSO Table II
51-2          2-5-1951    TSO Table II
-             10-19-1951  TSO Table I
-             6-2-1952    TSO Table I
52-3          6-2-1952    TSO Table I
-             7-8-1953    TSO Table I
56-3          10-8-1956   TSO Table I
56-5          12-10-1956  TSO Table I
57-3          7-8-1957    TSO Table II
60-6          8-8-1960    TSO Table I
60-7          8-8-1960    TSO Table I
60-8          8-8-1960    TSO Table I
62-1          3-12-1962   52.01,
                          52.99
63-6          12-9-1963   33.01
63-7          12-9-1963   TSO Table II
64-2          6-8-1964    70.01
                          94.015-
                          94.017,
65-3          8-9-1965    94.019,
                          94.020,
                          94.999
65-6          10-11-1965  TSO Table I
66-1          2-7-1966    TSO Table II
                          94.015-
                          94.017,
68-3          6-10-1968   94.019,
                          94.020,
                          94.999
68-5          6-10-1968   94.001
                          94.035-
71-3          10-11-1971  94.038,
                          94.999
71-4          10-11-1971  91.07
72-2          4-10-1972   TSO Table IX
74-1          5-13-1974   51.29
                          30.30,
75-2          2-10-1975   30.46,
                          31.29
                          30.03,
75-4          7-14-1975   30.05-
                          30.07
75-5          7-14-1975   92.01-
                          92.05
75-8          12-8-1975   TSO Table II
76-1          6-14-1976   150.01-
                          150.04
                          51.01-
76-3          8-9-1976    51.12,
                          51.99
77-1          1-10-1977   TSO Table I
77-2          4-11-1977   TSO Table VIII
77-3          4-11-1977   TSO Table VI
77-4          5-9-1977    TSO Table I
77-6          7-11-1977   TSO Table I
78-4          10-9-1978   TSO Table II
78-5          10-9-1978   90.01-
                          90.07
79-1          6-11-1979   92.01-
                          92.05
79-5          11-12-1979  TSO Table II
79-12         12-11-1979  TSO Table III
                          94.015-
                          94.017,
81-1          3-9-1981    94.019,
                          94.020,
                          94.999
81-2          3-9-1981    31.09
                          30.30,
81-3          3-9-1981    30.46,
                          31.29
81-4          5-11-1981   TSO Table II
83-2          6-13-1983   Ch. 77, Sch. III
84-11-1       11-12-1984  TSO Table II
85-1-1        1-14-1985   TSO Table II
85-10-1       10-14-1985  34.17
86-12-1       12-8-1986   30.46
87-2-1        2-9-1987    TSO Table III
87-8-2        8-10-1987   TSO Table III
88-8-3        8-18-1988   53.01,
                          53.99
89-04-02      4-4-1989    TSO Table I
89-04-03      4-10-1989   TSO Table VI
89-04-04      4-10-1989   TSO Table I
89-04-05      4-10-1989   37.06
89-04-06      4-17-1989   TSO Table I
89-05-01      5-13-1989   TSO Table I
89-06-03      6-12-1989   TSO Table I
89-06-05      6-30-1989   TSO Table I
89-06-06      6-30-1989   TSO Table I
89-09-01      9-11-1989   TSO Table I
90-02-01      2-5-1990    TSO Table I
90-03-01      3-5-1990    TSO Table I
                          150.20-
90-10-01      10-8-1990   150.28,
                          150.99
91-03         3-11-1991   94.002
91-05-01      5-13-1991   TSO Table II
                          75.41,
91-08-02      8-12-1991   75.55,
                          75.57
91-12-01      12-9-1991   TSO Table III
92-07-03      7-13-1992   30.03
93-04-01      4-12-1993   91.11,
                          91.99
93-05-02      5-10-1993   91.02,
                          91.99
93-05-03      5-10-1993   TSO Table III
93-06-01      6-14-1993   TSO Table V
93-10-01      10-11-1993  150.08,
                          150.99
93-10-02      10-11-1993  91.10
93-11-02      11-8-1993   94.017,
                          94.020
94-05-01      5-9-1994    90.04
                          112.01-
                          112.08,
94-05-03      5-25-1994   112.10-
                          112.14,
                          112.99
94-07-01      7-11-1994   35.01
                          154.001-
                          154.003,
                          154.020-
                          154.022,
                          154.024,
                          154.026,
95-11-01      11-13-1995  154.040-
                          154.043,
                          154.055-
                          154.057,
                          154.095-
                          154.098,
                          154.999
95-12-03      12-11-1995  154.001,
                          154.021
96-06-01      6-10-1996   TSO Table III
96-06-02      6-10-1996   TSO Table III
96-09-01      9-9-1996    150.01
96-09-02      9-9-1996    154.021
96-10-04      10-24-1996  TSO Table III
96-12-01      12-9-1996   91.10,
                          91.99
97-02-01      2-10-1997   TSO Table I
97-04-01      4-29-1997   91.10,
                          91.99
97-06-02      6-9-1997    112.01,
                          112.09
97-06-03      6-9-1997    150.20
97-10-01      10-13-1997  Ch. 77, Sch. I
97-10-02      10-13-1997  90.08,
                          90.09
                          113.01-
97-10-03      10-13-1997  113.08,
                          113.99
98-01-02      1-12-1998   TSO Table III
98-03-02      3-9-1998    37.25
98-04-01      4-13-1998   TSO Table III
98-07-02      7-13-1998   35.08
98-07-04      7-13-1998   TSO Table III
98-08-01      8-12-1998   TSO Table III
98-11-01      11-9-1998   154.001,
                          154.022
99-01-01      1-11-1999   TSO Table III
99-01-02      1-11-1999   35.07
99-01-03      1-11-1999   TSO Table III
99-04-01      4-12-1999   150.04
99-04-03      4-12-1999   37.27,
                          37.99
99-04-04      4-26-1999   TSO Table III
99-05-03      5-10-1999   TSO Table III
99-05-04      5-10-1999   TSO Table III
99-05-06      5-10-1999   TSO Table VII
99-05-07      5-10-1999   TSO Table VII
99-05-08      5-10-1999   TSO Table VII
99-06-02      6-14-1999   35.05
99-06-05      6-14-1999   TSO Table IV
99-07-02      7-12-1999   112.02
99-07-03      7-12-1999   TSO Table III
99-10-01      10-11-1999  TSO Table III
99-12-01      12-13-1999  37.03
99-12-04      12-13-1999  TSO Table VII
99-12-05      12-13-1999  TSO Table VII
                          94.050-
2000-01-01    1-10-2000   94.071,
                          94.999
2000-01-02    1-10-2000   TSO Table III
2000-02-01    2-14-2000   150.01
2000-03-01    3-13-2000   154.070-
                          154.082
00-12-02      12-11-2000  37.30
01-01-01      1-8-2001    90.04
01-01-01      2-12-2001   91.09,
                          91.99
01-02-01      2-12-2001   91.09,
                          91.99
01-02-02      2-12-2001   90.04
01-07-01      7-9-2001    94.053
01-07-02      7-9-2001    154.022
01-07-04      7-9-2001    35.03
01-10-01      10-8-2001   37.05
01-10-03      10-8-2001   92.01-
                          92.06
01-11-01      11-12-2001  94.018
02-03-01      3-11-2002   112.02
02-04-01      4-8-2002    TSO Table III
                          154.027,
02-04-02      4-8-2002    154.026,
                          154.999
02-05-01      5-13-2002   154.022
02-08-02      8-12-2002   TSO Table III
02-09-02      9-9-2002    37.26
                          93.01-
02-10-01      10-14-2002  93.10,
                          93.99
02-10-03      10-14-2002  TSO Table IV
02-12-01      12-9-2002   91.10,
                          91.99
03-01-02      1-13-2003   TSO Table III
03-02-01      2-10-2003   TSO Table IV
03-04-02      4-14-2003   31.27
03-06-02      6-9-2003    TSO Table V
03-06-03      6-9-2003    TSO Table III
03-07-02      7-14-2003   35.02
03-10-01      10-30-2003  154.022
04-05-01      5-10-2004   35.06
04-06-02      6-14-2004   Ch. 77, Sch. II
05-04-01      4-8-2005    Ch. 77, Sch. II
05-08-01      8-15-2005   TSO Table III
05-09-01      9-8-2005    150.06
05-10-01      10-17-2005  31.12
                          153.001-
                          153.016,
                          153.030-
                          153.036, 153.050-
                          153.056,
                          153.070-
                          153.074, 153.085-
                          153.091,
                          153.105-
06-01-01      1-9-2006    153.119,
                          153.130-
                          153.143,
                          153.155-
                          153.164,
                          153.175-
                          153.183,
                          153.195-
                          153.199,
                          153.999
06-02-01      2-13-2006   154.001,
                          154.003
06-04-02      4-10-2006   151.01
06-09-01      9-11-2006   150.04
                          33.01,
07-03-03      3-12-2007   34.01-
                          34.15,
                          Ch. 34, App. A
07-05-03      5-21-2007   154.021
                          51.02,
08-01-01      1-14-2008   51.10-
                          51.12
08-01-02      1-16-2008   91.07
08-03-01      3-10-2008   37.01
08-05-01      5-12-2008   150.04
08-06-01      6-4-2008    154.020-
                          154.024
08-06-02      6-4-2008    TSO Table VI
08-08-03      8-19-2008   91.10,
                          91.99
09-01-01      1-12-2009   154.058
09-03-01      3-9-2009    31.12
09-05-01      5-11-2009   30.03
09-07-02      7-28-2009   Ch. 77, Sch. II
09-09-01      9-8-2009    154.022
2009-09-09-02 9-17-2009   TSO Table III
10-05-01      5-11-2010   112.13
10-08-01      8-24-2010   51.10,
                          91.07
10-09-01      9-28-2010   10.99
10-09-02      9-28-2010   91.07
10-11-02      11-23-2010  35.04
10-12-01      12-14-2010  150.01
11-07-01      7-12-2011   37.04
11-08-03      8-23-2011   154.021
12-04-01      4-24-2012   TSO Table III
12-7-1        7-10-2012   112.02
12-09-01      9-11-2012   TSO Table I
13-06-02      6-25-2013   30.30,
                          30.46
14-01-01      1-14-2014   154.004
14-03-01      3-25-2014   112.02
14-04-01      4-15-2014   150.07
14-08-02      8-12-2014   152.01-
                          152.16
14-08-04      8-26-2014   34.06
14-12-01      12-23-2014  112.02
15-02-01      2-5-2015    154.005
15-03-01      3-10-2015   154.005
15-05-01      5-5-2015    TSO Table I
15-06-01      6-9-2015    34.18
16-02-01      2-23-2016   TSO Table VI
16-06-01      6-14-2016   154.004,
                          154.025
16-12-02      12-13-2016  31.40-
                          31.45
18-11-1       11-13-2018  37.29
19-01-01      1-22-2019   112.03,
                          112.13
19-02-01      2-12-2019   37.29
                          112.03,
19-04-01      4-9-2019    112.04,
                          112.05,
                          112.13
19-07-001     7-9-2019    33.15-
                          33.26
19-07-004     7-23-2019   112.03
19-08-02      8-27-2019   TSO Table III
19-08-03      8-27-2019   TSO Table VI
19-08-04      8-27-2019   TSO Table V
19-08-05      8-27-2019   TSO Table V
19-09-02      9-10-2019   TSO Table V
19-09-03      9-10-2019   TSO Table V
                          154.001,
19-09-04      9-10-2019   154.024,
                          154.028
19-09-05      9-10-2019   37.28
19-11-01      11-26-2019  TSO Table III
19-11-02      11-26-2019  TSO Table III
19-12-04      12-10-2019  TSO Table III
20-01-01      1-28-2020   112.03
20-02-01      2-11-2020   37.29
20-02-02      2-11-2020   112.03
20-02-03      2-11-2020   112.03,
                          112.13
20-06-01      6-23-2020   TSO Table III
20-06-02      6-23-2020   136.99
20-06-04      6-23-2020   TSO Table III
20-06-05      6-23-2020   TSO Table V
20-07-01      7-28-2020   TSO Table III
-             9-22-2020   TSO Table III
20-09-01      9-22-2020   35.11
20-10-01      10-27-2020  35.12
20-11-01      11-24-2020  31.13
20-11-05      11-24-2020  30.31,
                          30.99
20-11-08      11-24-2020  35.10
20-11-09      11-24-2020  154.004
20-11-06      12-22-2020  35.13
21-01-01      1-26-2021   154.042
21-01-02      1-26-2021   37.45
21-01-03      1-26-2021   37.46
21-01-04      1-26-2021   112.03
21-04-01      4-27-2021   70.99
21-05-02      5-25-2021   TSO Table IX
21-05-03      5-25-2021   TSO Table V
21-08-01      8-24-2021   112.03
21-09-01      9-28-2021   TSO Table III
21-11-01      11-23-2021  30.03
                          114.01-
21-11-03      11-23-2021  114.16,
                          114.99
22-01-01      1-25-2022   TSO Table V
22-01-02      1-25-2022   TSO Table V
22-01-03      1-25-2022   TSO Table V
22-01-04      1-25-2022   TSO Table V
22-02-01      2-22-2022   111.02
22-02-03      2-22-2022   TSO Table V
22-03-01      3-22-2022   TSO Table V
22-04-01      4-26-2022   TSO Table V
22-04-02      4-26-2022   112.03
22-05-02      5-24-2022   TSO Table IX
22-05-03      5-24-2022   TSO Table IX
22-05-04      5-24-2022   TSO Table V
22-05-05      5-24-2022   TSO Table V
22-05-06      5-24-2022   TSO Table V
22-05-07      5-24-2022   TSO Table V
22-05-08      5-24-2022   TSO Table V
22-06-02      6-29-2022   TSO Table V
22-06-03      6-29-2022   TSO Table V
22-06-04      6-29-2022   TSO Table V
22-06-06      6-29-2022   TSO Table V
22-06-07      7-26-2022   TSO Table IX
22-07-01      7-26-2022   TSO Table V
22-06-05      8-23-2022   TSO Table V
22-08-01      8-23-2022   TSO Table III
22-10-01      10-25-2022  TSO Table V
22-11-03      11-22-2022  TSO Table V
                          154.001,
22-11-01      11-28-2022  154.024,
                          154.028
22-11-4       11-28-2022  TSO Table VII
22-12-01      2-28-2023   TSO Table VII
23-02-02      2-28-2023   TSO Table V
23-07-01      7-25-2023   TSO Table VII
23-07-02      7-25-2023   TSO Table III
23-07-04      7-25-2023   150.01
23-12-02      12-19-2023  31.14
23-12-03      12-19-2023  TSO Table III
24-03-01      3-26-2024   TSO Table III
24-05-02      5-28-2024   34.18
24-08-01      8-27-2024   TSO Table III
24-10-01      10-22-2024  115.01-
                          115.13
                          112.01-
24-10-02      10-22-2024  112.14,
                          112.99
24-10-03      10-22-2024  37.31
25-01-02      1-28-2025   TSO Table III
                          116.01-
25-02-01      2-25-2025   116.15,
                          116.99
                         
 
 
