Comprehensive Ordinance List
Publisher's Note: The following table lists all ordinances passed by the
Village of South Pekin. The table includes links to the ordinances, as
maintained in PDF format. For other legislation, including ordinances passed
prior to May 2019, please contact the Village of South Pekin.
 
Ordinances that amend the Code and are not yet effective have their
identifiying information highlighted in yellow. Changes made by those
ordinances are not incorporated into the text of the Code until the amending
ordinances are effective. Ordinances that do not affect the code have been
grayed out.
 
Jump to:
Ordinances
Ordinances
Ord. No. Eff. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
Ord. No. Eff. Date  Short Title and Code Sections Affected
                    Amending fines and fees in General Penalty
509      5-13-2019   
                    1-4-1
                    Amending regulations regarding rented properties
510      8-18-2019   
                    4-7-1
                    Revising right of access to water meters
512      11-11-2019  
                    7-6-11
                    Amending code regarding local state of emergency
514      3-19-2020   
                    3-5-1
R-517    5-18-2020  Adopting Employee Drug and Alcohol Policy
                    Granting Village Board authority to appoint Clerk Pro Tem
518      5-18-2020   
                    1-7-5
                    Regulating sale, purchase, possession or consumption of
                    tobacco and smoking products for individuals under the age
520      7-13-2020  of 21
                     
                    5-2-6-7; repealing 5-5-4
                    Adding stop sign at St. Mark and James Street intersection
521      7-13-2020   
                    6-3-1
                    Restricting weed height to eight inches
522      7-13-2020   
                    4-3-1
                    Outdoor storage of furniture
523      7-13-2020   
                    4-3-10 through 4-3-14
                    Prohibiting littering of loose vegetation
524      8-17-2020   
                    5-2-6-8
                    Prohibiting littering
525      8-17-2020   
                    5-2-6-7
                    Regulating vicious dogs
526      9-14-2020   
                    5-4D-17, 5-4D-18
                    Regulating vicious or dangerous animals
527      9-14-2020   
                    5-4D-6
                    Modifying noise ordinance
529      11-9-2020   
                    3-3-14
                    Highway Commissioner of Cincinnati Township Road District
530      --         regarding permits for access to public roads and rights-of-
                    ways on certain construction projects
                    Authorizing vehicle seizure and impound fees
533                 
                    6-1-5
                    Requiring visible numbers on residential and commercial
534      7-12-2021  properties
                     
                    4-8-1
                    Permitting use of golf carts and utility vehicle on village
535      7-12-2021  streets
                     
                    6-5-1 through 6-5-6
536                Adopting whistleblower protection policy
537      12-13-2021 Annual tax levy
540      4-11-2022  Annual appropriation
                    Approving moratorium on any considerations, agreements, or
543      8-14-2020  requests for high pressure liquified carbon dioxide
                    pipelines
                    Approving moratorium on any considerations, agreements, or
R-543    8-14-2020  requests for high pressure liquified carbon dioxide
                    pipelines
                    Authorizing an intergovernmental agreement for
546      11-13-2023 participation in the Mutual Aid Box Alarm System (MABAS
                    Master Agreement 2022)
548      2-12-2024  Public water supply loan program ordinance authorizing loan
                    agreement
                    Regarding street parking
552      4-15-2024   
                    6-4-1 through 6-4-3
                    Authorizing vehicle seizure and impound fees regarding
553      4-15-2024  illegal street parking
                     
                    6-1-5
                    Implementing a non-home rule municipal retailers'
557      9-9-2024   occupation tax and a non-home rule municipal service
                    occupation tax
                   
                   
                   
 
 
SOUTH PEKIN, ILLLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Code current through:
Ord. 557, passed September 9, 2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
      This code of the Village of South Pekin, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 557, passed September 9, 2024.
Ordinances of the Village adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions
of this code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith.
Consult the Village office in order to ascertain whether any particular
provision of the code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
                        American Legal Publishing
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
PENDING ORDINANCES
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL VILLAGE CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Custody of Code; Public Inspection
1-1-5: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
   Upon the adoption by the Board of Trustees, this Village Code is hereby
declared to be and shall hereafter constitute the official Village Code of
South Pekin. This Village Code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the
SOUTH PEKIN VILLAGE CODE and is hereby published by authority of the Board of
Trustees and shall be supplemented to incorporate the most recent legislation
of the Village as provided in Section
1-1-3  of this Chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this Village Code by title in any legal documents. (1995 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
   The Village Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in all administrative
tribunals of this State as the ordinances of the Village of general and
permanent effect, except the excluded ordinances enumerated in Section
1-2-1 of this Title. (1995 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
   Any ordinance amending the Village Code shall set forth the title, chapter
and section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this Village Code. All
such amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this Village Code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the Village Code. (1995 Code)
1-1-4: CUSTODY OF CODE; PUBLIC INSPECTION:
   A.   Custody and Distribution: All the printed books containing the Code of
Ordinances shall be deposited with the Village Clerk. The Clerk shall deliver
one copy thereof to each officer of the Village and to such other persons as
the Board of Trustees may direct. The President or Village Clerk shall have the
power to extend or to reciprocate courtesies of other municipal corporations by
presenting to them a copy of the Code. (1970 Code §1-1-12)
   B.   Copies Available for Inspection: The Village Clerk shall keep at least
three (3) copies of this Village Code available for public inspection in
accordance with 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-3-2.
(1970 Code §1-1-18; 1995 Code)
1-1-5: CODE ALTERATIONS:
   It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or
deface in any way any section or any page of this Village Code in such a manner
that the meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement
pages may be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized
by the Board of Trustees. The Village Clerk shall see that the replacement
pages are properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of
the Clerk. Any person having in his custody a copy of the Village Code shall
make every effort to maintain said Code current as to the most recent
ordinances passed. He shall see to the immediate insertion of new or
replacement pages when such are delivered to him or made available to him
through the office of the Village Clerk. Said Code books, while in actual
possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be and remain the
property of the Village and shall be returned to the office of the Village
Clerk when directed so to do by order of the Board of Trustees. (1995 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways and Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
   A.   Repeal of Ordinances; Exceptions: All general ordinances of the Village
passed prior to the adoption of this Village Code are hereby repealed, except
such as are included in this Village Code or are by necessary implication
herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving clauses contained in the
following sections), and excluding the following ordinances which are not
hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances
relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise ordinances and other
ordinances granting special rights to persons or corporations; contract
ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a contract or the
issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming or
vacating streets, alleys or other public places; improvement ordinances; bond
ordinances; ordinances relating to elections; ordinances relating to the
transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the Village; and all special
ordinances. (1995 Code)
   B.   Effect of Repeal of Ordinances:
      1.   The repeal of such prior ordinances shall not revive any ordinances
in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
      2.   The repeal of such prior ordinances shall not affect any punishment
or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or
proceeding ending at the time of the repeal, nor the liability of any person,
firm or corporation, nor waive any right of the Village under any section or
provision of ordinances existing at the time of the adoption of this Code.
(1970 Code §1-1-5)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
   No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public
ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities
shall be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this Village Code or by virtue
of the preceding Section, excepting as the Village Code may contain provisions
for such matters, in which case, this Village Code shall be considered as
amending such ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (1995
Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former
ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any
offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   This Section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be construed as abating any
action now pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the Village
herein repealed, and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this
Code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the
same provisions; nor shall this Chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
Village under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this Village Code. (1995 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
   If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or
phrase of this Village Code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this Code, or any part thereof. The Board of Trustees
hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (1995 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines and Headings of Sections
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Whenever any word in any section of this Village Code importing the
plural number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or
persons, any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included,
although distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter,
party or person is referred to in this Village Code by words importing the
singular number only, or the masculine gender, several matters, parties or
persons and females as well as males and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be
included; provided, that these rules of construction shall not be applied to
any section of this Village Code which contains any express provision excluding
such construction or where the subject matter or context may be repugnant
thereto.
   B.   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the Village has
been changed in the content of this Village Code to "Title", "Chapter",
"Section" and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to the Village's ordinances is not
meant to amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (1995
Code)
   C.   "Or" may be read "and" and "and" may be read "or", if the sense
requires it.
   D.   The words "preceding" and "following" mean "next before" and "next
after", respectively.
   E.   "Shall", whenever appearing in this Code, shall be considered mandatory
and not directory. (1970 Code §1-1-2)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
   Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Code, they shall have
such meaning herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
BOARD OF TRUSTEES: The Board of Trustees of the Village of South Pekin.
CODE: The Municipal Code of the Village of South Pekin.
COMPUTATION OF TIME: The time within which any act provided by law is to be
done shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last,
unless the last day is Sunday or a legal holiday, and then it shall also be
excluded. If the day succeeding such Sunday or holiday is also a holiday or a
Sunday, then such succeeding day shall also be excluded.
COUNTY: Tazewell County in the State of Illinois.
DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY: Whenever a provision appears requiring the head of a
department of the Village to do some act or make certain inspections, it shall
be construed to authorize the head of the department to designate, delegate and
authorize subordinates to perform the required act or make the required
inspection unless the terms of the provision or section designates otherwise.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a Village employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the
Village of South Pekin".
FEE: A sum of money charged by the Village for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation. (1970 Code §1-1-2; 1995 Code)
FISCAL YEAR: The fiscal year of the Village is hereby established and
determined to commence on May 1 in each year. (1970 Code §1-1-16)
JOINT AUTHORITY: Words purporting to give a joint authority to three (3) or
more public officers or other persons shall be construed as giving such
authority to a majority of such officers or persons.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
LIMITS: The corporate limits of the Village of South Pekin.
MAYOR: The Mayor of the Village of South Pekin, also known as the "Village
President".
MONTH: A calendar month.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the Village, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
OATH: Includes an affirmation, and the word "sworn" shall be construed to
include the word "affirmed".
OCCUPANT or TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person
who holds a written or an oral lease of or actually occupies the whole or any
part of such building or land whether alone or with others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this Code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this Code.
OFFICER: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a Village officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the Village
of South Pekin". (1970 Code §1-1-2; 1995 Code)
OFFICIAL TIME:
   A.   Central Standard Time shall be the official time within the Village for
the transaction of all Village business; provided, that from two o'clock (2:00)
A.M. on the last Sunday in April in each year, official time for the Village
shall be advanced one hour. At two o'clock (2:00) A.M. on the last Sunday in
October in each year such official time shall, by the retarding of one hour, be
returned to Central Standard Time.
   B.   All legal or official proceedings of the Board of Trustees and all
official business of the Village shall be regulated as to time in accordance
with the provisions of this definition. When by ordinance, resolution or action
of any Municipal officer or body, an act must be performed at or within a
prescribed time, it shall be performed according to the official time as herein
proscribed. When the words "Daylight Savings" or "Daylight Savings Time" are
used in any official document or contract, it shall be understood to have
reference to the time herein fixed for the period from the last Sunday in April
to the last Sunday in October. (1970 Code §1-1-17)
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Shall include, mean and be applied to any natural individual, firm,
partnership, association, joint stock company, executor, trustee, conservator
or other representative appointed by order of any court or in any other manner.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Means and includes every species of property, except real
property as defined by this Section.
PREMISES: Such land, lot, parcel, real property, building or place, as the text
indicates.
PRESIDENT: The President of the Village Board of Trustees of South Pekin.
PROPERTY: Means and includes real and personal property.
REAL PROPERTY: Means and includes lands, tenements and hereditaments and shall
embrace all chattels real.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
SIDEWALK: That portion of a street between the curb lines or the lateral lines
of a roadway and the adjacent property lines, intended for the use of
pedestrians.
STATE: The State of Illinois.
STREET: The entire width between property lines of every way or place of
whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the use of the public as a
matter of right for purposes of vehicular traffic. It shall include any alley,
highway, lane, avenue, court, thoroughfare, way, parkway or boulevard.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
VILLAGE: The Village of South Pekin. The term "Village" shall be construed as
if the words "of South Pekin" followed and shall extend to and include its
several officers, agents and employees.
WHOLESALER: The terms "wholesaler" and "wholesale dealer" as used in this Code,
unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to the
sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things to persons who purchase for the
purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case he is unable to write, by his proper
mark.
YEAR: A calendar year unless otherwise expressed.
(1970 Code §1-1-2; 1995 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES AND HEADINGS OF SECTIONS:
   The catchlines and headings of the sections of this Village Code are
intended as mere catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall
not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern,
limit, modify or in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the
provisions of any division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided,
shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines,
are amended or re-enacted. (1995 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY 1 :
   A.   Unless specifically provided elsewhere, any person convicted of a
violation of any section or provision of this code, where no other penalty is
set forth, shall be punished by a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00)
nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for any one offense.
   B.   Each day that any offense is committed, or is found to exist, or
continues to exist, shall constitute a separate violation.
   C.   In addition to any monetary fine or other penalty which may be imposed
for a violation of any section or provision of this code, the city attorney is
authorized to proceed in circuit court (or other court of competent
jurisdiction) to enjoin, abate, correct, or prohibit continued, further or
threatened, violation.
   D.   Prior to commencement of any action in circuit court, law enforcement
officers of the city may, in their discretion, provide any person alleged to
have violated this code with notice of such alleged violation and an
opportunity to settle the alleged violation through payment of a fine at city
hall. Such notice shall be in writing in a format approved by the chief of
police in consultation with the city attorney. Such notice shall provide an
opportunity for payment within a period of not less than fourteen (14) days
after service of such notice. Unless otherwise specified in this code, the
offer of the settlement shall be in the amount of fifty dollars ($50.00) for
first offenders and one hundred dollars ($100.00) for all others. Should an
alleged offender fail to accept the offer of settlement within the period of
time set forth in the written notice, such offer of settlement shall
automatically expire. Upon expiration of an offer of settlement, any officer
may, without further notice to the alleged offender, file a complaint in
Tazewell County circuit court charging the alleged offender with one (1) or
more violations of this code. Settlement procedures for violations of title 4,
chapter 3 of this code shall be governed by procedures set forth in title 4,
chapter 3 of this code rather than by the procedures set forth in herein.
(Ord. 509, 5-13-2019)
 
Notes
1 1 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1, 5/1-2-1.1
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Applicability: The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable
to every section of this code the same as though it were a part of each and
every separate section.
   B.   Multiple Penalties: In all cases where the same offense is made
punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of this code, the
prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not more than one
recovery shall be had against the same person for the same offense; provided,
that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery
or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Acts Or Omissions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do
any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code and there
shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply. (1995 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
   No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the board of trustees to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or
employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the
duty. (1995 Code)
CHAPTER 5
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
SECTION:
1-5-1: Election; Functions
1-5-2: Oath; Salary
1-5-3: Meetings
1-5-4: Village President
1-5-5: Ordinances
1-5-6: Rules Of Order
1-5-1: ELECTION; FUNCTIONS:
   The board of trustees, consisting of six (6) members, shall be elected to
office for a four (4) year term, according to the method provided by statute.
This board shall be the legislative department of the village government, and
shall perform such duties and have such powers as may be delegated to it by
statute.
(1970 Code §1-3-1-1)
1-5-2: OATH; SALARY:
The members of the board of trustees shall take the oath of office prescribed
by statute, and shall receive such compensation as they may set from time to
time. (1970 Code §1-3-1-2)
1-5-3: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The village board shall hold its regular meetings in
the village hall on the second Monday of each month, beginning on January 10,
2005, and no notice of such regular meeting shall be required.
   B.   Special Meetings: Special meetings may be called by the president of
the village or any three (3) trustees upon at least twenty four (24) hours'
notice to all members and the president; provided, that if all of the trustees
are present at a special meeting, no notice of such meeting shall be necessary
and such notice shall be deemed waived. (Ord. 430, 11-11-2004)
   C.   Open To The Public: All meetings of the board of trustees shall be open
to the public subject to limitations provided by ordinance. (1970 Code §1-3-2-
10)
   D.   Disturbing Meetings: It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb any
meeting of the board of trustees or of any committee thereof. Any person
violating the provisions of this subsection shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense.
(1970 Code §1-3-2-9; amd. 1995 Code)
1-5-4: VILLAGE PRESIDENT:
   A.   Presiding Officer: The village president shall be the presiding officer
of all regular and special meetings of the board of trustees and at all times
when the board meets as a committee of the whole. (1970 Code §1-3-1-4)
   B.   Deciding Vote: The village president shall not vote on any ordinance,
resolution or motion except: 1) where the vote of the trustees has resulted in
a tie; 2) where one-half (1/2) of the trustees have voted in favor of an
ordinance, resolution or motion even though there is no tie vote. In both
instances specified, the village president shall vote. Nothing in this
subsection shall deprive a president pro tem from voting in his capacity as a
trustee, but he shall not be entitled to another vote in his capacity as
president pro tem. (1970 Code §1-3-1-5)
1-5-5: ORDINANCES:
   A.   Approval; Veto: All resolutions and motions: 1) which create any
liability against the village, or 2) which provide for the expenditure of its
money, or 3) to sell any Village property, and all ordinances passed by the
Village Board shall be deposited with the Village Clerk. If the Village
President approves of them, he shall sign them. Those of which he disapproves,
he shall return to the Village Board, with his written objections, at the next
regular meeting of the Village Board occurring not less than five (5) days
after their passage. The Village President may disapprove of any one or more
sums appropriated by any ordinance, resolution or motion making an
appropriation, and if so, the remainder shall be effective. However, the
Village President may disapprove entirely of an ordinance, resolution or motion
making an appropriation. If the Village President fails to return any ordinance
or any specified resolution with his written objections prior to the next
regularly scheduled board meeting, it shall become effective despite the
absence of his signature. 1  (1970 Code §1-3-1-6; 1995 Code)
   B.   Reconsideration; Passing Over Veto: Every resolution and motion
specified in the preceding subsection, and every ordinance, which is returned
to the Board of Trustees by the Village President shall be reconsidered by the
Board of Trustees. If, after such reconsideration, two-thirds (2/3) of all the
Trustees elected to the Village Board shall agree to pass an ordinance,
resolution or motion, notwithstanding the President's refusal to sign it, then
it shall be effective. The vote on the question of passage over the President's
veto shall be by yeas and nays, and shall be recorded in the journal. (1970
Code §1-3-1-7)
   C.   Record and Memorandum of Ordinances:
      1.   All ordinances passed by the Board of Trustees shall be recorded by
the Village Clerk in a proper book with indexes. The original shall be filed in
the office of the Village Clerk, and due proof of publication of all ordinances
requiring publication shall be procured by the Clerk, and such proof or
affidavit of publication shall be attached to and filed away with the
ordinances. The Clerk shall also note in his book of ordinances at the foot of
the record of each ordinance a memorandum of the date of passage and, if
published or posted, the date of the publication or posting of such ordinance.
(1970 Code §1-1-7)
      2.   The record and memorandum required by the preceding subsection, or a
certified copy thereof, shall be prima facie evidence of the contents, passage
and publication or posting of ordinances. (1970 Code §1-1-8)
   D.   Proof Of Ordinances 1:
      1.   The contents of all Village ordinances, the date of passage and the
date of publication or posting, where required, may be proved by the
certificate of the Village Clerk, under the Seal of the Village.
      2.   Whenever Village ordinances are printed in book or pamphlet form and
purport to be published by authority of the Board of Trustees, such book or
pamphlet shall be prima facie evidence of the contents, passage and legal
publication of such ordinances, as of the dates mentioned in such book or
pamphlet, in all courts and administrative tribunals. (1970 Code §1-1-9)
   E.   Ordinances To Be Signed: All ordinances passed by the Board of Trustees
must be signed by the Village President. (1970 Code §1-1-10)
   F.   Publication Of Ordinances: The President shall cause to be prepared and
published all ordinances of the Village 2 . (1970 Code §1-1-11)
 
Notes
1 1 S.H.A. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-45
2 2 S.H.A. 65 ILCS 5/1-2-4.
1-5-6: RULES OF ORDER:
   A.   Order Of Business: The order of business of the Board of Trustees of
the Village shall be as follows:
      1.   Call to order and Pledge of Allegiance;
      2.   Roll call;
      3.   Review and approve agenda;
      4.   Reading and approval of previous meeting minutes and monthly
treasurer's report;
      5.   Accept public comment;
      6.   Reports of standing committees old business;
      7.   Reports of special committees;
      8.   New business reports of standing committees;
      9.   Payment of monthly bills and adjournment.
   B.   Rescinded Action: No vote or action of the Board of Trustees shall be
rescinded at any special meeting of the Board of Trustees unless there be
present at such special meeting as many members of the Board of Trustees as
were present at the meeting when such vote or action was taken. (1970 Code §1-
3-2-2)
   C.   Resolutions: Any resolution submitted to the Board of Trustees shall be
reduced to writing before being voted upon on request of any two (2) members of
the Board. (1970 Code §1-3-2-3)
   D.   Rules And Procedures For Public Comment At Open Meetings: The rules and
procedures for public comment at all open meetings of the Village Board and all
village committees shall be as follows:
      1.   A public comment period shall be held during every open meeting of
the Village Board and all committees. Except upon motion approved by a majority
of the Village Board or Village committee, the public comment period shall not
exceed: (1) thirty (30) minutes for open meetings of the Village Board and
Zoning Board, and (2) fifteen (15) minutes for open meetings of all other
Village committees. The right to public comment does not apply to closed
meetings/executive sessions.
      2.   On the agenda for every open meeting of the Village Board and all
Village committee, the public comment portion of the meeting shall be placed on
the agenda at the beginning of the meeting right after reading of prior meeting
minutes and Treasurer's Report.
      3.   Anyone desiring to address the Village Council or a Village
committee must complete the public comment registration form available in the
Village Clerk's office and return it to the Village Clerk or his/her designee
at least five (5) minutes prior to the start of the meeting at which the person
desires to speak.
      4.   On the public comment registration form, the person must include
their name, the date of the meeting and the item of which the person wishes to
speak. A person may only submit a public comment registration form on his/her
own behalf, or for a group on whose behalf the person has been designated by a
group to speak, in which case, the name of the group must be provided on the
public comment registration form,
      5.   Public comment shall be permitted by the presiding officer only
during the designated public comment period specified on the agenda. The
presiding officer shall recognize registered speakers in the order in which
they submitted their completed public comment registration form to the Village
Clerk or his/her designee, except in situations where numerous persons wish to
speak on a single comment registration form to the Village Clerk or his/her
designee shall not be permitted to speak at the meeting, except upon motion
approved by a majority of the Village Council or Village committee.
      6.   Public comment is limited to a total of five (5) minutes per
registered speaker at any open meeting of the Village Board and is limited to a
total of three (3) minutes per registered speaker at any open meeting of a
Village committee. A registered speaker cannot give their allotted minutes to
another person. An additional five minutes may be granted by the presiding
officer.
      7.   Once a registered speaker has been recognized by the presiding
officer, the speaker shall only address the Village Board or Village committee
from the location where he/she is seated/standing and shall not approach
members of the Village Board or Village committee. Registered speakers shall
begin their public comments by first stating for the record, their name, and if
speaking as a representative of a group, the name of the group.
      8.   Public comments must be directed by registered speakers to the
Village Board or Village committee as a whole, and not to an individual member
of the Village Board or Village committee, or to Village staff, except in
response to questions from individual board members. The public comment period
is not intended to require members of the Village Board or Village committee,
or Village staff, to provide responses to registered speakers. Discussions
between registered speakers and members of the audience shall not be permitted.
      9.   After a registered speaker has made their public comments, or their
allotted time for public comment has expired, they shall be seated with no
further debate, dialogue or comment.
      10.   All comments must be civil and respectful in nature. Any registered
speaker who makes defamatory, obscene, discriminatory, threatening, or abusive
comments, or who engages in threatening, abusive or disorderly behavior when
addressing the Village Board or Village committee may be deemed out-of-order by
the presiding officer, and the speaker's opportunity for public comment at that
meeting may be terminated.
      11.   If numerous persons wish to speak on a single item, the presiding
officer may recognize a specific number of registered speakers to make comments
regarding the matter. Any registered person who is not able to address the
Village Board or Village committee for this reason or due to the expiration of
the time allotted for the public comment period will be encouraged to attend a
subsequent meeting to address the Village Board or committee, and or to provide
written comments.
   E.   Suspension Of Rules: The rules of order, other than those prescribed by
statute, may be suspended at any time by the consent of a majority of the
members present at any meeting. (1970 Code §1-3-2-5)
   F.   Robert's Rules Of Order: "Robert's Rules of Order" shall govern the
deliberations of the Board of Trustees except when in conflict with any of the
foregoing rules. (1970 Code §1-3-2-6)
   G.   Quorum: A majority of the Trustees or three (3) Trustees and the
Village President shall constitute a quorum to do business. (1970 Code §1-3-2-
7)
   H.   Committees:
      1.   The following shall be the standing committees of the Board of
Trustees:
         Buildings, Grounds and Park
         Finance
         Health, Safety and Sanitation
         Police, Fire and EMA
         Streets and Alleys
         Water (1995 Code)
      2.   Special committees shall be created from time to time as directed by
the Board of Trustees.
      3.   All standing and special committees shall consist of three (3)
members each, including the chairman, unless the Board shall otherwise direct.
      4.   All committees shall be appointed by the President.
(1970 Code §1-3-2-8)(Ord. 263, 4-16-79; amd. Ord. 489, 6-5-2015)
CHAPTER 6
VILLAGE PRESIDENT
SECTION:
1-6-1: Election; Term of Office
1-6-2:    Bond; Oath; Salary
1-6-3:    Duties
1-6-4:    President Pro Tem
1-6-1: ELECTION; TERM OF OFFICE:
   The Village President shall be elected for a term of four (4) years, and he
shall be the President of the Board of Trustees, as is provided by statute 1 .
(1970 Code §1-2-1)
 
Notes
1 1 S.H.A. 65 ILCS 5.3.1-15-5, 5/3.1-15-10.
1-6-2: BOND; OATH; SALARY:
   Before entering upon the duties of his office, the President shall give a
bond with sureties to be approved by the Board of Trustees conditioned upon his
faithful performance of his duties, in the sum of five thousand dollars
($5,000.00) 1 . He shall take the oath of office as prescribed by Section
1-10-4 of this Title and shall receive such compensation as may be set from
time to time by the Board 2 . (1970 Code §1-2-4; 1995 Code)
 
Notes
1 2 S.H.A. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-30.
2 3 S.H.A. 65 ILCSD 5/3.1-10-25.
1-6-3: DUTIES:
   A.   Generally: The Village President shall be the chief executive officer
of the Village, and he shall perform all such duties as may be required of him
by statute or ordinance. He shall have supervision over all the executive
officers of the Village, and over all of the employees of the Village. He shall
have the power and authority to inspect all books and records kept by any
Village officer or employees at any reasonable time. (1970 Code §1-2-2)
   B.   Designation of Duties of Officers: Whenever there is a question as to
the respective powers or duties of any appointed officer of the Village, this
shall be settled by the President; and he shall have the power to delegate to
any such officer any duty which is to be performed when no specific officer has
been directed to perform the duty. (1970 Code §1-2-3)
   C.   The Village President or designated agent is hereby authorized to spend
on his sole authority an amount not to exceed five thousand dollars ($5000.00)
without prior board approval. This authorization shall be for expenditures and
contracts needed in between regular board meetings for goods, equipment,
supplies and services already budgeted, for the benefit and needs of the
Village as deemed necessary by the Village President for the orderly conduct of
Village business between regular board meetings, and such expenditures are to
be duly reported to the Board at the next available regular board meeting.
(amd. Ord. 499, 10-18-2016)
1-6-4: PRESIDENT PRO TEM:
   During the temporary absence or disability of the Village President, the
Board of Trustees shall elect one of its number to act as President Pro Tem
who, during the absence or disability of the President, shall perform the
duties pertaining to the office.
(1970 Code §1-2-5)
CHAPTER 7
VILLAGE CLERK
SECTION:
1-7-1: Election; Compensation
1-7-2: Bond
1-7-3: Duties
1-7-4: Custodian of City Seal
1-7-5: Clerk Pro Tem
1-7-1: ELECTION; COMPENSATION:
   The Village Clerk shall be elected and serve for a four (4) year term and
until his successor is appointed and qualified as is provided by statute, and
shall receive such sum as provided by the Board of Trustees for each meeting of
the Board of Trustees actually attended by him 1 . (1970 Code §1-4-1)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-5, 5/3.1-25-90.
1-7-2: BOND:
   Before entering upon the duties of his office, the Clerk shall execute a
bond in the sum of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) 2 .
(1970 Code §1-4-2; 1995 Code)
 
Notes
2 2. S.H.A. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-30.
1-7-3: DUTIES:
   A.   Signatures: The Clerk shall seal and attest all contracts of the
Village, and all licenses, permits and other documents as shall require this
formality. (1970 Code §1-4-3)
   B.   Money Collected: The Clerk shall turn over all monies received by him
on behalf of the Village to the Treasurer promptly on receipt of the same, and
with such monies he shall give a statement as to the source thereof. (1970 Code
§1-4-4)
   C.   Accounts: The Clerk shall keep accounts showing all monies received by
him, and the source and disposition thereof; and such other accounts as may be
required by statute or ordinance. (1970 Code §1-4-5)
   D.   Records: In addition to the record of ordinances and other records
which the Clerk is required by statute to keep, he shall keep a register of all
licenses and permits issued, in all cases where such a record is not directed
to be kept by some other official of the Village, and payments thereon. And he
shall keep such other records as may be required by the Board of Trustees.
(1970 Code §1-4-6)
1-7-4: CUSTODIAN OF CITY SEAL:
   The Clerk shall be the custodian of the Village Seal, and shall affix its
impression on documents whenever this is required 3 .
(1970 Code §1-4-7)
 
Notes
3 3. S.H.A. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-90.
1-7-5:   CLERK PRO TEM:
During the temporary absence or disability of the Village Clerk the Village
President shall appoint a Clerk Pro Tem, who shall have the responsibility of
taking minutes of meetings of the Board of Trustees. (Ord. 518, 5-18-2020)
CHAPTER 8
VILLAGE TREASURER
SECTION:
1-8-1: Appointment; Compensation
1-8-2: Bond
1-8-3: Duties
1-8-1: APPOINTMENT; COMPENSATION:
   There is hereby created the office of Treasurer, who shall be appointed by
the President and Board of Trustees as is provided by statute, and he shall
receive such compensation as may be set from time to time by the Board of
Trustees 1 . (1970 Code §1-5-1)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-10.
1-8-2: BOND:
   The Treasurer shall give a bond before entering upon his duties in the sum
required by the Board of Trustees, but such amount shall not be less, nor more,
than that required by statute 2 . This bond shall be conditioned upon the
faithful performance by the Treasurer of his duties, and shall be conditioned
to indemnify the Village for any loss by reason of any neglect of duty or any
act of the Treasurer. (1970 Code §1-5-2)
 
Notes
2 2. S.H.A. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-30.
1-8-3: DUTIES:
   A.   Generally: The Treasurer shall perform such duties as may be prescribed
for him by statute or ordinance. He shall receive all monies paid into the
Village, either directly from the person paying the money, or from the hands of
such other official or employee as may receive it, and he shall pay out money
only on vouchers or orders properly signed by the President and Clerk of the
Village 3 . (1970 Code §1-5-3)
   B.   Deposit of Funds: The Treasurer shall deposit the Village funds in such
depositories as may be selected from time to time as is provided by law 4 ; and
he shall keep the deposit of the Village money separate and distinct from his
own money, and shall not make private or personal use of any Village money 5 .
(1970 Code §1-5-4)
   C.   Records: The Treasurer shall keep the records showing all monies
received by him, showing source from which it is received and the purpose for
which it is paid, and he shall keep records at all times showing the financial
status of the Village. (1970 Code §1-5-5)
   D.   Accounting: The Treasurer shall keep such books and accounts as may be
required by statute or ordinance, and he shall keep them in the manner required
by the Board of Trustees 6 . (1970 Code §1-5-6)
 
Notes
3 3. S.H.A. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-40.
4 4. S.H.A. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-50.
5 5. S.H.A. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-55.
6 6. S.H.A. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-60.
CHAPTER 9
VILLAGE ATTORNEY
SECTION:
1-9-1: Office Created; Appointment
1-9-2: Duties
1-9-3: Retaining Law Firm to Act as Village Attorney
1-9-1: OFFICE CREATED; APPOINTMENT:
   There is hereby created the office of Village Attorney, an executive office
of the Village. The Attorney shall be appointed by the President by and with
the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees 1 . (1970 Code §1-6-1)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-5.
1-9-2: DUTIES:
   A.   Suits and Actions: The Attorney shall prosecute or defend any and all
suits or actions at law or equity to which the Village may be a party, or in
which it may be interested, or which may be brought against, or by, any officer
of the Village on behalf of the Village, or in the capacity of such person as
an officer of the Village. (1970 Code §1-6-2)
   B.   Enforcement of Judgments: It shall be the duty of the Attorney to see
to the full enforcement of all judgments or decrees rendered or entered in
favor of the Village, and of all similar interlocutory orders. (1970 Code §1-6-
3)
   C.   Render Advice: The Attorney shall be the legal advisor of the Village
and shall render advice on all legal questions affecting the Village whenever
requested to do so by any Village official. Upon request by the President or by
the Board of Trustees, he shall reduce any such opinion to writing. (1970 Code
§1-6-4)
   D.   Special Assessments: It shall be the duty of the Attorney to see to the
completion of all special assessment proceedings and condemnation proceedings.
(1970 Code §1-6-5)
   E.   Ordinances and Documents: It shall be the duty of the Attorney to draft
or supervise the phraseology of any contract, lease or other documents or
instruments, to which the Village may be a party; and upon request of the Board
to draft ordinances covering any subjects within the power of the Village.
(1970 Code §1-6-6)
1-9-3: RETAINING LAW FIRM TO ACT AS VILLAGE ATTORNEY:
   The Board of Trustees is hereby authorized to retain a law firm, be it a
partnership, corporation or professional association, to act as its legal
adviser, to represent the Village in litigation except where the Board directs
otherwise, to draft all contracts, ordinances and other documents needed by the
Village, to advise the Village officers and employees on matters pertaining to
their duties and to render such other legal services as may be required by the
Board. The Board of Trustees is further authorized to appoint one or more
members of said law firm to act in the capacity of Village Attorney and to
carry out the abovementioned duties. (1970 Code §1-6-7)
CHAPTER 10
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-10-1: Effect Of Provisions
1-10-2: Qualifications For Office
1-10-3: Appointive Officers To Be Commissioned
1-10-4: Oath Of Office
1-10-5: Bonds And Sureties
1-10-6: Term Of Office
1-10-7: Assignment Of Duties
1-10-8: Records Open To Inspection
1-10-9: Removal Of Officers And Employees
1-10-10: Duty Upon Termination Of Office
1-10-11: Compensation
1-10-12: Pecuniary Interest In Contract; Free Service
1-10-13: Building Inspector
1-10-14: Zoning Enforcing Officer
1-10-15: Health And Sanitation Officer
1-10-16: Sewer Inspector
1-10-1: EFFECT OF PROVISIONS:
   The provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise indicated or inconsistent
with state law or provisions contained elsewhere in this code, shall apply to
all officers and employees of the village whether elected or appointed. (1970
Code §1-13-1)
 
1-10-2: QUALIFICATIONS FOR OFFICE 1 :
   No person shall be eligible to any village office unless he is a qualified
elector of the village and has resided therein at least one year next preceding
his election or appointment. However, these requirements shall not apply to
those positions which require technical training or knowledge, nor shall these
requirements apply to village attorneys. No person shall be eligible to any
village office who is a defaulter to the village. (1970 Code §1-13-2)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-5.
1-10-3: APPOINTIVE OFFICERS TO BE COMMISSIONED:
   All village officers appointed by the board of trustees shall be
commissioned as provided in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3.1-10-35, by the
village president issuing a certificate of appointment, under the corporate
seal, to the village clerk. (1970 Code §1-13-3)
1-10-4: OATH OF OFFICE 2 :
   A.   Every officer of the village, whether elected or appointed, shall,
before entering upon the duties of office, take and subscribe an oath or
affirmation which may be substantially in the following form:
I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support the Constitution of the
United States, the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and will faithfully
discharge the duties of the office of                       of the Village of
South Pekin, Illinois, according to the best of my ability.
   B.   This oath or affirmation shall be filed with the village clerk, when
subscribed.
(1970 Code §1-13-4)
 
Notes
2 2. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-25.
1-10-5: BONDS AND SURETIES 1 :
   A.   Requirement; Filing:
      1.   The board of trustees may require a bond of any officer or employee
before entering upon the duties of his office where such a bond has not already
been provided for in this code. The bond shall be conditioned for the faithful
performance of the duties of the office and the payment of all monies received
by the officer and shall be payable to the village in such sums as may in the
future be provided.
      2.   Whenever any officer shall be appointed by the board of trustees to
perform the duties of an additional office, his bond shall be rewritten so as
to cover such additional duties as heretofore provided.
      3.   All certificates of bonds shall be filed with, recorded and
preserved by the Village Clerk, except the bond of the Village Clerk, which
shall be filed with, recorded and preserved by the Village Treasurer, and the
bond of the President which shall be filed with, recorded and preserved by the
County Clerk. (1970 Code §1-13-5)
   B.   New Bonds: In case any surety upon the bond of any officer shall
withdraw, or in case any surety upon an official bond shall become insolvent,
or if the Board of Trustees shall for any reason so request by resolution, a
new bond may be required of such officer, and unless such new bond is given
within ten (10) days, the office shall be declared vacant; provided, however,
that nothing herein shall be construed as releasing any surety before the new
bond is given and approved, nor as releasing any default occurring before such
new bond is given and approved. (1970 Code §1-13-6)
   C.   One Officer Becoming Surety for Another Prohibited: No member of the
Board of Trustees and no person holding any office in the Village shall become
surety on the official bond of any other officer of the Village. (1970 Code §1-
13-7)
 
Notes
1 3. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-30.
1-10-6: TERM OF OFFICE:
   Every appointive officer or employee of the Village shall hold office for a
term of one year or until his successor is appointed and qualified, unless
otherwise provided by ordinance. Unless otherwise provided, the term of each
office shall expire on April 30 following the appointment. (1970 Code §1-13-8)
1-10-7: ASSIGNMENT OF DUTIES:
   The Board of Trustees shall have the power to assign to any appointive
officer any duty which is not assigned by ordinance to some other specific
officer, and shall determine disputes or questions relating to the respective
powers or duties of officers. (1970 Code §1-13-9)
1-10-8: RECORDS OPEN TO INSPECTION:
   All records kept by any officer of the Village shall be open to inspection
by the President or any member of the Board of Trustees at all reasonable
times, whether or not such records are required to be kept by statute or
ordinance. (1970 Code §1-13-10)
1-10-9: REMOVAL OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES 1 :
   Except where otherwise provided by statute, the President may remove any
officer appointed by him, under this Code, on any formal charge, whenever he is
of the opinion that the interests of the Village demand removal, but he shall
report the reasons for the removal to the Board of Trustees at a meeting to be
held not less than five (5) nor more than ten (10) days after the removal. If
the President fails or refuses to report to the Board of Trustees the reasons
for removal, or if the Board of Trustees by a two-thirds ( 2/3 ) vote of all
its members authorized by law to be elected, disapproves of the removal, the
officer thereupon shall be restored to the office from which he was removed.
The vote shall be by yeas and nays which shall be entered upon the Board's
journal. Upon restoration, the officer shall give a new bond and take a new
oath of office. No officer shall be removed a second time for the same offense.
(1970 Code §1-13-11)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-10.
1-10-10: DUTY UPON TERMINATION OF OFFICE:
   Every officer and employee of the Village, upon the expiration of his term
for any cause whatsoever, shall deliver to his successor all books and records
which may be the property of the Village; and if no successor has been
appointed within one week after the termination of office, such property shall
be delivered either to the Village Clerk or to the Village Treasurer. (1970
Code §1-13-12)
1-10-11: COMPENSATION:
   A.   Village officers and employees shall receive the salary or compensation
which the Board shall provide by ordinance, resolution or motion, payable at
such intervals as the Board may determine.
   B.   Temporary employees shall receive an hourly rate of pay which the Board
shall provide by ordinance, resolution or motion, payable weekly.
   C.   No officer or employee receiving a salary from the Village shall be
entitled to retain any portion of any fees collected by him in the performance
of his duties as Village officer or employee in the absence of a specific
ordinance provision to that effect.
(1970 Code §1-13-13; 1995 Code)
 
1-10-12: PECUNIARY INTEREST IN CONTRACT; FREE SERVICE:
   A.   No officer or employee elected or appointed to an office or position of
the Village shall be interested, directly or indirectly, in any contract for
work or materials, or profile thereof, or for services to be furnished or
performed for the Village or for any person operating a public utility wholly
or partly within the Village except as provided by statute 1 .
   B.   No such officer or employee shall request, accept or receive, directly
or indirectly, from any person owing, operating or leasing within or partly
within the Village any public utility, or any service or transportation, upon
terms more favorable than are granted to the public generally, or any
employment, for hire or otherwise, or any free service or transportation,
either for himself or any other person, except as provided by statute. (1970
Code §1-13-14)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-55-10.
1-10-13: BUILDING INSPECTOR:
   A.   Appointment: There is hereby created the position of Building
Inspector, which office shall be held by the Superintendent of Public Works
whose term of office shall be concurrent with his term of office as
Superintendent of Public Works. (1970 Code §1-11-1)
   B.   Duties:
      1.   Generally: It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector to see to
the enforcement of all ordinance provisions relating to buildings and to
inspect all buildings or structures being erected or altered, as frequently as
may be necessary to insure compliance with the Village ordinances. (1970 Code
§1-11-2)
      2.   Ex Officio Plumbing Inspector: The Building Inspector shall act as
ex officio Plumbing Inspector and shall enforce all provisions of the
ordinances relating to plumbing and plumbing equipment, and to make such
inspections and perform such tests as may be necessary in the enforcement of
such ordinances. (1970 Code §1-11-3)
      3.   Ex Officio Electrical Inspector: The Building Inspector shall act as
ex officio Electrical Inspector and shall enforce all ordinances and provisions
relating to electrical signs, electrical wiring and electrically-operated
equipment. He shall have the power to cause the current in any wire or conduit
to be turned off whenever this is necessary in an emergency for the protection
of life or property. (1970 Code §1-11-4)
      4.   Stop Order: The Building Inspector shall have the power to order all
work stopped on construction or alteration or repair of buildings in the
Village when such work is being done in violation of any provision of any
ordinance relating thereto. Work shall not be resumed after the issuance of
such an order except on the written permission of the Inspector; provided, that
if the stop order is an oral one, it shall be followed by a written stop order
within an hour. Such written stop order may be served by any policeman. (1970
Code §1-11-5)
      5.   Entry Powers: The Building Inspector shall have the power to make or
cause to be made an entry into any building or premises where the work of
altering, repairing or constructing any building or structure is going on, for
the purpose of making inspections, at any reasonable hour. (1970 Code §1-11-6)
1-10-14: ZONING ENFORCING OFFICER:
   A.   Creation of Office: There is hereby created the office of Zoning
Enforcing Officer who shall be appointed by the President by and with the
advice and consent of the Board of Trustees. (1970 Code §1-9-1)
   B.   Duties: It shall be the duty of the Zoning Enforcing Officer to enforce
all the provisions of the Zoning Ordinance and amendments thereto 1 . He shall
perform such additional duties as may be assigned to him by the President and
Board of Trustees. (1970 Code §1-9-2)
   C.   Powers: He shall have the powers and exercise the functions necessary
for such enforcement which are delegated to him by statute or ordinance. (1970
Code §1-9-3)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 9 of this Code.
1-10-15: HEALTH AND SANITATION OFFICER:
   A.   Creation Of Office: There is hereby created the office of health and
sanitation officer who shall be appointed by the president and board of
trustees and who shall have the powers of a police officer and conservator of
the peace. (1970 Code §1-10-1)
   B.   Duties: The health and sanitation officer shall perform such duties as
may be assigned to him by the village board.
(1970 Code §1-10-2; amd. 1995 Code)
1-10-16: SEWER INSPECTOR:
   A.   Creation Of Office: There is created in the village an office which
shall be henceforth known as the "sewer inspector" who shall be appointed by
the president and shall serve until removed by same.
   B.   Duties: The duty of the sewer inspector shall be to inspect any and all
private hookups to the village sewer system, and to report the same to the
proper authorities. (Ord. 408, 10-9-2000)
CHAPTER 11
PERSONNEL POLICIES
SECTION:
1-11-1: Nondiscrimination Policy
1-11-2: Working Hours
1-11-3: Sick And/Or Personal Days
1-11-4: Probationary Period
1-11-5: Grievances And Complaints
1-11-6: Salaries And Promotions
1-11-7: Holidays And Bereavement
1-11-8: Vacations
1-11-9: Terminations
1-11-10: Health Insurance Coverage
1-11-11: Disciplinary Actions
1-11-12: Police Uniform Allowance; Requirements
1-11-13: Retirement Fund
1-11-14: State Officials And Employees Ethics Act
1-11-15: Code Of Conduct
1-11-16: Police Court Time
1-11-17: Electronic Communications
1-11-18: Whistleblower Protection Policy
1-11-1: NONDISCRIMINATION POLICY:
   There will be no discrimination against any employee on the basis of race,
sex, creed, religion, color, marital or parental status, age, national origin,
political affiliation, mental or physical handicap or other not merit factors.
(Res. 358-R, 11-4-1991)
1-11-2: WORKING HOURS:
   A.   The working hours for office personnel shall be from seven o'clock (7:
00) A.M. until three thirty o'clock (3:30) P.M., with a thirty (30) minute
unpaid lunch break.
   B.   The working hours for the maintenance crew shall be from seven o'clock
(7:00) A.M. until three thirty o'clock (3:30) P.M., with a thirty (30) minute
unpaid lunch break.
   C.   The chief of police will determine working shifts for all police
officers.
   D.   Circumstances may, from time to time, require that these hours be
changed.
   E.   Circumstances may, from time to time, require that employees be given a
day off during the week and be required to work on a Saturday or Sunday.
   F.   All work performed in excess of forty (40) hours per week and all work
performed on Sunday shall be paid at one and one-half (11/2) times the regular
hourly rate of pay for office and maintenance personnel.
   G.   The work week shall begin at the beginning of the workday on Monday and
shall end at the beginning of the workday on the following Monday.
   H.   All work performed on any holiday as described in section
1-11-7 of this chapter shall be paid at one and one-half (1 1/2) times the
regular hourly rate of pay.
   I.   In instances where employees work in excess of eight (8) hours a day,
they may be given the option of taking the equivalent time off during the same
workweek.
   J.   Full time employees are those who are scheduled thirty three (33) or
more hours per week. (Res. 410R, 10-11-2004)
1-11-3: SICK AND/OR PERSONAL DAYS:
   A.   Full time office and maintenance personnel shall be entitled to five
(5) paid sick and/or personal days per year. These sick and/or personal days
shall be used within the fiscal year (May 1 - April 30). Any unused sick and/or
personal days shall not be paid and may not be carried over into the next
fiscal year.
   B.   Any other days taken due to sickness or for any reason other than
bereavement (see section
1-11-7 of this chapter) shall be without pay.
   C.   Employees are required to notify their supervisor or another official
when taking a sick and/or personal day or when late for work and must give the
reason.
   D.   Full time police officers shall be entitled to thirteen (13) sick and/
or personal days per year in lieu of the eight (8) paid holidays set forth in
section
1-11-7 of this chapter and will follow all guidelines set forth in this
section.
   E.   During approved disability and/or sick time, no vacation time, personal
days or holiday time shall be accrued. (Res. 410R, 10-11-2004)
1-11-4: PROBATIONARY PERIOD:
   All new employees shall serve a ninety (90) day probationary period, from
the first day of employment. During the probationary period, new employees may
terminate their employment by giving one week's notice. A probationary employee
may be discharged from his or her position at any time. (Res. 410R, 10-11-2004)
1-11-5: GRIEVANCES AND COMPLAINTS:
   If any employee has a grievance or complaint, no matter how small, it shall
be discussed with the employee's supervisor first. If the grievance or
complaint cannot be rectified with the supervisor, then the grievance should be
taken to the village board. (Res. 358-R, 11-4-1991)
1-11-6: SALARIES AND PROMOTIONS:
   Promotions and salary increases shall be based on merit. Employee
performance shall be reviewed by the supervisor and the finance committee
chairman each January and June and an increase given if merited and the funds
are available. (Res. 358-R, 11-4-1991)
1-11-7: HOLIDAYS AND BEREAVEMENT:
   A.   Holidays: All full time employees, except police (see subsection
1-11-3D of this chapter), will receive the following holidays off with pay:
      New Year's Day
      Memorial Day
      Independence Day
      Labor Day
      Thanksgiving Day
      The day after Thanksgiving Day
      Christmas Day
      The day after Christmas Day
      1.   To qualify for holiday pay, an employee shall work either the day
before or the day after said holiday. Holidays falling on a Saturday shall be
observed the preceding Friday and those falling on a Sunday shall be observed
the following Monday.
      2.   An employee required to work on a holiday could be given the option
of exchanging for another day off within the same pay period depending on
workload and approval by the supervisor.
   B.   Bereavement:
      1.   The village shall provide up to three (3) regularly scheduled
working days off with pay for all full time employees so they may attend the
funeral and to take care of personal matters related to the death of an
immediate family member, specifically: spouse, mother, father, mother-in-law,
father-in-law, sister, brother, children, grandchildren, stepchildren,
employee's grandparents, and/or employee's stepparents.
      2.   The village shall provide one regularly scheduled working day off
with pay for the funeral of the family member, specifically: son-in-law,
daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, spouse's brother-in-law,
spouse's sister-in-law, or spouse's grandparents.
      3.   Employees shall notify their immediate supervisor of the
circumstances involved, and the times required while on bereavement. Upon
returning from bereavement, the supervisor shall be furnished a copy of the
funeral notice to initiate the bereavement pay. Pay shall be at the employee's
regular hourly rate for up to eight (8) hours per day. (Res. 410R, 10-11-2004)
1-11-8: VACATIONS:
   A.   Vacation Allowance:
      1.   After one year's employment, all full time employees shall be
eligible for one week's vacation with pay.
      2.   After two (2) years' employment, all full time employees shall be
eligible for two (2) weeks' vacation with pay.
      3.   After ten (10) years' employment, all full time employees shall be
eligible for three (3) weeks' vacation with pay.
      4.   After twenty (20) years' employment, all full time employees shall
be eligible for four (4) weeks' vacation with pay.
   B.   Fiscal Year: All vacations shall be taken within the fiscal year (May 1
- April 30) and cannot be carried over. No one will be paid for any unused
vacation time.
   C.   Termination: If an employee terminates his or her employment or is
discharged, vacation pay will be prorated for that fiscal year.
   D.   Approval: All employees shall receive approval from the village, for
their vacation dates, at least one month prior to taking their vacation. (Res.
410R, 10-11-2004)
1-11-9: TERMINATIONS:
   A.   All employees are expected to give two (2) weeks' notice in advance of
date they desire to terminate their employment.
   B.   The village reserves the right to terminate any employee for cause,
without notice, subject to review by the village board and village attorney.
(Res. 358-R, 11-4-1991; amd. 1995 Code)
1-11-10: HEALTH INSURANCE COVERAGE:
   A.   All current full time employees, as of April 8, 1991, and their
dependents are eligible to be covered by health insurance.
   B.   All new hires, after thirty (30) days of employment, will be eligible
to be covered by health insurance. Dependents will be covered if employee so
chooses.
   C.   As of November 4, 2002, all employees shall be required to pay ten
percent (10%) of their insurance premium, to be deducted from their weekly
paycheck. (Res. 410R, 10-11-2004)
1-11-11: DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS:
   Discipline for infractions of the rules as set forth in the job descriptions
shall be as follows:
   A.   First infraction: Verbal warning.
   B.   Second infraction: Written warning.
   C.   Third infraction: One day off without pay.
   D.   Fourth infraction: Three (3) days off without pay.
   E.   Fifth infraction: One week off without pay and/or discharge.
   The severity of the discipline may be tempered by the seriousness of the
infraction.
(Res. 358-R, 11-4-1991)
1-11-12: POLICE UNIFORM ALLOWANCE; REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Effective at the beginning of each fiscal year, starting May 1, 2004,
each police officer shall be allotted, per fiscal year, a monetary allowance
for uniform or leather purchases and/or maintenance. The dollar amount will be
allotted as follows:
      1.   Full time officers shall receive five hundred dollars ($500.00).
         Prorated as $500.00 divided by 12 = $41.75 monthly.
      2.   Part time officers shall receive two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00).
         Prorated as $250.00 divided by 12 = $20.85 monthly.
   B.   If an officer begins employment during the fiscal year, the initial
allotment entitlement will be the applicable per month amount times the
remaining months of that fiscal year. Inversely, if an officer terminates
employment during the fiscal year, the monthly allotment amount times the
remaining months of that fiscal year will become due the village and shall be
collected in the officer's final payroll check.
   C.   Any items, to include those owned and furnished by the officer, shall
be repaired or replaced at the expense of the village provided they were
damaged during the "line of duty". The damage and duty status shall be reviewed
and approved by the chief of police to determine the "line of duty" liability.
The chief of police shall also determine the most reasonable disposition of
damage, either to repair or replace.
   D.   All required safety equipment for the duty belt, protective vest,
badges, collar pins, patches, cuffs, flashlight, sprays, baton and radios shall
be provided by the village. The weapon, holster and belt shall be provided and
retained ownership by the officer.
   E.   The uniform benefit shall be monitored and controlled by the chief of
police. Each fiscal year's total allotted amount shall be expended before the
beginning of the next fiscal year or the balance, if any, is forfeited. The
allowance shall be utilized through a tax free purchasing account, established
and held by the village. An officer is allowed to make purchases by charging
them to this tax free account. The officer shall be restricted to their
specific allotted amount. Any purchases exceeding the allotted amount by fifty
dollars ($50.00), must be approved beforehand by the chief of police. Any
amount exceeding the allotted amount shall be paid immediately, in advance or
through payroll deduction and must be approved by the chief of police.
   F.   With prior approval from the chief of police, officers may be allowed
to utilize the tax free account for purchases using their own funds and shall
be paid as stated in subsection E of this section.
   G.   The village shall provide all newly hired part time police officers
with a "one time only" uniform allowance, not to exceed one hundred fifty
dollars ($150.00), then if the newly hired part time police officer needs
additional funds for his or her uniforms and equipment, they shall submit a
request (for up to $150.00) in advance against the upcoming fiscal year's
allotment, provided it is approved by the chief of police.
   H.   All police officers while on duty during normally scheduled working
hours, will be in complete uniform.
(Res. 410R, 10-11-2004)
1-11-13: RETIREMENT FUND:
   A.   Article 7 of the Illinois pension code provides that a unit of
government may elect to participate in the Illinois municipal retirement fund
(IMRF) by the adoption of a resolution or ordinance of its governing body,
participation to begin following receipt by the board of trustees of the fund
of official notice of the election by the unit of government and on a date
specified by the IMRF board.
   B.   The board of trustees of the village does hereby elect to participate
in the Illinois municipal retirement fund.
      1.   The standard for IMRF participation shall be a position normally
requiring performance of duty for one thousand (1,000) hours per year.
      2.   The clerk is directed to promptly file a certified copy of this
ordinance with the board of trustees of the Illinois municipal retirement fund.
(Ord. 379, 8-5-1996)
1-11-14: STATE OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES ETHICS ACT:
   A.   The regulations of sections 5-15 1 and article 10 2 of the state
officials and employees ethics act, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/1-1 et
seq. (hereinafter referred to as the "act" in this section) are hereby adopted
by reference and made applicable to the officers and employees of the village
to the extent required by 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/70-5.
   B.   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited or
accepted under the act, by any officer or any employee of the village, is
hereby prohibited.
   C.   The offering or making of gifts prohibited to be offered or made to an
officer or employee of the village, is hereby prohibited.
   D.   That participation in political activities prohibited under the act, by
an officer or employee of the village, is hereby prohibited.
   E.   For purposes of this section, the terms "officer" and "employees" shall
be defined as set forth in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/70-5(c).
   F.   The penalties for violations of this section shall be the same as those
penalties set forth in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/50-5 for similar
violations of the act.
   G.   This section does not repeal or otherwise amend or modify any existing
ordinances or policies which regulate the conduct of village officers and
employees. To the extent that any such existing ordinances or policies are less
restrictive than this section, however, the provisions of this section shall
prevail in accordance with the provisions of 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/
70-5(a).
   H.   Any amendment to the act that becomes effective after the effective
date of this section shall be incorporated into this section by reference and
shall be applicable to the solicitation, acceptance, offering and making of
gifts and to prohibited political activities. However, any amendment that makes
its provisions optional for adoption by municipalities shall not be
incorporated into this section by reference without formal action by the
corporate authorities of the village.
   I.   If the Illinois supreme court declares the act unconstitutional in its
entirety, then this section shall be repealed as of the date that the Illinois
supreme court's decision becomes final and not subject to any further appeals
or rehearings. This section shall be deemed repealed without further action by
the corporate authorities of the village if the act is found unconstitutional
by the Illinois supreme court.
   J.   If the Illinois supreme court declares part of the act unconstitutional
but upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of the act, or does not
address the remainder of the act, then the remainder of the act as adopted by
this section shall remain in full force and effect; however, that part of this
section relating to the part of the act found unconstitutional shall be deemed
repealed without further action by the corporate authorities of the village.
(Ord. 432, 9-12-2005)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 430/5-15.
2 2. 5 ILCS 430/10-10 – 10-40.
1-11-15: CODE OF CONDUCT:
   A.   Employee Obligations: The village expects all employees to conduct
village business in an ethical and legal manner. These obligations demand
positive action by all employees to protect the interest of the village.
   B.   Physical Property: The village's physical property, such as vehicles,
buildings, supplies and office facilities shall be protected from loss, misuse
or damage.
      1.   The village expects employees to cooperate in the maintenance and
care of all village equipment and property against such loss, misuse and/or
damage.
      2.   Tools, machines or equipment shall not be loaned to employees,
friends or family for personal use of any kind.
      3.   If equipment or machines are not performing properly, employees are
expected to notify their supervisor immediately so necessary repairs and
maintenance can be performed.
   C.   Responsible Financial Management: Employees, including elected or
appointed, shall endeavor to be cost conscious when spending village funds and
when incurring village expenses.
(Res. 410R, 10-11-2004)
1-11-16: POLICE COURT TIME:
   A.   All part time police officers will be paid a fixed rate of twenty five
dollars ($25.00) for each mandated court appearance.
(Res. 410R, 10-11-2004)
1-11-17: ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS:
   A.   All electronic information resources and telephonic communications
systems are the sole property of the village and shall be used primarily for
business purposes. Limited nonbusiness use of electronic information resources
and telephonic communication systems may be permitted if the use does not:
      1.   Interfere with the employee's work performance.
      2.   Interfere with any other employee's work performance.
      3.   Violate any other provision of this policy or any other policy,
guideline or standard.
   B.   Employees shall not use, or allow others to use, electronic information
resources or telephonic communication systems:
      1.   For any illegal and/or inappropriate use.
      2.   For any destructive programs, such as viruses.
      3.   To download or use any unauthorized or unlicensed software or
computer program.
      4.   To enter into contract, registration agreement or license on behalf
of the village unless approval has been obtained.
      5.   To reproduce, display, distribute, or store any materials that are
sexually explicit, obscene, defamatory, harassing, illegal, or otherwise
inappropriate except where such activities are within the official duties of
the employee.
   C.   Access to the internet and/or email is available in the fire
department, village hall and the police department.
(Res. 410R, 10-11-2004)
1-11-18: WHISTLEBLOWER PROTECTION POLICY:
   A.   Purpose: The Village of South Pekin provides whistleblower protections
in two (2) important areas: confidentiality and against retaliation. The
confidentiality of a whistleblower will be maintained to the extent allowable
by law, however, an identity may have to be disclosed to conduct a thorough
investigation, to comply with the law and to provide accused individuals their
legal rights of defense. A whistleblower may also waive confidentiality in
writing. The Village will not retaliate against a whistleblower. This includes,
but is not limited to, protection from retaliation in the form of an adverse
employment action such as termination, compensation decreases, or poor work
assignments and threats of physical harm. Any whistleblowers who believe they
are being retaliated against must submit a written report to the Auditing
Official within sixty (60) days of gaining knowledge of the retaliatory action.
The right of a whistleblower for protection against retaliation does not
include immunity for any personal wrongdoing that is alleged and investigated.
   B.   Definitions:
 
          Any elected, appointed or employed individual, by whatever name, in the
          Village whose duties may include: receiving, registering and investigating
          complaints and information concerning misconduct, inefficiency and waste
          within the village; investigating the performance of officers, employees,
AUDITING  functions and programs; and, promoting economy, efficiency, effectiveness and
OFFICIAL: integrity in the administration of the programs and operations of the
          Village.
          1.   The Auditing Official shall be Village President of Board of Trustees
          until replaced by the Board of Trustees.
          2.   If the Village does not designate an Auditing Official, the Auditing
          Offrcial defaults to the State's Attorney of Tazewell County.
 
 
             Anyone employed by the Village, whether in a permanent or temporary position,
             including full-time, part-time and intermittent workers. Employee also
EMPLOYEE:    includes members of appointed boards or commissions, whether paid or unpaid.
             Employee also includes persons who have been terminated because of any report
             or complaint submitted under 50 ILCS 105/4.1.
             Any action by an employee of the Village; an appointed member of a board,
             commission or committee; or, an elected official of the Village that is
             undertaken in violation of a federal or state law or local ordinance; is an
             abuse of authority; violates the public's trust or expectation of their
             conduct; is of substantial and specific danger to the public's health or
             safety; or, is a gross waste of public funds. The action need not be within
IMPROPER     the scope of the employee's, elected officials, board member's, commission
GOVERNMENTAL member's or committee member's official duties to be subject to a claim of
ACTION:      "improper governmental action."
             1.   Improper governmental action does not include the Village's personnel
             actions, including, but not limited to employee grievances, complaints,
             appointments, promotions, transfers, assignments, reassignments,
             reinstatements, restorations, reemployment, performance evaluations,
             reductions in pay, dismissals, suspensions, demotions, reprimands or
             violations of collective bargaining agreements, except to the extent that the
             action amounts to retaliation.
             Any adverse change in an employee's employment status or the terms and
             conditions of employment that results from an employee's protected activity
RETALIATE,   under 50 ILCS 105/4.1. Retaliatory action includes, but is not limited to,
RETALIATION  denial of adequate staff to perform duties; frequent staff changes; frequent
or           and undesirable office changes; refusal to assign meaningful work;
RETALIATORY  unsubstantiated letters of reprimand or unsatisfactory performance
ACTION:      evaluations; demotion; reduction in pay; denial of promotion; transfer or
             reassignment; suspension or dismissal; or, other disciplinary action made
             because of an employee's protected activity under 50 ILCS 105/4.1.
 
 
              An employee, as defined in this subsection B, of the Village who:
              1.   Reports an improper governmental action as defined under 50 ILCS 105/4.1
WHISTLEBLOWER (hereinafter Section 4.1);
:             2.   Cooperates with an investigation by an Auditing Official related to a report
              of improper governmental action; or
              3.   Testifies in a proceeding or prosecution arising out of an improper
              governmental action.
 
   C.   Duties Of An Auditing Official: Each Auditing Official shall establish
written processes and procedures consistent with the terms of this policy and
best practices for investigations for managing complaints filed under Section
4.1. Each Auditing Official shall investigate and dispose of reports of
improper governmental action in accordance with these processes and procedures,
and all other provisions of Section 4.1.
   The Auditing Official must provide each employee a written summary or a
complete copy of Section 4.1 upon commencement of employment and at least once
each year of employment. At the same time, the employee shall also receive a
copy of the written processes and procedures for reporting improper
governmental actions from the applicable Auditing Official.
   Auditing Officials may reinstate, reimburse for lost wages or expenses
incurred, promote or provide some other form of restitution.
   In instances where an Auditing Official determines that restitution will not
suffice, the Auditing Official may make their investigation findings available
for the purposes of aiding in that employee's, or the employee's attorney's,
effort to make the employee whole.
   Auditing Officials are responsible for reading the full context of Section
4.1 and complying with all requirements.
   If no Auditing Official is designated, the State's Attorney of Tazewell
County will be the default Auditing Official.
   D.   Duties Of An Employee:
   All reports of illegal and dishonest activities will be promptly submitted
to the Auditing Official who is responsible for investigating and coordinating
corrective action.
   If an employee has knowledge of, or a concern of improper governmental
action, the employee shall make a written report of the activity to the
Auditing Official. The employee must exercise sound judgment to avoid baseless
allegations. An employee who intentionally files a false report of wrongdoing
will be subject to discipline up to and including termination.
   The whistleblower is not responsible for investigating the activity or for
determining fault or corrective measures; a designated Auditing Official is
charged with these responsibilities.
   E.   Defend Trade Secrets Act Compliance:
   Immunity From Liability For Confidential Disclosure Of A Trade Secret To The
Government Or In A Court Filing:
      1.   Immunity: An individual shall not be held criminally or civilly
liable under any federal or state trade secret law for the disclosure of a
trade secret that (A) is made (i) in confidence to a federal, state or local
government official, either directly or indirectly, or to an attorney; and,
(ii) solely for the purpose of reporting or investigating a suspected violation
of law; or, (B) is made in a complaint or other document filed in a lawsuit or
other proceeding, if such filing is made under seal.
      2.   Use Of Trade Secret Information In Anti-Retaliation Lawsuit: An
individual who files a lawsuit for retaliation by an employer for reporting a
suspected violation of law may disclose the trade secret to the attorney of the
individual and use the trade secret information in the court proceeding, if the
individual (A) files any document containing the trade secret under seal; and,
(B) does not disclose the trade secret, except pursuant to court order. (18
U.S.C. § 1833.)
   F.   Employee Acknowledgment: Employees are required to sign a written
acknowledgment that they have received, read and understand this Policy, and to
submit that acknowledgment to the Auditing Official or other designated
official of the Village. The form that follows on page four of the policy
codified herein will satisfy this requirement upon receipt. (Ord. 536, - -2021)
CHAPTER 12
MUNICIPAL FINANCES
SECTION:
1-12-1: Returned Check Charge
1-12-1: RETURNED CHECK CHARGE:
   All checks tendered to or otherwise delivered to the Village in payment of
obligations of the maker which, when deposited by the Village, are returned to
the Village for failure of such checks being honored by the maker or the
maker's bank upon which such checks are drawn shall subject the maker of such
checks to a charge in the amount of fifteen dollars ($15.00) for the purpose of
covering administrative expenses incurred by the Village as a result of the
failure of such checks to be honored.
(Ord. 316, 4-2-84; 1995 Code)
CHAPTER 13
POLICY PROHIBITING SEXUAL HARASSMENT 1
SECTION:
1-13-1: Prohibition On Sexual Harassment
1-13-2: Definition Of Sexual Harassment
1-13-3: Procedure For Reporting An Allegation Of Sexual Harassment
1-13-4: Prohibition On Retaliation For Reporting Sexual Harassment Allegations
1-13-5: Consequences Of A Violation Of The Prohibition On Sexual Harassment
1-13-6: Consequences For Knowingly Making A False Report
 
Notes
1 1 This policy was drafted using the Illinois Department of Human Rights
  Sexual Harassment Model Policy and has been modified to conform to Public Act
1-13-1: PROHIBITION ON SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
   It is unlawful to harass a person because of that person's sex. The courts
have determined that sexual harassment is a form of discrimination under Title
VII of the U.S. Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended in 1991. All persons have
a right to work in an environment free from sexual harassment. Sexual
harassment is unacceptable misconduct which affects individuals of all genders
and sexual orientations. It is a policy of the Village of South Pekin to
prohibit harassment of any person by any municipal official, municipal agent,
municipal employee or municipal agency or office on the basis of sex or gender.
All municipal officials, municipal agents, municipal employees and municipal
agencies or offices are prohibited from sexually harassing any person,
regardless of any employment relationship or lack thereof. (Ord. 506, 4-16-
2018)
1-13-2: DEFINITION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
   A.   This policy adopts the definition of sexual harassment as stated in the
Illinois Human Rights Act, which currently defines sexual harassment as: Any
unwelcome sexual advances or requests for sexual favors or any conduct of a
sexual nature when:
      1.   Submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or implicitly a
term or condition of an individual's employment,
      2.   Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used
as the basis for employment decisions affecting such individual, or
      3.   Such conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially interfering
with an individual's work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile or
offensive working environment.
   B.   Conduct which may constitute sexual harassment includes:
      1.   Verbal: Sexual innuendos, suggestive comments, insults, humor, and
jokes about sex, anatomy or gender-specific traits, sexual propositions,
threats, repeated requests for dates, or statements about other employees, even
outside of their presence, of a sexual nature.
      2.   Non-Verbal: Suggestive or insulting sounds (whistling), leering,
obscene gestures, sexually suggestive bodily gestures, "catcalls", "smacking"
or "kissing" noises.
      3.   Visual: Posters, signs, pin-ups or slogans of a sexual nature,
viewing pornographic material or websites.
      4.   Physical: Touching, unwelcome hugging or kissing, pinching, brushing
the body, any coerced sexual act or actual assault.
      5.   Textual/Electronic: "Sexting" (electronically sending messages with
sexual content, including pictures and video), the use of sexually explicit
language, harassment, cyber stalking and threats via all forms of electronic
communication (e-mail, text/picture/video messages, intranet/on-line postings,
blogs, instant messages and social network websites like Facebook and Twitter).
   C.   The most severe and overt forms of sexual harassment are easier to
determine. On the other end of the spectrum, some sexual harassment is more
subtle and depends, to some extent, on individual perception and
interpretation. The courts will assess sexual harassment by a standard of what
would offend a "reasonable person."
(Ord. 506, 4-16-2018)
1-13-3: PROCEDURE FOR REPORTING AN ALLEGATION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
   A.   An employee who either observes sexual harassment or believes herself/
himself to be the object of sexual harassment should deal with the incident(s)
as directly and firmly as possible by clearly communicating her/his position to
the offending employee, and her/his immediate supervisor. It is not necessary
for sexual harassment to be directed at the person making the report.
   B.   Any employee may report conduct which is believed to be sexual
harassment, including the following:
      1.   Electronic/Direct Communication: If there is sexual harassing
behavior in the workplace, the harassed employee should directly and clearly
express her/his objection that the conduct is unwelcome and request that the
offending behavior stop. The initial message may be verbal. If subsequent
messages are needed, they should be put in writing in a note or a memo.
      2.   Contact With Supervisory Personnel:
         a.   At the same time direct communication is undertaken, or in the
event the employee feels threatened or intimidated by the situation, the
problem must be promptly reported to the immediate supervisor of the person
making the report, a department head, a director of human resources, an ethics
officer, the city manager or administrator, or the chief executive officer of
the municipality.
         b.   The employee experiencing what he or she believes to be sexual
harassment must not assume that the employer is aware of the conduct. If there
are no witnesses and the victim fails to notify a supervisor or other
responsible officer, the municipality will not be presumed to have knowledge of
the harassment.
      3.   Resolution Outside Municipality: The purpose of this policy is to
establish prompt, thorough and effective procedures for responding to every
report and incident so that problems can be identified and remedied by the
municipality. However, all municipal employees have the right to contact the
Illinois Department of Human Rights (IDHR) or the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission (EEOC) for information regarding filing a formal complaint with
those entities. An IDHR complaint must be filed within one hundred eighty (180)
days of the alleged incident(s) unless it is a continuing offense. A complaint
with the EEOC must be filed within three hundred (300) days.
   C.   Documentation of any incident may be submitted with any report (what
was said or done, the date, the time and the place), including, but not limited
to, written records such as letters, notes, memos and telephone messages.
   D.   All allegations, including anonymous reports, will be accepted and
investigated regardless of how the matter comes to the attention of the
municipality. However, because of the serious implications of sexual harassment
charges and the difficulties associated with their investigation and the
questions of credibility involved, the claimant's willing cooperation is a
vital component of an effective inquiry and an appropriate outcome.
(Ord. 506, 4-16-2018)
1-13-4: PROHIBITION ON RETALIATION FOR REPORTING SEXUAL HARASSMENT ALLEGATIONS:
   A.   No municipal official, municipal agency, municipal employee or
municipal agency or office shall take any retaliatory action against any
municipal employee due to a municipal employee's:
      1.   Disclosure or threatened disclosure of any violation of this policy,
      2.   The provision of information related to or testimony before any
public body conducting an investigation, hearing or inquiry into any violation
of this policy, or
      3.   Assistance or participation in a proceeding to enforce the
provisions of this policy.
   B.   For the purposes of this policy, retaliatory action means the
reprimand, discharge, suspension, demotion, denial of promotion or transfer, or
change in the terms or conditions of employment of any municipal employee that
is taken in retaliation for a municipal employee's involvement in protected
activity pursuant to this policy.
   C.   No individual making a report will be retaliated against even if a
report made in good faith is not substantiated, In addition, any witness will
be protected from retaliation.
   D.   Similar to the prohibition against retaliation contained herein, the
State Officials and Employees Ethics Act (5 ILCS 430/15-10) provides
whistleblower protection from retaliatory action such as reprimand, discharge,
suspension, demotion, or denial of promotion or transfer that occurs in
retaliation for an employee who does any of the following:
      1.   Discloses or threatens to disclose to a supervisor or to a public
body an activity, policy, or practice of any officer, member, State agency, or
other State employee that the State employee reasonably believes is in
violation of a law, rule, or regulation,
      2.   Provides information to or testifies before any public body
conducting an investigation, hearing, or inquiry into any violation of a law,
rule, or regulation by any officer, member, State agency or other State
employee, or
      3.   Assists or participates in a proceeding to enforce the provisions of
the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act.
   E.   Pursuant to the Whistleblower Act (740 ILCS 174/15(a)), an employer may
not retaliate against an employee who discloses information in a court, an
administrative hearing, or before a legislative commission or committee, or in
any other proceeding, where the employee has reasonable cause to believe that
the information discloses a violation of a State or federal law, rule, or
regulation. In addition, an employer may not retaliate against an employee for
disclosing information to a government or law enforcement agency, where the
employee has reasonable cause to believe that the information discloses a
violation of a State or federal law, rule, or regulation. (740 ILCS 174/15(b)).
   F.   According to the Illinois Human Rights Act (775 ILCS 5/6-101), it is a
civil rights violation for a person, or for two (2) or more people to conspire,
to retaliate against a person because he/she has opposed that which he/she
reasonably and in good faith believes to be sexual harassment in employment,
because he/she has made a charge, filed a complaint, testified, assisted, or
participated in an investigation, proceeding, or heating under the Illinois
Human Rights Act.
   G.   An employee who is suddenly transferred to a lower paying job or passed
over for a promotion after filing a complaint with IDHR or EEOC, may file a
retaliation charge - due within one hundred eighty (180) days (IDHR) or three
hundred (300) days (EEOC) of the alleged retaliation.
(Ord. 506, 4-16-2018)
1-13-5: CONSEQUENCES OF A VIOLATION OF THE PROHIBITION ON SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
   In addition to any and all other discipline that may be applicable pursuant
to municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks
and/or collective bargaining agreement, any person who violates this policy or
the Prohibition on Sexual Harassment contained in 5 ILCS 430/5-65, may be
subject to a fine of up to five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) per offense,
applicable discipline or discharge by the municipality and any applicable fines
and penalties established pursuant to local ordinance, State law or Federal
law. Each violation may constitute a separate offense. Any discipline imposed
by the municipality shall be separate and distinct from any penalty imposed by
an ethics commission and any fines or penalties imposed by a court of law or a
State or Federal agency.
(Ord. 506, 4-16-2018)
1-13-6: CONSEQUENCES FOR KNOWINGLY MAKING A FALSE REPORT:
   A.   A false report is a report of sexual harassment made by an accuser
using the sexual harassment report to accomplish some end other than stopping
sexual harassment or retaliation for reporting sexual harassment. A false
report is not a report made in good faith which cannot be proven. Given the
seriousness of the consequences for the accused, a false or frivolous report is
a severe offense that can itself result in disciplinary action. Any person who
intentionally makes a false report alleging a violation of any provision of
this policy shall be subject to discipline or discharge pursuant to applicable
municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks and/
or collective bargaining agreements.
   B.   In addition, any person who intentionally makes a false report alleging
a violation of any provision of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act to
an ethics commission, an inspector general, the State Police, a State's
Attorney, the Attorney General, or any other law enforcement official is guilty
of a Class A misdemeanor. An ethics commission may levy an administrative fine
of up to five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) against any person who intentionally
makes a false, frivolous or bad faith allegation. 
(Ord. 506, 4-16-2018)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
PLAN COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-1-1: Appointment; Membership
2-1-2: Terms of Office; Compensation
2-1-3: Organization and Procedure
2-1-4: Powers and Duties
2-1-5: Land Subdivision or Resubdivision
2-1-6: Improvements
2-1-7: Expenditures
2-1-8: Plan Commission and Zoning Board of Appeals Combined
2-1-1: APPOINTMENT; MEMBERSHIP:
   There is hereby created a Plan Commission for the Village 1 which shall
consist of nine (9) members, no more than two (2) of which shall be members of
the Board of Trustees. The members of the Plan Commission shall be citizens of
the Village and shall be appointed by the President on the basis of their
particular fitness for their duty on said Commission and shall be approved by
the Board of Trustees. (1970 Code §2-3-1)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 65 ILCS 5/11-12-4.
2-1-2: TERMS OF OFFICE; COMPENSATION:
   Of the nine (9) appointed members, three (3) shall serve for a period of one
year, three (3) for a period of two (2) years and three (3) for a period of
three (3) years, except that any Trustee on the Plan Commission shall serve for
the term of his elected office. Thereafter, any appointed members, other than
Trustees, shall serve for a period of three (3) years. All members of the
Commission shall serve without compensation except that, if the Village Board
of Trustees deems it advisable, the secretary may receive such compensation as
may be fixed from time to time by said Board of Trustees and provided for in
the appropriation ordinance. (1970 Code §2-3-2)
2-1-3: ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURE:
   Immediately following their appointment, the members of the Plan Commission
shall meet, organize, elect a chairman and such other officers as it may deem
necessary, and adopt and later change or alter rules and regulations of
organization and procedure consistent with Village ordinances and State laws.
The Commission shall keep written records of its proceedings, which shall be
open at all times to public inspection. The Commission shall also file an
annual report with the President and Board of Trustees setting forth its
transactions and recommendations. (1970 Code §2-3-3)
2-1-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   The Plan Commission shall have the following powers and duties:
   A.   Comprehensive Plan:
      1.   To prepare and recommend to the Board of Trustees a Comprehensive
Plan of public improvements, looking to the present and future development and
growth of the Village. Such a plan, after its adoption by the Board of
Trustees, will be known as the Official Plan.
      2.   Such plan shall include reasonable requirements in reference to
streets, alleys and public grounds within the corporate limits and in
contiguous territory outside of and distant not more than one and one-half (1
1/2) miles from such limits, and not included in any municipality, such
requirements to be effective whenever such lands shall be subdivided after the
adoption of such Plan.
   B.   To prepare and recommend to the Board of Trustees from time to time
such changes in the Plan or any part thereof as may be deemed necessary by the
Board of Trustees or by the Plan Commission.
   C.   To prepare and recommend to the Board of Trustees from time to time
plans and/or recommendations for specific improvements in pursuance of such
Official Plan.
   D.   To give aid to the Village officials charged with the direction of
projects for improvements, embraced within the Official Plan, to further the
making of such improvements, and generally to promote the realization of the
Official Plan.
   E.   To arrange and conduct any form of publicity relative to its activities
for the general purpose of public understanding.
   F.   To cooperate with Municipal or regional planning commissions and other
agencies or groups to further the local planning program and to assure
harmonious and integrated planning for the area.
   G.   To exercise such other powers germane to the powers granted by statute.
(1970 Code §2-3-4)
2-1-5: LAND SUBDIVISION OR RESUBDIVISION:
   Following the adoption of an Official Plan in the manner prescribed in this
Chapter, no map or plat of any subdivision presented for record, affecting land
within the corporate limits of the Village or in contiguous territory outside
of and distant not more than one and one-half (1 1/2) miles from such limits
and not included in any other municipality, shall be entitled to record or
shall be valid unless the subdivision thereon shall provide for streets, alleys
and public grounds in conformity with any requirements applicable thereto of
such Official Plan. (1970 Code §2-3-5)
2-1-6: IMPROVEMENTS:
   The Village Clerk shall furnish the Plan Commission, for its consideration,
a copy of all ordinances, plans and data relative to public improvements of any
nature. The Plan Commission may report in relation thereto if it deems a report
necessary or advisable, for the consideration of the Board of Trustees. (1970
Code §2-3-6)
2-1-7: EXPENDITURES:
   The Commission may, at the discretion of the Board of Trustees, employ
necessary help whose salaries, wages and other necessary expenses shall be
provided for by adequate appropriation made by the Board of Trustees from
public funds. If said Plan Commission shall deem it advisable to secure
technical advice or services, it may be done upon authority from the Board of
Trustees and appropriations by the Board of Trustees therefor. (1970 Code §2-3-
7)
2-1-8: PLAN COMMISSION AND ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS COMBINED:
   A.   Plan Commission: The Plan Commission shall consist of nine (9) members
who are residents of the Village, appointed by the President, in accordance
with the provisions of this Chapter, subject to the approval of the Board of
Trustees.
   B.   Zoning Board of Appeals:
      1.   Members: The President, with the approval of the Board of Trustees,
shall designate seven (7) members of the Plan Commission to also serve as the
Zoning Board of Appeals of the Village, pursuant to Illinois Compiled Statutes
1 .
      2.   Terms of Office: The seven (7) members designated to also serve as
the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be appointed as follows: one for one year,
one for two (2) years, one for three (3) years, one for four (4) years, one for
five (5) years, one for six (6) years and one for seven (7) years. Appointments
thereafter shall be for five (5) years. The terms of the remaining members
shall be for three (3) years.
   C.   Powers and Duties as Plan Commission and Zoning Board of Appeals: The
Commission shall, in its capacity as the Plan Commission and in its capacity as
the Zoning Board of Appeals, have the duties, powers and responsibilities set
forth in the respective Chapters, this Chapter for Plan Commission and Chapter
2 of this Title for Zoning Board of Appeals. (Ord. 305, 9-6-82)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 65 ILCS 5/11-13-3.
CHAPTER 2
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS 1
SECTION:
2-2-1: Board Established; Terms; Organization
2-2-2: Appeals Procedure
2-2-3: Authority and Jurisdiction
2-2-4: Appeals to Court
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 65 ILCS 5/11-13-3.
2-2-1: BOARD ESTABLISHED; TERMS; ORGANIZATION:
   A Zoning Board of Appeals is hereby established 2 . Said Board shall consist
of seven (7) members to be appointed by the Board of Trustees for a period of
one, two (2), three (3), four (4), five (5), six (6) and seven (7) years,
respectively, with replacements being appointed for a term of five (5) years.
Regular meetings of the Board shall be held at such time and place within the
Village as the Board may determine. Special meetings may be held at the call of
the chairman, or as determined by the Board. Such chairman, or in his absence,
the acting chairman, may administer oaths and compel attendance of witnesses.
All meetings of the Zoning Board shall be open to the public. Such Board shall
keep minutes of its proceedings showing the vote of each member on every
question. If any member is absent or fails to vote, the minutes shall indicate
such fact. The Board shall adopt its own rules of procedure not in conflict
with statute or the provisions of Title 9 of this Code. (1970 Code §2-5-1)
 
Notes
  2. See Section
2 2-1-8 of this Title for combining of Plan Commission and Zoning Board of
  Appeals.
2-2-2: APPEALS PROCEDURE:
   Appeals to the Board of Appeals may be taken by any person aggrieved or by
any officer, department, board or bureau of the Village. Such appeal shall be
taken within forty five (45) days from the date of action appealed from by
filing with the Zoning Enforcement Officer and the Board of Appeals a notice of
the appeal, specifying the grounds thereof. The Zoning Enforcing Officer shall
forthwith transmit to the Board all papers constituting the record upon which
the action appealed from was taken. An appeal stays all proceedings in
furtherance of the action appealed from unless the Zoning Enforcing Officer
certifies to the Board, after the notice of appeal has been filed with him,
that by reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in his opinion,
cause imminent peril to life or property. The Board of Appeals may reverse or
affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the use, requirement, decision or
determination as, in its opinion, ought to be made in the premises.
(1970 Code §2-5-2; 1995 Code)
2-2-3: AUTHORITY AND JURISDICTION:
   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall hear and decide appeals from any order,
requirement, decision or determination made by the Zoning Enforcing Officer. It
shall also hear and decide all matters referred to it or upon which it is
required to pass under the provisions of Title 9 of this Code. The Board may
reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify or amend the order,
requirement, decision or determination appealed from to the extent and manner
that the Board may decide to be fitting and proper in the premises, and to that
end the Board shall also have the powers of the officer from whom the appeal is
taken. When a property owner shows that a strict application of the terms of
Title 9 of this Code relating to the use, construction or alteration of
buildings or structures, or to the use of land, imposes upon him practical
difficulties or particular hardship, then the Board may make such variations of
the strict application of the terms of said Title 9 as are in harmony with its
general purpose and intent when the Board is satisfied, under the evidence
heard before it, that a granting of such variation will not merely serve as a
convenience to the applicant, but is necessary to alleviate some demonstrable
hardship so great as to warrant a variation in the following instances:
   A.   To permit the extension of a district where the boundary line of a
district divides a lot in single ownership as shown of record.
   B.   To permit the reconstruction of a nonconforming building which has been
destroyed or damaged to an extent of more than fifty percent (50%) of its
current fair market value, by fire or other casualty, or by the public enemy,
where the Board shall find some compelling public necessity requiring a
continuance of the nonconforming use, and in no case shall such a permit be
issued if its primary function is to continue a monopoly.
   C.   To make a variance by reason of an exceptional situation, surroundings
or condition of a specific piece of property or by the reason of exceptional
narrowness, shallowness or shape of a specific piece of property of record, or
by reason of exceptional topographical conditions the strict application of any
provisions of the zoning provisions of this Code would result in peculiar and
exceptional practical difficulties or particular hardship upon the owner of
such property, and amount to a practical confiscation of property, as
distinguished from a mere inconvenience to such owner, provided such relief can
be granted without substantial detriment to the public good and without
substantially impairing the general purpose and intent of the Comprehensive
Plan as established by the regulations and provisions of Title 9 of this Code.
   D.   To interpret the provisions of said Title 9 where the street layout
actually on the ground varies from the street layout as shown on the District
Map fixing the several districts.
   E.   To waive the parking requirements in the business or industrial
districts whenever the character or use of the buildings is such as to make
unnecessary the full provision of parking facilities or where such regulations
would impose an unreasonable hardship upon the use of the lot, as contrasted
with merely granting an advantage or convenience.
   F.   To permit a building to be erected, reconstructed, altered or enlarged
so that the building lines will extend beyond the distance specified in Title 9
of this Code into side yards or into front yards; provided, that such variance
may not be granted:
      1.   Unless there is a building in the block which extends beyond the
distance from the front street line specified in Title 9 of this Code, in which
case the building line may be permitted to extend as near to the front street
line as such nonconforming building;
      2.   Unless the lot is irregular in shape, topography or size; or
      3.   Unless the street line of the lot is directly opposite the street
line of a lot which is irregular in shape, topography or size.
   G.   To permit in any district such modifications of the requirements of the
regulations of Title 9 of this Code as said Board may deem necessary to secure
an appropriate development of a lot where adjacent to such lot on two (2) or
more sides there are buildings that do not conform to the regulations of the
district.
   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to give or grant to the Board
the power or authority to alter or change the zoning provisions of the District
Map, such power and authority being reserved to the Board of Trustees. The
Board of Appeals may impose such conditions and restrictions upon the use of
the premises benefited by a variation after an application has been made and
after public hearing held by the Board.
(1970 Code §2-5-3; 1995 Code)
2-2-4: APPEALS TO COURT:
   All final administrative decisions of the Board of Appeals rendered under
the terms of this Chapter shall be subject to judicial review pursuant to the
provisions of the "Administrative Review Act", approved May 8, 1945, and all
amendments and rules adopted pursuant thereto 1 .
(1970 Code §2-5-4)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.
CHAPTER 3
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY
SECTION:
2-3-1: Organization Created
2-3-2: Coordinator
2-3-3: Duties
2-3-4: Service as Mobile Support Team
2-3-5: Mutual Aid Agreements
2-3-6: Emergency Action
2-3-7: Compensation
2-3-8: Reimbursement by State
2-3-9: Purchases and Expenditures
2-3-10: Oath
2-3-11: Office of Organization
2-3-12: Appropriation; Levy of Taxes
2-3-1: ORGANIZATION CREATED:
   A.   There is hereby created the South Pekin EMA to prevent, minimize,
repair and alleviate injury or damage resulting from disaster caused by enemy
attack, sabotage or other hostile action, or from natural or man-made disaster,
in accordance with "The Illinois Emergency Management Agency Act of 1988" 1 .
   B.   This EMA shall consist of the Coordinator and such additional members
as may be selected by the Coordinator.
(Ord. 243, 6-21-76; 1995 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 20 ILCS 3305/1.
2-3-2: COORDINATOR:
   A.   The Coordinator of the EMA shall be appointed by the Village President
and shall serve until removed by same.
   B.   The Coordinator shall have direct responsibility for the organization,
administration, training and operation of the EMA, subject to the direction and
control of the Village President as provided by statute.
   C.   In the event of the absence, resignation, death or inability to serve
as the Coordinator, the Village President or any person designated by him shall
be and act as Coordinator until a new appointment is made as provided in this
Chapter.
(Ord. 243, 6-21-76; 1995 Code)
2-3-3: DUTIES:
   The Village EMA shall perform such EMA functions within the Village as shall
be prescribed in and by the State EMA plan and program prepared by the
Governor, and such orders, rules and regulations as may be promulgated by the
Governor, and in addition shall perform such duties outside the corporate
limits as may be required pursuant to any mutual aid agreement with any other
political subdivision, municipality or quasi-municipality entered into as
provided in "The State EMA Act of 1988".
(Ord. 243, 6-21-76; 1995 Code)
2-3-4: SERVICE AS MOBILE SUPPORT TEAM:
   A.   All or any members of the Village EMA organization may be designated as
members of a mobile support team created by the Director of the State EMA as
provided by law.
   B.   The leader of such mobile support team shall be designated by the
Coordinator of the Village EMA organization.
   C.   Any member of a mobile support team who is a Village employee or
officer while serving on call to duty by the Governor or the State Director
shall receive the compensation and have the powers, duties, rights and
immunities incident to such employment or office. Any such member who is not a
paid officer or employee of the Village, while so serving, shall receive from
the State reasonable compensation as provided by law.
(Ord. 243, 6-21-76; 1995 Code)
2-3-5: MUTUAL AID AGREEMENTS:
   The Coordinator of EMA may negotiate mutual aid agreements with other cities
or political subdivisions of the State, but no such agreement shall be
effective until it has been approved by the Village President and by the State
Director of EMA.
(Ord. 243, 6-21-76; 1995 Code)
2-3-6: EMERGENCY ACTION:
   If the Governor proclaims that a disaster emergency exists in the event of
actual enemy attack upon the United States or the occurrence within the State
of Illinois of a major disaster resulting from enemy sabotage or other hostile
action, or from man-made or natural disaster, it shall be the duty of the
Village EMA to cooperate fully with the State EMA and with the Governor in the
exercise of emergency powers as provided by law.
(Ord. 243, 6-21-76; 1995 Code)
2-3-7: COMPENSATION:
   Members of the EMA who are paid employees or officers of the Village, if
called for training by the State Director of EMA, shall receive for the time
spent in training the same rate of pay as is attached to the position held;
members who are not such Village employees or officers shall receive for such
training time such compensation as may be established by the Village President.
(Ord. 243, 6-21-76; 1995 Code)
2-3-8: REIMBURSEMENT BY STATE:
   The Village Treasurer may receive and allocate to the appropriate fund, any
reimbursement by the State to the Village for expenses incident to training
members of the EMA as prescribed by the State Director of EMA, compensation for
services and expenses of members for a mobile support team while serving
outside the Village in response to a call by the Governor or State Director of
EMA, as provided by law, and any other reimbursement made by the State incident
to EMA activities as provided by law.
(Ord. 243, 6-21-76; 1995 Code)
2-3-9: PURCHASES AND EXPENDITURES:
   A.   The Village President may, on recommendation of the Village Coordinator
of EMA, authorize any purchases or contracts necessary to place the Village in
a position to combat effectively any disaster resulting from the explosion of
any nuclear or other bomb or missile, and to protect the public health and
safety, protect property and provide emergency assistance to victims in the
case of such disaster, or from man-made or natural disaster.
   B.   In the event of enemy caused or other disaster, the Village Coordinator
of EMA is authorized, on behalf of the Village, to procure such services,
supplies, equipment or material as may be necessary for such purposes, in view
of the exigency without regard to the statutory procedures or formalities
normally prescribed by law pertaining to Village contracts or obligations, as
authorized by "The State EMA Act of 1988"; provided, that if the Village Board
meets at such time, the Coordinator shall act subject to the directions and
restrictions imposed by that body.
(Ord. 243, 6-21-76; 1995 Code)
2-3-10: OATH:
   Every person appointed to serve in any capacity in the Village EMA
organization shall, before entering upon his duties, subscribe to the following
oath, which shall be filed with the Coordinator:
I,                             , do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will
support and defend and bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of
the United States and the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and the
territory, institutions and facilities thereof, both public and private,
against all enemies, foreign or domestic; that I take this obligation freely,
without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and that I will well and
faithfully discharge the duties upon which I am about to enter. And I do
further swear (or affirm) that I do not advocate, nor am I nor have I been a
member of any political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of
the government of the United States or of this State by force or violence; and
that during such time as I am affiliated with the South Pekin EMA organization,
I will not advocate nor become a member of any political party or organization
that advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this
State by force or violence. 
(Ord. 243, 6-21-76; 1995 Code)
2-3-11: OFFICE OF ORGANIZATION:
   The Village President is authorized to designate space in a Village
building, or elsewhere as may be provided for by the Village President, for the
Village EMA as its office.
(Ord. 243, 6-21-76; 1995 Code)
2-3-12: APPROPRIATION; LEVY OF TAXES:
   The Village President may make an appropriation for EMA purposes in the
manner provided by law, and may levy, in addition for EMA purposes only, a tax
not to exceed five cents ($0.05) per one hundred dollars ($100.00) of the
assessed value of all taxable property in addition to all other taxes, as
provided by "The State EMA Act of 1988"; however, that amount collectible under
such levy shall in no event exceed twenty five cents ($0.25) per capita.
(Ord. 243, 6-21-76; 1995 Code)
CHAPTER 4
BOARD OF LOCAL IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
2-4-1: Appointments
2-4-2: General Duties
2-4-1: APPOINTMENTS:
   There is hereby established a Board of Local Improvements for the Village,
which shall consist of the President of the Village, who shall be the President
of the Board of Local Improvements and all of the members of the Board of
Trustees of the Village. The President, with the approval of the members of the
Board of Local Improvements, shall appoint a member of the Board to serve as
secretary who shall keep written minutes of the Board's proceedings 1 . (1970
Code §2-2-1)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/9-2-7.
2-4-2: GENERAL DUTIES:
The Board of Local Improvements shall have the powers and perform the duties
assigned to it by statute or provision of this Code and shall have the power of
employing the services of an engineer for any local improvement originated by
it. (1970 Code §2-2-2)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Applications for Licenses and Permits
3-1-2: Forms on File with Village Clerk
3-1-3: Signatures Required
3-1-4: Fees; Exceptions
3-1-5: Terms of Licenses and Permits
3-1-6: Posting of License
3-1-7: Transfer; Change of Location
3-1-8: Investigations and Inspections
3-1-9: Building and Premises Requirements
3-1-10: Frontage Consents
3-1-11: Businesses Conducted as Nuisance
3-1-12: Revocation of License or Permit; Notice; Hearing
3-1-1: APPLICATIONS FOR LICENSES AND PERMITS:
   Applications for all licenses and permits required by provision of this Code
shall be made in writing to the Village Clerk in the absence of provisions to
the contrary. Each application shall state the name of the applicant, the
permit or license desired, the location to be used, if any, the time covered
and the fee to be paid; and each application shall contain such additional
information as may be needed for the proper guidance of the Village officials
in the issuing of the permit or license applied for. (1970 Code §3-1-2-1)
3-1-2: FORMS ON FILE WITH VILLAGE CLERK:
   Forms for all licenses and permits and applications therefor shall be
prepared and kept on file by the Clerk. (1970 Code §3-1-2-2)
3-1-3: SIGNATURES REQUIRED:
   Each license or permit issued shall bear the signature of the President and
the Clerk of the Village in the absence of any provision to the contrary. (1970
Code §3-1-2-3)
3-1-4: FEES; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Fees Paid in Advance: In the absence of provision to the contrary, all
fees and charges for licenses or permits shall be paid in advance at the time
application therefor is made to the Clerk.
   B.   Prorate Fee for Portion of Year: When a business is commenced after the
expiration of a part of the license year, an annual license for the balance of
the year will be issued for a proportionate part of the annual fee. (1970 Code
§3-1-2-5)
   C.   Waiver of Fees for Disabled Veterans: The Board of Trustees shall have
the power to waive the fees for vending licenses required under any provisions
of this Code, upon application for such license by disabled veterans who are
residents of the Village.
(1970 Code §3-1-2-15; 1995 Code)
3-1-5: TERMS OF LICENSES AND PERMITS:
   A.   Annual: All annual licenses and permits shall terminate on the last day
of the fiscal year of the Village in which they are issued, where no provision
to the contrary is made.
   B.   Daily: Each daily license or permit shall terminate at twelve o'clock
(12:00) midnight of the day for which the license or permit is granted.
(1970 Code §3-1-2-6)
3-1-6: POSTING OF LICENSE:
   It shall be the duty of any person conducting a licensed business in the
Village to keep his license posted in a prominent place on the premises used
for such business at all times.
(1970 Code §3-1-2-14)
3-1-7: TRANSFER; CHANGE OF LOCATION:
   A.   Licenses issued may be transferred by the original licensee; provided,
that written notice thereof is given to the Clerk within ten (10) days before
the transfer is made, but no more than one transfer of any license shall be
made within the license year; provided, that it shall be unlawful to transfer
any peddler's or itinerant merchant's license or permit, and any attempted
transfer of such a license or permit shall have no effect.
   B.   The location of any licensed business or occupation, or of any
permitted act, may be changed, provided ten (10) days' notice in writing
thereof is given to the Clerk, in the absence of any provision to the contrary;
provided, that the building, zoning and frontage consent requirements of the
provisions of this Code are complied with.
(1970 Code §3-1-2-8)
3-1-8: INVESTIGATIONS AND INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Investigation of Applicant: Upon the receipt of an application for a
license or permit where the provision of this Code necessitates an inspection
or investigation before the issuance of such permit or license, the Clerk shall
refer such application to the proper officer for making such investigation
within ten (10) days of the time of such receipt. The officer charged with the
duty of making the investigation or inspection shall make a report thereon,
favorable or otherwise, within thirty (30) days after receiving the application
or a copy thereof. (1970 Code §3-1-2-4; 1995 Code)
   B.   Inspection of Premises:
      1.   Allowing Village Officer Entry for Inspection: Whenever inspections
of the premises used for or in connection with the operation of a licensed
business or occupation are provided for or required by ordinance, or are
reasonably necessary to secure compliance with any ordinance provision or to
detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the licensee, or the person
in charge of the premises to be inspected, to admit thereto for the purpose of
making such inspection at any reasonable time that admission is requested, any
authorized officer or employee of the Village.
      2.   Failure to Allow Entry, License Revocation 1 : In addition to any
other penalty which may be provided, the President of the Board may revoke the
license of any licensed proprietor of any licensed business in the Village who
refuses to permit any such officer or employee who is authorized to make such
inspection, or who interferes with such officer or employee while in the
performance of his duty in making such inspection. Provided, that no license
shall be revoked for such cause unless written demand is made upon the licensee
or person in charge of the premises, in the name of the Village, stating that
such inspection is desired and the time it is sought to make the inspection.
(1970 Code §3-1-2-11)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section 3-1-12 of this Chapter.
3-1-9: BUILDING AND PREMISES REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business, and no
permit for any thing or act, if the premises and building to be used for the
purpose do not fully comply with the requirements of the Village.
   B.   No such license or permit shall be issued for the conduct of any
business or performance of any act which would involve a violation of the
zoning provisions of this Code.
(1970 Code §3-1-2-7)
3-1-10: FRONTAGE CONSENTS:
   A.   Whenever the consent of adjoining or neighboring owners is required as
a prerequisite of the conduct of any business or occupation, or the location of
any establishment, such consents must be obtained by securing the necessary
signatures to a written consent petition. Such petition shall be filed with the
Clerk when signed.
   B.   Consents once given and filed shall not be renewed for the continuous
conduct of the same business, whether by the same proprietor or not.
   C.   It shall be unlawful to forge any name to such a petition or to falsely
represent that the names thereon have been properly placed thereon if such is
not the fact.
   D.   Each consent when filed shall be accompanied by the affidavit of the
person securing the signatures that each signature appearing thereon was
properly secured and written on, and that the petition contains the necessary
number of signatures required by ordinance.
   E.   The frontage consent requirements contained in this Section shall not
be construed as amending or changing any zoning provision of the Village; and
no such provision shall be construed as permitting the erection of a structure
or building, or the conduct of a business, or the commission of any act in any
location where such structure, building, business or act is prohibited by any
zoning provision of the Village.
(1970 Code §3-1-2-9)
3-1-11: BUSINESSES CONDUCTED AS NUISANCE:
   No business, licensed or not, shall be so conducted or operated as to amount
to a nuisance in fact.
(1970 Code §3-1-2-10)
3-1-12: REVOCATION OF LICENSE OR PERMIT; NOTICE; HEARING:
   A.   Authority to Revoke: Any license or permit, for a limited time, may be
revoked by the President at any time during the life of such license or permit
for any violation by the licensee or permittee of the provisions relating to
the license or permit, the subject matter of the license or permit, or to the
premises occupied. Such revocation may be in addition to any fine imposed.
(1970 Code §3-1-2-12)
   B.   Notification Required: Unless any provision of this Code provides to
the contrary, no revocation or suspension of any license or permit issued
hereunder shall be deemed effective until notice thereof has been served
personally upon or mailed to the named licensee or permittee at the address
specified in the application for the said license or permit.
   C.   Request for Hearing: If, within five (5) days of the date of notice of
the revocation or suspension of any license or permit, the named licensee or
permittee submits to the Village Clerk, in writing, a request for a hearing
concerning such revocation or suspension, said revocation or suspension shall
be suspended until such time as the Board of Trustees shall grant the licensee
or permittee a special hearing.
   D.   Decision of Board of Trustees: If the Board of Trustees, after such
hearing, affirms the revocation or suspension of said license or permit, the
same shall become immediately effective; if the Board of Trustees by a majority
vote overrules the revocation or suspension, the same shall be deemed null and
void.
(1970 Code §3-1-2-13)
CHAPTER 2
MUNICIPAL OCCUPATION TAXES
SECTION:
3-2-1: Foreign Fire Insurance Companies
3-2-2: Municipal Utility Tax
3-2-3: Electricity Tax
3-2-4: Simplified Municipal Telecommunications Tax
3-2-5: Tax Rights And Responsibilities
3-2-6: Municipal Retailers' Occupation Tax And Service Occupation Tax
3-2-1: FOREIGN FIRE INSURANCE COMPANIES:
   A.   Tax Imposed 1 : Any corporation, company or association, not
incorporated under the laws of the state, engaging in the village in effecting
or transacting any business of fire insurance shall pay to the treasurer of the
village for the maintenance, use and benefit of the village fire department a
sum equal in amount to two percent (2%) per annum of the gross receipts
received as premiums upon fire insurance policies by any and all agents of such
corporation, company or association, during the year ending on July 1 of each
year, for any insurance effected or agreed to be effected on property located
in the village by or with such corporation, company or association during such
year. (1970 Code §3-18-1)
   B.   Compliance Required: It shall be unlawful for any such corporation,
company or association, not incorporated under the laws of this state, to
engage in the village in effecting fire insurance, or to transact any business
of fire insurance in the village, while in default by not fully complying with
any of the requirements of this section, and until such requirements shall have
been fully complied with; but this provision shall not relieve any company,
corporation or association from the payment of any risk that may be undertaken
in violation of this section. (1970 Code §3-18-2)
   C.   Account Rendered; Payments:
      1.   Every person acting in the village as agent for or on behalf of any
such corporation, company or association shall, on or before July 15 of each
and every year, render to the clerk a full, true and just account, verified by
his oath, of all premiums upon fire insurance policies which, during the year
ending July 1 preceding such report, shall have been received by him, or by
some other person for him in behalf of any such corporation, company or
association on property located within the village. Such agent shall also, at
the time of rendering the aforesaid report, pay to the treasurer of the village
the sum of money for which each such corporation, company or association
represented by him is chargeable, by virtue of the provisions of this section.
The sum of money for which such corporation, company or association is so
chargeable, may be recovered of it or its agent by an action in the name of and
for the use of the village as for money had and received.
      2.   No insurance agent in the village shall have any insurance business
or dealings with any corporation, company or association not incorporated under
the laws of this state, which shall be in default for not reporting or making
payments as hereinabove provided, until it shall have complied with all the
requirements of this chapter.
(1970 Code §3-18-3)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-10-1.
3-2-2: MUNICIPAL UTILITY TAX:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply:
   GROSS RECEIPTS: The consideration received for distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling gas or electricity for use or consumption and not for
resale, as the case may be; and for all services rendered in connection
therewith valued in money, whether received in money or otherwise, including
cash, credit, services and property of every kind and material, and for all
services rendered therewith; and shall be determined without any deduction on
account of the cost of the service, product or commodity supplied, the cost of
materials used, labor or service cost, or any other expenses whatsoever.
   PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint adventure, corporation or a receiver,
trustee, conservator or other representative appointed by order of any court.
(Ord. 255, 1-16-1979; amd. Ord. 419, 9-9-2002)
   B.   Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed on all persons engaged in the
following occupations and privileges: (Ord. 255, 1-16-1979)
      1.   Persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling gas for use or consumption within the corporate limits of
the village, and not for resale, at the rate of five percent (5%) of the gross
receipts therefrom.
      2.   Persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling electricity for use or consumption within the corporate
limits of the village, and not for resale, at the rate of five percent (5%) of
the gross receipts therefrom. (Ord. 255, 1-16-1979; amd. Ord. 419, 9-9-2002)
   C.   Exception: No tax is imposed by this section with respect to any
transaction in interstate commerce, or otherwise, to the extent to which such
business may not, under the constitution and statutes of the United States, be
made subject to taxation by this state or any political subdivision thereof.
(Ord. 255, 1-16-1979; amd. 1995 Code)
   D.   Additional Tax: Such tax shall be in addition to the payment of money,
or value of products or services furnished to this municipality by the taxpayer
as compensation for the use of its streets, alleys or other public places, or
installation and maintenance therein, thereon or thereunder of poles, wires,
pipes or other equipment used in the operation of the taxpayer's business.
   E.   Effective Date: This section shall take effect after publication, and
the tax provided for herein shall be based on the "gross receipts" as herein
defined, actually billed by the taxpayer on or after February 1, 1979. (Ord.
255, 1-16-1979, corrected 2-19-1979)
   F.   Filing Tax Return; Payment:
      1.   On or before April 30, each taxpayer shall make a return to the
village treasurer for the months of February and March (the first quarter
consisting of 2 months), stating:
         a.   His name;
         b.   His principal place of business;
         c.   His gross receipts during those months upon the basis of which
the tax is imposed;
         d.   Amount of tax;
         e.   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
      2.   On or before the last day of every third month thereafter, each
taxpayer shall make a like return to the village treasurer for a corresponding
three (3) month period.
      3.   The taxpayer making the return herein provided shall, at the time of
making such return, pay to the village treasurer, the amount of tax herein
imposed; provided that, in connection with any return, the taxpayer may, if he
so elects, report and pay an amount based upon his total billings of business
subject to the tax during the period for which the return is made (exclusive of
any amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of later payments based
upon any differences between such billings and the taxable gross receipts.
   G.   Erroneous Payments: If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been
paid which was not due under the provisions of this section, whether as the
result of a mistake of fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be
credited against any tax due, or to become due, under this Section from the
taxpayer who made the erroneous payment; provided, that no amounts erroneously
paid more than three (3) years prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be
so credited.
   H.   Penalty: Any taxpayer who fails to make a return, or who makes a
fraudulent return, or who wilfully violates any other provision of this Section
is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to
penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code and in addition, shall be liable in a civil action for the
amount of the tax due.
(Ord. 255, 1-16-1979; amd. 1995 Code)
3-2-3: ELECTRICITY TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed: A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the following
occupations or privileges:
      1.   The privilege of using or consuming electricity acquired in a
purchase at retail and used or consumed within the corporate limits of the
Municipality at the following rates, calculated on a monthly basis for each
purchaser:
         a.   For the first 2,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month;
0.368 cents per kilowatt-hour;
         b.   For the next 48,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month;
0.241 cents per kilowatt-hour;
         c.   For the next 50,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month;
0.217 cents per kilowatt-hour;
         d.   For the next 400,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month;
0.211 cents per kilowatt-hour;
         e.   For the next 500,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month;
0.205 cents per kilowatt-hour;
         f.   For the next 2,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a
month; 0.193 cents per kilowatt-hour;
         g.   For the next 2,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a
month; 0.190 cents per kilowatt-hour;
         h.   For the next 5,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a
month; 0.187 cents per kilowatt-hour;
         i.   For the next 10,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a
month; 0.184 cents per kilowatt-hour;
         j.   For all electricity used or consumed in excess of 20,000,000
kilowatt-hours in a month; 0.181 cents per kilowatt-hour.
      2.   Pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-2, the rates set
forth in subsection A1 of this Section shall be effective: a) on August 1,
1999, for residential customers; and b) on the earlier of: 1) the last bill
issued prior to December 31, 2000; or 2) the date of the first bill issued
pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/16-104, for nonresidential
customers.
      3.   Pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-2, Section
3-2-2 of this Chapter (commonly known as the Municipal Utility Tax) shall
specifically remain in effect: a) for receipts attributable to residential
customers, until July 31, 1999; and b) for receipts attributable to
nonresidential customers, the earlier of: 1) through the last bill issued prior
to December 31, 2000; or 2) the date of the first bill issued such
nonresidential customer pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/16-104.
      4.   The provisions of this subsection A shall not be effective until
August 1, 1999.
   B.   Exceptions: None of the taxes authorized by this Section may be imposed
with respect to any transaction in interstate commerce or otherwise to the
extent to which the business or privilege may not, under the Constitution and
statutes of the United States, be made the subject of taxation by this State or
any political subdivision thereof; nor shall any persons engaged in the
business of distributing, supplying, furnishing, or selling or transmitting
gas, water, or electricity in the business of transmitting messages, or using
or consuming electricity acquired in a purchase at retail, be subject to
taxation under the provisions of this Section for those transactions that are
nor may become subject to taxation under the provisions of the Municipal
Retailers' Occupation Tax Act as authorized by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
8-11-1; nor shall any tax authorized by this Section be imposed upon any person
engaged in businesses or on any privilege unless the tax is imposed in like
manner and at the same rate upon all persons engaged in businesses of the same
class in the Municipality, whether privately or Municipally owned or operated,
or exercising the same privilege within the Municipality.
   C.   Additional Tax: Such tax shall be in addition to other taxes levied
upon the taxpayer or its business.
   D.   Collection:
      1.   The tax authorized by this Section shall be collected from the
purchaser by the person maintaining a place of business in this State who
delivers the electricity to the purchaser. This tax shall constitute a debt of
the purchaser to the person who delivers the electricity to the purchaser and
if unpaid, is recoverable in the same manner as the original charges for
delivering the electricity. Any tax required to be collected pursuant to this
Section and any such tax collected by a person delivering electricity shall
constitute a debt owed to the Municipality by such person delivering the
electricity.
      2.   Persons delivering electricity shall collect the tax from the
purchaser by adding such tax to the gross charge for delivering the
electricity. Persons delivering electricity shall also be authorized to add to
such gross charge an amount equal to three percent (3%) of the tax to reimburse
the person delivering electricity for the expense incurred in keeping records,
billing customers, preparing and filing returns, remitting the tax and
supplying data to the Municipality upon request. If the person delivering
electricity fails to collect the tax from the purchaser, then the purchaser
shall be required to pay the tax directly to the Municipality in the manner
prescribed by the Municipality. Person delivering electricity who file returns
pursuant to this Section shall, at the time of filing such return, pay the
Municipality the amount of the tax collected pursuant to this Section.
   E.   Reports To Municipality: On or before the last day of each month, each
taxpayer who has not paid the tax imposed by this Section to a person
delivering electricity as set forth above and who is not otherwise exempted
from paying such tax shall make a return to the Village Treasurer for the
preceding month stating:
      1.   His/her name;
      2.   His/her principal place of business;
      3.   His/her gross receipts and/or kilowatt-hour usage during the month
upon the basis of which the tax is imposed;
      4.   Amount of tax; and
      5.   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
   The taxpayer making the return herein provided for shall, at the time of
making such return pay to the Village, the amount of tax herein imposed;
provided that in connection with any return, the taxpayer may, if he/she so
elects, report and pay an amount based upon his/her total billings of business
subject to the tax during the period for which the return is made (exclusive of
any amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of later payments based
upon any differences between such billings, and the taxable gross receipts.
   F.   Credit For Overpayment: If it shall appear that an amount of tax has
been paid which was not due under the provisions of this Section, whether as
the result of a mistake of fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be
credited against any tax due, or to become due, under this Section from the
taxpayer who made the erroneous payment; provided that no amounts erroneously
paid more than three (3) years prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be
so credited.
   No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of this
Section shall be commenced more than three (3) years after the due date of such
amount.
   G.   Penalty: Any taxpayer who fails to make a return, or who makes a
fraudulent return, or who wilfully violates any other provision of this Section
is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not
less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than two hundred dollars
($200.00); in addition, shall be liable in a civil action for the amount of tax
due 1 .
   In the event that Public Act 90-561 is declared unconstitutional, or if this
Section created by this amendatory Ordinance is voided by court action, the
provisions of Section 3-2-2 of this Chapter (commonly known as the Municipality
Utility Tax) shall remain in effect in all respects as if it had never been
amended by this Section, and any amounts paid to the Village by any person
delivering electricity pursuant to this amendatory Ordinance shall be deemed to
have been paid pursuant to the Municipality Utility Tax as it existed prior to
the passage of this amendatory Ordinance.
(Ord. 397, 7-19-1999)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2.
3-2-4: SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following terms shall have
the following meanings:
   AMOUNT PAID: The amount charged to the taxpayer's service address in such
municipality regardless of where such amount is billed or paid.
   DEPARTMENT: The Illinois department of revenue.
   GROSS CHARGE: The amount paid for the act or privilege of originating or
receiving telecommunications in such municipality and for all services and
equipment provided in connection therewith by a retailer, valued in money
whether paid in money or otherwise, including cash, credits, services and
property of every kind or nature, and shall be determined without any deduction
on account of the cost of such telecommunications, the cost of the materials
used, labor or service costs or any other expense whatsoever. In case credit is
extended, the amount thereof shall be included only as and when paid. "Gross
charges" for private line service shall include charges imposed at each channel
point within this state, charges for the channel mileage between each channel
point within this state, and charges for that portion of the interstate
interoffice channel provided within Illinois. However, "gross charge" shall not
include:
      1.   Any amounts added to a purchaser's bill because of a charge made
pursuant to: a) the tax imposed by this section, b) the tax imposed by the
telecommunications excise tax act, c) the tax imposed by section 4251 of the
internal revenue code, d) 911 surcharges, or e) charges added to customers'
bills pursuant to the provisions of section 9-221 or 9-222 of the public
utilities act, as amended, or any similar charges added to customers' bills by
retailers who are not subject to rate regulation by the Illinois commerce
commission for the purpose of recovering any of the tax liabilities or other
amounts specified in those provisions of the public utilities act;
      2.   Charges for a sent collect telecommunication received outside of
such municipality;
      3.   Charges for leased time on equipment or charges for the storage of
data or information for subsequent retrieval or the processing of data or
information intended to change its form or content. Such equipment includes,
but is not limited to, the use of calculators, computers, data processing
equipment, tabulating equipment or accounting equipment and also includes the
usage of computers under a time sharing agreement;
      4.   Charges for customer equipment, including such equipment that is
leased or rented by the customer from any source, wherein such charges are
disaggregated and separately identified from other charges;
      5.   Charges to business enterprises certified as exempt under section 9-
222.1 of the public utilities act to the extent of such exemption and during
the period of time specified by the department of commerce and community
affairs;
      6.   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment
provided in connection therewith between a parent corporation and its wholly
owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries when the tax imposed
under this act has already been paid to a retailer and only to the extent that
the charges between the parent corporation and wholly owned subsidiaries or
between wholly owned subsidiaries represent expense allocation between the
corporations and not the generation of profit for the corporation rendering
such service;
      7.   Bad debts ("bad debt" means any portion of a debt that is related to
a sale at retail for which gross charges are not otherwise deductible or
excludable that has become worthless or uncollectible, as determined under
applicable federal income tax standards; if the portion of the debt deemed to
be bad is subsequently paid, the retailer shall report and pay the tax on that
portion during the reporting period in which the payment is made);
      8.   Charges paid by inserting coins in coin operated telecommunication
devices; or
      9.   Amounts paid by telecommunications retailers under the
telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee act.
   INTERSTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS: All telecommunications that either originate
or terminate outside this state.
   INTRASTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS: All telecommunications that originate and
terminate within this state.
   PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, limited liability
company, or a receiver, trustee, guardian, or other representative appointed by
order of any court, the federal and state governments, including state
universities created by statute, or any city, town, county, or other political
subdivision of this state.
   PURCHASE AT RETAIL: The acquisition, consumption or use of
telecommunications through a sale at retail.
   RETAILER: Means and includes every person engaged in the business of making
sales at retail as defined herein. The department may, in its discretion, upon
application, authorize the collection of the tax hereby imposed by any retailer
not maintaining a place of business within this state, who, to the satisfaction
of the department, furnishes adequate security to ensure collection and payment
of the tax. Such retailer shall be issued, without charge, a permit to collect
such tax. When so authorized, it shall be the duty of such retailer to collect
the tax upon all of the gross charges for telecommunications in this state in
the same manner and subject to the same requirements as a retailer maintaining
a place of business within this state. The permit may be revoked by the
department at its discretion.
   RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE (Or Any Like Term):
Means and includes any retailer having or maintaining within this state,
directly or by a subsidiary, an office, distribution facilities, transmission
facilities, sales office, warehouse or other place of business, or any agent or
other representative operating within this state under the authority of the
retailer or its subsidiary, irrespective of whether such place of business or
agent or other representative is located here permanently or temporarily, or
whether such retailer or subsidiary is licensed to do business in this state.
   SALE AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying or furnishing of
telecommunications and all services and equipment provided in connection
therewith for a consideration, to persons other than the federal and state
governments, and state universities created by statute and other than between a
parent corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned
subsidiaries for their use or consumption and not for resale.
   SERVICE ADDRESS: The location of telecommunications equipment from which
telecommunications services are originated or at which telecommunications
services are received by a taxpayer. In the event this may not be a defined
location, as in the case of mobile phones, paging systems, and maritime
systems, service address means the customer's place of primary use as defined
in the mobile telecommunications sourcing conformity act. For air to ground
systems and the like, "service address" shall mean the location of a taxpayer's
primary use of the telecommunications equipment as defined by telephone number,
authorization code, or location in Illinois where bills are sent.
   TAXPAYER: A person who individually or through his or her agents, employees,
or permittees engages in the act or privilege of originating or receiving
telecommunications in a municipality and who incurs a tax liability as
authorized by this section.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS: In addition to the meaning ordinarily and popularly
ascribed to it, includes, without limitation, messages or information
transmitted through use of local, toll, and wide area telephone service,
private line services, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter,
computer exchange services, cellular mobile telecommunications service,
specialized mobile radio, stationary two-way radio, paging service, or any
other form of mobile and portable one-way or two-way communications, or any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. As used in this section, "private line" means
a dedicated nontraffic sensitive service for a single customer, that entitles
the customer to exclusive or priority use of a communications channel or group
of channels, from one or more specified locations to one or more other
specified locations. The definition of "telecommunications" shall not include
value added services in which computer processing applications are used to act
on the form, content, code, and protocol of the information for purposes other
than transmission. "Telecommunications" shall not include purchases of
telecommunications by a telecommunications service provider for use as a
component part of the service provided by such provider to the ultimate retail
consumer who originates or terminates the taxable end to end communications.
Carrier access charges, right of access charges, charges for use of
intercompany facilities, and all telecommunications resold in the subsequent
provision of, used as a component of, or integrated into, end to end
telecommunications service shall be nontaxable as sales for resale. Prepaid
telephone calling arrangements shall not be considered "telecommunications"
subject to the tax imposed under this act. For purposes of this section,
"prepaid telephone calling arrangements" means that term as defined in section
2-27 of the retailers' occupations tax act.
   B.   Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed upon any and all the following
acts or privileges:
      1.   The act or privilege of originating in the municipality or receiving
in the municipality intrastate telecommunications by a person at a rate of six
percent (6%) of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at
retail from a retailer.
      2.   The act or privilege of originating in the municipality or receiving
in the municipality interstate telecommunications by a person at a rate of six
percent (6%) of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at
retail from a retailer. To prevent actual multistate taxation of the act or
privilege that is subject to taxation under this subsection, any taxpayer, upon
proof that the taxpayer has paid a tax in another state on such event, shall be
allowed a credit against any tax enacted pursuant to or authorized by this
section to the extent of the amount of such tax properly due and paid in such
other state which was not previously allowed as a credit against any other
state or local tax in this state.
      3.   The tax imposed by this section is not imposed on such act or
privilege to the extent such act or privilege may not, under the constitution
and statutes of the United States, be made the subject of taxation by the
municipality.
   C.   Collection Of Tax By Retailers:
      1.   The tax authorized by this section shall be collected from the
taxpayer by a retailer maintaining a place of business in this state and shall
be remitted by such retailer to the department. Any tax required to be
collected pursuant to or as authorized by this section and any such tax
collected by such retailer and required to be remitted to the department shall
constitute a debt owed by the retailer to the state. Retailers shall collect
the tax from the taxpayer by adding the tax to the gross charge for the act or
privilege of originating or receiving telecommunications when sold for use, in
the manner prescribed by the department. The tax authorized by this section
shall constitute a debt of the taxpayer to the retailer until paid, and, if
unpaid, is recoverable at law in the same manner as the original charge for
such sale at retail. If the retailer fails to collect the tax from the
taxpayer, then the taxpayer shall be required to pay the tax directly to the
department in the manner provided by the department.
      2.   Whenever possible, the tax authorized by this section shall, when
collected, be stated as a distinct item separate and apart from the gross
charge for telecommunications.
   D.   Returns To Department: Commencing on February 1, 2003, the tax imposed
under this section on telecommunication retailers shall be returned with
appropriate forms and information as required by the department pursuant to the
Illinois simplified municipal telecommunications tax act (public act 92-526,
section 5-50) and any accompanying rules and regulations created by the
department to implement this act.
   E.   Resellers:
      1.   If a person who originates or receives telecommunications claims to
be a reseller of such telecommunications, such person shall apply to the
department for a resale number. Such applicant shall state facts which will
show the department why such applicant is not liable for the tax authorized by
this section on any of such purchases and shall furnish such additional
information as the department may reasonably require.
      2.   Upon approval of the application, the department shall assign a
resale number to the applicant and shall certify such number to the applicant.
The department may cancel any number which is obtained through
misrepresentation, or which is used to send or receive such telecommunication
tax free when such actions in fact are not for resale, or which no longer
applies because of the persons having discontinued the making of resales.
      3.   Except as provided in this section, the act or privilege of
originating or receiving telecommunications in this state shall not be made tax
free on the grounds of being a sale for resale unless the person has an active
resale number from the department and furnishes that number to the retailer in
connection with certifying to the retailer that any sale to such person is
nontaxable because of being a sale for resale.
   F.   Severability: If any provision of this section, or the application of
any provision of this section, is held unconstitutional or otherwise invalid,
such occurrence shall not affect other provisions of this section, or their
application, that can be given effect without the unconstitutional or invalid
provision or its application. Each unconstitutional or invalid provision, or
application of such provision, is severable, unless otherwise provided by this
section.
   G.   Effective Date: This section shall take effect on January 1, 2003.
Copies of ordinance 419 shall be certified and sent to the Illinois department
of revenue prior to October 1, 2002.
   H.   Repealer: If public act 92-0526, entitled the simplified municipal
telecommunications tax act, is repealed or becomes ineffective for any reason,
or if this section is repealed or becomes ineffective for any reason, then
section
3-2-2 of this chapter, as laid out in ordinance 255 passed January 16, 1979, as
it pertains to this tax shall be deemed in full force and effect as of the date
public act 92-0526 and this section is repealed or becomes ineffective.
(Ord. 419, 9-9-2002)
3-2-5: TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   Title: This section shall be known as, and may be cited as, the LOCALLY
IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITY ORDINANCE.
   B.   Scope: The provisions of this section shall apply to the village's
procedures in connection with all of the village's locally imposed and
administered taxes.
   C.   Definitions: Certain words or terms herein shall have the meanings
ascribed to them as follows:
   ACT: The "local government taxpayers' bill of rights act".
   CORPORATE AUTHORITIES: The village's president and board of trustees.
   LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR: The village's president is charged with the
administration and collection of the locally imposed and administered taxes,
including staff, employees or agents to the extent they are authorized by the
local tax administrator to act in the local tax administrator's stead. The
local tax administrator shall have the authority to implement the terms of this
section to give full effect to this section. The exercise of such authority by
the local tax administrator shall not be inconsistent with this section and the
act.
   LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX OR TAX: Each tax imposed by the village
that is collected or administered by the village not an agency or department of
the state. It does not include any taxes imposed upon real property under the
property tax code or fees collected by the village other than infrastructure
maintenance fees.
   NOTICE: Each audit notice, collection notice or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the village's locally imposed and
administered taxes.
   TAX ORDINANCE: Each ordinance adopted by the village that imposes any
locally imposed and administered tax.
   TAXPAYER: Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered
tax and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax
is placed and with respect to consumer taxes includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
village.
   VILLAGE: The village of South Pekin, Illinois.
   D.   Notices: Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be
given, the notice is to be in writing mailed not less than seven (7) calendar
days prior to the day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit or other
scheduled act of the local tax administrator. The notice shall be sent by the
local tax administrator as follows:
      1.   First class or express mail, or overnight mail, addressed to the
persons concerned at the persons' last known address; or
      2.   Personal service or delivery.
   E.   Late Payment: Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required
to be made to the village pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered
late unless it is: 1) physically received by the village on or before the due
date, or 2) received in an envelope or other container displaying a valid,
readable U.S. postmark dated on or before the due date, properly addressed to
the village, with adequate postage prepaid.
   F.   Payment: Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be
applied in the following order: 1) first to the tax due for the applicable
period; 2) second to the interest due for the applicable period; and 3) third
to the penalty for the applicable period.
   G.   Certain Credits And Refunds:
      1.   The village shall not refund or credit any taxes voluntarily paid
without written protest at the time of payment in the event that a locally
imposed and administered tax is declared invalidly enacted or unconstitutional
by a court of competent jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer shall not be deemed
to have paid the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked knowledge of the facts
upon which to protest the taxes at the time of payment or if the taxpayer paid
the taxes under duress.
      2.   The statute of limitations on a claim for credit or refund shall be
four (4) years after the end of the calendar year in which payment in error was
made. The village shall not grant a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest, or penalties to a person who has not paid the
amounts directly to the village.
      3.   The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest or penalties paid in error shall be as follows:
         a.   The taxpayer shall submit to the local tax administrator in
writing a claim for credit or refund together with a statement specifying:
            (1)   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject
to the claim;
            (2)   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
            (3)   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the
canceled check or receipt for the payment;
            (4)   The taxpayer's recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
            (5)   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with
the claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest and penalties overpaid,
and, as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however,
that there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer
owes any monies to the village.
         b.   Within ten (10) days of the receipt by the local tax
administrator of any claim for a refund or credit, the local tax administrator
shall either:
            (1)   Grant the claim; or
            (2)   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a
statement as to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
         c.   In the event the local tax administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate of five percent (5%) per annum, based on
a year of three hundred sixty five (365) days and the number of days elapsed,
from the date of the overpayment to the date of mailing of a refund check or
the grant of a credit.
   H.   Audit Procedure: Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any local
administered tax shall comply with the notice requirements of this section.
      1.   Each notice of audit shall contain the following information:
         a.   The tax;
         b.   The time period of the audit; and
         c.   A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the auditor.
      2.   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours and if the
date and time selected by the local tax administrator is not agreeable to the
taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer within thirty
(30) days after the originally designated audit and during normal business
hours.
      3.   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted not less than seven (7) days nor more
than thirty (30) days from the date the notice is given, unless the taxpayer
and the local tax administrator agreed to some other convenient time. In the
event taxpayer is unable to comply with the audit on the date in question, the
taxpayer may request another date within the thirty (30) days approved in
writing, that is convenient to the taxpayer and the local tax administrator.
      4.   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the
taxpayer's business or activities, including original source documents and
books of entry denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given
rise to any tax liability, exemption or deduction. All books shall be kept in
the English language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by
the village.
      5.   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make
available its books and records for inspection by the village. If the taxpayer
or tax collector fails to provide the documents necessary for audit within the
time provided, the local tax administrator may issue a tax determination and
assessment based on the tax administrator's determination of the best estimate
of the taxpayer's tax liability.
      6.   If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a locally
imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice of the
amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within thirty (30) days of
the village's determination of the amount of overpayment.
      7.   In the event a tax payment was submitted to the incorrect local
governmental entity, the local tax administrator shall notify the local
governmental entity imposing such tax.
   I.   Appeal:
      1.   The local tax administrator shall send written notice to a taxpayer
upon the local tax administrator's issuance of a protestable notice of tax due,
a bill, a claim denial, or a notice of claim reduction regarding any tax. The
notice shall include the following information:
         a.   The reason for the assessment;
         b.   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
         c.   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
         d.   The obligations of the village during the audit, appeal, refund
and collection process.
      2.   A taxpayer who receives written notice from the local tax
administrator of a determination of tax due or assessment may file with the
local tax administrator a written protest and petition for hearing, setting
forth the basis of the taxpayer's request for a hearing. The written protest
and petition for hearing must be filed with the local tax administrator within
forty five (45) days of receipt of the written notice of the tax determination
and assessment.
      3.   If a timely written notice and petition for hearing is filed, the
local tax administrator shall fix the time and place for hearing and shall give
written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be scheduled for a date
within fourteen (14) days of receipt of the written protest and petition for
hearing, unless the taxpayer requests a later date convenient to all parties.
      4.   If a written protest and petition for hearing is not filed within
the forty five (45) day period, the tax determination, audit or assessment
shall become a final bill due and owing without further notice.
      5.   Upon the showing of reasonable cause by the taxpayer and the full
payment of the contested tax liability along with interest accrued as of the
due date of the tax, the local tax administrator may reopen or extend the time
for filing a written protest and petition for hearing. In no event shall the
time for filing a written protest and petition for hearing be reopened or
extended for more than ninety (90) days after the expiration of the forty five
(45) day period.
   J.   Hearing:
      1.   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under subsection I of this section, the local
tax administrator shall conduct a hearing regarding any appeal.
      2.   No continuances shall be granted except in cases where a continuance
is absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of
preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted
shall not exceed sixty (60) days.
      3.   At the hearing the local tax administrator shall preside and shall
hear testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax determination, audit
or assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall not apply.
      4.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the local tax administrator shall
make a written determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the
hearing. The taxpayer or tax collector shall be provided with a copy of the
written decision.
   K.   Interest And Penalties: In the event a determination has been made that
a tax is due and owing, through audit, assessment or other bill sent, the tax
must be paid within the time frame otherwise indicated.
      1.   Interest: The village hereby provides for the amount of interest to
be assessed on a late payment, underpayment, or nonpayment of the tax, to be
five percent (5%) per annum, based on a year of three hundred sixty five (365)
days and the number of days elapsed.
      2.   Late Filing And Payment Penalties: If a tax return is not filed
within the time and manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance, a late
filing penalty, of five percent (5%) of the amount of tax required to be shown
as due on a return shall be imposed and a late payment penalty of five percent
(5%) of the tax due shall be imposed. If no return is filed within the time or
manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance and prior to the village
issuing a notice of tax delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a failure
to file penalty shall be assessed equal to twenty five percent (25%) of the
total tax due for the applicable reporting period for which the return was
required to be filed. A late filing or payment penalty shall not apply if a
failure to file penalty is imposed by the controlling ordinance.
   L.   Abatement: The local tax administrator shall have the authority to
waive or abate any late filing penalty, late payment penalty or failure to file
penalty if the local tax administrator shall determine reasonable cause exists
for delay or failure to make a filing.
   M.   Installment Contracts: The village may enter into an installment
contract with the taxpayer for the payment of taxes under the controlling tax
ordinance. The local tax administrator may not cancel any installment contract
so entered unless the taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing. Upon
written notice by the local tax administrator that the payment is thirty (30)
days delinquent, the taxpayer shall have fourteen (14) working days to cure any
delinquency. If the taxpayer fails to cure the delinquency within the fourteen
(14) day period or fails to demonstrate good faith in restructuring the
installment contract with the local administrator, the installment contract
shall be canceled without further notice to the taxpayer.
   N.   Statute Of Limitations: The village through the local tax
administrator, shall review all tax returns in a prompt and timely manner and
inform taxpayers of any amounts due and owing. The taxpayer shall have forty
five (45) days after receiving notice of the reviewed tax returns to make any
request for refund or provide any tax still due and owing.
      1.   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than four
(4) years after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later.
      2.   If any tax return is not filed or if during any four (4) year period
for which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the
village the tax paid was less than seventy five percent (75%) of the tax due,
the statute of limitations shall be six (6) years maximum after the end of the
calendar year in which return for the applicable period was due or end of the
calendar year in which the return for the applicable period was filed.
      3.   No statute of limitations shall apply if a fraudulent tax return was
filed by the taxpayer.
   O.   Voluntary Disclosure: For any locally imposed and administered tax for
which a taxpayer has not received a written notice of an audit, investigation,
or assessment from the local tax administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file
an application with the local tax administrator for a voluntary disclosure of
the tax due. A taxpayer filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to
pay the amount of tax due, along with interest of one percent (1%) per month,
for all periods prior to the filing of the application but not more than four
(4) years before the date of filing the application. A taxpayer filing a valid
voluntary disclosure application may not be liable for any additional tax,
interest, or penalty for any period before the date the application was filed.
However, if the taxpayer incorrectly determined and underpaid the amount of tax
due, the taxpayer is liable for the underpaid tax along with applicable
interest on the underpaid tax, unless the underpayment was the result of fraud
on the part of the taxpayer, in which case the application shall be deemed
invalid and void. The payment of tax and interest must be made by no later than
ninety (90) days after the filing of the voluntary disclosure application or
the date agreed to by the local tax administrator. However, any additional
amounts owed as a result of an underpayment of tax and interest previously paid
under this section must be paid within ninety (90) days after a final
determination and the exhaustion of all appeals of the additional amount owed
or the date agreed to by the local tax administrator, whichever is longer.
   P.   Publication Of Tax Ordinances: Any locally administered tax ordinance
shall be published via normal or standard publishing requirements. The posting
of a tax ordinance on the internet shall satisfy the publication requirements.
Copies of all tax ordinances shall be made available to the public upon request
at the village clerk's office.
   Q.   Review Procedure: The local tax administrator shall establish an
internal review procedure regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for
unpaid taxes. Upon a determination by the local tax administrator that the lien
is valid, the lien shall remain in full force and effect. If the lien is
determined to be improper, the local tax administrator shall:
      1.   Timely remove the lien at the village's expense;
      2.   Correct the taxpayer's credit record; and
      3.   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien.
   R.   Application: This section shall be liberally construed and administered
to supplement all of the village's tax ordinances. To the extent that any tax
ordinance is in conflict with or inconsistent with this section, this section
shall be controlling.
   S.   Severability: If any section, paragraph or provision of this section
shall be held to be invalid or unenforceable for any reason, the invalidity or
unenforceability of such section, paragraph or provision shall not affect any
of the remaining provisions of this section.
(Ord. 410, 12-4-2000)
3-2-6: MUNICIPAL RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX AND SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
selling tangible personal property, other than an item of tangible personal
property titled and registered with an agency of this state's government, at
retail in this municipality at the rate of 0.25 percent of the gross receipts
from such sales made in the course of such business while this section is in
effect; and a tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in this
municipality in the business of making sales of service, at the rate of 0.25
percent of the selling price of all tangible personal property transferred by
such serviceman as an incident to a sale of service. This "nonhome rule
municipal retailers' occupation tax" and this "nonhome rule municipal service
occupation tax" shall not be applicable to the sales of food for human
consumption that is to be consumed off the premises where it is sold (other
than alcoholic beverages, soft drinks, and food that has been prepared for
immediate consumption) and prescription and nonprescription medicines, drugs,
medical appliances and insulin, urine testing materials, syringes and needles
used by diabetics.
   The imposition of these nonhome rule taxes is in accordance with the
provisions of sections 8-11-1.3 and 8-11-1.4, respectively, of the Illinois
municipal code 1 .
   B.   The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be assessed
as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the department of
revenue of the state of Illinois. The department of revenue shall have full
power to administer and enforce the provisions of this section.
   C.   The municipal clerk is hereby directed to file a certified copy of the
ordinance codified herein and a certification that the ordinance received
referendum approval with the Illinois department of revenue on or before
October 1, 2024. (Ord. 449, 5-7-2007, eff. 1-1-2008; amd. Ord. 557, 9-9-2024)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/8-11-1.3, 5/8-11-1.4.
CHAPTER 3
LIQUOR CONTROL
SECTION:
3-3-1: Definitions
3-3-2: License Required
3-3-3: Application For License
3-3-4: Restrictions On Licenses
3-3-5: Term Of License; Renewal
3-3-6: Examination Of Applicant For Local License
3-3-7: License Classifications; Fees
3-3-8: Limitation Upon Number Issued; Class A And Class B
3-3-9: Insurance Required
3-3-10: Disposition Of Fees
3-3-11: Record Of Licenses Issued
3-3-12: Transfer Of License; Sale Of Licensed Business
3-3-13: Location Restrictions
3-3-14: Restrictions Concerning Noise And Closing Hours
3-3-15: Inspection Of Class C License Premises
3-3-16: Employees
3-3-17: Premises Requirements
3-3-18: Prohibited Acts
3-3-19: Restrictions Concerning Minors
3-3-20: Licensee Report Commission Of Crime
3-3-21: License Revocation Or Suspension; Hearing; Notice
3-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
   Unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms as used in this
Chapter shall be construed according to the definitions given below:
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR: Any spirits, wine, beer, ale or other liquid containing
more than one-half of one percent (0.5%) of alcohol by volume, which is fit for
beverage purposes.
   CLUB: A corporation organized under the laws of this State, not for
pecuniary profit, solely for the promotion of some common object other than the
sale and consumption of alcoholic liquors which conforms to the definition of a
club, as provided by statute.
   RESTAURANT: Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out
to the public as a place where meals are served, and where meals actually are
served and regularly served, without sleeping accommodations, such space being
provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and
capacity and having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees
to prepare, cook and serve suitable food for its guests. Provided, that no
restaurant licensed as such shall sell alcoholic liquor except with meals.
   RETAIL SALE: The sale for use or consumption and not for resale.
(1970 Code §3-9-1; 1995 Code)
3-3-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at retail in the Village any
alcoholic liquor without having a retail liquor dealer's license, or in
violation of the terms of such license and the Illinois Liquor Control Act.
(1970 Code §3-9-2)
3-3-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   Application for such licenses shall be made to the Village President, in
writing, signed by the applicant if an individual, or by a duly authorized
agent thereof if a club or corporation, verified by oath or affidavit, and
shall contain the following statements and information:
   A.   The name, age and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual; in the case of a copartnership, the persons entitled to share in
the profits thereof; in the case of a corporation, the objects for which
organized, the names and addresses of the officers and directors, and if a
majority interest of the stock of such corporation is owned by one person or
his nominee, the name and address of such person.
   B.   The citizenship of the applicant, his place of birth, and if a
naturalized citizen, the time and place of his naturalization.
   C.   The character of business of the applicant, and in the case of a
corporation, the objects for which it was formed.
   D.   The length of time said applicant has been in business of that
character, or in the case of a corporation, the date when its charter was
issued.
   E.   The amount of goods, wares and merchandise on hand at the time
application is made.
   F.   The location and description of the premises or place of business which
is to be operated under such license.
   G.   A statement whether applicant has made application for a similar or
other license on premises other than described in this application, and the
disposition of such application.
   H.   A statement that applicant has never been convicted of a felony and is
not disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing
contained in this Chapter, laws of this State, or the ordinances of the
Village.
   I.   Whether a previous license by any state or subdivision thereof, or by
the Federal government has been revoked, and the reasons therefor.
   J.   A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the laws of the
State of Illinois, or the United States, or any ordinance of the Village in the
conduct of his place of business. (1970 Code §3-9-3)
3-3-4: RESTRICTIONS ON LICENSES:
   No license authorized by this Chapter shall be issued to:
   A.   A person or a corporation, the manager of whose liquor business
hereunder is not a resident of this Village. For the purposes of this
subsection, the term "resident" shall mean that the place where the person's
family, if he has one, have their principal residence and domicile and where
the licensee openly and publicly appears to reside, is within the Village. No
residence may be acceptable within the licensed premises, nor one which has the
appearance of a residence of convenience or of a temporary nature and where
such person's domestic furnishings and possessions are kept for use outside of
the Village.
   B.   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any Federal or State
law.
   C.   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper or is keeping a
house of ill fame.
   D.   A person who has been convicted of pandering.
   E.   A person whose license issued under this Chapter or the laws of the
State has been revoked for cause.
   F.   A person who, at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder, would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application.
   G.   A copartnership, unless all of the members of such copartnership shall
be qualified to obtain a license.
   H.   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof, or any
stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate more than five percent (5%)
of the stock of such corporation, would not be eligible to receive a license
hereunder for any reason other than citizenship and residence within the
Village.
   I.   A corporation, unless it is incorporated in Illinois, or unless it is a
foreign corporation qualified under the Illinois Business Corporation Act to
transact business in Illinois.
   J.   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent
unless said manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required of the
licensee.
   K.   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any Federal or State
law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor,
subsequent to the passage of the Illinois Liquor Act, or has forfeited his bond
to appear in court to answer charges for any such violation.
   L.   A person who does not beneficially own the premises for which a license
is sought, or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for which the
license is to be issued.
   M.   Any law-enforcing public official, any mayor, commissioner or other
official disqualified by reason of State law; and no such official shall be
interested in any way, either directly or indirectly, in the manufacture, sale
or distribution of alcoholic liquor.
   N.   A person who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be operated
by the licensee.
   O.   Federal Gaming Device or Wagering Stamps:
      1.   A person to whom a Federal gaming device stamp or a Federal wagering
stamp has been issued by the Federal government for the current tax period;
      2.   A copartnership to which a Federal gaming device stamp or a Federal
wagering stamp has been issued by the Federal government for the current tax
period, or if any of the partners have been issued a Federal gaming device
stamp or a Federal wagering stamp by the Federal government for the current tax
period.
      3.   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof, or a
stockholder owning in the aggregate more than twenty percent (20%) of the stock
of such corporation has been issued a Federal gaming device stamp or a Federal
wagering stamp for the current tax period. (1970 Code §3-9-4)
3-3-5: TERM OF LICENSE; RENEWAL:
   A.   Term: Each license issued hereunder shall terminate on April 30
following the issuance thereof. (1970 Code §3-9-5)
   B.   Renewal of License: Any licensee may renew his license at the
expiration thereof; provided, that he then qualifies to receive a license and
the premises for which such renewal license is sought are suitable for such
purpose; provided further, that the renewal privilege herein provided for shall
not be construed as a vested right which shall in any case prevent the
President from decreasing the number of licenses to be issued within his
jurisdiction. (1970 Code §3-9-14)
3-3-6: EXAMINATION OF APPLICANT FOR LOCAL LICENSE:
   The Village President shall have the right to examine, or cause to be
examined, under oath, any application for a local license or for a renewal
thereof, or any licensee upon whom notice of revocation or suspension has been
served as provided by statute, and to examine or cause to be examined the books
and records of any such applicant or licensee; to hear testimony and take proof
for his information in the performance of his duties, and for such purpose to
issue subpoenas which shall be effective in any part of this State. For the
purpose of obtaining any of the information desired by the President under this
Section, he may authorize his agent to act on his behalf, as provided by
statute. (1970 Code §3-9-6)
3-3-7: LICENSE CLASSIFICATIONS; FEES:
   A.   Class A License: The license fee for the operation of a liquor
establishment engaged in the business of selling alcoholic liquors for
consumption upon the premises, shall be six hundred dollars ($600.00) payable
in advance, for a period or term of one year. Such license shall be designated
as Village Class A license.
   B.   Class B License: The license fee for a package liquor store shall be
the sum of six hundred dollars ($600.00) payable in advance, for a period of
one year, together with such additional fee as may be assessed in accordance
with the provision hereof, pertaining to the number of licenses in force. Such
license shall be designated as Village Class B license; provided, however, that
any person duly licensed as a liquor establishment hereunder shall not be
required to be licensed in addition as a package liquor store.
   C.   Class C License: The license fee for a club shall be the sum of six
hundred dollars ($600.00) per year, payable in advance. Such license shall be
designated as Village Class C license.
   D.   Class V License: No license fee shall be charged for the license of any
duly organized veterans' organization, created or recognized by acts of the
congress of the United States as such a veterans' organization. Such licenses
shall be designated as village class V licenses. (1970 Code §3-9-7)
   E.   Class T License: The license for a temporary permit for sale of
alcoholic liquor to be consumed at a special event, banquet, picnic, bazaar,
fair or similar private or public assembly where food or drink is sold, served
or dispensed.
      1.   Such temporary permit may be issued to a club, society, fraternal or
benevolent organization or an association which is organized for pecuniary
profit, and shall be for a period of not more than three (3) days.
      2.   No more than three (3) temporary permits may be granted to any
organization during a calendar year.
      3.   The fee for such permit shall be determined, from time to time, by
separate ordinance or resolution of the city council, and shall accompany the
written application. The fee for such permit at this time is set at one hundred
dollars ($100.00) per day and is nonrefundable, due at time of application.
      4.   The holder's use of the temporary license shall be subject to such
terms and conditions as determined by the village president, and is subject to
revocation by the village president or village enforcement or safety officers
as same deem necessary for the interest of the village and its residents. (Ord.
484, 3-10-2014)
   No license shall be issued hereunder, except as herein specifically
provided. (1970 Code §3-9-7)
3-3-8: LIMITATION UPON NUMBER ISSUED; CLASS A AND CLASS B:
   So that the health, safety and welfare of the people of the village shall be
protected and minors shall be prevented from the purchase of alcoholic liquors,
and temperance in the consumption of alcoholic liquors shall be fostered and
promoted, no new licenses in class A or class B shall be issued under the
provisions of this chapter unless the number of such licenses in force at the
time shall be less than two (2); provided, however, that should the business or
property for which a village liquor license has been issued be assigned or
conveyed to any person other than the named licensee, the president is hereby
empowered to authorize the issuance of a new license strictly under the
provisions of this code to the person who may acquire such business or
property; provided further, that the authorization by the president for such
new license can only become effective after the old license has been
surrendered and properly canceled so that the number of class A or class B
licenses in operation will not exceed two (2); provided further, that in the
event of annexation of any territory to the village, in which territory there
is located any business or property for which a valid county retail liquor
license has been issued and in force at the date of such annexation, the
president is empowered to authorize the issuance of a new license strictly
under the provisions of this code to the person named in the county retail
liquor license issued for such business or property, notwithstanding the
foregoing limitation upon the number of licenses to be issued. (Ord. 326, 6-1-
1987)
3-3-9: INSURANCE REQUIRED:
   No license shall be issued hereunder unless the applicant shall file with
the application a certificate by an insurance company authorized to do business
in the state of Illinois, certifying that the applicant has in force and effect
the insurance required by statute. (1970 Code §3-9-9)
3-3-10: DISPOSITION OF FEES:
   All such fees shall be paid to the village clerk, at the time application is
made, and shall be forthwith turned over to the treasurer. In the event the
license applied for is denied, the fee shall be returned to the applicant; if
the license is granted, then the fee shall be deposited in the general
corporate fund or in such other fund as shall have been designated by the board
of trustees by proper action. (1970 Code §3-9-10)
3-3-11: RECORD OF LICENSES ISSUED:
   The village clerk shall keep a complete record of all such licenses issued
and shall furnish the chief of police with a copy thereof. Upon revocation or
suspension of any license, the village clerk shall immediately give written
notice thereof to the chief of police. (1970 Code §3-9-11)
3-3-12: TRANSFER OF LICENSE; SALE OF LICENSED BUSINESS:
   A.   Discontinue License; Refund Portion Of Fee: A license shall be a purely
personal privilege, good for not to exceed one year after issuance unless
sooner revoked as in this chapter provided, and shall not constitute property,
nor shall it be subject to attachment, garnishment or execution, nor shall it
be alienable or transferable, voluntarily or involuntarily, or subject to being
encumbered or hypothecated, unless transfer should occur pursuant to the sale
of a going concern described hereunder. Such license shall otherwise cease upon
the death of the licensee and shall not descend by the laws of testate or
intestate devolution; provided, that executors or administrators of the estate
of any deceased licensee, and the trustee of any insolvent or bankrupt
licensee, when such estate consists in part of alcoholic liquor, may sell as a
going concern, or may continue the business of the sale or manufacture of
alcoholic liquor under the order of the appropriate court, and may exercise the
privileges of the deceased or insolvent or bankrupt licensee after the death of
such decedent, or such insolvency or bankruptcy, until the expiration of such
license, but not longer than six (6) months after the death, bankruptcy or
insolvency of such licensee. A refund shall be made of that portion of the
license fee paid for any period in which the licensee shall be prevented from
operating under the license in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   B.   Transfer License; Investigation Fee: Upon application being filed with
the president, and upon payment of an investigation fee in the sum of one
hundred dollars ($100.00), the president may issue a license to the purchaser
of an established licensed business as a going concern. Such application must
be for exactly the same class of license as that held by the seller, and such
application shall be openly for the same location as the previously licensed
business. Any such purchaser shall make application for the issuance of a
business transfer license to him, and in such application he shall state the
actual facts in respect to his purchase of such business. He shall also fill
out an application blank and furnish the information and make that statement
similar to that required of any other licensee under section 3-3-3 of this
chapter. Such applications for original licensees, and, if approved, the
transfer license shall be issued to such purchaser upon payment to the
president of the license fee then due, without any credit for any unused
portion of the previous license, and there shall be no rebate to any person for
any unused portion of any license. No transfer license shall be issued to the
purchaser of such business until the seller of such business shall have
surrendered his license to the president for transfer.
(Ord. 334, 7-3-1989; amd. 1995 Code)
3-3-13: LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Change Of Location: A license issued hereunder shall permit the sale of
alcoholic liquor only in the premises described in the application and license.
Such location may be changed only when and upon the written permit to make such
change shall be issued by the president. No change of location shall be
permitted unless the proposed new location is in compliance with the provisions
and regulations of this chapter. (1970 Code §3-9-13)
   B.   Limitation On Location:
      1.   The president shall not issue any license for the sale of alcoholic
liquor upon any premises located within any residential area of the village
unless the applicant shall file with said president a statement, verified by
affidavit, containing the written consent to the use of the named premises for
the sale of alcoholic liquors by:
         a.   The owner or owners of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the property
within a distance of five hundred feet (500') in all directions from the named
premises (including drives and yards of the named premises where alcoholic
liquor is to be sold); and
         b.   The owner or owners of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the property
fronting upon the street or streets, on both sides, upon which is located the
named premises where such alcoholic liquor is to be sold.
      It shall be within the power of the president to determine what parts of
the village constitute residential areas, herein referred to. (1970 Code §3-9-
18)
      2.   The president shall not issue any class A licenses for the sale of
alcoholic liquor within one hundred feet (100') of any church, school,
hospital, undertaking establishment, mortuary or home for aged; provided,
however, that in the case of hotels or motor courts offering restaurant
service, regularly organized clubs or restaurants, or package liquor stores,
this minimum distance shall be one hundred feet (100'). (Ord. 348, 8-6-1990)
      3.   No license shall be issued to any person for the sale at retail of
any alcoholic liquor within one hundred feet (100') of any place of business
where the majority of customers are minors or where the principal business
transacted consists of school supplies, food, lunches or drinks for minors.
(1970 Code §3-9-18)
      4.   Provided, however, that the provisions of this subsection shall not
affect premises for which a valid license for the sale of alcoholic liquors is
now in existence, and any renewal or transfer thereof in connection with the
sale of a going concern as provided in section 3-3-12 of this chapter, and
which is now being operated as an alcoholic liquor business by virtue of such
license.
(Ord. 334, 7-3-1989)
3-3-14: RESTRICTIONS CONCERNING NOISE AND CLOSING HOURS:
   A.   Sale; Give Away Restrictions:
      1.   Package Liquor: As to any liquor or alcoholic beverage purchased for
the purposes of consumption off-site of the licensed premises, it shall be
unlawful to sell or to offer for sale or to give away any alcoholic liquor/
beverages between the hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00)
A.M., CST or CDST, on Monday through Saturdays, and between the hours of one
o'clock (1:00) A.M., CST or CDST, on Sundays.
      2.   On Site: As to any liquor or alcoholic beverage purchased for the
purposes of consumption in or on any licensed premises, it shall be unlawful to
sell or to offer for sale or to give away any alcoholic liquor/beverages
between the hours of four o'clock (4:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M., CST
or CDST, on Monday through Saturdays, and between the hours of one o'clock (4:
00) A.M., CST or CDST, on Sundays.
   B.   Patrons/Customers: It shall be unlawful to permit the public to remain
within the licensed premises after one thirty o'clock (1:30) A.M., CST or CDST,
each day of the week. For the purpose of this subsection, "public" shall
include any and all individuals who are not on duty employees of the licensee.
   C.   Consumption After Set Time: It shall be unlawful to permit the
consumption of any alcoholic liquor in or upon the licensed premises by any
individual without limitation, be that person an employee, band member, guest,
or member of the public, in or upon the licensed premises, at or after one
thirty o'clock (1:30) A.M., CST or CDST, on any day of the week.
   D.   Musicians' Hours Restricted: It shall be unlawful for the licensee to
allow or permit any individual or groups of individuals (bands) to play any
musical instruments in or on any licensed premises after one o'clock (1:00)
A.M., CST or CDST, on any day of the week.
   E.   Restrictions Regarding Sound Producing Devices: No licensee shall allow
or cause to be used or operated on any licensed premises any radio receiving
set, musical instrument, phonograph, jukebox, loudspeaker, amplifiers, musical
instrument speakers, or other machine or device for the production or
reproduction of sound in a manner as to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of
the neighboring inhabitants or at any time with louder volume than is necessary
for convenient hearing for the person who is in the room, vehicle or chamber in
which such machine or device is operated and who are voluntary listeners
thereto. The operation of any such set, instrument, phonograph, jukebox,
loudspeaker, amplifiers, musical instrument speakers, or other machine or
device on any day between the hours of six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and one o'clock
(1:00) A.M. the following day, CST or CDST, in such a manner as to be plainly
audible at a distance of fifty feet (50') from the building, structure or
vehicle in which it is located, shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of
this section.
   It shall be unlawful for the licensee to permit the operation of any or all
of the above mentioned sound producing machines or devices in or on the
licensed premises after one o'clock (1:00) A.M., CST or CDST, on any day of the
week.
   F.   Penalties: In addition to all other fines and penalties pursuant to
section
1-4-1  of this code, the president may suspend or revoke the retail dealer's
license for any violation of the above subsection. (Ord. 381, 11-4-1996; amd.
Ord. 502, 4-10-2017; Ord. 529, 11-9-2020)
3-3-15: INSPECTION OF CLASS C LICENSE PREMISES:
   It shall be unlawful to refuse to grant admittance to the premises for which
a Class C license has been issued at any time upon the verbal request of any
police officer, the Health and Sanitation Officer or any member of the Board of
Trustees, for the purpose of making an inspection of such premises, or any part
thereof. (Ord. 356, 9-9-91)
3-3-16: EMPLOYEES:
   It shall be unlawful to employ in any premises used for the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor any person who is afflicted with, or who is a carrier of, any
contagious, infectious or venereal disease; and it shall be unlawful for any
person who is afflicted with or is a carrier of any such disease to work in or
about any premises or to engage in any way in the handling, preparation or
distribution of such liquor. (1970 Code §3-9-17)
3-3-17: PREMISES REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Sanitary Conditions: All premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic
liquor, or for the storage of such liquor for sale, shall be kept in full
compliance with the ordinances regulating the condition of premises used for
the storage or sale of food for human consumption. (1970 Code §3-9-16)
   B.   View from Street: In premises upon which the sale of alcoholic liquor
for consumption on the premises is licensed (other than as a restaurant, hotel
or club), no screen, blind, curtain, partition, article or thing shall be
permitted in the windows or upon the doors of such licensed premises nor inside
such premises, which shall prevent a clear view into the interior of such
licensed premises from the street, road or sidewalk at all times, and no booth,
screen, partition or other obstruction nor any arrangement of lights or
lighting shall be permitted in or about the interior of such premises which
shall prevent a clear view of the entire interior from the street, road or
sidewalk. All rooms where liquor is sold for consumption on the premises shall
be continuously lighted during business hours by natural light or artificial
white light so that all parts of the interior of the premises shall be clearly
visible. In case the view into any such licensed premises required by the
foregoing provisions shall be wilfully obscured by the licensee or by him
wilfully permitted to be obscured or in any manner obstructed, then such
license shall be subject to revocation in the manner herein provided. In order
to enforce the provisions of this subsection, the President shall have the
right to require the filing with him of plans, drawings and photographs showing
the clearance of the view as above required. (1970 Code §3-9-21)
3-3-18: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Peddling: It shall be unlawful to peddle alcoholic liquor in the
Village. (1970 Code §3-9-15)
   B.   Sale to Intoxicated Persons, Habitual Drunkards: It shall be unlawful
for any holder of a retail liquor dealer's license to sell, deliver or give any
alcoholic liquor to any intoxicated person or to any person known to him to be
an habitual drunkard, spendthrift or persons known to be under legal disability
or in need of mental treatment. (1970 Code §3-9-23; 1995 Code)
   C.   Gambling: It shall be unlawful to permit any gambling on any premises
licensed to sell alcoholic liquor. (1970 Code §3-9-24)
3-3-19: RESTRICTIONS CONCERNING MINORS:
   A.   Purchase by Minor: It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of
twenty one (21) to purchase or obtain any alcoholic liquor in any liquor
establishment or other place in the Village where alcoholic liquor is sold.
   B.   Misrepresentation of Age: It shall be unlawful for any person under the
age of twenty one (21) to misrepresent his or her age for the purpose of
purchasing or obtaining alcoholic liquor in any liquor establishment or other
place in the Village where alcoholic liquor is sold.
   C.   Display of Warning: In every liquor establishment or other place in the
Village where alcoholic liquor is sold, there shall be displayed at all times
in a prominent place, a printed card which shall be supplied by the Village
Clerk and which shall read substantially as follows:
Warning to Minors
You are subject to a fine up to $500.00 under the ordinances of the Village of
South Pekin if you purchase alcoholic liquor,
or misrepresent your age for the purpose of purchasing or obtaining alcoholic
liquor.
   D.   Responsibility of Licensee: It shall be unlawful for any holder of a
retail liquor dealer's license, or his or her agent or employee, to suffer or
permit any minor to be or remain in any room or compartment adjoining or
adjacent to or situated in the room or place where such licensed premises is
located; provided, that this subsection shall not apply to any minor which is
accompanied by his or her parent or guardian, or any licensed premises which
derives its principal business from the sale of services or other commodities
other than alcoholic liquor.
   E.   License Suspension or Revocation for Violation: In addition to all
other fines and penalties, the President may suspend or revoke the retail
liquor dealer's license for any violation of the above paragraph.
   F.   Parental Responsibility: It shall be unlawful for any parent or
guardian to permit any minor child of which he or she may be the parent or
guardian to violate any of the provisions of this Section.
   G.   Prohibited Acts: It shall be unlawful:
      1.   To sell, give or deliver alcoholic liquor to any minor.
      2.   For any minor to attend any bar.
      3.   For any minor to draw, pour or mix any alcoholic liquor in any
licensed retail premises.
(1970 Code §3-9-22)
3-3-20: LICENSEE REPORT COMMISSION OF CRIME:
   Each licensee and each of his agents and employees shall properly report to
the Police Department any incident occurring on or about the licensed premises
and in his knowledge or view relating to the commission of any crime, including
any violation of this Chapter, and shall truthfully and fully answer all
questions and investigations of any identified police officer who makes inquiry
concerning any persons in or about the licensed premises. In the event any
criminal charges are filed by Tazewell County State's Attorney's Office
relating to any incident occurring on or about the licensed premises relating
to the commission of any crime, including any violation of this Chapter, each
licensee and each of his agents and employees shall sign appropriate charges,
appear before the Tazewell County Grand Jury, appear in Court to testify, and
in all other respects cooperate with the State's Attorney's Office in the
prosecution of any such crime.
(Ord. 356, 9-9-91)
3-3-21: LICENSE REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION; HEARING; NOTICE:
   A.   Revocation or Suspension by President for Cause: The President may
suspend or revoke any license issued under the provisions of this Chapter for
any one or more of the following reasons:
      1.   Violation of Federal laws, the laws of this State, including the
rules and regulations of the Illinois Liquor Control Act, or any of the
provisions of this Chapter.
      2.   The wilful making of any false statement as to a material fact in
the application for a license or a renewal thereof.
      3.   The permitting of any unlawful conduct upon the premises for which
such license is issued.
      4.   The permitting of any person other than the named licensee to
operate an alcoholic liquor business under such license. (1970 Code §3-9-26;
1995 Code)
   B.   Revocation for Nonuse:
      1.   No person shall continue to hold a liquor license issued with
respect to a particular premises unless such premises are approved by the
President as being in compliance herewith, and in addition, that such person is
actively engaged in the liquor business upon such premises. In the event that a
person to whom a liquor license has been issued loses the right to occupy such
premises, or the same are destroyed by an act of God, or by reason of
condemnation or similar proceedings, through no fault of such person, the time
remaining in the current license term after the date of last business
operations shall be considered as reserved, and if within ninety (90) days from
the date of last business operations such person shall resume business
operations at a location to be approved by the President, such person may
continue such liquor business for said reserved period of time; provided,
however, that such license shall be automatically cancelled if not placed in
use by the person to whom it was issued, with consent of the President, within
ninety (90) days from its last use.
      2.   This subsection is intended to require the licensee to re-establish
his business, if terminated for one of the reasons contained herein, and none
other, within ninety (90) days, or to forfeit such license. Any license so
forfeited shall not be renewed or reissued. (1970 Code §3-9-27)
   C.   Hearing; Notice; Appeal to State:
      1.   No liquor license shall be revoked or suspended except after a
public hearing by the President after three (3) days' written notice to the
licensee, affording such licensee an opportunity to appear and defend;
provided, however, that if the President has reason to believe that any
continued operation of a particular licensed business will threaten the
immediate welfare of the community, he may, upon the issuance of a written
order stating the reason for such conclusion and without notice of hearing,
order the licensed premises closed for not more than seven (7) days, giving the
licensee an opportunity to be heard during that period, except that if such
licensee shall also be engaged in the conduct of another business or businesses
on the licensed premises, such order shall not be applicable to such other
business or businesses.
      2.   The President shall, within ten (10) days after such hearing, if he
thereafter determines that the license should be revoked or suspended, state
his reasons and such determination in a written order of revocation or
suspension and shall serve a copy of such order within the said ten (10) days
upon said licensee.
      3.   The licensee shall thereafter have such privilege of appeal to the
State Liquor Control Commission as provided by law.
(1970 Code §3-9-28)
CHAPTER 4
AMUSEMENTS
SECTION:
3-4-1: Application of Provisions
3-4-2: License Required; Fees
3-4-3: Street Shows; Permission Required
3-4-4: Athletic Exhibitions
3-4-5: Order; Crowding
3-4-6: Inspections
3-4-7: Safety Restrictions and Requirements
3-4-1: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this Chapter, except as to licensing and fees, shall apply to
all public shows, theatricals, circuses and other amusements in the Village
whether specifically licensed in another section or chapter of this Code. (1970
Code §3-2-1)
3-4-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEES:
   A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful to conduct or operate any
amusement which is open to the public and for admission to which a fee is
charged without having first secured a license therefor, except that motion
pictures and theatricals are specifically exempted from licensing. Provided,
however, that the provisions of this Section shall not be held to apply to
those amusements which are specifically licensed by any other section or
chapter in this Code.
   B.   Application for License: Application for such licenses shall be made to
the Clerk, and shall comply with the general provisions relating to such
application.
   C.   License Fees: For such licenses, the following fees shall be paid:
   Menageries   $5.00 per day
   Carnivals   10.00 per day
   Exhibitions of inanimate objects   5.00 per day
   All other amusements   5.00 per day
(1970 Code §3-2-2)
3-4-3: STREET SHOWS; PERMISSION REQUIRED:
   No permit shall be granted for any carnival, circus, exhibition show or
other amusement to be given on any public street or sidewalk or in such a place
that the only main accommodation for the public or the audience will be in a
public place, except on order of the Board of Trustees.
(1970 Code §3-2-3)
3-4-4: ATHLETIC EXHIBITIONS:
   A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful to conduct, operate or exhibit
any race between persons, animals or vehicles, or any baseball games, boxing or
wrestling matches or any other athletic contest or exhibition for admission to
which a fee is charged without having procured a license therefor, except such
events as may be conducted by duly accredited schools.
   B.   Statement of Gross Receipts; Payment of Fee: The proprietor of such
exhibition shall submit to the Clerk a statement verified under oath of the
gross receipts of each such game, contest or race, within one week after such
exhibition. At the same time such proprietor or person exhibiting or operating
such exhibition shall pay to the Clerk a sum equal to three percent (3%) of the
gross receipts.
   C.   Maintain Order; Examine Books: Sufficient members of the Police
Department shall be admitted free of charge to all such exhibitions for the
purpose of preserving and maintaining order; and the Clerk may post a person or
any number of persons at the box office of each such performance, and may
examine all books pertaining to such performance showing or tending to show the
gross receipts. (1970 Code §3-2-4)
3-4-5: ORDER; CROWDING:
   A.   Orderly Conduct by Audience: The audience of any amusement, show or
theatrical must be orderly and quiet at all times, and it shall be unlawful for
any person attending such amusement, show or theatrical to create a disturbance
in the audience.
   B.   Dangerous Conditions Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to permit or
gather such a crowd to witness any amusement or show so as to create a
dangerous condition because of fire or other risks. (1970 Code §3-2-5)
3-4-6: INSPECTIONS:
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to see that every exhibition,
amusement, theatrical or other public show or amusement is inspected by a
member of the Police Department and to insure conformity with the provisions
concerning such amusements. (1970 Code §3-2-6)
3-4-7: SAFETY RESTRICTIONS AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Smoking:
      1.   Smoking Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to smoke or carry a lighted
cigar, cigarette or pipe beneath the stage or in a dressing room of any
building used as an assembly hall with seating accommodations for more than one
hundred (100) persons or in which theatricals, shows, amusements, lectures or
other entertainments are offered, operated, presented or exhibited. (1970 Code
§3-2-7)
      2.   No Smoking Signs: It shall be the duty of the owner of such premises
or the occupant in charge to provide and place printed signs on which the words
"No Smoking" shall appear in letters at least four inches (4") high, in
conspicuous places, at least two (2) such signs being upon the stage or in the
wings thereof and in each dressing room. (1970 Code §3-2-8)
   B.   Exit Lights: It shall be the duty of the owner or occupant in charge of
any building or hall used as an assembly hall with accommodations for one
hundred (100) persons or more in which theatricals, shows, amusements, lectures
and other entertainments are offered, operated or presented to provide and
place a sign, on which the word "Exit" shall appear in letters at least six
inches (6") high, over every door or other opening from such hall to every
means of egress therefrom and a light shall be provided with a red globe and
placed at or over such sign, which light shall be kept burning during the
entire period that the hall is open to the public and until the audience has
left the hall.
(1970 Code §3-2-9)
ARTICLE A. COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICES
SECTION:
3-4A-1: Definitions
3-4A-2: Operator's License and Fee
3-4A-3: Proprietor's License Required; Fee
3-4A-4: Application for License and License Conditions
3-4A-5: Increasing Number of Devices
3-4A-6: Evidence of Ownership Filed with Clerk
3-4A-7: Gambling Devices
3-4A-1: DEFINITIONS:
   COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICE: Any amusement machine or device operated by
means of the insertion of a coin, token or similar object, for the purpose of
amusement or skill and for the playing of which a fee is charged. The term does
not include vending machines in which are not incorporated gaming or amusement
features, but for purposes of this Article, it does include coin-operated
mechanical musical devices commonly called juke boxes.
   OPERATOR: Any person, firm, corporation, partnership or association who sets
up for operation by another or leases or distributes for the purpose of
operation by another, any device as herein defined, whether such setting up for
operation, leasing or distributing be for a fixed charge or rental, or on the
basis of a division of the income derived from such device, or otherwise.
   PROPRIETOR: Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, association or club
who, as the owner, lessee or proprietor has under his or its control any
establishment, place or premises in or at which such device is placed or kept
for use or play, or on exhibition for the purpose of use or play.
(1970 Code §3-3-1)
3-4A-2: OPERATOR'S LICENSE AND FEE:
   The Village Board may require any person who engages in the business of
operator of coin-operated amusement devices, as the terms are herein defined,
to obtain a license therefor, and to pay such fees as may be set by the Board
from time to time.
(1970 Code §3-3-3)
3-4A-3: PROPRIETOR'S LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE:
   A.   License Required: No person shall engage in the business of an operator
or proprietor of coin-operated amusement devices, as the terms are herein
defined, without first having obtained the proper license therefor. (1970 Code
§3-3-2)
   B.   Fee: The license fee for each proprietor as herein defined shall be
fifteen dollars ($15.00) per year for each device used or played, or exhibited
for use or play. All proprietor's license fees shall be payable annually in
advance; provided, that where application is made after the expiration of any
portion of any license year, a license may be issued for the remainder thereof
upon payment of a proportionate part of the annual fee. In no case shall any
portion of said license fee be repaid to the licensee. (1970 Code §3-3-4)
3-4A-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE AND LICENSE CONDITIONS:
   A.   Contents of Application: Application for license hereunder shall be
filed in writing with the Village Clerk, on a form to be provided by the
Village, and shall specify:
      1.   The name and address of the applicant, and if a firm, corporation,
partnership or association, the principal officers thereof and their addresses.
      2.   The address of the premises where the licensed device or devices are
to be operated, together with the character of the business as carried on at
such place.
      3.   The trade name and general description of the device or devices to
be licensed, the name of the manufacturer and the serial number and, if the
applicant is a proprietor, the number of devices to be licensed.
      4.   The name and address of the operator of the device or devices, if
other than the proprietor.
   B.   Payment of Fee: The proper license fee shall accompany such
application.
   C.   Investigation: Application for license hereunder shall be first
referred by the Village Clerk to the President and Board of Trustees who shall
make or cause to be made such investigation as they deem necessary.
   D.   Issuance or Denial of License: If the application is approved by the
President and Board of Trustees, the license shall be issued by the Clerk, and
the Clerk shall remit the fee to the Village Treasurer. If the license is
denied, the fee shall be returned to the applicant.
   E.   Term of License: All licenses under this Article shall expire on April
30 following their issuance.
   F.   Posting License: The license shall be posted in a conspicuous place in
the establishment of the licensee.
   G.   License Nontransferable: Such license shall be nonassignable and
nontransferable, and in the case of a proprietor shall apply only to the
premises for which such license is issued.
(1970 Code §3-3-5)
3-4A-5: INCREASING NUMBER OF DEVICES:
   In case a proprietor licensed under the provisions of this Article desires,
after the expiration of any portion of any license year, to increase the number
of devices to be used or played, or exhibited for use or play in his
establishment, he shall surrender his license to the Village Clerk who shall
issue a new license showing the number of devices licensed thereunder, upon
payment of the proper license fee therefor. (1970 Code §3-3-6)
3-4A-6: EVIDENCE OF OWNERSHIP FILED WITH CLERK:
   Any proprietor who owns such device or devices at the time this Article
becomes effective shall file with the Village Clerk evidence of such ownership
prior to the issuance of a license; and any proprietor purchasing a device or
devices after the effective date of this Article shall file with the Village
Clerk evidence of ownership thereof before exhibiting or placing said device or
devices for use or play. (1970 Code §3-3-7)
3-4A-7: GAMBLING DEVICES:
   A.   Article Not Applicable to Gambling Devices: Nothing in this Article
shall in any way be construed to authorize, license or permit any gambling
devices whatsoever, or any mechanism that has been judicially determined to be
a gambling device. (1970 Code §3-3-9)
   B.   Possession Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or
use in any place within the Village any coin-operated mechanical device for
which there has been purchased a coin-operated gambling device special tax
stamp issued by the Internal Revenue authorities of the United States
government.
ARTICLE B. BILLIARD AND POOL HALLS
SECTION:
3-4B-1: License Required; Fee
3-4B-2: Minors Restricted
3-4B-1: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE:
   A.   No person shall operate, maintain or conduct a billiard, pool,
bagatelle or pigeonhole table open to the public without having first obtained
a license therefor as is herein required. All applications for such licenses
shall state thereon the intended location of the place of business and the
number of tables to be used therein. (1970 Code §3-4-1)
   B.   The annual fee for such license shall be ten dollars ($10.00) for each
table.
(1970 Code §3-4-2; 1995 Code)
3-4B-2: MINORS RESTRICTED:
   Minors under the age of sixteen (16) years shall under no circumstances
frequent, loiter, go or remain in any hall licensed hereunder at any time,
unless it be upon some lawful errand and sent under the direction and the
consent and knowledge of the parent, guardian or other person having the lawful
custody of such minor; and it shall be unlawful for the proprietor of any hall
so licensed to allow or permit any such minor to frequent, loiter or remain
within the hall in violation of this Section. (1970 Code §3-4-3)
CHAPTER 5
PEDDLERS AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS
SECTION:
3-5-1: Peddlers
3-5-2: Itinerant Merchants
3-5-1: PEDDLERS:
   A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the
business of hawker or peddler of any merchandise, article or thing without
having first obtained a license therefor. (1970 Code §3-11-1)
   B.   Application for License: Application for such license shall be made to
the Clerk, and shall state thereon the number of vehicles, if any, intended to
be operated, the kind of article or merchandise to be peddled and the permanent
address of the peddler. Applications for such license shall be made no less
than forty eight (48) hours before its intended use. The hours during which the
license is valid shall be nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. until nine o'clock (9:00)
P.M. (1970 Code §3-11-2; amd. Ord. 273, 1-7-80; 1995 Code)
   C.   License Fee; Exception: The fee for such license shall be twenty five
dollars ($25.00) per day; however, farmers selling their own produce are not
required to pay a fee. (Ord. 273, 1-7-80)
   D.   Fraud: Any licensed peddler or hawker who shall be guilty of any fraud,
cheating or misrepresentation, whether through himself or through an employee,
while acting as a peddler in the Village or who shall barter, sell or peddle
any goods, wares or merchandise other than those specified in his application
for license shall, on conviction, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. (1970 Code
§3-11-4)
3-5-2: ITINERANT MERCHANTS:
   A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful to do business in the Village as
an itinerant merchant without having first secured a license as herein
provided. For the purpose of this Section, any merchant engaging or intending
to engage in business as a merchant in the Village for a period of time not
exceeding one hundred (100) days shall be considered as an itinerant merchant;
provided, that peddlers shall not be considered itinerant merchants. (1970 Code
§3-12-1)
   B.   Application for License: Every application for such a license shall set
forth the commodities to be sold, and the place intended to be occupied or used
for the business. (1970 Code §3-12-2)
   C.   License Fee: The fee for such license shall be one hundred dollars
($100.00) for one month or any part thereof.
(1970 Code §3-12-3; 1995 Code)
CHAPTER 6
PUBLIC SOLICITATIONS
SECTION:
3-6-1: Definitions
3-6-2: Certificate of Registration Required; Expiration Date
3-6-3: Application for Certificate of Registration; Conditions
3-6-4: Issuance or Denial of Certificate
3-6-5: Notice Regulating Soliciting
3-6-6: Duty of Solicitors
3-6-7: Uninvited Solicitors Prohibited
3-6-8: Time Limit on Soliciting
3-6-9: Telephone Solicitation or Promotion; Registration Required
3-6-10: Revocation of Certificate; Notice
3-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter, the following words as used herein shall be
construed to have the meanings herein ascribed thereto:
REGISTERED SOLICITOR: Means and includes any person who has obtained a valid
certificate of registration as hereinafter provided, and which certificate is
in the possession of the solicitor on his or her person while engaged in
soliciting.
RESIDENCE: Means and includes every separate living unit occupied for
residential purposes by one or more persons, contained within any type of
building or structure.
SOLICITING: Means and includes any one or more of the following activities:
         Seeking to obtain orders for the purchase of goods, wares,
merchandise, foodstuffs, services of any kind, character or description
whatever, for any kind of consideration whatever; or
         Seeking to obtain prospective customers for application or purchase of
insurance of any type, kind or character; or
         Seeking to obtain subscriptions to books, magazines, periodicals,
newspapers and every other type or kind of publication; or
         Seeking to obtain gifts or contributions of money, clothing or any
other valuable thing for the support or benefit of any charitable or nonprofit
association, organization, corporation or project. (1970 Code §3-14-1)
3-6-2: CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION REQUIRED; EXPIRATION DATE:
   A.   Application for Certificate: Every person desiring to engage in
soliciting as herein defined from persons in residences within this Village is
hereby required to make written application for a certificate of registration
as hereinafter provided. (1970 Code §3-14-2)
   B.   Expiration Date of Certificate: The certificate of registration shall
state the expiration date thereof. (1970 Code §3-14-4)
3-6-3: APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION; CONDITIONS:
   A.   Contents of Application: Application for a certificate of registration
shall be made upon a form provided by the Chief of Police and filed with such
Chief. The applicant shall truthfully state in full the following information
requested on the application:
      1.   Name and address of present place of residence and length of
residence at such address, business address if other than residence address,
and social security number.
      2.   Address of place of residence during the past three (3) years if
other than present address.
      3.   Age of applicant and marital status, and if married the name of
spouse.
      4.   Physical description of the applicant.
      5.   Name and address of the person, firm, corporation or association
whom the applicant is employed by or represents, and the length of time of such
employment or representation.
      6.   Name and address of employer during the past three (3) years if
other than the present employer.
      7.   Description sufficient for identification of the subject matter of
the solicitation in which the applicant will engage.
      8.   Period of time for which the certificate is applied.
      9.   The date, or approximate date, of the latest previous application
for certificate under this Chapter, if any.
      10.   Whether a certificate of registration issued to the applicant under
this Chapter ever been revoked.
      11.   Whether the applicant ever been convicted of a violation of any of
the provisions of this Chapter, or an ordinance of any other Illinois
municipality regulating soliciting.
      12.   Whether the applicant ever been convicted of the commission of a
felony under the laws of the State of Illinois or any other State or Federal
law of the United States.
      13.   Also such additional information as the Chief of Police may deem
necessary to process the application.
   B.   Statements under Oath: All statements made by the applicant under the
application or in connection therewith shall be under oath.
   C.   Record of Applications: The Chief of Police shall cause to be kept in
his office an accurate record of every application received and acted upon
together with all other information and data pertaining thereto and all
certificates of registration issued under the provisions of this Chapter, and
of the denial of applications. Applications for certificates shall be numbered
in consecutive order as filed, and every certificate issued, and any renewal
thereof, shall be identified with the duplicate number of the application upon
which it was issued.
   D.   Denial of Issuance: No certificate of registration shall be issued to
any person who has been convicted of the commission of a felony under the laws
of the State of Illinois or any other State or Federal law of the United
States, within five (5) years of the date of the application; nor to any person
who has been convicted of a violation of any of the provisions of this Chapter,
nor to any person whose certificate of registration issued hereunder has
previously been revoked as herein provided. (1970 Code §3-14-3; 1995 Code)
3-6-4: ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF CERTIFICATE:
The Chief of Police, after consideration of the application and all information
obtained relative thereto, shall deny the application if the applicant does not
possess the qualifications for such certificate as herein required, and that
the issuance of a certificate of registration to the applicant would not be in
accord with the intent and purpose of this Chapter. Endorsement shall be made
by the Chief of Police upon the application of the denial of the application.
When the applicant is found to be fully qualified, the certificate of
registration shall be issued forthwith. (1970 Code §3-14-4)
3-6-5: NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING:
   A.   Notice of the determination by the occupant of giving invitation to
solicitors, or the refusal of invitation to solicitors, in any residence, shall
be given in the manner following:
   A weatherproof card, approximately three inches by four inches (3" x 4") in
size, shall be exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence,
indicating the determination by the occupant, containing the applicable words,
as follows:
      NO SOLICITORS INVITED.
   The letters shall be at least one-third inch (1/3") in height. For the
purpose of uniformity, the cards shall be provided by the Chief of Police to
persons requesting, at the cost thereof.
   B.   Such card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon. (1970 Code §3-14-5)
3-6-6: DUTY OF SOLICITORS:
   A.   It shall be the duty of every solicitor, upon going onto any premises
in the Village upon which a residence as herein defined is located, to first
examine the notice provided for in Section 3-6-5 of this Chapter, if any is
attached, and be governed by the statement contained on the notice. If the
notice states: "NO SOLICITORS INVITED", then the solicitor shall immediately
and peacefully depart from the premises.
   B.   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether invited
or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant. (1970 Code §3-14-6)
3-6-7: UNINVITED SOLICITORS PROHIBITED:
It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or
create any sound in any other manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of such residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting as herein defined, in defiance of the
notice exhibited at the residence in accordance with the provisions of Section
3-6-5 of this Chapter. (1970 Code §3-14-7)
3-6-8: TIME LIMIT ON SOLICITING:
It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person, whether registered under this Chapter or not, to go upon any premises
and ring the doorbell upon or near any door of a residence located thereon, or
rap or knock upon any door, or create any sound in any other manner calculated
to attract the attention of the occupant of such residence, for the purpose of
soliciting as herein defined, prior to nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. or after nine
o'clock (9:00) P.M. of any weekday, or at any time on a Sunday or on a State or
national holiday. (1970 Code §3-14-8)
3-6-9: TELEPHONE SOLICITATION OR PROMOTION; REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
   A.   Certificate of Registration Required: It shall be unlawful for any
person in his own name, or in the name of or for the benefit of any other
person, to conduct any sales campaign or sales promotion of any nature
whatsoever through the use of the telephone without having first obtained a
certificate of registration from the Village Clerk.
   B.   Application for Registration: Application for such registration shall
be made to the Clerk, setting forth the name of the applicant, his employer or
organization, the article or goods proposed to be sold, terms of sale, length
of time such campaign or promotion is sought to be continued, and names and
addresses of all persons assisting in such campaign or promotion within the
Village.
   C.   Solicitation for Charitable Use Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for
any person to conduct or make any solicitation by telephone for any pecuniary
compensation or other profit on behalf of any actual or purported charitable
use, purpose, association, corporation or institution. (1970 Code §6-2-7-9)
3-6-10: REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE; NOTICE:
   A.   Any certificate of registration issued hereunder shall be revoked by
the Chief of Police if the holder of the certificate is convicted of a
violation of any of the provisions of this Chapter or has made a false material
statement in the application, or otherwise becomes disqualified for the
issuance of a certificate of registration under the terms of this Chapter.
Immediately upon such revocation, written notice thereof shall be given by the
Chief of Police to the holder of the certificate in person or by certified U.S.
mail addressed to his or her residence address set forth in the application.
   B.   Immediately upon the giving of such notice, the certificate of
registration shall become null and void. (1970 Code §3-14-4)
CHAPTER 7
JUNK DEALERS
SECTION:
3-7-1: License Required
3-7-2: Application for License
3-7-3: License Fee
3-7-4: Location; Frontage Consents
3-7-5: Record of Purchases
3-7-6: Vehicles, Display Business Name
3-7-7: Stolen Goods, Report to Police
3-7-8: Restrictions
3-7-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   It shall be unlawful to operate or carry on the business of junk dealer or
to keep any junk shop, store or place for the purchase or sale of junk, junk
cars and parts, rags, old rope, paper or bagging, old iron, brass, copper or
empty bottles, without having obtained a license therefor as is hereinafter
provided. (1970 Code §3-10-1)
3-7-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   Applications for such licenses shall be made in conformance with the
provisions of this Code relating to licenses 1 . (1970 Code §3-10-2)
 
Notes
1 1. See Chapter 1 of this Title.
3-7-3: LICENSE FEE:
   The annual fee to be paid for such license shall be six thousand dollars
($6,000.00) and an additional fee of five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each
vehicle used in the conduct of such business.
(1970 Code §3-10-3; 1995 Code)
3-7-4: LOCATION; FRONTAGE CONSENTS:
   A.   Definitions:
   BLOCK: As used in this Section, shall be construed to mean and include that
portion of the street between the two (2) intersections with other public
streets nearest the specified location on each side; provided, that if, on
either or both sides of such location, there is no such intersection within
three hundred feet (300') of the center of the specified location, the block
shall be considered as terminating at a point three hundred feet (300') from
such center.
   STREET: As used in this Section, shall be construed to mean and include such
highways as have been dedicated by either common law or statutory dedication as
public streets and are actually in use as such. The term "street" shall not be
construed to include or mean service highways which are commonly known as
alleys.
   B.   Consent Required: No person shall locate, build, construct, operate or
maintain any junk yard in any block in the Village where two-thirds (2/3) of
the houses abutting on both sides of the street in the block are used
exclusively for residence purposes without having first secured the written
consent of the owners of two-thirds (2/3) of the frontage abutting on such
street on both sides within such block.
   C.   Zoning Regulations Prevail: Nothing contained in this Section shall be
taken to be in repeal of or in conflict with the zoning provisions of the
Village 2 . (1970 Code §3-10-6)
 
Notes
2 2. See Title 9 of this Code.
3-7-5: RECORD OF PURCHASES:
   It shall be the duty of each junk dealer to keep a book in which shall be
written at the time of every purchase by him of any article or thing of value,
a description thereof, the name, age and residence of the person from whom, and
the day and hour when such purchase was made, and there shall also be entered
in said book the name of the person to whom and the time when such article or
thing of value was sold or disposed of; which book shall be at all times open
to the inspection of the President, the Chief of Police or any member of the
Board. (1970 Code §3-10-7)
3-7-6: VEHICLES, DISPLAY BUSINESS NAME:
   Every vehicle used by a junk dealer in the conduct of his business shall
bear thereon in legible characters the name and address of the owner and
proprietor thereof, and the Village license number. (1970 Code §3-10-5)
3-7-7: STOLEN GOODS, REPORT TO POLICE:
   Every keeper of a junk shop who shall receive or be in possession of any
goods, articles or things of value which may have been lost or stolen shall,
upon demand, produce such articles or things to any member of the Police
Department for examination. (1970 Code §3-10-4)
3-7-8: RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Purchases from Intoxicated Persons; Persons Under Twenty One: No
purchases shall be made of any articles or things of value received from any
intoxicated person, or from any person under twenty one (21) years of age
without having obtained the written consent of the parent or guardian of such
minor. (1970 Code §3-10-8; 1995 Code)
   B.   Sales: No article or thing of value purchased or received by any junk
dealer shall be sold or otherwise disposed of until at least one week from the
date of its purchase or receipt shall have elapsed. (1970 Code §3-10-9)
CHAPTER 8
CIGARETTE AND TOBACCO DEALERS; VENDING MACHINES
SECTION:
3-8-1: Tobacco Dealers
3-8-2: Vending Machines
3-8-1: TOBACCO DEALERS:
   A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful to sell or give away tobacco in
the Village without being first licensed to do so by the Village. (1970 Code
§3-19-1)
   B.   Application for License: Application for such license shall be made in
writing to the Village Clerk. Such application shall contain the name of the
applicant and the address at which such sales are to be made, and shall be
filed with the Village Clerk together with the license fee hereinafter
required. (1970 Code §3-19-2)
   C.   License Fee: The fee for such a license shall be fifteen dollars
($15.00) per year.
(1970 Code §3-19-3; 1995 Code)
3-8-2: VENDING MACHINES:
   A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful to sell or give away any
cigarettes by means of a vending machine in the Village without being first
licensed to do so by the Village. (1970 Code §3-19-4)
   B.   Application for License: Application for such licenses shall be made in
writing to the Village Clerk. Such application shall contain the name of the
applicant, the address at which such sales are to be made and the number of
cigarette vending machines; and shall be filed with the Village Clerk together
with the license fee hereinafter required. (1970 Code §3-19-5)
   C.   License Fee: The annual fee for a license shall be fifteen dollars
($15.00) for each machine.
(1970 Code §3-19-6)
CHAPTER 9
SIDEWALK SALES
SECTION:
3-9-1: License Required
3-9-2: Application for License
3-9-3: License Fee; Term
3-9-4: Inspections
3-9-5: Restrictions and Requirements
3-9-6: Penalty
3-9-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, transient merchant,
church, club, charitable institution, hawker or peddler to vend, sell, dispose
or offer to vend, sell, dispose or display any goods, wares, merchandise,
produce or vegetables on any public walk, street, alley or anywhere within the
Village without having first obtained a license from the Village Clerk for that
purpose and having paid a license fee thereafter, as hereinafter provided.
( 1970 Code §3-15-1)
3-9-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   Application for license to vend, sell, dispose or display merchandise,
goods, wares, produce or vegetables shall be made in writing to the Village
Clerk. The application shall contain the name of the applicant, if an
individual, the names of partners, if a copartnership, or the names of the
principal officers, if a corporation, church, club or charitable institution,
and shall include the location of the place or places where such merchandise,
goods, wares, produce or vegetables are to be so displayed and sold. (1970 Code
§3-15-2)
3-9-3: LICENSE FEE; TERM:
   The license fee to be charged for such application is five dollars ($5.00),
and no license shall be valid for more than two (2) days.
(1970 Code §3-15-3; 1995 Code)
3-9-4: INSPECTIONS:
   The Chief of Police and the Chief of the Fire Department shall make or cause
to be made sufficient inspections to insure the compliance with the provisions
of this Chapter and other applicable provisions of the Village ordinances by
the personnel conducting such sales. (1970 Code §3-15-5)
3-9-5: RESTRICTIONS AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   No street or alley shall be blocked by any merchandise offered for sale
hereunder.
   B.   A two foot (2') passageway for pedestrians shall be left open, and
merchandise shall be securely and adequately placed so that it will not
endanger passers-by or fall or extrude into any street or alley.
   C.   Such sales shall not be operated in any manner which would cause a
nuisance or create a fire hazard. (1970 Code §3-15-4)
3-9-6: PENALTY:
   Any person violating any provision of this Chapter shall be subject to
penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code.
(1970 Code §3-15-6; 1995 Code)
CHAPTER 10
SPECIAL EVENTS
SECTION:
3-10-1: License Required
3-10-2: Application For License
3-10-3: License Fee; Term
3-10-4: Inspections
3-10-5: Restrictions And Requirements
3-10-6: Deadline For Application Process
3-10-7: Penalty
3-10-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   Excluding village and/or village sponsored events, it shall be unlawful for
any person, firm, corporation or business, club, or charitable institution to
have a special event anywhere within the village without having first obtained
a license from the village clerk for that purpose and having paid a license fee
thereafter, as hereinafter provided. A special event is deemed to be all
outdoor events requested on village property, i.e., street, sidewalk, park,
etc., and/or deemed to significantly impact the village. (Ord. 484, 3-10-2014)
3-10-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   Application for special events shall be made in writing on the special event
application to be provided by the village clerk. The application shall contain
the name of the applicant, if an individual, the names of partners, if a
partnership, or the names of the principal officers, if a corporation or
business, church, club, or charitable institution, and shall include such other
information as required on the permit application.
(Ord. 484, 3-10-2014)
3-10-3: LICENSE FEE; TERM:
   The license fee to be charged for such application is one hundred dollars
($100.00), to be paid at the same time when the completed application is
returned to the village clerk. Said fee is nonrefundable. No license shall be
valid for more than two (2) days.
(Ord. 484, 3-10-2014)
3-10-4: INSPECTIONS:
   The chief of police and the chief of the fire department shall make or cause
to be made sufficient inspections to ensure the compliance with the provisions
of this chapter and other applicable provisions of the village ordinances by
the personnel conducting such special event.
(Ord. 484, 3-10-2014)
3-10-5: RESTRICTIONS AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   No street or alley shall be blocked by any special event, unless
preapproved by the village board, under conditions set forth by the village
board or chief of police.
   B.   A four foot (4') passageway for pedestrians shall be left open so that
event activities shall not endanger passersby or extrude into any street or
alley.
   C.   Such events shall not be operated in any manner which would cause a
nuisance or create a fire hazard.
(Ord. 484, 3-10-2014)
3-10-6: DEADLINE FOR APPLICATION PROCESS:
   All special permit applications and payments must be made at least thirty
(30) days prior to the proposed special event date. No special event permits
will be issued without final approval of the village board. (Ord. 484, 3-10-
2014)
3-10-7: PENALTY:
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
(Ord. 484, 3-10-2014)
TITLE 4
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
4-1-1: Department Created, Members
4-1-2: Officers
4-1-3: Duties of Fire Chief
4-1-4: Firefighters
4-1-5: Secretary-Treasurer
4-1-6: Issuance of Warrants
4-1-7: Retirement
4-1-8: Hindering Officers
4-1-9: Property Saved at Fire
4-1-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED, MEMBERS:
   There is hereby created a Fire Department to be known as the South Pekin
Volunteer Fire Department. The Fire Department shall consist of a Fire Chief,
an Assistant Fire Chief, firefighters, drivers, truckmen and a president and
secretary-treasurer, and such other persons or employees as the President and
Board of Trustees may from time to time by motion or resolution provide. (1970
Code §5-1-1)
4-1-2: OFFICERS:
   There is hereby created the offices of Fire Chief and secretary-treasurer,
each office to be filled by a member of said Fire Department and elected by
majority vote of the members thereof, the election for each officer to be
ratified by the Board.
(1970 Code §5-1-2; 1995 Code)
4-1-3: DUTIES OF FIRE CHIEF:
   A.   Custody of Property: The Fire Chief shall have the custody of the
engines, hose carts, trucks, ladders, buildings, equipment and all other
property or things belonging to, or appertaining to said Fire Department. (1970
Code §5-1-3)
   B.   Examination and Maintenance of Equipment: The Fire Chief shall, at
least twice a year, and at such other times as directed by the Board of
Trustees, examine into the condition of the equipment and apparatus of the Fire
Department, and he shall report to the Board of Trustees within ten (10) days
after such examination, together with any recommendations that he may deem
proper to make for the good of the Department. He shall keep himself at all
times fully informed on the condition and efficiency of all equipment and
apparatus, and when the same shall require alteration of repair, he shall cause
the same to be done under the supervision and direction of the Police, Fire and
EMA Committee of the Board of Trustees.
   C.   Prefer Charges Against Members for Neglect of Duty: He may prefer
charges to the Police, Fire and EMA Committee against any member of the Fire
Department for incompetency, neglect of duty, disobedience of orders, or
violation of any of the rules and regulations of said Department. (1970 Code
§5-1-4; 1995 Code)
   D.   Records and Reports:
      1.   Record of Members: The Fire Chief shall keep a record of all of the
members of the Department, showing the date of their employment, enlistment or
discharge, together with their age, rate of pay, if any, and the amount due
them and shall report the same at the end of each month to the President and
Board of Trustees.
      2.   Report Fires: He shall also report an accurate record of all fires
occurring in the Village, fire districts and territories under current contract
and/or currently being served by the Fire Department, including the date, name
of the owner of the property damaged or destroyed, the cause of fire, the loss
in kind and in value, the amount of insurance coverage, and such other
information as may be required of him or as he may deem of importance to the
Village. (1970 Code §5-1-5)
   E.   Organization of Department: The Fire Chief shall see that the
organization of the said Department is efficiently preserved, its records
properly kept and its rules and regulations duly observed by its members. (1970
Code §5-1-6)
4-1-4: FIREFIGHTERS:
   A.   Appointment: The Police, Fire and EMA Committee shall appoint and
designate as many voluntary firefighters as they may deem necessary and shall
see that such volunteers are properly organized. Said volunteers may, with the
consent and approval of the President and Board of Trustees, make and establish
rules and regulations for the government of their Department, not inconsistent
with the provisions of this Chapter. (1970 Code §5-1-7; 1995 Code)
   B.   Qualifications: No person shall be a member of said Fire Department
unless he has attained the age of eighteen (18) years, is a person of good
moral character and is qualified to vote in the Municipal elections of the
Village. (1970 Code §5-1-11; 1995 Code)
   C.   Illinois Fire Protection Training Act 1 :
      1.   The Village hereby elects to participate in the programs provided
for in the Illinois Fire Protection Training Act.
      2.   Before an individual may commence regular employment as a
firefighter, such person must have been certified by the Illinois State Fire
Marshal as a Firefighter II, as having successfully completed an approved
training course as provided in said Act.
      3.   The Firefighter II training must be completed by the trainee within
his probationary period of thirty two (32) months.
(Ord. 303A, 11-1-82; 1995 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 50 ILCS 740/1 et seq.
4-1-5: SECRETARY-TREASURER:
   A.   Bond: Before entering upon the duties of his office, the secretary-
treasurer shall execute a proof of bond to the Village in the penal sum of ten
thousand dollars ($10,000.00).
   B.   Duties:
      1.   The secretary-treasurer shall have custody of all monies received by
the Fire Department, including funds received a) from the Village, b) from the
fire districts and territories from time to time currently being serviced, and
c) from all other sources, fire insurance tax, contributions and otherwise,
each of said funds to be kept in separate and individual accounts and bank
deposits, and he shall keep an accurate account of all monies received by him
and its source, making a full and accurate report of all receipts to the Board
annually.
      2.   Said accounts shall be concurrent with the fiscal year of the
Village and shall be submitted for audit as a matter of course with the
corporate and several accounts of the Village.
(1970 Code §5-1-9; 1995 Code)
4-1-6: ISSUANCE OF WARRANTS:
   All payments made from any of the funds or accounts of the Fire Department
shall be made only by the issuance of warrants over the name South Pekin
Volunteer Fire Department, signed by its president and countersigned by its
secretary-treasurer; provided, said warrants shall issue only upon a majority
vote of those present at a regular meeting of the Fire Department; and provided
further, that every such warrant shall state plainly on its face the precise
purpose for which it is drawn.
(1970 Code §5-1-10)
4-1-7: RETIREMENT:
   Every member, upon attaining the age of sixty five (65) years, shall
automatically be retired from active service and participation as a member and
be presented with a service pin and made an honorary member of the Fire
Department; and provided, that any member, before attaining the age of sixty
five (65) but who becomes permanently disabled, shall be automatically retired
and presented a service pin and made an honorary member of the Department,
regardless of length of service, at the annual banquet following such permanent
disablement.
(1970 Code §5-1-12; 1995 Code)
4-1-8: HINDERING OFFICERS:
   It shall be unlawful to wilfully or intentionally hinder or interfere with
any Village officer or firefighter in the performance of his duty, or wilfully
or negligently drive any vehicle, locomotive or train of cars across, or upon
any hose or otherwise damage any equipment or apparatus belonging to said
Department.
(1970 Code §5-1-13)
4-1-9: PROPERTY SAVED AT FIRE:
   No person shall be permitted to remove or take away any property in the
possession of the Department saved from fire until proof of the ownership shall
have been made to the satisfaction of the Fire Chief.
(1970 Code §5-1-14)
CHAPTER 2
FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
SECTION:
4-2-1: Fireworks
4-2-2: Open Burning
4-2-3: Tank Trucks Carrying Gasoline, Flammable Liquids
4-2-1: FIREWORKS:
   A.   Definition: For the purpose of this section, "fireworks" means any
explosive composition or substance or combination of substances prepared for
the purpose of producing an audible or visible effect by combustion, explosion,
deflagration or detonation. It shall include blank cartridges, toy cannons in
which explosives are used, the type of balloons which require fire underneath
to propel the same, firecrackers, torpedoes, skyrockets, Roman candles, bombs
or other fireworks of similar construction or any other tablets and devices
containing any explosive substance, compound or mixture; provided, however,
that the term "fireworks" shall not include toy pistols, toy guns or other
devices in which paper caps are used; provided further, that such paper caps
contain twenty five one-hundredths (0.25) grains or less explosive compound and
that they are so constructed that the hand cannot come in contact with the cap
when in place for the explosion. (1970 Code §5-6-1)
   B.   Sale, Use Or Storage; Permit Required:
      1.   No person shall sell, offer for sale, expose for sale, loan, give
away, store or have in possession with intent to sell, or to use, discharge or
cause to be discharged, fired or otherwise set in action within the village any
"fireworks" as above defined; provided, however, that public exhibition of
fireworks and pyrotechnics may be given if a permit therefor be granted by the
village clerk with the approval of the board of trustees. Proof of insurance is
required from the applicant for such a permit. Such public exhibition for which
a permit has been duly acquired shall be subject to the supervision of the fire
chief or of some person designated by him. (1970 Code §5-6-2; amd. 1995 Code)
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to buy, sell, use, ignite or
explode fireworks of any kind within the village; provided, however, that a
permit may be secured from the village clerk allowing displays and exhibitions
to be held on holidays or other special occasions when adequate precautions are
taken and facilities provided to prevent injury to person or property. (1970
Code §6-2-4-6)
   C.   Seizure Authorized: The fire chief, with approval of the board of
trustees, shall seize, take, remove or cause to be removed, at the expense of
the owner, all stocks of fireworks offered or exposed for sale, stored or held
in violation of this section. (1970 Code §5-6-3)
   D.   Exceptions: The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
      1.   The use of fireworks by railroads or other transportation agencies
for signal or illumination purposes; provided, however, that such used articles
will be disposed of by burying the same in the ground or immersing the same in
water; or
      2.   The use of blank cartridges for signal or ceremonial purposes in
athletics or sports contests; or
      3.   Use by the armed forces of the United States or the state of
Illinois.
(1970 Code §5-6-4)
4-2-2: OPEN BURNING:
   A.   Definitions:
   BONFIRE: An outdoor fire utilized for ceremonial purposes.
   BRUSH: Tree trunks, limbs, branches and twigs.
   CEREMONIAL FIRE: An outdoor fire larger than three foot by three foot by
three foot (3'x 3'x 3') which is used for entertainment purposes as part of a
specifically scheduled public or private event and excludes leaves, grass,
shrubbery clippings or cuttings.
   INSTRUCTIONAL FIRE: The setting of fires for the purpose of instruction in
methods of firefighting by the applicable fire department.
   INTENTIONAL FIRE: The setting of fires to combat or limit existing fires or
in emergency or other extraordinary circumstances when reasonably necessary in
the judgment of the responsible officer of the applicable fire department.
   LANDSCAPE WASTE: All accumulations of grass, shrubbery clippings or
cuttings, leaves, flowers or weeds.
   OPEN BURNING: The burning of any materials wherein products of combustion
are emitted directly into the ambient air without passing through a stack or
chimney from an enclosed chamber. For the purpose of this definition, a chamber
shall be regarded as enclosed, when, during the time combustion occurs, only
apertures, ducts, stacks, flues or chimneys necessary to provide combustion air
and permit the escape of exhaust gas are open.
   RECREATIONAL FIRE: An outdoor fire for warmth, cooking for human consumption
or temporary nonceremonial purposes where the fire is not larger than three
feet by three feet by three feet (3'x 3'x 3') and excludes leaves, grass,
shrubbery clippings or cuttings.
   B.   Prohibitions:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to build, light, kindle, permit or maintain any
"bonfire" within the village limits.
      2.   It shall be unlawful to build, light, kindle, permit or maintain any
"ceremonial fire" within the village limits.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or allow "open
burning", unless permitted or approved in accordance with this code.
      4.   It shall be unlawful to build, light, kindle, permit or maintain
"any fire" so close to a building or structure as to cause danger thereto or
under any other circumstances where there is a danger of the fire spreading.
      5.   It shall be unlawful to build, light, kindle, permit or maintain
"any fire" on public or private roads, alleys, sidewalks or easements.
      6.   It shall be unlawful to build, light, kindle, permit or maintain
"any fire" when the wind is in excess of ten (10) miles per hour.
      7.   It shall be unlawful to build, light, kindle, permit or maintain an
"open burn" other than between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and six
o'clock (6:00) P.M.
      8.   It shall be unlawful to build, light, kindle, permit or maintain a
"recreational fire" past the hour of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight.
      9.   It shall be unlawful to build, light, kindle, permit or maintain
"open burning" of any materials other than dry landscape waste and brush, and
the open burning of dry landscape waste and brush shall only occur on the
property upon which the landscape waste and brush was generated.
      10.   It shall be unlawful to build, light, kindle, permit or maintain
the "open burning" of landscape waste and brush without being supervised until
the fire is extinguished.
      11.   It shall be unlawful to build, light, kindle, permit or maintain an
"open burn" without a fire extinguisher or garden hose, or water source being
available at the burning site.
      12.   It shall be the responsibility of the individual conducting the
burning and the owner of the property to satisfactorily determine that all
conditions upon burning as noted above are complied with during any burning.
      13.   All fires must be extinguished if they create a fire hazard,
nuisance, pollution problem or threat to public health.
   C.   Exceptions:
      1.   The setting of fires to combat or limit existing fires or in
emergency or other extraordinary circumstances when reasonably necessary in the
judgment of the responsible officer of the applicable fire department.
      2.   The setting of fires for the purpose of instruction in methods of
firefighting by the applicable fire department, provided however, firefighting
equipment adequate for the size of the fire shall be on site and nearby during
times of burning, burning shall not be for disposal purposes and all burning
shall comply with other federal, state and local laws, rules and ordinances.
   D.   Penalties: The property owner and the person conducting such burning
shall be jointly and severally liable for any violation of this section. Any
person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this section shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
(Ord. 439, 9-12-2005)
4-2-3: TANK TRUCKS CARRYING GASOLINE, FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS:
   A.   No tank truck conveying gasoline or other volatile liquids within the
village shall park or stand upon any street, alley or other public way except
for the purpose of unloading; provided however, that the standing of such
vehicle made necessary by mechanical trouble, traffic conditions, accident or
in obedience to the direction of a policeman or traffic signal shall not be
considered a violation of this section.
   B.   Any tank truck unloading gasoline or other volatile liquid within the
village shall have present at all times some person having authority over such
vehicle to supervise and watch such unloading and to prevent the danger of
explosives by reason of any fire hazard.
   C.   Tank trucks carrying flammable or volatile liquids shall not travel at
any speed in excess of ten (10) miles less than the posted speed limits.
(1970 Code §5-4-2)
CHAPTER 3
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-3-1: Definition
4-3-2: Duty To Maintain Private Property
4-3-3: Declaration Of Nuisance
4-3-4: Duty Of Village Officers To Investigate; Power Of Entry
4-3-5: Notice To Proper Officials
4-3-6: Foul Odors, Filth
4-3-7: Rubbish, Dry Grass
4-3-8: Petroleum Products, Explosives
4-3-9: Unsafe Buildings
4-3-10: Outdoor Storage Of Furniture
4-3-11:    Inoperable And Unused Motor Vehicles/Parts
4-3-12:    Abatement Procedure For All Nuisances Other Than Inoperable And
Unused Motor Vehicles/Parts; Costs; Lien
4-3-13:    Enforcement
4-3-14:    Penalty
4-3-1: DEFINITION:
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions of "nuisances"
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning:
   A.   Any condition or use of premises or building exterior which is
detrimental to the property of others or which causes or tends to cause
substantial diminution in the value of other property in the neighborhood in
which such premises are located. This includes, but is not limited to, the
keeping or depositing on, or the scattering over the premises of any of the
things or conditions set forth in the following subsections.
   B.   Lumber, junk, trash or debris.
   C.   Abandoned, discarded or unused objects or equipment such as automobiles
or parts, furniture, stoves, refrigerators, freezers, cans, containers, or
building materials such as lumber, windows, cement blocks, piping or wire.
   D.   Any compost pile which is of such a nature as to spread or harbor
disease, emit unpleasant odors or harmful gases, or attract rodents, vermin or
other disease carrying pests, animals or insects; provided, that the presence
of earthworms in a compost pile shall not constitute a nuisance.
   E.   Unsanitary matter on premises. It shall be unlawful for any person to
keep, or permit another to keep, upon any premises deleterious or septic
material, unless such material is retained in containers or vessels which deny
access to humans, flies, insects, rodents or animals.
   F.   Weeds such as jimson, burdock, ragweed, thistle, cocklebur or other
weeds of like kind.
   G.   Weeds, grasses or plants, other than trees, bushes, flowers or other
ornamental plants. It shall be unlawful for anyone to permit any weeds,
grasses, plants other than trees, bushes, flowers or other ornamental plants to
grow to a height exceeding eight (8') inches anywhere in the Village. Any such
plants or weeds exceeding such height are declared to be a nuisance.
   H.   Abandoned or inoperative motor vehicles and equipment.
   I.   Things interfering with peace or comfort. Sound, animals or things
which interfere with the peace and comfort or disturb the quiet of any person
in the village constitute a public nuisance.
   J.   Offensive, nauseous or dangerous things. Anything which is made,
permitted, used, kept, maintained or operated, or any building or any animal
that is kept in the village or outside the village but within one-half (1/2)
mile of its limits, in a manner that is offensive, nauseous, dangerous to life,
limb or property or detrimental to the health of the persons residing in that
area shall be a public nuisance.
   K.   Tanneries, soap factories and the like. Whoever shall, within the
limits of the village, establish or maintain any tallow chandlery, tannery,
bone or soap factory, or shall steam, boil or render any tainted lard, tallow,
offal or other unwholesome animal substance shall be deemed guilty of a
nuisance; or whoever shall, without the village limits and within one mile
thereof, establish or maintain any such chandlery, factory, tannery or rendery
without first having obtained such permission and consent shall so conduct or
carry on any such business as to taint the air and render it offensive or
unwholesome, or so as to affect the health or comfort of persons residing in
the neighborhood thereof shall be deemed guilty of a nuisance.
   L.   Discharge of offensive matter. Whoever shall, within the Village,
place, throw or permit to be discharged, or to flow from or out of any house or
premises, any filthy, foul or offensive matter or liquid of any kind, into any
street, alley or public place, or upon any adjacent lot or ground, or shall
allow or permit the same to be done by any person connected with the premises,
under his control, shall be deemed guilty of a nuisance.
   M.   Any other condition dangerous to health; offensive to community moral
standards; unlawfully obstructing the public in the free use of public
property; or behavior which unreasonably interferes with the health, safety,
peace, comfort or convenience of the general community.
   N.   Connection of footing tile or downspouts to the sanitary sewer system.
Whoever shall maintain their premises so as to cause, allow or permit storm
water, surface water, ground water, runoff water, subsurface drainage water or
the like to be discharged into the sanitary sewer system of the Village, by way
of downspouts, footing tile or otherwise, or whoever shall allow or permit the
same to be done by any person connected with the premises, under his control,
thereby contributing to the backup, surcharge, overflow or discharge of said
sanitary sewer system into or onto the premises of another shall be deemed
guilty of a nuisance. Whoever shall maintain their premises so as to cause,
allow or permit storm water, surface water, ground water, roof runoff water,
subsurface drainage water or the like to be discharged into the sanitary sewer
system of the Village, by way of downspouts, footing tiles or otherwise, or
whoever shall allow or permit the same to be done by any person connected with
the premises, under his control, thereby causing or tending to cause
substantial diminution in the value of other property in the neighborhood in
which such premises are located, shall be deemed guilty of a nuisance.
   O.   The various nuisances described and enumerated in this Section shall
not be deemed to be exclusive but shall be in addition to all other nuisances
prescribed or prohibited by this Chapter and those offenses known to the common
law or to the statutes of this State as nuisances. (Ord. 365, 7-5-93; amd. Ord.
522, 7-13-2020)
4-3-2: DUTY TO MAINTAIN PRIVATE PROPERTY:
   No person owning, leasing, occupying or having charge of any premises shall
maintain or keep any nuisance thereon nor shall any such person keep or
maintain such premises in a manner causing substantial diminution in the value
of the other property located in the neighborhood in which such premises are
located. (Ord. 365, 7-5-93)
4-3-3: DECLARATION OF NUISANCE:
   Any act of any person or group within the Village whereby the health or life
of any person may be endangered, injured or impaired; or any disease may,
directly or indirectly, be caused by the act; or because of the act, any
property may be endangered, injured, damaged or is substantially diminished in
value as described in Section 4-3-1 of this Chapter is hereby declared to be a
nuisance and unlawful. (Ord. 365, 7-5-93)
4-3-4: DUTY OF VILLAGE OFFICERS TO INVESTIGATE; POWER OF ENTRY:
   A.   For the purpose of discovering nuisances, it shall be the duty of the
police, fire, health and building officers and inspectors to investigate,
confirm and report any nuisances coming to their attention.
   B.   In order to investigate, confirm and report nuisances, said officers
and inspectors shall, upon proper identification, be permitted at any
reasonable hour and in a reasonable manner, to visit and enter into or upon any
premises or property within the Village to make an examination thereof, if they
shall have reasonable grounds to believe that a nuisance exists. (Ord. 365, 7-
5-93)
4-3-5: NOTICE TO PROPER OFFICIALS:
   Whenever any nuisance shall be reported to or investigated and determined by
the police, fire, health or building officers or inspectors, notice shall be
given to the owner or person in control of the property or premises involved,
and to the appropriate Village officials whose functions include the abatement
of such nuisance. (Ord. 365, 7-5-93)
4-3-6: FOUL ODORS, FILTH:
   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance and a danger to the health, safety,
welfare, peace and comfort of the Village and its residents for any person:
   A.   Business: To conduct any business or to use any premises so as to
create an offensive or foul odor which taints the air and renders it nauseous
to persons in the vicinity; or
   B.   Animals: To keep or maintain any animals in an unclean or filthy manner
or surroundings, or to keep or maintain any animals from which emit any
particularly foul or offensive odors; or
   C.   Animal Carcasses, Etc.: To cause or permit to be collected or to remain
upon any premises or place any animal carcass or any offal, filth, excretion or
other noisome or noxious animal matter of any kind which is, or is likely to
become, putrid, foul or offensive; or
   D.   Vegetable Matter: To cause or permit to be collected or to remain upon
any premises or place any slop or other vegetable matter of any kind which is
or is likely to become putrid, foul or offensive; or
   E.   Cellars, Vaults, Privies, Etc.: To cause or permit any cellar, vault,
cistern, drain, privy, yard or other premises whatsoever to become, from any
cause, foul or offensive or injurious to the public health; or
   F.   Stagnant Water: To permit to be collected or to stand upon any premises
any foul or stagnant water of any kind; or
   G.   Stables And Pigsties: To locate or maintain, or permit to exist or
remain anywhere within the village any stable or pigsty; or
   H.   Foul Or Noxious Substances: To use, deposit or keep any property,
substance or thing emitting or causing any foul, offensive, noisome, nauseous
or noxious odor, effluvia or stench particularly repulsive to the physical
senses and which annoys, discomforts or endangers the welfare, health or safety
of any person. (Ord. 365, 7-5-1993)
4-3-7: RUBBISH, DRY GRASS:
   It is hereby declared a menace to the public safety and health and a
nuisance for any person to cause or permit:
   A.   Rubbish, Rags, Etc.: The deposit or accumulation of any refuse, oily
rags, rubbish or other materials or substances of any kind, so as to constitute
a fire hazard;
   B.   Dry Grass, Vegetation, Etc.: The deposit, accumulation, existence or
growth upon any property of any dry or dead weeds, grass, vegetation or other
like substances of any kind, so as to constitute a fire hazard; or
   C.   Garbage And Refuse: The deposit, accumulation or existence of any
refuse, including rubbish, garbage, bulky wastes or brush or other materials or
substances in any waterway. (Ord. 365, 7-5-1993)
4-3-8: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS, EXPLOSIVES:
   It is hereby declared a menace to the public safety and a nuisance for any
person to cause or permit:
   A.   Petroleum Products: The accumulation or storage of any petroleum,
naphtha, benzine, coal oil, gasoline, kerosene, turpentine or other petroleum
products or inflammable fluids of any kind, in quantities greater than ten (10)
gallons on the interior of or within fifty feet (50') of any building
exclusively occupied as a residence; provided, however, that this section shall
not apply to licensed gasoline service stations or to fuel used for heating the
nearest adjacent residence.
   B.   Explosives: The deposit, accumulation, storage or presence, within one
hundred (100) yards of any building occupied as a residence or business, of any
powder magazine, nitroglycerine, dynamite or other explosive substance of any
kind. (Ord. 365, 7-5-1993)
4-3-9: UNSAFE BUILDINGS:
   It is hereby declared a menace to the public safety and a nuisance for any
person to cause or permit the existence of any unsafe, dilapidated or otherwise
insecure building, wall, stack, chimney, cornice, sign, awning or other like
structure of any kind which, from manner or construction, age, condition or
other circumstances, is or may become a menace to the safety of persons or
property. (Ord. 365, 7-5-1993)
4-3-10: OUTDOOR STORAGE OF FURNITURE:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this chapter, terms are defined as follows:
 
                       Any front, side or back porch, patio, deck or balcony
UNENCLOSED:            that is not closed in to shield it year-round from the
                       elements.
                       Any furniture that contains attached filling material
UPHOLSTERED FURNITURE: and is used or intended to be used for sitting,
                       reclining, or resting indoors.
 
   B.   Upholstered Furniture Or Mattresses In Yards Prohibited: The use,
keeping or storage of any furniture manufactured primarily for indoor use,
including but not limited to upholstered furniture, cabinets, mattresses and
box springs, sofas and chairs, dining room tables and chairs, shall be
prohibited on any front, back or side yard or patio visible from any public or
private place, sidewalk or road.
   C.   Use Of Porch For Storage Prohibited: The use, keeping or storage of any
furniture manufactured primarily for indoor use, including but not limited to
upholstered furniture, mattresses and box springs, sofas and chairs, shall be
prohibited on any front, back or side unenclosed porch, deck or balcony visible
from any public or private place, sidewalk or road. (Ord. 523, 7-13-2020)
4-3-11: INOPERABLE AND UNUSED MOTOR VEHICLES/PARTS1:
   A.   Nuisance Declared: It is hereby declared a menace to the public safety
and nuisance for any person to cause, permit or allow the existence of any
inoperable motor vehicle, any motor vehicle not regularly used, including, but
not limited to, inoperable antique vehicles, or any parts of a motor vehicle to
exist or be stored upon any public or private property within the village
provided, however, that nothing in this section shall apply to any motor
vehicle or part thereof which is kept in a building, or to a motor vehicle or
parts thereof completely on the premises of a duly licensed junkyard or lawful
storage facility business within the village. A "carport" or other open sided
structure, whether connected to a building or self-contained, no matter the
location on the property, is not considered a "building" for the purposes of
this subsection.
   B.   Definitions:
 
                          Any motor vehicle: 1) from which, for a period of at
                          least seven (7) days, the engine, wheels, or other
                          parts have been removed; or 2) on which the engine or
                          other parts have been removed, altered, damaged or
                          otherwise treated so that the vehicle is incapable of
                          being driven under its own motor power. Inoperable
                          motor vehicle shall not include any motor vehicle
                          which has been rendered temporarily incapable of
                          being driven under its own motor power in order to
INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE: perform ordinary service or repair operations.
                          However, a motor vehicle upon which repairs or
                          services are not concluded within seven (7) days from
                          the date of the notice specified in subsection C of
                          this section shall not be deemed to be "rendered
                          temporarily incapable of being driven under its own
                          motor power in order to perform ordinary service or
                          repair operations" and shall be construed to be an
                          inoperable motor vehicle. The fact that the
                          inoperable motor vehicle is on a licensed trailer
                          does not make it exempt from this definition.
 
 
                                  Any motor vehicle which: 1) has not been
                                  driven off the premises where it is parked or
                                  stored under its own motor power for a period
                                  longer than two (2) months; or 2) is not
                                  registered, licensed, or properly displaying
                                  registration plates or stickers as required
                                  under article IV of chapter 3 of the Illinois
                                  vehicle code; or 3) is registered as an
MOTOR VEHICLE NOT REGULARLY USED: antique vehicle but is not driven at least
                                 one time a week; or 4) exhibits damaged parts
                                  or parts in disrepair, including, but not
                                  limited to, broken and missing windows, body
                                  panels with holes, and fluid leaks, which
                                  poses an open threat of injury or
                                  contamination for a period longer than
                                  fourteen (14) days. The fact that the vehicle
                                  is on a licensed trailer does not make it
                                  exempt from this definition.
 
   C.   Notice To Abate: Whenever any police officer determines that a nuisance
as declared in this section exists, the police officer shall cause a written
notice to abate to be served upon the person who is causing, permitting or
allowing the nuisance to exist. Said notice shall describe the inoperable motor
vehicle, motor vehicle not regularly used, or motor vehicle parts and give the
person served seven (7) days from the date of service of the notice to abate
the nuisance. If the residency is a rental unit, notice shall also be sent to
the landowner. Such notices shall be by means of personal service or by
certified or registered mail. Personal service shall be by any police officer
of the village of South Pekin or any person authorized by law to make personal
service. If the person served with the written notice to abate fails to abate
within the seven (7) day period, it shall be presumed that the motor vehicle is
an inoperable motor vehicle and/or motor vehicle not regularly used, as the
case may be, and the village police and persons hired for the purposes of
abating said nuisance are hereby authorized to enter the private property upon
which the nuisance rests, and cause removal of said nuisance.
   D.   Postseizure Hearing: Within seven (7) days of the seizure and/or towing
of any junked or disabled motor vehicle or any body, part, equipment, motor and
material thereof, the owner of said property shall be given written notice of
his or her rights to a prompt postseizure hearing before the village attorney
or his designated representative.
   Failure of the person upon whom which notice was served to request a hearing
within said seven (7) day period shall be deemed by the village a waiver of the
right to dispute the village's determination as to the need to abate, and
consent of the village to dispose of the seized property as the village deems
fit. Should the owner request a hearing within said seven (7) days for purposes
of contesting seizure and/or tow prior to disposal, the hearing shall be held
within thirty (30) days of date of request. The village attorney or the village
trustee who has been appointed as the chair of the health, safety and
sanitation board committee shall serve as hearing officer.
   The village must make a showing of probable cause for said seizure prior to
the disposal or demolition of said property. Should the hearing determine that
the seizure of said property was without probable cause, said property shall be
returned to the owner thereof; otherwise, the village may proceed to dispose of
said property; provided, however, at the time of said hearing, the hearing
officer is empowered or authorized, after consultation with the village board
or the police department as the case may be, to make any suitable disposition
of said property other than the sale or demolition thereof.
   E.   Costs; Liens:
      1.   The cost and expense of removing and disposing of junked or disabled
motor vehicles or any body, part, equipment, motor and material thereof from
private property shall be recoverable from the owners of the real estate and is
a lien thereon, which lien shall be superior to all prior existing liens and
encumbrances, except taxes; provided, however, that within ninety (90) days
after completion of the removing and disposing of such motor vehicles or their
parts, the village attorney shall file a notice of lien for the cost and
expense incurred by the village in the office of the recorder of deeds in
Tazewell County. Upon payment of said cost of removing and disposing of the
junked or disabled motor vehicle or any body, part, equipment, motor and
material thereof, the lien shall be released by the village attorney.
      2.   The lien may be enforced by proceedings to foreclose as in the case
of mortgages or mechanic's liens. Suit to foreclose this lien shall be
commenced by the village attorney within three (3) years after the date of
filing of notice of lien.
      3.   If payment of the village cost of removing and disposing of the
junked or disabled motor vehicle or any body, part, equipment, motor and
material thereof is not paid to the village within fifteen (15) days of the
filing of the notice of lien, the village attorney may commence proceedings in
the circuit court seeking a personal judgment from the owner of the subject
property at the time said proceedings are commenced in the amount of said
costs. The action authorized by this subsection E3 shall be in addition to, and
without waiver of, any other remedies.
   F.   Responsible Person: A person shall fall within that class of persons
who shall be deemed to cause, permit or allow such a nuisance to exist if such
person:
      1.   Has an ownership interest in or is in control of the inoperable
motor vehicle;
      2.   Causes the inoperable motor vehicle to be deposited at the site in
question;
      3.   Has an ownership interest or lease/rental interest in the real
estate upon which the inoperable motor vehicle is located;
      4.   Has an ownership interest in or operates a business which causes,
permits or allows such a nuisance to exist on the real estate upon which the
business is operated or on adjacent real estate which is under the control of
the business owner or operator; or
      5.   Has an ownership interest in real estate upon which a business is
being operated and the operator or owner of said business causes, permits or
allows such a nuisance to exist on the real estate upon which the business is
being operated or on adjacent real estate which is under the control of the
person having an ownership interest in real estate upon which said business is
being operated.
   G.   Violation: It shall be unlawful for any owner or person in control
thereof to store or allow to remain left in the open on public property or upon
open, private land not enclosed by garage, enclosed building, or on the
property of duly licensed junkyard or any storage facility and in view of the
general public for a period of more than seven (7) days in any one calendar
month, or for any period of time wherein said property should jeopardize the
public safety by either creating an unsafe condition or significantly hindering
the efficient movement of traffic, any inoperable and unused motor vehicles and
any motor vehicle not regularly used or any body, part, equipment, motor and
vehicle parts. However, this shall not apply to anyone operating a business
enterprise lawfully conducted on any private premises or vacant lot.
   H.   Penalties: Anyone convicted of a violation of this section shall, in
addition to the costs set forth in subsection E of this section, be subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1  of this code for each offense. Each day that there is a violation shall
constitute a separate offense. After receipt of the notice of violation of any
provision of this section, anyone accused of violating any provision of this
section may settle his or her violation claims with the village by curing the
violation by removing the offending items to the satisfaction of the ticketing
officer/individual and by making payment of fifty dollars ($50.00) for each day
of violation to the village treasurer for each violation hereof, in addition to
the costs set forth in subsection E of this section, at least seven (7) days
prior to the scheduled court appearance written on his or her notice to appear.
(Ord. 464, 7-11-2011)
4-3-12: ABATEMENT PROCEDURE FOR ALL NUISANCES OTHER THAN INOPERABLE AND UNUSED
MOTOR VEHICLES/PARTS; COSTS; LIEN:
   A.   Procedure; Notice To Abate:
      1.   The village police, fire, health or building officers or inspectors
shall, after inspection and investigation, cause a notice in writing to be
served upon the person who is responsible for the existence of the nuisance.
The notice may be served by mailing a copy thereof to the last known address of
the person who is responsible for the existence of the nuisance, return receipt
requested.
      2.   The notice shall indicate the date of the inspection and
investigation, and the hour and location where the inspection was made. The
notice shall set forth what the nuisance consists of and indicate the abatement
remedy required.
   B.   Compliance With Notice: When any nuisance, or anything likely to become
a nuisance, may be found upon any premises, and the person causing such
nuisance is unknown or cannot be found, the owner, agent or occupant of the
premises shall be notified by the village officials to abate the same. No such
owner, agent or occupant, whose duty it is made to abate such nuisance, shall
fail to promptly comply with such notice.
   C.   General Abatement Remedies; Alternative: After the expiration of
fourteen (14) days, except in the case of weeds, grasses and plants as defined
in subsections
4-3-1 F and G of this chapter, in which case it shall be seven (7) days from
the date the notice was mailed, if the nuisance is not abated or other remedy
made as required, the village may choose either one of the following abatement
remedies:
      1.   The nuisance may be abated by the village under the direction of the
village mayor, and the cost of so doing shall be collected from the person who
is responsible for the nuisance with a penalty of ten percent (10%) of such
costs in an appropriate court of competent jurisdiction; or
      2.   In addition to the other remedies and penalties provided in this
chapter, the village attorney is authorized to file appropriate civil actions
for a temporary restraining order, temporary injunction, permanent injunction
or for damages, against any person violating this chapter.
   D.   Abatement In Case Of Emergency: If a nuisance constitutes an emergency,
the time for abatement may be reduced by the village official in the notice
which specifies that the emergency exists.
   E.   Village Abatement Of Weed Nuisances: In the event the village chooses
to abate a weed nuisance, the following additional remedies are available to
the village:
      1.   Charges: There is hereby established a charge of twenty five dollars
($25.00) per hour for the removal of weeds and grasses pursuant to this
chapter, which charge shall be not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) in
any event.
      2.   Lien:
         a.   Charges for such grass and weed removal shall be a lien upon the
premises. Within sixty (60) days after such cost and expense is incurred by the
village, the village clerk may file a notice of lien with the recorder of deeds
of the county. This claim of lien statement shall contain a legal description
of the premises, the expenses and costs incurred and the date the weeds were
cut, and a notice that the village claims a lien for this amount.
         b.   Notice of such lien claim shall be mailed to the owner of the
premises if his address is known.
      3.   Foreclosure Of Lien:
         a.   Property subject to a lien for unpaid weed and grass cutting
charges shall be sold for nonpayment of the same and the proceeds of such sale
shall be applied to pay the charges after deducting costs, as in the case in
the foreclosure of statutory liens. Such foreclosures shall be in equity in the
name of the village.
         b.   The village attorney is hereby authorized and directed to
institute such proceedings, at the direction of the corporate authorities in
the name of the village, in any court having jurisdiction over such matter,
against any property for which such bill has remained unpaid for a period of
sixty (60) days against the owner of said premises in the foreclosure action.
(Ord. 365, 7-5-1993)
4-3-13: ENFORCEMENT:
Enforcement of this chapter may be accomplished by the village in any manner
authorized by law; and, in addition, any person who, by reason of another
violation of any provision of this chapter, suffers special damage to himself
different from that suffered by other property owners throughout the village
generally, may bring an action to enjoin or otherwise abate an existing
violation. (Ord. 365, 7-5-1993)
4-3-14: PENALTY:
Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1  of this code. This penalty shall be in addition to the costs and penalty
provided for the abatement of nuisances as provided in section
4-3-11  of this chapter. (Ord. 365, 7-5-1993; amd. 1995 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GARBAGE AND REFUSE
SECTION:
4-4-1: Supervision Of Garbage Collection
4-4-2: Garbage Defined; Container Specifications
4-4-3: Application For Village Service; Deposit
4-4-4: Service Rates And Charges
4-4-5: Weekly Collection By Village
4-4-6: Garbage Collectors; Licensing And Regulations
4-4-7: Accumulation Prohibited
4-4-8: Illegal Deposits
4-4-9: Offensive Substances
4-4-10: Dumping Restricted
4-4-1: SUPERVISION OF GARBAGE COLLECTION:
      All matters relating to or affecting the collection, removal or disposal
of garbage, household refuse, ashes or waste material is hereby specifically
placed under the direction of the health, safety and sanitation department and
shall be subject to and under the supervision and direction of that department.
The said department is hereby authorized and directed to cause all garbage,
household refuse, ashes and miscellaneous waste and refuse to be collected
regularly and systematically throughout the village. (1970 Code §7-4-1; amd.
1995 Code)
4-4-2: GARBAGE DEFINED; CONTAINER SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Garbage: "Garbage" is defined to include all organic, household or
kitchen waste, such as unused food and food residues, and any paper used for
wrapping. Said garbage shall be removed from the premises at least once each
week as nearly as practical throughout all the months of the year.
   B.   Container: Garbage receptacles must be of galvanized metal with close
fitting covers, or of other material practical for such purposes, and said
receptacles shall be watertight and shall have a capacity of not to exceed
twenty (20) gallons, and shall be kept in a sanitary condition.
   C.   Ashes: Ashes and other waste materials shall be placed in containers
suitable for handling. (1970 Code §7-4-3)
4-4-3: APPLICATION FOR VILLAGE SERVICE; DEPOSIT:
   A.   Application: Should the health, safety and sanitation department
organize a garbage collection service to be operated by the village, no garbage
collection service shall be provided the owner, occupant or lessee of any
premises in the village until the owner of said premises shall have completed
an application therefor in writing and filed the same with the village clerk,
stating the type of residential or commercial structures which are located on
the applicant's premises and from which garbage is to be collected.
(Ord. 246, 5-17-1976; amd. 1995 Code)
   B.   Deposit: Each applicant for village garbage service shall deposit the
sum of fifty dollars ($50.00) with his application before the service is begun.
Each such deposit shall be held by the village as security for payment of the
garbage collection fees applicable to each said residential structure or
commercial business. The deposit shall be refunded to the applicant at such
time as when the applicant shall have paid his garbage charges within the time
stated on the billing for twenty four (24) consecutive months.
(Ord. 453, 11-10-2008)
4-4-4: SERVICE RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Residential: Any structure constructed solely for the purpose of human
habitation shall be charged at a rate of nineteen dollars ($19.00) per month
per each family dwelling unit contained therein. Dumpsters will also be
available for a fee of seven dollars ($7.00) per loose yard and a thirty dollar
($30.00) drop fee. Dumpsters shall be returned to the village after no more
than thirty (30) days. Should no other resident request the use of said
dumpster, the dumpster use may be renewed by the payment of an additional
thirty dollar ($30.00) use charge for each thirty (30) day renewal period after
the initial drop fee.
   B.   Commercial: Any structure located in an area zoned for other than
residential use and in which a commercial enterprise or establishment is
situated, shall be billed a commercial rate of seven dollars ($7.00) per loose
yard per pick up.
   C.   Special Pick Up Items: Any substance which does not meet the definition
of "garbage", as listed in section 4-4-2 of this chapter, or any object that
cannot be placed in a twenty (20) gallon garbage container or lifted by one
person, shall be deemed a special pick up item and shall be subject to an
additional charge of thirty dollars ($30.00) per pick up.
   D.   Container Removal: All garbage receptacles shall be placed at the
designated point of collection, which shall be no more than ten feet (10') and
no less than five feet (5') from the edge of the pavement in front of the
residence. Such placement shall be no more than twenty four (24) hours before
the pick up time and shall be removed within twenty four (24) hours after the
pick up time from the designated point of collection, and kept in a place of
concealed containment until the next scheduled day of collection. (Ord. 446, 3-
5-2007)
   E.   Free Service For Senior Citizens: As of February 6, 2001, garbage
service shall be provided free of charge to those residents of the village who
are sixty five (65) years of age or older, and whose total fixed monthly income
is one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or less. (Ord. 412, 3-5-2001; amd. Ord.
437, 9-12-2005)
   F.   Rendition Of Bills; Delinquencies: Statement of fees for the collection
of garbage and waste material shall be rendered monthly by the village clerk
and shall be delinquent fifteen (15) days after their rendition, and in the
event of failure to pay the bill in said fifteen (15) day period, an additional
charge of ten percent (10%) shall be added to the bill. (Ord. 359, 4-6-1992;
amd. Ord. 437, 9-12-2005)
   G.   Responsibility For Payment: Fees for the collection of garbage and
waste materials shall be chargeable to, and payable by, the fee simple owner of
the premises from which, or on behalf of which, the garbage is collected
regardless of whether the owner of the fee simple resides in, or conducts a
business upon, the premises. In the case of premises upon which are located
multiple-family dwellings, buildings containing more than one commercial
business, or any combination of residential and commercial units within a
single structure, the fees for the collection of all garbage and waste
materials from, and on account of, each and every such residential and
commercial unit shall be charged to and payable by the fee simple owner of such
premises. (Ord. 246, 5-17-1976; amd. Ord. 437, 9-12-2005)
   H.   Right To Change Rates: The village reserves the right to make
reasonable changes in the fees and in conditions, rules and regulations herein
established in this chapter from time to time as may be determined expeditious
or necessary.
(Ord. 359, 4-6-1992; amd. Ord. 437, 9-12-2005)
4-4-5: WEEKLY COLLECTION BY VILLAGE:
   The village shall give garbage collection service at least once each week to
each customer unit who is not delinquent in the payment of his collection fees
and who places the garbage and waste materials at the curb or alley or other
designated point of collection. (Ord. 246, 5-17-1976)
4-4-6: GARBAGE COLLECTORS; LICENSING AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   License Required; Application; Fee:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of
collecting, hauling or transporting for hire for a fee, through the streets or
public ways of the village, any garbage, ashes, rubbish or waste materials
without first obtaining a license to engage in such business.
      2.   Any such person shall make application to the clerk by setting forth
the name of such person, the residence thereof or the address and place of
business, together with a description of the vehicle to be used in the
collection of such garbage or waste, and deposit with said application the fee
for such license.
      3.   Each such license so issued shall expire on April 30 following the
date thereof. (Ord., 1974)
      4.   The license fee shall be six hundred dollars ($600.00) per year,
payable in advance to the clerk. (Ord. 373, 5-1-1995)
      5.   The clerk shall, before issuing such a license, require the
applicant to submit a written approval of the issuance thereof from the health,
safety and sanitation department, which approval shall state, in addition to
the statement of approval of the applicant, that the vehicle to be used for
such purpose is satisfactorily constructed with a garbagetight bed, and canvas
and other suitable cover to prevent the littering of streets and public places;
and provided, that no license shall be issued except by direction of the
president and board of trustees.
      6.   Said licensee shall file annually with the clerk, before issuance of
a license, the fee to be charged for collecting, hauling and/or transporting of
said waste materials. (Ord., 1974)
   B.   Disposal By Licensee; Accumulation Restricted: All garbage and other
waste materials embraced within this chapter will be called for and disposed of
by the licensee hereunder, and shall not be collected or disposed of, for hire,
in any other manner, except as provided herein; and no garbage or waste
material shall be allowed to accumulate on any property or premises within the
village for a period longer than the time between calls by said licensee. (1970
Code §7-4-11)
   C.   Rates Charged By Licensee: The maximum rates to be charged by the
licensee for the collection of garbage and waste materials shall be as
determined from time to time by the village. (1970 Code §7-4-9; amd. 1995 Code)
   D.   Garbage Collection; Payment Of Fees:
      1.   Fees Paid Semiannually: Fees for the collection of garbage and waste
materials shall be paid semiannually to the licensee, or as agreed upon between
the licensee and owner of said business house, tavern, restaurant or butcher
shop.
      2.   Garbage Collection; Payment Of Fees: Bills for garbage service shall
be delivered to and be payable by the owner of the premises upon which the
service is rendered.
      3.   Receipt Given: The licensee shall give to each person paying fees a
receipt therefor.
      4.   Services Cease If Delinquent: If service charges are not paid
promptly, all services shall cease and no more services shall be rendered to
said delinquent until all charges are fully paid.
   E.   Weekly Service: All accounts shall be given service at least once each
week by the licensee. (Ord., 1974)
   F.   Revocation Of License: Said license may be revoked by the village if
said licensee fails to perform his duties under his contract with the village,
or violates any of the provisions of this chapter or any other provisions of
this code or the laws of the state of Illinois. (1970 Code §7-4-7)
4-4-7: ACCUMULATION PROHIBITED:
   The owner, occupant or lessee of any premises in the village shall remove
from said premises or otherwise dispose of all garbage, dead rodents, animals
or fowl, ashes, tin cans, metalware, broken glass, crockery, stoneware, manure
and all refuse and rubbish of every description whatsoever and shall keep said
rodents, animals or fowl, ashes, tin cans, metalware, broken glass, crockery,
stoneware, manure and all refuse and rubbish of every description whatsoever.
Dumping of rubbish on vacant property or on streets, alleys or other public
places is prohibited. (1970 Code §7-4-2)
4-4-8: ILLEGAL DEPOSITS:
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cast, place, sweep or deposit within
the limits of the village any garbage or other waste matter or rubbish in such
a manner that it may be carried or deposited by the action of the sun, wind,
rain or snow, into or upon any street, sidewalk, alley, sewer, parkway or other
public place, or into any occupied or unoccupied premises within the limits of
the village. (1970 Code §7-4-4)
4-4-9: OFFENSIVE SUBSTANCES:
   No pile or deposit of manure, garbage, miscellaneous waste or refuse of any
kind whatsoever, nor accumulation of any offensive or nauseous substance shall
be made within the limits of the village, nor shall any person unload,
discharge or put upon the right of way of any railroad, street, alley or public
place within the village, any manure, garbage, miscellaneous waste, refuse or
offensive or nauseous substance, nor shall any vehicles loaded with or having
upon them any such substances, be allowed to remain or stand or park on or
along any railroad, street, alley or other public place within the limits of
the village. (1970 Code §7-4-5)
4-4-10: DUMPING RESTRICTED:
   No garbage or waste material shall be dumped within the village limits, but
must be hauled to a place outside the village limits, at a distance which will
not create a nuisance to any resident within the village limits. (1970 Code §7-
4-9)
CHAPTER 5
PRIVIES AND CESSPOOLS
SECTION:
4-5-1: Construction; Compliance with Regulations
4-5-2: Maintenance Near Other Buildings
4-5-3: Privy Placement Restricted
4-5-4: Watertight Cesspools Required
4-5-5: Offensive Contents; Abatement
4-5-6: Removal of Contents; Permit Required
4-5-7: Depositing Garbage in Privies
4-5-8: Covering Wells and Cisterns
4-5-9: Cistern Overflow Pipes
4-5-10: Connection to Storm Drains Prohibited
4-5-1: CONSTRUCTION; COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS:
   No vault, privy, catch basin or cesspool shall hereafter be constructed or
rebuilt in the Village except in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter
and the regulations of the Health, Safety and Sanitation Department. (1970 Code
§8-7-1; 1995 Code)
4-5-2: MAINTENANCE NEAR OTHER BUILDINGS:
   It shall be unlawful and it is hereby declared a nuisance for any person to
erect or maintain any privy within forty feet (40') of any street, dwelling,
shop, school, factory, church or public hall, or within one hundred feet (100')
of any well, unless the same is furnished with a substantial vault, six feet
(6') deep, and made tight so that the contents cannot escape therefrom, and is
sufficiently secured and enclosed. (1970 Code §8-7-2)
4-5-3: PRIVY PLACEMENT RESTRICTED:
   It shall be unlawful to have the general privy accommodations of any place
of human habitation within any such place of habitation, or under any sidewalk
adjacent thereto. (1970 Code §8-7-3)
4-5-4: WATERTIGHT CESSPOOLS REQUIRED:
   All cesspools shall be watertight. (1970 Code §8-7-4)
4-5-5: OFFENSIVE CONTENTS; ABATEMENT:
   A.   Offensive Contents a Nuisance: The contents of any tub, or of any
receptacle, cesspool, privy, catch basin, vault, sink, water closet, cistern or
any thing in any room, excavation, vat, building, premises or place shall not
be allowed to become a nuisance or offensive, so as to be dangerous or
prejudicial to health. (1970 Code §8-7-5)
   B.   Contents Overflowing: No person shall draw off or allow to run off onto
any ground, street or place of the Village the contents, or any part thereof,
of any vault, cistern, cesspool or catch basin; nor shall any owner, tenant or
occupant of any building to which any vault, catch basin, privy or cesspool
shall appertain or be attached permit the contents, or any part thereof, to
flow therefrom or to rise within two feet (2') of any part of the top, or such
contents to become offensive; nor shall any privy or any other structure
mentioned in this Section be filled with or covered with dirt, until its filthy
contents shall be emptied. (1970 Code §8-7-7)
   C.   Abatement of Nuisance: All privies or catch basins, any part of the
contents of which are above the surface, or within two feet (2') of the surface
of the earth, and all other privies or catch basins that are foul, omitting
smells and odors that are prejudicial to the public health, are hereby declared
nuisances, and the Village Health and Sanitation Officer shall have the power
to abate the same, as provided in Section
4-3-11 of this Title. (1970 Code §8-7-6)
4-5-6: REMOVAL OF CONTENTS; PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Permit Required: The owner, tenant or occupant of any building or
premises within the Village shall not cause or permit any part of the contents
of any privy, vault, catch basin or cesspool over which he has control to be
removed, except according to a permit issued by the Health and Sanitation
Officer and subject to any rules of the Health, Safety and Sanitation
Department for removing the same.
(1970 Code §8-7-8; 1995 Code)
   B.   Disinfection after Removal: All privies, catch basins, vaults and
cesspools, when cleaned, shall be disinfected with approved chemicals and the
work of such disinfection shall be done by the person removing such contents.
(1970 Code §8-7-9; 1995 Code)
4-5-7: DEPOSITING GARBAGE IN PRIVIES:
   No person shall throw into or deposit in any vault, sink, privy, catch basin
or cesspool any offal, ashes, meat, fish, garbage or other substance, nor shall
any slops or kitchen wastes be allowed to run into any privy. (1970 Code §8-7-
10)
4-5-8: COVERING WELLS AND CISTERNS:
   The owner or occupant of any dwelling, building or other structure within
the Village is hereby required to place and maintain suitable coverings over
all wells or cisterns outside of any dwelling, building or other structure, or
within any unoccupied or abandoned building, dwelling or structure that is
accessible to children. (1970 Code §8-7-11)
4-5-9: CISTERN OVERFLOW PIPES:
   No cistern used for the collection and storage of rainwater from roofs shall
have its overflow pipes directly connected with any sewer. Wherever an overflow
pipe is provided for such cistern, such pipe shall lead to an area or gutter
and shall have its outlet protected with a suitable metal screen. (1970 Code
§8-7-12)
4-5-10: CONNECTION TO STORM DRAINS PROHIBITED:
   It shall be unlawful for any person to connect or cause to be connected any
drain carrying, or to carry, any toilet, sink, basement, septic tank, cesspool,
industrial waste, or any fixture or device discharging polluting substances, to
any separate storm water drain in the Village. (1970 Code §8-8-1)
CHAPTER 6
WELLS
SECTION:
4-6-1: Prohibition
4-6-1: PROHIBITION:
   After March 11, 2002, no private wells shall be drilled and/or installed by
any resident or business upon any land located in the village of South Pekin
boundaries for any purpose.
(Ord. 415, 3-11-2002)
CHAPTER 7
RENTAL PROPERTY
SECTION:
4-7-1: Landlord's Responsibility To Maintain
4-7-1: LANDLORD'S RESPONSIBILITY TO MAINTAIN:
   The landlord shall maintain any premises which he or she owns within the
Village in compliance with all applicable provisions of the Village Code and
shall promptly make any and all abatements and/or repairs necessary to fulfill
this obligation, or be subject to Section
1-4-1 General Penalty Code Section.
(Ord. 510, 8-19-2019)
CHAPTER 8
BUILDING ADDRESSES
SECTION:
4-8-1 : Building Addresses
4-8-1:   BUILDING ADDRESSES:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the owners and occupants of every building,
structure and house within the City to have placed thereon or on the property,
in a place visible and readable from the public right-of-way, numbers of at
least four inches (4") high. All numbers shall be in Arabic (block) numerals at
least four inches (4") high. Existing numbers are acceptable on existing
buildings if they are easily visible from the adjoining street. These numbers
shall be of contrasting color to the color of the surface to which they will be
attached. Script numbers are permitted, but they will not take the place of the
four-inch (4") Arabic numbers. If there is a mailbox or delivery drop box is
adjacent to the street and/or in front of the structure, the owner or occupant
also place the appropriate numbers on both sides of the mailbox or delivery
drop box for ease of identification.
   B.   Proper Number: Every person whose duty it is to display an address
shall remove any different number that might be mistaken for, or confused with,
the address of the structure.
   C.   The street number of multiple-tenant buildings with common entrances
shall be placed in a prominent location visible from the adjoining street or
parking area. Each tenant space shall have the number(s) or letter(s) assigned
to that unit posted on the door of that unit.
   D.   Nonresidential multitenant commercial structures shall place their
address on the front and rear doors of their unit, meeting the standards of
Subsection A above. (Ord. 534, 7-12-2021)
TITLE 5
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
5-1-1: Department Created
5-1-2: Appointments; Bonds
5-1-3: Rank
5-1-4: Chief of Police
5-1-5: Duties of Police Officers
5-1-6: Power of Arrest, President and Village Board
5-1-7: Call for Assistance
5-1-8: Conduct of Members
5-1-9: Witness Fees
5-1-10: Rules and Regulations
5-1-11: Special Police
5-1-12: Rewards
5-1-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED:
   There is hereby created a Police Department for the Village which shall
consist of the Chief of Police, who shall be Ex Officio Superintendent of
Police, and such other members as may be provided for by the Board of Trustees.
(1970 Code §6-1-1)
5-1-2: APPOINTMENTS; BONDS:
   A.   The Chief of Police shall be appointed by the Board of Trustees. All
other appointments to or promotions within the Department shall be made by the
Chief of Police. (1970 Code §6-1-2)
   B.   A bond shall be required for the Chief of Police and each police
officer in the amount of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) each 1 . (1995 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also Section
  1-10-5 of this Code.
5-1-3: RANK:
   The Chief of Police shall be the head of the Department and have supervision
over all officers and members thereof. Following him in rank shall be the
captain, the lieutenants and police officers in order of seniority in each
group. (1970 Code §6-1-3)
5-1-4: CHIEF OF POLICE:
   A.   Duties:
      1.   The Chief of Police shall be the commanding officer of the police
force and shall have control of the assignment of all members of the force and
the direction and supervision of police work in the Village, including any
special police officers under this command.
      2.   He shall be responsible for the control and regulation of all
equipment assigned to or under the control of the Police Department.
      3.   The Chief shall attend, as far as practicable, all meetings of the
Village Board, and he shall prepare the room in which the Board meetings are
held, and see that it is properly lighted, warmed, cleaned and made
comfortable.
      4.   He shall serve all notifications, in writing, when ordered by the
Village Board. (1970 Code §6-1-4)
      5.   He or his designee shall have the custody of all lost, abandoned or
stolen property recovered in the Village. (1970 Code §6-1-13; 1995 Code)
      6.   He shall perform all such other duties as shall be prescribed by
ordinance or by order of the Board. (1970 Code §6-1-4)
   B.   Tenure: The Chief of Police shall be appointed at the beginning of the
Village fiscal year (May 1 to April 30) until time of termination or
resignation and may be removed in the manner provided for the removal of
officers 1 .
(1970 Code §6-1-15; 1995 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. See Section
  1-10-9 of this Code.
5-1-5: DUTIES OF POLICE OFFICERS:
   It shall be the duty of the members of the Police Department to see to the
enforcement of all of the ordinances of the Village and all statutes applicable
therein, and to preserve order and prevent infractions of the law and arrest
violators thereof. (1970 Code §6-1-5)
5-1-6: POWER OF ARREST, PRESIDENT AND VILLAGE BOARD:
   As provided in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3.1-15-25, the President and
Board of Trustees shall have the power:
   A.   To arrest or cause to be arrested, with or without process, all persons
who break the peace, or are found violating any Municipal ordinance or any
criminal law of the State;
   B.   To commit arrested persons for examination;
   C.   If necessary, to detain arrested persons in custody overnight or Sunday
in any safe place, or until they can be brought before the proper magistrate;
and
   D.   To exercise all other powers as conservators of the peace that the
Village authorities may prescribe.
(1970 Code §6-1-6)
5-1-7: CALL FOR ASSISTANCE:
   The President of the Village Board or any police officer of the Village may
at any time call upon any able-bodied male person above the age of twenty one
(21) years to aid him in arresting or taking into custody any person guilty of
having committed an unlawful act, or charged therewith, or to aid such officer
in preventing the commission of an unlawful act. No one shall refuse or neglect
to give such aid or assistance when so directed. (1970 Code §6-1-7)
5-1-8: CONDUCT OF MEMBERS:
   It shall be the duty of every member of the Police Department to conduct
himself in a proper and law abiding manner at all times, and to avoid the use
of unnecessary force. Each member of the Department shall obey the orders and
directions of his superior. (1970 Code §6-1-9)
5-1-9: WITNESS FEES:
   Every member of the Police Department shall appear as witness whenever this
is necessary in a prosecution for a violation of an ordinance or of any State
or Federal law. No such member shall retain any witness fee for service as
witness in any action or suit to which the Village is a party. Any fees paid
for such services shall be turned over to the Chief, who shall deposit the same
with the Village Treasurer. (1970 Code §6-1-10)
5-1-10: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   The Chief of the Police Department may make or prescribe such rules and
regulations as he shall deem advisable. Such rules, when approved by the Board
of Trustees, shall be binding on such members. Such rules and regulations may
cover, besides the conduct of the members, uniforms and equipment to be worn or
carried, hours of service, vacations and all other similar matters necessary or
desirable for the better efficiency of the Department. (1970 Code §6-1-11)
5-1-11: SPECIAL POLICE:
   Any person of good character having duties which require it may be appointed
a special policeman by the President; provided that, except upon authorization
of the Board of Trustees, no such special police officer shall be entitled to
any compensation from the Village, nor shall such special police officer be
considered an employee of the Village by reason of such appointment. Special
police officers shall obey all rules of the Police Department applicable to
them, and may be deprived of their appointment by the Chief at any time. (1970
Code §6-1-12)
5-1-12: REWARDS:
   It shall be cause for removal for any member of the force to receive a
reward or present for services rendered in the due discharge of his duty
without the permission of the Chief of Police. (1970 Code §6-1-14)
CHAPTER 2
MISDEMEANOR CODE
SECTION:
5-2-1: Short Title
5-2-2: Village Jurisdiction
5-2-3: Definitions
5-2-4: Illinois Criminal Code Adopted By Reference
5-2-5: Offenses Involving Public Order
5-2-5-1: Disorderly Conduct; Breach Of Peace
5-2-5-2: Public Intoxication; Breach Of Peace; Incapacitated
5-2-5-3: Vagrancy
5-2-5-4: Disturbing Lawful Assemblies
5-2-5-5: Disturbing Elections; Process
5-2-5-6: Assault, Battery And Affray
5-2-5-7: Reckless Conduct
5-2-5-8: Unlawful Assemblies
5-2-5-9: Mob Action
5-2-5-10: Obstructing Stairways Or Exits
5-2-5-11: Resisting Arrest
5-2-5-12: Police And Fire Officers; Interfering And Obeying
5-2-5-13: Weapons Restrictions
5-2-6: Offenses Involving Health, Safety And Children
5-2-6-1: Loud, Disturbing And Unnecessary Noises
5-2-6-2: Stench Bombs; Nauseous Gases And Substances
5-2-6-3: Throwing Missiles Or Bottles
5-2-6-4: Articles In Windows
5-2-6-5: Sniffing Or Inhaling Of Intoxicants Prohibited
5-2-6-6: Possession Of Cannabis
5-2-6-7: Sale, Purchase, Possession, Or Consumption Of Tobacco And Smoking
Products For Individuals Under The Age Of Twenty One (21)
5-2-6-8: Prohibiting Littering
5-2-6-9: Prohibiting Littering Of Loose Vegetation
5-2-7: Offenses Involving Property
5-2-7-1: Criminal Housing Management
5-2-7-2: Trespass To Land And Buildings
5-2-7-3: Malicious Mischief Or Destruction
5-2-7-4: Coin Operated Devices; Slugs, Tampering
5-2-8: Offenses Involving Morality
5-2-8-1: Prostitution And Related Offenses
5-2-8-2: Indecent, Obscene Acts, Materials
5-2-8-3: Window Peeping Prohibited
5-2-8-4: Gambling
5-2-9: Miscellaneous Provisions
5-2-9-1: Violation Of Civil Rights
5-2-9-2: Necessity As Affirmative Defense
5-2-9-3: Bribery; Offering Or Accepting
5-2-9-4: Solicitation And Conspiracy
5-2-9-5: Telephones; Obscene, Anonymous, Misrepresented Calls
5-2-9-6: False Alarms; Police, Fire, Ambulance
5-2-9-7: Climbing Utility Poles
5-2-9-8: Intimidation Defined; Prohibited
5-2-9-9: Skateboarding Prohibited
5-2-10: Civil Remedies Preserved
5-2-11: Penalty
5-2-1: SHORT TITLE:
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the MISDEMEANOR CODE OF
SOUTH PEKIN, ILLINOIS (1970). (1970 Code §6-2-1-1)
5-2-2: VILLAGE JURISDICTION:
   A.   A person is subject to prosecution in this village for an offense which
he commits, while either within or outside the village, by his own conduct or
that of another for which he is legally accountable, if:
      1.   The offense is committed either wholly or partly within the village;
or
      2.   The conduct outside the village constitutes an attempt to commit an
offense within the village; or
      3.   The conduct outside the village constitutes a conspiracy to commit
an offense within the village and an act in furtherance of the conspiracy
occurs in the village; or
      4.   The conduct within the village constitutes an attempt, solicitation
or conspiracy to commit in another jurisdiction an offense under the laws of
both this village and such other jurisdiction.
   B.   An offense is committed partly within this village if either the
conduct which is an element of the offense, or the result which is such an
element, occurs within the village.
   C.   An offense which is based on an omission to perform a duty imposed by
the laws of this Village is committed within the Village regardless of the
location of the offender at the time of the omission. (1970 Code §6-2-1-2)
5-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
ACT: Includes a failure or omission to take action.
AIR RIFLE: Means and includes any air gun, air pistol, spring gun, spring
pistol, BB gun or pellet gun which impels a pellet constructed of hard plastic,
steel, lead, stone or other hard materials with force that reasonably is
expected to cause bodily harm or property damage.
ANOTHER: A person or persons as defined in this Chapter other than the
offender.
PERSON: Any individual, public or private corporation, government, partnership
or unincorporated association. The masculine gender shall include the feminine,
and the singular shall include the plural.
POLICE OFFICER: Any person who by virtue of his office or public employment is
vested by law with a duty to maintain public order or to make arrests for
offenses, whether that duty extends to all offenses or is limited to specific
offenses.
PUBLIC EMPLOYEE: A person, other than a public officer, who is authorized to
perform any official function on behalf of, and is paid by, the Village or any
of its subdivisions or agencies.
PUBLIC OFFICER: A person who is elected to office pursuant to a statute or
ordinance, or who is appointed to an office which is established, and the
qualifications and duties of which are prescribed by statute or ordinance to
discharge a public duty for the Village or any of its subdivisions or agencies.
REASONABLE BELIEF or REASONABLY BELIEVES: Means that the person concerned,
acting as a reasonable man, believes that the described facts exist. (1970 Code
§6-2-1-5)
5-2-4: ILLINOIS CRIMINAL CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, provisions and
sections of the Illinois Criminal Code (720 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.), as amended,
are hereby adopted by the Village. Any and all violations thereof shall be
considered violations of this Chapter, and each such violation shall subject
the violator thereof to penalty provisions under this Chapter if proceeded
hereunder. (1995 Code)
5-2-5: OFFENSES INVOLVING PUBLIC ORDER:
5-2-5-1: DISORDERLY CONDUCT; BREACH OF PEACE:
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any violent, tumultuous,
offensive or disorderly conduct; by threatening, traducing, quarreling,
challenging to fight or fighting; or by using obscene, offensive, profane or
unseemly language to the annoyance, disturbance or vexation of another; or to
be guilty of any conduct calculated to breach the peace.
(1970 Code §6-2-3-1)
5-2-5-2: PUBLIC INTOXICATION; BREACH OF PEACE; INCAPACITATED:
   It shall be unlawful for any person in any public place to be in such a
state of intoxication that:
   A.   He is unreasonably loud, obscene or disorderly so as to breach the
peace; or
   B.   He is incoherent, incapacitated or asleep so as not to be able to
control, direct or protect himself. It shall be the duty of police officers to
arrest any such person when they reasonably believe such condition exists.
(1970 Code §6-2-3-2)
5-2-5-3: VAGRANCY:
   It shall be unlawful for any person to be guilty of vagrancy as herein
defined. The following persons shall be deemed vagrant:
   A.   Burglar's Tools: Any person upon whose possession shall be found any
instrument, tool or other implement for picking locks or pockets, or any
implement that is usually employed or that reasonably may be inferred to have
been designed to be employed in the commission of any felony or misdemeanor or
in the violation of any ordinance, and who shall fail to account satisfactorily
for the possession of the same.
   B.   Unlawful Occupancy: Any person wandering abroad and occupying, lodging
or sleeping in any vacant or unoccupied barn, garage, shed, shop or other
building or structure, or in any automobile, truck, railroad car or other
vehicle, without owning the same or without permission of the owner or person
entitled to the possession of the same, or sleeping in any vacant lot during
the hours of darkness and not giving a satisfactory account for himself.
   C.   Begging: Any person wandering abroad and begging; or any person who
goes about from door to door of private homes or commercial and business
establishments, or places himself in or upon any public way or public place to
beg or receive alms for himself.
   D.   Loitering: Any person found loitering or strolling, in, about or upon
any street, alley or other public way or public place, or at any public
gathering or assembly, or in or around any store, shop or business or
commercial establishment, or on any private property or place without lawful
business and conducting himself in a lewd, lascivious manner in speech or
behavior.
(1970 Code §6-2-3-3)
5-2-5-4: DISTURBING LAWFUL ASSEMBLIES:
   It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully interrupt or disturb any
funeral assembly, funeral procession, school, any assembly met for the worship
of God or any other assembly met for a lawful purpose by any offensive behavior
or by any disorderly conduct.
(1970 Code §6-2-3-4)
5-2-5-5: DISTURBING ELECTIONS; PROCESS:
   It shall be unlawful for any person to create any disturbance at an election
poll or to interfere with the election process.
(1970 Code §6-2-3-5)
5-2-5-6: ASSAULT, BATTERY AND AFFRAY:
      Prohibited Act: It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly start a
fight, or to fight, or to commit any assault or assault and battery anywhere
within the Village. (1970 Code §6-2-3-6)
   A.   Assault Defined: A person commits an assault when, without lawful
authority, he engages in conduct which places another in reasonable
apprehension of receiving a battery. (1970 Code §6-2-3-7)
   B.   Battery Defined: A person commits battery if he intentionally or
knowingly, without legal justification and by any means:
      1.   Causes bodily harm to an individual, or
      2.   Makes physical contact of an insulting or provoking nature with an
individual. (1970 Code §6-2-3-8)
5-2-5-7: RECKLESS CONDUCT:
   A person who causes bodily harm to, or endangers the bodily safety of, an
individual by any means commits reckless conduct if he performs recklessly the
acts which cause the harm or endanger the safety of an individual, whether they
are lawful or are unlawful.
(1970 Code §6-2-3-9)
5-2-5-8: UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLIES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any two (2) or more persons to assemble
together for any unlawful purpose or, being assembled, to act in concert to do
an unlawful act against the property of the Village or the person or property
of another or against the public peace, or to make any movement or preparation
therefor.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly suffer or permit any
assemblage for the purpose of committing any unlawful act or breach of the
peace or any riotous, offensive or disorderly conduct in or upon premises owned
or occupied by him, or under his control, within the Village.
(1970 Code §6-2-3-10)
5-2-5-9: MOB ACTION:
   It shall be unlawful for any person to participate in mob action, as defined
as follows:
   A.   The use of force, violence or other disruptive conduct by two (2) or
more persons acting together, without lawful authority, so as to constitute a
breach of the peace; or
   B.   The assembly of two (2) or more persons to do an unlawful act; or
   C.   The assembly of two (2) or more persons without authority of law to do
violence to the person or property of another.
(1970 Code §6-2-3-11)
5-2-5-10: OBSTRUCTING STAIRWAYS OR EXITS:
   It shall be unlawful to obstruct or permit the obstruction of any stairway,
aisles, corridor or exit in any office building, factory, hotel, school,
church, theater, assembly hall, lodge or other public hall or any building used
by two (2) or more tenants or families in such a manner that it interferes with
the free use of such stairway, aisle, corridor or exit.
(1970 Code §6-2-3-12)
5-2-5-11: RESISTING ARREST:
   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly or wilfully resist an
arrest which he knows is being made by a police officer, or by a private person
summoned and directed by a police officer to make an arrest, even if he
believes that the arrest is unlawful, and the arrest is in fact unlawful.
(1970 Code §6-2-3-13)
5-2-5-12: POLICE AND FIRE OFFICERS; INTERFERING AND OBEYING:
   It shall be unlawful for any person:
   A.   To knowingly prevent, obstruct, harass or endanger, by any means, any
police officer, fire officer or other official or employee or any military
personnel on emergency duty within the Village, in the lawful performance of
his duties.
   B.   To knowingly or wilfully refuse or neglect to obey, without reasonable
justification therefor, any lawful order or direction of any police officer,
fire officer or other official or employee or any military personnel on
emergency duty within the Village.
(1970 Code §6-2-3-14)
5-2-5-13: WEAPONS RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Unlawful Use of Weapons:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
         a.   Possess or carry any bludgeon, blackjack, slingshot, sand-club,
sandbag, metal knuckles or any knife, commonly referred to as a switchblade
knife, which has a blade that opens automatically by hand pressure applied to a
button, spring or other device in the handle of the knife; or
         b.   Carry or possess with intent to use the same unlawfully against
another, a dagger, dirk, billy, dangerous knife, razor, stiletto, broken bottle
or other piece of glass, or any other dangerous or deadly weapon or instrument
of like character; or
         c.   Carry on or about his person or in any vehicle a tear gas gun
projector or bomb, or any object containing noxious liquid gas or substance; or
         d.   Carry concealed in any vehicle or concealed on or about his
person, except when on his land or in his own abode or fixed place of business,
any pistol, revolver or other firearm; or
         e.   Set a spring gun; or
         f.   Possess any device or attachment of any kind designed, used or
intended for use in silencing the report of any firearm; or
         g.   Possess or carry any weapon from which more than eight (8) shots
or bullets may be discharged by a single function of the firing device, any
shotgun with a barrel less than eighteen inches (18")in length, or any bomb,
bombshell, grenade, bottle or other container containing an explosive
substance, such as, but not limited to, black powder bombs and Molotov
cocktails; or
         h.   Carry or possess any firearm or other deadly weapon in any place
which is licensed to sell alcoholic liquor, or at any public gathering held
pursuant to a license issued by any governmental body or any public gathering
at which an admission is charged, excluding any place where a showing,
demonstration or lecture involving the exhibition of unloaded firearms is
conducted within the limits of the Village.
      2.   The presence in an automobile other than a public omnibus of any
weapon, instrument or substance referred to in subsection A1g above, is prima
facie evidence that it is in the possession of, and is being carried by, all
persons occupying such automobile at the time such weapon, instrument or
substance is found, except under the following circumstances:
         a.   If such weapon, instrument or instrumentality is found upon the
person of one of the occupants therein; or
         b.   If such weapon, instrument or substance is found in an automobile
operated for hire by a duly licensed driver in the due, lawful and proper
pursuit of his trade, then such presumption shall not apply to the driver.
      3.   Subsections A1c and A1d above shall not be construed to apply to any
duly authorized and appointed police officer or agent of this Village, or of
the State of Illinois, or of the United States, or to any member of the Armed
Forces or Reserve Forces of the United States or the Illinois National Guard,
while in the performance of their duties. (1970 Code §6-2-3-15)
   B.   Firing or Discharging Weapons: It shall be unlawful for any person to
fire or discharge any firearm, air gun, slingshot, bow, crossbow or other
device designed to fire, project or throw any stone, bullet or other hard
substance within the Village; provided, however, that this Section shall not
apply to any police officer discharging a firearm in the performance of his
duty, nor any citizen from discharging any firearm when lawfully defending his
person or property. (1970 Code §6-2-3-16)
   C.   Carrying Loaded Weapons: It shall be unlawful for any person, except
persons permitted by law, to have or carry any shotgun or rifle or air gun in
or on any vehicle, unless such shotgun or rifle or air gun is dismantled to
render it incapable of being fired or is unloaded when enclosed in a case; the
mere removal of the bolt from a bolt-action rifle shall not be construed as
dismantled so as to render it incapable of firing. (1970 Code §6-2-3-17)
   D.   Unlawful Display of Weapon: It shall be unlawful for any person in
possession of any weapon or device set forth in this Chapter to display or
flourish any such weapon in a threatening or boisterous manner such as might
alarm a reasonable man. (1970 Code §6-2-3-18)
   E.   Confiscation and Disposition of Weapons:
      1.   Upon conviction of a violation of subsections A through D of this
Section, any weapons seized shall be confiscated by the trial court.
      2.   Any stolen weapon so confiscated when no longer needed for
evidentiary purposes shall be returned to the person entitled to possession if
known. All other confiscated weapons when no longer needed for evidentiary
purposes shall in the discretion of the trial court be destroyed or preserved
as the property of the Village. (1970 Code §6-2-3-19)
5-2-6: OFFENSES INVOLVING HEALTH, SAFETY AND CHILDREN:
5-2-6-1: LOUD, DISTURBING AND UNNECESSARY NOISES:
   A.   Unnecessary Noises Prohibited: The creating of any unreasonably loud,
disturbing and unnecessary noise within the limits of the Village is
prohibited.
   B.   Enumeration of Prohibited Acts: The following acts are declared to be
loud, disturbing and unnecessary noises in violation of this Section, but this
enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive, namely:
      1.   Blowing Horns: The sounding of any horn or signal device on any
automobile, motorcycle or bus so as to create an unreasonably loud or harsh
sound; and the sounding of such device for an unnecessary and unreasonable
period of time. (1970 Code §6-2-4-4)
      2.   Radios, Phonographs; Hours Restricted: No person shall allow or
cause to be used or operated any radio receiving set, musical instrument,
phonograph, loudspeaker or other machine or device for the producing or
reproducing of sound in such a manner as to disturb the peace, quiet and
comfort of the neighboring inhabitants or at any time with louder volume than
is necessary for convenient hearing for the person who is in the room, vehicle
or chamber in which such machine or device is operated and who are voluntary
listeners thereto. The operation of any such set, instrument, phonograph,
loudspeaker, machine or device between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. in such a manner as to be plainly audible at a
distance of fifty feet (50') from the building, structure or vehicle in which
it is located, shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this Section.
(Ord. 278, 7-7-80)
      3.   Yelling or Shouting: Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling or
singing, particularly on the public streets between the hours of eleven o'clock
(11:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M., or at any other time or place so as
to unreasonably annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of any person in
the vicinity.
      4.   Pets: The keeping of any animal, bird or fowl which, by causing
frequent or long continued noises, shall disturb the comfort or repose of any
person in the vicinity.
      5.   Blowing Whistles: The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any
stationary boiler, other than to give notice of the time to begin or stop work
or as a warning of fire or danger or upon request of proper Village
authorities.
      6.   Exhaust Discharge: The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of
any steam engine, stationary internal combustion engine, motor vehicle or motor
boat engine, except through a muffler or other device which will effectively
prevent loud or explosive noises therefrom.
      7.   Building Operations: The erection (including excavation),
demolition, alteration or repair of any building, or the excavation of streets
or public places, in any residential area, other than between the hours of
seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. Monday through Saturday,
except in case of urgent necessity in the interest of public health and safety,
and then only with a written permit from the Building Inspector.
      8.   Noises Near Schools, Hospitals or Churches: The creation of any
excessive noise on any street adjacent to any school, institution of learning,
church or court while the same are in session, or adjacent to any hospital
which unreasonably interferes with the workings or sessions thereof.
      9.   Noises to Attract Attention: The use of any drum, loudspeaker or
other instrument or device for the purpose of attracting attention by creation
of noise to any performance, show or sale or display of merchandise.
      10.   Loudspeaker or Amplifiers: The unreasonable use of any amplifiers
or loudspeakers in the course of any public address.
(1970 Code §6-2-4-4)
5-2-6-2: STENCH BOMBS; NAUSEOUS GASES AND SUBSTANCES:
   A.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, drop, pour,
deposit or discharge upon the person or the property of another any liquid,
gaseous or solid substance which is injurious to person or property or which is
nauseous, sickening, irritating or offensive to any of the senses, with the
intent to unlawfully injure, discomfort or discommode another in the use,
management, conduct or control of his personal property. No person shall
attempt, or aid in the attempt or commission of, any act prohibited herein.
   B.   Accepted Uses: The prohibitions of subsection A above shall not apply
to police officers acting in line of duty or to proprietors of business
premises or to their employees using such substances for the protection of such
business premises when the substances referred to herein are kept solely for
the purposes of repelling robbers, thieves, burglars or other such persons
violating the law.
(1970 Code §6-2-4-5)
5-2-6-3: THROWING MISSILES OR BOTTLES:
   It shall be unlawful for any person purposely or recklessly to cast, throw,
drop or break any stone, rock, brick, glass bottle or other missile or
substance from any overpass or onto any street, alley or other public way or
in, at or against any person, residence, building, car or other property.
(1970 Code §6-2-4-7)
5-2-6-4: ARTICLES IN WINDOWS:
   It shall be unlawful to place any movable article on window ledges abutting
a public street, alley or sidewalk, in such a manner that the same can be or is
in danger of falling onto such street, alley or sidewalk.
(1970 Code §6-2-4-8)
5-2-6-5: SNIFFING OR INHALING OF INTOXICANTS PROHIBITED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to sniff, inhale or breathe the
vapors of any glue, kerosene, gasoline, cleaning fluid or other substance not
manufactured or produced for such human consumption for the purpose of becoming
intoxicated.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to command, encourage, request, aid
or abet any other person to violate the provisions of subsection A of this
section.
(1970 Code §6-2-4-17)
5-2-6-6: POSSESSION OF CANNABIS:
   A.   Definition: As used in this section, "cannabis" includes marijuana,
hashish and other substances which are identified as including any parts of the
plant Cannabis sativa, whether growing or not; the seeds thereof, the resin
extracted from any part of such plant; and any compound, manufacture, salt,
derivative, mixture or preparation of such plant, its seeds or resin, including
tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and all other cannabinol derivatives, including its
naturally occurring or synthetically produced ingredients, whether produced
directly or indirectly by extraction, or independently by means of chemical
synthesis or by a combination of extraction and chemical synthesis; but shall
not include the mature stalks of such plant, fiber produced from such stalks,
oil or cake made from the seeds of such plant, any other compound, manufacture,
salt, derivative, mixture or preparation of such mature stalks (except the
resin extracted therefrom), fiber, oil or cake, or the sterilized seed of such
plant which is incapable of germination.
   B.   Violation And Penalties: It is unlawful for any person to knowingly
possess cannabis. Any person who violates this section with respect to: (Ord.
285, 10-6-1980)
      1.   Possessing less than two and five-tenths grams (2.5 g) of any
substance containing cannabis shall be fined not less than two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00) and not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00).
      2.   Possessing more than two and five-tenths grams (2.5 g) but not more
than ten grams (10 g) of any substance containing cannabis shall be fined not
less than three hundred fifty dollars ($350.00) and not more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00).
      3.   Possessing more than ten grams (10 g) but not more than thirty grams
(30 g) of any substance containing cannabis shall be fined not less than four
hundred dollars ($400.00) and not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00).
(Ord. 285, 10-6-1980; amd. Ord. 422, 3-10-2003)
      4.   Possessing more than thirty grams (30 g) of any substance containing
cannabis shall be fined five hundred dollars ($500.00).
(Ord. 285, 10-6-1980)
5-2-6-7: SALE, PURCHASE, POSSESSION, OR CONSUMPTION OF TOBACCO AND SMOKING
PRODUCTS FOR INDIVIDUALS UNDER THE AGE OF TWENTY ONE (21):
   A.   Sale Or Delivery Of Tobacco Or Electronic Cigarette Products To Persons
Under Age 21: It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale, give
away, or deliver any tobacco product, electronic cigarette, electronic
cigarette product, or alternative nicotine product to any person under the age
of twenty-one (21) years. If any person suspects that a person under age of
twenty one (21) is attempting to purchase or obtain any tobacco product,
electronic cigarette, electronic cigarette product, or alternative nicotine
product, such person shall request and examine identification from the
purchaser or acquirer and positively establish the purchaser's or acquirer's
age as twenty-one (21) years or greater before allowing the purchase or
delivery of such products to occur.
   B.   Purchase Of Tobacco Or Electronic Cigarette Products By Individuals
Under Age Twenty One (21): It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of
twenty one (21) years to purchase any tobacco product, electronic cigarette,
electronic cigarette product, or alternative nicotine product, or for any
person under the age of twenty-one (21) years to misrepresent his or her
identity or age, or to use any false or altered identification for the purpose
of purchasing tobacco products, electronic cigarette, electronic cigarette
product, or alternative nicotine product.
   C.   Possession Or Consumption Of Tobacco Or Electronic Cigarette Products
By Individuals Under Age Twenty One (21): It shall be unlawful for any person
under the age of twenty one (21) years to possess or consume in any manner or
form any tobacco product, electronic cigarette, electronic cigarette product,
or alternative nicotine product.
   D.   Possession of any tobacco product, electronic cigarette, electronic
cigarette product, or alternative nicotine product is not an offense if the
person under twenty one (21) years of age was in possession of an unopened
container or containers of such products while performing his or her specified
duties at a lawful place of employment.
   E.   The provisions of subsections A and C of this section do not apply to a
person under the age of twenty one (21) years who is under the direct and
immediate supervision of his or her parent or legal guardian in the privacy and
confines of the parent's or legal guardian's residence.
   F.   Definitions: For the purpose of this Section, the following words and
phrases shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them:
 
                              A product or device not consisting of or
                              containing tobacco that provides for the
                              ingestion into the body of nicotine, whether by
                              chewing, smoking, absorbing, dissolving,
                              inhaling, snorting, sniffing, or by any other
ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCT: means. This does not include tobacco products as
                              that term is defined in this Section or any
                              product approved by the United States Food and
                              Drug Administration as a nontobacco product for
                              sale as a tobacco cessation product, or as a
                              tobacco dependence product, or for other
                              medicinal purposes.
                              A device which simulates tobacco or other
                              smoking. It uses a heating device or other
                              mechanism that vaporizes a liquid solution. An
                              "Electronic Cigarette" includes devices known as
                              personal vaporizer or electronic nicotine
ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE:         delivery system. "Electronic cigarette" does not
                              include drugs, devices, or combination products
                              authorized for sale by the U.S. Food and Drug
                              Administration as a tobacco cessation product, or
                              as a tobacco dependence product, or for other
                              medicinal purposes.
                              A product designed or intended for use with an
ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE PRODUCT: electronic cigarette, such as atomizers,
                              cartomizers, batteries, bottles, or vaporizing
                              liquid (e-juice).
                              Means and includes any substance containing
                              tobacco leaf, or any product that is made from or
                              derived from tobacco, and is intended for human
                              consumption or is likely to be consumed, whether
                              smoked, heated, chewed, absorbed, dissolved,
                              inhaled or ingested by any other means,
                              including, but not limited to, a cigarette, a
                              cigar, pipe tobacco, chewing tobacco, snuff,
                              snus, or an electronic smoking device. The term
                              includes any component or accessory used in the
TOBACCO PRODUCTS:             consumption of a tobacco product, such as
                              filters, rolling papers, pipes, or liquids used
                              in electronic smoking devices, including but not
                              limited to cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco,
                              snuff, chewing tobacco, or dipping tobacco.
                              "Tobacco product" does not include drugs,
                              devices, or combination products authorized for
                              sale by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration as
                              a tobacco cessation product, or as a tobacco
                              dependence product, or for other medicinal
                              purposes.
 
   G.   Seizure: A law enforcement officer shall seize any tobacco product,
electronic cigarette, electronic cigarette product, or alternative nicotine
product or products involved in any violation of this section committed in his
or her presence.
   H.   Penalties: A violation of this section shall be punishable as provided
in section
1-4-1  of this code, as amended. (Ord. 520, 7-13-2020)
5-2-6-8: PROHIBITING LITTERING:
   A.   Definitions: The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this
section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
 
               Any discarded, used or unconsumed substance or waste. The term
               "litter'" may include, but is not limited to, any garbage,
               trash, refuse, debris, rubbish, grass clippings or other lawn or
               garden waste, newspaper, magazines, glass, metal, plastic or
               paper containers or other packaging construction material, motor
LITTER:        vehicle parts, furniture, oil, carcass of a dead animal, ally
               nauseous or offensive matter of any kind, any object likely to
               injure any person or create a traffic hazard, potentially
               infectious medical waste, or anything else of an unsightly or
               unsanitary nature, which has been discarded, abandoned or
               otherwise disposed of improperly.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Every vehicle that is self-propelled, except for vehicles moved
               solely by human power and motorized wheelchairs.
 
   B.   Prohibited Conduct:
      1.   No person shall dump, deposit, drop, throw, discard, leave, cause,
or permit the dumping, depositing, dropping, throwing, discarding, or leaving
of litter upon any public or private property within the Village.
      2.   No person shall dump, deposit, drop, throw, discard or otherwise
dispose of litter from any motor vehicle upon any public highway, upon any
public or private property within the Village.
      3.   No person shall allow litter to accumulate upon real property, of
which the person charged is the owner or tenant in control, in such a manner as
to constitute a public nuisance or in such a manner that the litter may be
blown or otherwise carried by the natural elements on to real property of
another person.
   C.   Presumption Of Violation; Motor Vehicle: Whenever litter is thrown,
deposited, dropped or dumped from any motor vehicle not carrying passengers for
hire, the presumption is created that the operator of that motor vehicle has
violated B2 of this section, but that presumption may be rebutted.
   D.   Violations; Penalty: Any person convicted of a violation shall be
assessed a fine as set forth in General Penalty section
1-4-1  of the South Pekin Village Code. (Ord. 525, 8-17-2020)
5-2-6-9: PROHIBITING LITTERING OF LOOSE VEGETATION:
   A.   Definitions: Loose vegetation shall constitute but shall not be limited
to grass clippings, weed clippings, leaves and twigs, and any other vegetation
of any nature or kind that has been removed by a resident from his or her
controlled Village property.
   B.   No person shall dump, deposit, drop, throw, discard, leave, cause or
permit the dumping, depositing, dropping, blowing, throwing, discarding or
leaving of loose vegetation upon any public or private property in thjs Village
nor upon any sidewalk in this Village.
   C.   Violations; Penalty: Any person convicted of a violation shall be
assessed a fine as set forth in General Penalty Chapter
1-4-1  of the South Peking Village Code. (Ord. 524, 8-17-2020)
5-2-7: OFFENSES INVOLVING PROPERTY:
5-2-7-1: CRIMINAL HOUSING MANAGEMENT:
   A person commits the offense of criminal housing management when, having
personal management or control of residential real estate, whether as legal or
equitable owner, or as a managing agent or otherwise, he knowingly permits by
his gross carelessness or neglect the physical condition or facilities of the
residential real estate to become or remain so deteriorated that the health or
safety of any person is endangered.
(1970 Code §6-2-5-1)
5-2-7-2: TRESPASS TO LAND AND BUILDINGS:
   A.   Trespasses Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to commit a
trespass within this municipality upon either public or private property.
   B.   Specifically Enumerated Trespasses; Suppression: Without constituting
any limitation upon the provisions of subsection A of this section, any of the
following acts by any person shall be deemed included among those that
constitute trespasses in violation of the provisions of said subsection A of
this section, and appropriate action may be taken hereunder at any time, or
from time to time, to prevent or suppress any violation or violations of this
section, the aforesaid enumerated acts so included, being as follows:
      1.   To enter upon the premises, or any part thereof, of another,
including any public property in violation of a notice posted or exhibited at
the main entrance to said premises or at any point of approach or entry or in
violation of any notice, warning or protest given orally or in writing, by any
owner or occupant thereof; or
      2.   To pursue course of conduct or action incidental to the making of an
entry upon the land of another in violation of a notice posted or exhibited at
the main entrance to said premises or at any point of approach or entry, or in
violation of any notice, warning or protest given orally or in writing by any
owner or occupant thereof; or
      3.   To fail or refuse to depart from the premises of another in case of
being requested, either orally or in writing, to leave by any owner or occupant
thereof; or
      4.   To enter into or upon any vehicle, aircraft or watercraft made
without the consent of the person having the right to the possession or control
thereof, or a failure or refusal to leave any such vehicle, aircraft or
watercraft after being requested to leave by the person having such right.
(1970 Code §6-2-5-2)
5-2-7-3: MALICIOUS MISCHIEF OR DESTRUCTION:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully and maliciously tear
up, injure, deface or destroy any property, real or personal, belonging to the
Village; or any property, used in any business impressed with a public interest
and usually designated as a public service corporation i.e., waterworks, gas,
electric light, telephone, street, railroad or steam heating companies.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully and maliciously
interfere or meddle in any way with the operation of any such business, as
above enumerated.
(1970 Code §6-2-5-3)
5-2-7-4: COIN-OPERATED DEVICES; SLUGS, TAMPERING:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to insert, or attempt to insert, in
any parking meter, vending machine or other coin-operated device, any slug,
counterfeit coin or other foreign or metallic substance not a coin of United
States currency.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully and maliciously injure,
deface, destroy or otherwise tamper with any parking meter, vending machine or
other coin-operated device.
(1970 Code §6-2-5-4)
5-2-8: OFFENSES INVOLVING MORALITY:
5-2-8-1: PROSTITUTION AND RELATED OFFENSES:
   A.   Prostitution Defined: Any person who performs or offers or agrees to
perform any of the following acts for money commits an act of prostitution:
      1.   Any act of sexual intercourse; or
      2.   Any act of deviate sexual conduct, meaning any act of sexual
gratification involving the sex organs of one person and the mouth or anus of
another. (1970 Code §6-2-6-1)
   B.   Keeping a Place of Prostitution: Any person who keeps, maintains or
exercises control over the use of any premises which could offer seclusion or
shelter for the practice of prostitution, and who performs any of the following
acts, shall be deemed to keep a place of prostitution:
      1.   Knowingly grants or permits the use of such premises for the purpose
of prostitution; or
      2.   Grants or permits the use of such premises under circumstances from
which he should reasonably be aware that such premises are used or about to be
used for purposes of prostitution; or
      3.   Permits the continued use of premises after becoming aware of facts
or circumstances from which he should reasonably know that such premises are
being used for purposes of prostitution. (1970 Code §6-2-6-2)
   C.   Patronizing a Prostitute: Any person who performs any of the following
acts with a person not his spouse commits the offense of patronizing a
prostitute:
      1.   Engages in an act of sexual intercourse or deviate sexual conduct
with a prostitute; or
      2.   Enters or remains in a place of prostitution in the company of a
prostitute with the intent to engage in an act of sexual intercourse or deviate
sexual conduct. (1970 Code §6-2-6-3)
   D.   Soliciting for a Prostitute: Any person who performs any of the
following acts commits soliciting for a prostitute:
      1.   Solicit another person for the purpose of prostitution; or
      2.   Arranges or offers to arrange a meeting of persons for the purpose
of prostitution; or
      3.   Directs another person to a place knowing such direction is for the
purpose of prostitution. (1970 Code §6-2-6-4)
   E.   Pandering: Any person who performs any of the following acts for money
commits pandering:
      1.   Compels a female to become a prostitute; or
      2.   Arranges or offers to arrange a situation in which a female may
commit prostitution. (1970 Code §6-2-6-5)
   F.   Pimping: Any person who receives money or other property from a
prostitute, not for a lawful consideration, knowing it was earned in whole or
in part from an act of prostitution commits pimping. (1970 Code §6-2-6-6)
5-2-8-2: INDECENT, OBSCENE ACTS, MATERIALS:
   A.   Public Indecency; Acts or Language:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit any indecent, lewd or
lascivious act in any public place in the Village, or to utter any lewd or
offensive words or to use any threatening or abusive language publicly and
within the hearing of another person.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to appear in a public place in a
state of nudity, or to make any indecent exposure of his person or to be guilty
of any other lewd or indecent act or behavior.
      3.   Public place for purposes of this Section means any place where such
conduct may reasonably be expected to be viewed by others. (1970 Code §6-2-6-7)
   B.   Obscenity Defined; Prohibited:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to exhibit, sell,
print, offer to sell, give away, circulate, publish, distribute or attempt to
distribute any obscene book, magazine, pamphlet, paper, writing, card,
advertisement, circular, print, picture, photograph, motion picture film, play,
image instrument, statue, drawing or other article which is obscene.
      2.   Obscene for the purpose of this Section is defined as follows:
whether to a reasonable person applying contemporary community standards the
dominant theme of the material taken as a whole appeals to prurient interests,
and is without redeeming social value. (1970 Code §6-2-6-8)
   C.   Obscene Marking in Public View Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any
person to write, mark, draw, cut or make any profane or indecent word,
sentence, design or figure in any place open to public view. (1970 Code §6-2-6-
9)
   D.   Obscenity; Affirmative Defense: It shall be an affirmative defense to a
charge under the preceding subsections B and C of this Section that the
dissemination:
      1.   Was not for sale or gain, and was made only to personal associates
other than children under eighteen (18) years of age; or
      2.   Was to institutions or individuals having scientific or other
special education purpose for possession of such material. (1970 Code §6-2-6-
10)
5-2-8-3: WINDOW PEEPING PROHIBITED:
   It shall be unlawful for any person to look, peer, peep into or be found
loitering about and within view of any window within a building occupied as a
residence of another, with the intent of watching or observing the activities
of persons therein.
(1970 Code §6-2-6-11)
5-2-8-4: GAMBLING:
   A.   Gambling Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to gamble
within the Village, provided nothing contained herein shall be deemed to
prohibit an activity lawful under the laws of the State.
   B.   Premises as Gambling Place Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any
person to knowingly permit any premises owned, occupied or controlled by him to
be used as a gambling place within the Village.
   C.   Definitions: For the purposes of this Section:
   GAMBLING: Gambling occurs when any person:
         1. Plays a game of chance or skill for money or other things of value;
or
         2. Makes a wager upon the result of any game, contest or any political
nomination, appointment or election; or
         3. Operates, keeps, owns, uses, purchases, exhibits, rents, sells,
bargains for the sale or lease of any gambling device; or
         4. Knowingly owns or possesses any books, instruments or apparatus by
means of which bets or wagers have been or are recorded or registered; or
         5. Sells pools upon the result of any game or contest of skill or
chance, political nomination, appointment or election; or
         6. Sets up or promotes any lottery or sells, offers to sell or offers
or transfers any ticket or share for any lottery; or
         7. Sets up or promotes any policy game or sells, offers to sell or
knowingly possesses or transfers any policy ticket or other similar device; or
         8. Knowingly advertises any lottery or policy game or drafts, prints
or publishes any lottery ticket or share or any policy ticket or similar device
or any advertisement of any lottery or policy game; or
         9. Knowingly transmits information as to wagers, betting odds or
changes in betting odds by telephone, telegraph, radio, semaphore or similar
means; or knowingly installs equipment for the transmission or receipt of such
information; except that nothing in this subsection 9 shall prohibit
transmission or receipt of such information for the use of news reporting of
sporting events or contests.
   GAMBLING DEVICE: Any clock, tape machine, slot machine or other machines or
devices for the reception of money or other things of value on chance or skill
or upon the action of which money or other thing of value is staked, hazarded,
bet, won or lost; or any mechanism, furniture, fixture, equipment or other
device designed primarily for use in a gambling place. However, a gambling
device does not include:
         1. A coin-operated mechanical device played for amusement which awards
the player with the right to replay such mechanical device, which device is so
constructed or devised as to make such result of the operations thereof depend
in part upon the skill of the player and which returns to the player thereof no
money, property or right to receive money or property, and which is commonly
known as a pinball machine; or
         2. Vending machine by which full and adequate return is made for the
money invested and in which there is no element of chance or hazard.
   GAMBLING PLACE: Any real estate, vehicle, boat or any other property
whatsoever used for the purpose of gambling.
   LOTTERY: Any scheme or procedure whereby one or more prizes are distributed
by chance among persons who have paid or promised consideration for a chance to
win such prizes, whether such scheme or procedure is called a lottery, raffle,
gift or sale or some other name.
   POLICY GAME: Any scheme or procedure whereby a person promises or guarantees
by an instrument, bill, certificate, writing, token or other device that any
particular number, character, ticket or certificate shall in the event of any
contingency in the nature of a lottery entitle the purchaser or holder to
receive money, property or evidence of debt.
   D.   Food and Liquor Licenses: Whenever any premises are determined by a
court of competent jurisdiction to be a gambling place, all Village licenses or
permits issued authorizing the serving of food or alcoholic liquor on such
premises shall become void; and no license or permit so voided shall be
reissued for such premises for a period of sixty (60) days thereafter; nor
shall any person convicted of keeping a gambling place be reissued any such
license or permit for one year from the date of his conviction and after a
second conviction of keeping a gambling place, any such person shall not be
reissued any such license or permit.
   E.   Seizure of Gambling Devices and Gambling Funds: Every gambling device
which is incapable of lawful use constitutes contraband and shall be subject to
seizure and confiscation by Village police officers. Any money or other thing
of value integrally related to acts of gambling shall be seized and forfeited
as contraband to the Village. Disposition of such gambling devices seized or
confiscated shall be made according to law.
(1970 Code §6-2-6-12)
5-2-9: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
5-2-9-1: VIOLATION OF CIVIL RIGHTS:
   A.   Elements: A person commits a violation of civil rights when:
      1.   He prevents, interferes with or denies to another, or conspires to
do the same, the full and equal access to and enjoyment of the facilities and
services of any office, place, business, accommodation, amusement or conveyance
because of race, religion, color or national ancestry; or
      2.   As an official, he refuses to employ, discriminates in employment,
or participates in a scheme which discriminates in employment for any work,
job, office or project because of race, religion, color or national ancestry;
or
      3.   As an official, he denies or refuses to any person the full and
equal access, use or enjoyment of the services, facilities, accommodations,
advantages or privileges of his office, or of any property accommodations or
facilities under his care, because of race, religion, color or national
ancestry. (1970 Code §6-2-7-1)
   B.   Sanctions:
      1.   Enjoining as a Public Nuisance: Any violation of civil rights
occurring in any public office, accommodation or amusement is declared to be a
public nuisance and may be abated in any manner provided by this Code for the
abatement of public nuisances.
      2.   Discharge of Public Officials: Whenever any public official shall be
found guilty of a violation of civil rights, the person aggrieved, or the
Village Attorney on his behalf, may file a petition in the Circuit Court to
discharge such official from office. The Court shall order that such official
be immediately relieved of his office or duties and shall order such official
to resign or be removed or discharged. Any person violating or refusing to
enforce any such Court order or decree shall be deemed in contempt of Court.
      3.   The penalties and remedies herein provided by this Section shall not
be deemed mutually exclusive.
(1970 Code §6-2-7-2)
5-2-9-2: NECESSITY AS AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE:
   Conduct which would otherwise be an offense under this Chapter is
justifiable by reason of necessity if the accused was without blame in
occasioning or developing the situation, and he reasonably believed such
conduct was necessary to avoid a public or private injury greater than the
injury which might reasonably result from his own conduct.
(1970 Code §6-2-7-3)
5-2-9-3: BRIBERY; OFFERING OR ACCEPTING:
   It shall be unlawful for any person:
   A.   To offer, promise or give to any official, police officer or employee
of the Village any money, reward, service, privilege or thing of value which he
may not otherwise lawfully accept, with intent to influence the performance or
nonperformance of any official act, function, duty or employment.
   B.   To agree to accept, receive or retain any money, reward, service,
privilege or thing of value which he may not otherwise lawfully accept, knowing
or with reason to know that such benefit was offered, promised or given with
intent to influence him in the performance or nonperformance of any official
act, function, duty or employment.
(1970 Code §6-2-7-4)
5-2-9-4: SOLICITATION AND CONSPIRACY:
   A.   Solicitation To Commit Offense: A person commits solicitation when,
with intent that an offense be committed, he commands, encourages or requests
another person to commit that offense.
   B.   Conspiracy To Commit Offense: A person commits conspiracy when, with
intent that an offense be committed, he agrees with another person to the
commission of that offense. No person may be convicted of conspiracy to commit
an offense unless an act in furtherance of such agreement is alleged and proved
to have been committed by him or by a coconspirator. (1970 Code §6-2-7-6)
   C.   Solicitation And Conspiracy; Affirmative Defense: It shall be a defense
to a charge of solicitation or conspiracy that if the criminal objects were
achieved the accused would not be guilty of the offense. (1970 Code §6-2-7-7)
5-2-9-5: TELEPHONES; OBSCENE, ANONYMOUS, MISREPRESENTED CALLS:
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, or permit another to make, any
obscene, anonymous or falsely represented telephone calls to another person for
the purpose or reason of nuisance or harassment.
(1970 Code §6-2-7-10)
5-2-9-6: FALSE ALARMS; POLICE, FIRE, AMBULANCE:
   It shall be unlawful to intentionally make, turn in or give any false alarm
of fire or of need of police or ambulance assistance, or to aid or abet in the
commission of such act.
(1970 Code §6-2-7-11)
5-2-9-7: CLIMBING UTILITY POLES:
   It shall be unlawful for any person to climb upon any telegraph, telephone,
electric light or sign pole unless in the performance of his duties.
(1970 Code §6-2-7-12)
5-2-9-8: INTIMIDATION DEFINED; PROHIBITED:
   A person commits intimidation when, with intent to cause another person to
perform or to omit the performance of any act, he communicates to another
without otherwise lawful authority a threat to perform any of the following
acts:
   A.   Inflict physical harm on the person threatened or any other person or
property; or
   B.   Subject any person to physical confinement or restraint; or
   C.   Commit any criminal offense; or
   D.   Accuse any person of an offense; or
   E.   Expose any person to hatred, contempt or ridicule; or
   F.   Take action as a public official against anyone or anything, or
withhold official action, or cause such action or withholding; or
   G.   Bring about or continue any strike, boycott or other collective or mob
action.
(1970 Code §6-2-7-13)
5-2-9-9: SKATEBOARDING PROHIBITED:
   The use of a skateboard upon any village property is hereby deemed unlawful.
(Ord. 461, 8-9-2010)
5-2-10: CIVIL REMEDIES PRESERVED:
This chapter does not bar, suspend or otherwise affect any right or liability
to damages, penalty, forfeiture or other remedy authorized by law to be
recovered or enforced in a civil action for any conduct which this chapter
makes punishable; and the civil injury is not merged in the offense. (1970 Code
§6-2-1-3)
5-2-11: PENALTY:
Unless otherwise specifically provided in this chapter, violations of any
provision thereof shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
(1970 Code §6-2-1-4; amd. 1995 Code)
CHAPTER 3
LOCAL STATE OF EMERGENCY
SECTION:
5-3-1: Definitions
5-3-2: Declaration
5-3-3: Curfew Authorized
5-3-4: Orders Authorized
5-3-5: Duration
5-3-6: Notice
5-3-7: Violations
5-3-8: Effect On Other Ordinances
5-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
 
           A prohibition against any person walking, running, loitering,
           standing or motoring upon any alley, street, highway, public
CURFEW:    property or vacant premises within the corporate limits of the city
           except officials of any governmental unit and persons officially
           designated to duty with reference to said unit emergency.
           (1) A riot or unlawful assembly characterized by the use of actual
           force or violence or any threat to use force if accompanied by
           immediate power to execute by three (3) or more persons acting
           together without authority of law; or (2) Any natural disaster,
           epidemic, or manmade calamity, including outbreak of disease, flood,
EMERGENCY: conflagration, cyclone, tornado, earthquake or explosion, or eminent
           threat of any of those events within the corporate limits of the
           city, resulting in or threatening the death or injury of persons or
           the destruction of property to such an extent that extraordinary
           measures must be taken to protect the public health, safety and
           welfare. (Ord. 514, 3-19-2020)
 
5-3-2: DECLARATION:
Whenever an emergency, as defined in section
5-3-1  of this chapter exists, the Village President is authorized to declare
the existence of a Local State of Emergency by means of a written declaration
of the Village President, under oath, setting forth the facts which constitute
the emergency, describing the nature of the emergency and declaring that a
Local State of Emergency exists in accordance with the definitions set forth in
this section. This declaration must be filed with the municipal clerk as soon
as practicable after issuance. (Ord. 514, 3-19-2020)
5-3-3: CURFEW AUTHORIZED:
After proclamation of a Local State of Emergency by the Village President, he
or she may order a general curfew applicable to such geographical areas of the
city or to the city as a whole, as he or she deems reasonable and advisable,
and applicable during such hours of the day or night as he or she deems
necessary in the interest of the public safety and welfare. (Ord. 514, 3-19-
2020)
5-3-4: ORDERS AUTHORIZED:
After the proclamation of a Local State of Emergency, the Village President may
also, in the interest of public safety and welfare, and to address this issues
caused threatened by the emergency, make take any or all of the following
actions by executive order during the state of emergency:
   A.   All actions reasonably necessary to respond to the emergency;
   B.   Approve previously appropriated expenditures of the city for the
purpose of continuing the operations of the municipality; and
   C.   In the event the Local State of Emergency extends beyond the current
fiscal year and a new budget has not been approved, the Village President shall
be authorized to approve new spending by the Village during the existence of
the Local State of Emergency;
   D.   Order the closing of all retail liquor stores, including taverns and
private clubs or portions thereof wherein the consumption of intoxicating
liquor and beer is permitted;
   E.   Order the discontinuance of the sale of alcoholic liquor by any
wholesaler or retailer;
   F.   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing or giving away
gasoline or other liquid flammable or combustible products in any container
other than a gasoline tank properly affixed to a motor vehicle;
   G.   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, dispensing or giving
away of any firearms or ammunition of any character whatsoever. (Ord. 514, 3-
19-2020)
5-3-5: DURATION:
The declaration herein authorized shall be effective for a period of up to
fourteen (14) days or until the adjournment of the next regular or special
meeting of the city council, whichever comes first, unless sooner terminated by
a proclamation of the Village President, or, his or her interim emergency
successor, indicating that the civil emergency no longer exists. The Village
President or his or her interim emergency successor, shall have the power to
re-proclaim the existence of an emergency at the end of each fourteen (14) day
period during the time said emergency exists. (Ord. 514, 3-19-2020)
5-3-6: NOTICE:
Upon issuing the proclamation herein authorized, the municipal clerk shall
notify the news media situated within the Village, and shall cause at least
four (4) copies of the proclamation declaring the existence of the emergency
and any curfew to be posted at the following places within the city: the city
hall, the police station, the post office, and in the area of any curfew. (Ord.
514, 3-19-2020)
5-3-7: VIOLATIONS:
Any person violating the provisions of this section or executive orders issued
pursuant hereto shall be guilty of an offense against the Village and shall be
punished as provided by Section
1-4-1  of the Village code. (Ord. 514, 3-19-2020)
5-3-8: EFFECT ON OTHER ORDINANCES:
Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to impair the powers
contained in this Code, giving powers to the police and fire departments, but
shall be construed together with existing ordinances now in effect for the
safety and welfare of the citizens of the Village. (Ord. 514, 3-19-2020)
CHAPTER 4
ANIMAL CONTROL
ARTICLE A. LICENSING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
5-4A-1: Definitions
5-4A-2: Dog License Required; Exceptions
5-4A-3: Application for License
5-4A-4: Certificate of Rabies Inoculation
5-4A-5: License Fees; Issuance of Tag
5-4A-6: Expiration of License
5-4A-7: Unauthorized Transfer of License
5-4A-8: Tag Affixed to Collar
5-4A-9: Duties of Village Clerk
5-4A-1: DEFINITIONS:
   For the purposes of this Article:
   ANIMAL: Any and all types of animals, both domesticated and wild, male and
female, singular and plural.
   AT LARGE: Off the premises of the owner and not under the immediate control
of either the owner or a person the owner has designated to be in control.
However, if an animal under the control of a Village official or veterinarian
escapes and runs loose, it shall not be considered "at large".
   BITING: The infliction of a break in the skin or a wound by the teeth of an
animal.
   CRUELTY TO ANIMALS: Includes, but not necessarily limited to, the following:
      A.   Overloading, overdriving, overworking, beating, torturing, abusing,
tormenting, knowingly poisoning, knowingly attempting to poison, mutilating or
killing any animal, or causing or knowingly permitting the same to be done.
      B.   Working any old, lame, infirm, sick or disabled animal, or causing
or knowingly permitting the same to be done.
      C.   Unnecessarily failing to provide an animal in one's charge or
custody as owner or otherwise with proper food, drink and proper sanitary
shelter.
      D.   Abandoning any old, lame, infirm, sick or disabled animal by leaving
such animal on any highway or public way or in any other place where it may
suffer injury, hunger, exposure or become a public charge.
   DANGEROUS DOG: Any dog which has bitten any person or which causes
reasonable fear of bodily injury to any person by attacking or threatening to
attack such person.
   DOG: Any and all animals of the canine species.
   OWNER:
      A.   Any person owning, harboring or keeping an animal within the
Village.
      B.   For purposes of the Village, the person last issued a dog license
shall be presumed to be the owner of such dog.
      C.   A person harboring or keeping an unlicensed animal in the Village
for a period of five (5) days shall be presumed to be the owner of such animal.
(1970 Code §6-4-1-1)
5-4A-2: DOG LICENSE REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to own, possess
or maintain any dog within the Village without first securing an annual dog
license therefor and tagging the dog therewith as provided in this Article.
(1970 Code §6-4-1-2)
   B.   Exceptions: The provisions of this Article shall not apply to:
      1.   Dogs used by regularly chartered medical colleges or other
educational or scientific institutions for scientific purposes only;
      2.   Any dog under the age of four (4) months; or
      3.   Any dog, until said dog has been within the Village for a period of
seven (7) days.
(1970 Code §6-4-1-3)
5-4A-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   Application for dog licenses shall be made to the Village Clerk upon such
printed forms as shall be provided by him, which forms shall include the
following information: the name and address of the owner of the dog and the
name, age, sex, color, breed and description of such dog.
(1970 Code §6-4-1-4)
5-4A-4: CERTIFICATE OF RABIES INOCULATION:
   At the time of application for a dog license, the applicant shall present to
the Village Clerk the certificate of a veterinarian licensed by the State which
shows that the dog was inoculated or vaccinated against rabies within the
calendar year immediately preceding such application.
(1970 Code §6-4-1-5)
5-4A-5: LICENSE FEES; ISSUANCE OF TAG:
   A.   License Fee: The annual license fee for all dogs shall be five dollars
($5.00). (Ord. 276, 4-15-80)
   B.   Tag: Upon complying with the foregoing provisions, the owner shall
receive from the Clerk a metal license tag upon which shall be stamped the name
of the Village, the number of such license tag and the year for which issued.
(1970 Code §6-4-1-6)
   C.   Lost License Tag; Duplicate; Fee: Whenever any license tag is lost, the
owner shall receive a duplicate tag from the Village Clerk after paying a fee
of two dollars ($2.00). Provided, however, that if said dog has been impounded
for not displaying a license and the license tag was lost or taken, the owner
shall receive a duplicate license tag only after compliance with Section 5-4C-
3 of this Chapter, in addition to the duplicate license fee provided herein.
(1970 Code §6-4-1-7; amd. Ord. 276, 4-15-80)
   D.   Transfer of Ownership; Fee: Whenever the ownership of any dog shall
change, the new owner shall notify the Village Clerk and pay a fee of two
dollars ($2.00), whereupon the Clerk shall accordingly change the record of
ownership of said dog. (Ord. 276, 4-15-80)
5-4A-6: EXPIRATION OF LICENSE:
   All licenses hereunder shall expire at the end of the fiscal year of the
Village. Licenses issued after November 1 may be for a sum equal to one-half
(1/2) the annual license fee; provided, however, that no license shall be
issued for any amount less than one-half (1/2) the annual license fee. (1970
Code §6-4-1-9)
5-4A-7: UNAUTHORIZED TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place any license tag on any dog
other than the dog for which such tag was issued. (1970 Code §6-4-1-10)
5-4A-8: TAG AFFIXED TO COLLAR:
   A.   The owner of a dog shall provide the dog with a collar or harness made
of leather, metal or other substantial material, to which shall be securely
fastened the proper license tag and also a tag issued by the State Rabies
Inspector, Deputy Inspector or any licensed veterinarian showing that such dog
has been vaccinated against rabies during the current or immediately preceding
year.
   B.   A dog found within the Village not wearing the proper collar and tags
shall be impounded.
   C.   Any owner not providing such collar and tags shall be subject to the
penalties specified in subsection 5-4D-17 of this Chapter. (1970 Code §6-4-1-
11)
   D.   Unauthorized Removal of Collar or Tags: It shall be unlawful for any
person not authorized by the owner to remove or take away any dog collar,
Village license tag or rabies vaccination tag from any dog; provided, however,
that this subsection shall not apply to any governmental official in the
exercise of his duties. (1970 Code §6-4-1-12)
5-4A-9: DUTIES OF VILLAGE CLERK:
   A.   Provide Tags: The Village Clerk shall provide each year such number of
metal dog license tags as may be needed; the shape and color to be changed each
year, having stamped on such tag the name of the Village, the number of the tag
and the year for which issued.
   B.   Keep Register of Licensed Dogs: The Clerk shall keep a complete
register, in a book to be kept specially for that purpose, of all licensed
dogs, the number of the current license tag issued for each dog, the name and
address of the owner of each such dog and the name, age, sex, color, breed and
description of each such dog.
(1970 Code §6-4-1-13)
ARTICLE B. RABIES CONTROL
SECTION:
5-4B-1: Rabies Vaccination Required
5-4B-2: Certificate of Vaccination
5-4B-3: Duties of Owner of Biting Dog
5-4B-4: Duties of Persons Suspecting Rabies Infection
5-4B-5: Duties of Police Department
5-4B-6: Confinement for Observation
5-4B-7: Duties of Owner upon Reclaiming Dog
5-4B-8: Rabies Epidemic; Power of President
5-4B-9: Police Authorized to Kill Certain Dogs
5-4B-10: False Reports Prohibited
5-4B-1: RABIES VACCINATION REQUIRED:
   The owner of a dog four (4) months or more of age, located within the
Village, shall cause such dog to be inoculated by the State Rabies Inspector,
or by his deputy or by any licensed veterinarian.
(1970 Code §6-4-2-1)
5-4B-2: CERTIFICATE OF VACCINATION:
   Every licensed veterinarian who vaccinates a dog shall issue a certificate
of vaccination to the owner of such dog stating the name and address of the
owner, a brief description of the dog, and the date of such vaccination.
(1970 Code §6-4-2-2)
5-4B-3: DUTIES OF OWNER OF BITING DOG:
   A.   Any owner receiving notice or having knowledge that his dog has been
bitten by any animal suffering or suspected to be suffering from rabies, or
that his dog has bitten any person, shall immediately notify or deliver his dog
to any police officer who shall place the dog in a licensed veterinary hospital
for observation, or such owner shall himself immediately notify the Village
Clerk of the name and location of such hospital.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any owner of a dog, upon receiving notice or
having knowledge that such dog has bitten any person or that such dog has been
bitten by any animal suffering or suspected to be suffering from rabies, to
sell or give away such dog, or permit such dog to run at large, or to be taken
beyond the Village except to a veterinary hospital within the County; and it
shall also be unlawful for such owner to refuse to deliver said dog for
observation as provided herein.
(1970 Code §6-4-2-3)
5-4B-4: DUTIES OF PERSONS SUSPECTING RABIES INFECTION:
   A.   Every veterinarian or other person discovering or suspecting any dog to
be suffering from rabies shall immediately report this matter to the Police
Department of the Village, giving the name and address of the owner of such
dog, if known, the place where the dog can be found, and the license tag number
of such dog, if known.
   B.   For the purposes of this Section only, any dog which has bitten any
person shall be presumed to be suffering from rabies.
(1970 Code §6-4-2-4)
5-4B-5: DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT:
   Upon being notified that a dog has bitten any person or is suspected of
suffering from rabies, the Police Department shall:
   A.   When the owner of the dog is known, notify such owner and direct such
owner to deliver the dog to a licensed veterinary hospital for observation; or
   B.   When the owner of the dog is unknown, immediately take up said dog and
confine said dog to a licensed veterinary hospital for observation.
   C.   When a dog is taken up under the provisions of subsection B above,
notify the owner, if known, of the confinement of such dog within seven (7)
days after the confinement begins or the identity of the owner is discovered.
(1970 Code §6-4-2-5)
5-4B-6: CONFINEMENT FOR OBSERVATION:
   A.   Confinement of a dog for observation under this Article shall be for a
period of twelve (12) days. The dog shall be examined immediately after
confinement and again before the twelve (12) day period has expired.
   B.   The veterinarian shall submit to the Village Clerk a certificate
following each examination stating whether or not the dog shows symptoms of
rabies.
   C.   If the dog is found rabid, the dog shall be destroyed in a humane
manner. If the dog is destroyed, or if it shall die within the twelve (12) day
observation period, its head shall be sent by the veterinarian to the
laboratory of the State Department of Public Health.
   D.   If the dog is not found rabid by the end of the confinement period, the
owner shall be so notified and the dog may be released to its owner, and the
Village Clerk so advised.
(1970 Code §6-4-2-6)
5-4B-7: DUTIES OF OWNER UPON RECLAIMING DOG:
   A.   An owner may reclaim any dog impounded under the provisions of this
Article within seven (7) days after the period for observing said dog has
expired by paying the costs incurred during the observation period, and the
cost of a license if the dog was unlicensed, and the costs of a rabies
vaccination shot if the owner cannot prove the dog has been properly vaccinated
as provided in Section
5-4A-4 of this Chapter.
   B.   If the owner or keeper does not claim the dog within this time, then
any person may redeem it by making like payments.
   C.   If the dog is not claimed as set forth herein, it shall be destroyed in
a humane manner, and any reasonable costs incurred by a licensed veterinarian
in compliance with this Article shall be paid to said veterinarian.
(1970 Code §6-4-2-7)
5-4B-8: RABIES EPIDEMIC; POWER OF PRESIDENT:
   A.   Issuance of Proclamation by President: Whenever the President shall
deem it necessary to prevent an epidemic of rabies, he may issue a proclamation
requiring the owners of all dogs to keep them securely confined or to keep them
properly muzzled or leashed, so they cannot bite, for such times as may be
designated in the proclamation or until otherwise notified.
   B.   Publication of Proclamation: The President shall publish such
proclamation in a paper of general circulation within the Village and post such
proclamation in the Village Hall. (1970 Code §6-4-2-8)
   C.   Duties of Owners upon Proclamation: Following any proclamation as set
forth in the preceding subsection, it shall be unlawful for any owner to permit
his dog to run at large in violation of the provisions of such proclamation. In
addition to the penalties provided with respect to any such owner for violating
this subsection, a dog running at large unmuzzled shall be impounded. (1970
Code §6-4-2-9)
5-4B-9: POLICE AUTHORIZED TO KILL CERTAIN DOGS:
   Any police officer may kill a dog running at large which is suspected of
suffering from rabies if the dog, in the opinion of the police officer, cannot
be safely taken up and impounded, or if the police officer deems such killing
essential to the safety of any person. (1970 Code §6-4-2-10)
5-4B-10: FALSE REPORTS PROHIBITED:
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make any report required by this
Article without having a reasonable belief in its truth and accuracy.
(1970 Code §6-4-2-11)
ARTICLE C. IMPOUNDMENT PROCEDURES
SECTION:
5-4C-1: Tazewell County Animal Control Officer; Shelter
5-4C-2: Alternate Services and Conditions
5-4C-3: Redemption of Impounded Animals; Fee
5-4C-1: TAZEWELL COUNTY ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER; SHELTER:
   The Tazewell County Animal Control Officer shall be in charge of the
impoundment of animals running at large within the Village. Said animals shall
be impounded in the County animal shelter.
(1995 Code)
5-4C-2: ALTERNATE SERVICES AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Contract for Services: The Village shall be, and hereby is, authorized
and empowered to contract with a qualified individual, other governmental
agency or business association for the provision of those services and the
discharge of those duties and responsibilities otherwise imposed by this
Article upon the Village.
   B.   Reclamation Fees; Conditions: The Village reserves the right to make
such reasonable charges in reclamation fees and in conditions, rules and
regulations herein established in this Article from time to time as may be
determined expeditious or necessary.
(Ord. 287, 11-3-80; 1995 Code)
5-4C-3: REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS; FEE:
   A.   Redemption Fee: Any person seeking to redeem any impounded animal shall
pay a fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) upon the first said redemption, and a
cumulative fee for each subsequent redemption of twenty five dollars ($25.00)
plus an additional twenty five dollars ($25.00) for each time that same animal
has been redeemed. (Ord. 287, 11-3-80)
   B.   Proof of License and Inoculation: In addition, such person must prove
that said animal is properly licensed and inoculated or vaccinated against
rabies as provided in this Chapter. Absent such proof, no such animal shall be
released from the shelter until the animal be properly licensed and vaccinated,
and until all costs and expenses thereof be paid to the Village Clerk.
(1970 Code §6-4-4-5; 1995 Code)
ARTICLE D. OFFENSES INVOLVING ANIMALS
SECTION:
5-4D-1: Disturbing the Peace; Annoying Noises
5-4D-2: Dogs Running at Large
5-4D-3: Defecation by Dogs on Private Property
5-4D-4: Destruction of Private Property by Dog
5-4D-5: Restriction of Animals from Public Places
5-4D-6: Vicious Or Dangerous Animals
5-4D-7: Cruelty to Animals
5-4D-8: Duty upon Striking Animal with Vehicle
5-4D-9: Dogs Chasing Vehicles or Bicycles
5-4D-10: Procurement of Animal without Knowledge of Owner
5-4D-11: Abandoning Animals within Village
5-4D-12: Sanitation
5-4D-13: Female Dogs in Heat
5-4D-14: Use of Animals for Indecent Purposes
5-4D-15: Certain Animals, Livestock Prohibited in Village
5-4D-16: Diseased or Dying Animals
5-4D-17: Vicious Dogs
5-4D-18: Violations; Penalties
5-4D-1: DISTURBING THE PEACE; ANNOYING NOISES:
   A.   Annoying Noise: It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or harbor
any animal which disturbs the peace by loud noises at any time of day or night,
and it shall be unlawful for any such person to permit any animal to make such
noises. (1970 Code §6-4-3-1)
   B.   Causing Animal to Make Annoying Noises: It shall be unlawful for any
person to treat any animal in any manner which causes such animal to disturb
the peace by loud noises at any time of day or night. (1970 Code §6-4-3-2)
   C.   Complaint of Annoying Noises: Any person residing in a neighborhood
whose quietness has been disturbed by any animal owned or possessed within the
neighborhood may make a sworn complaint before a Village police officer or the
Village Clerk against the owner or possessor of said animal. (1970 Code §6-4-3-
3)
   D.   Animals Disturbing the Peace Declared a Nuisance: Any animal which
disturbs the peace by loud noises at any time of day or night is hereby
declared to be a nuisance, and may be impounded by the Tazewell County Animal
Control Officer or a Village police officer, and may be redeemed only by paying
the appropriate fees as provided in Section
5-4C-3 of this Chapter.
(1970 Code §6-4-3-4; 1995 Code)
5-4D-2: DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE:
   A.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person owning or possessing
any dog within the Village to permit such dog to run at large. (1970 Code §6-4-
3-5)
   B.   Nuisance Declared: Any dog running at large is hereby declared to be a
nuisance, and may be taken up and impounded by the Tazewell County Animal
Control Officer or any Village police officer, and may be redeemed only by
paying the appropriate fees as provided in Section
5-4C-3 of this Chapter. (1970 Code §6-4-3-6; 1995 Code)
   C.   Authority to Take Up or Impound: Any person finding any dog running at
large upon his property or upon any premises enumerated in Section 5-4D-5 of
this Article to his injury or annoyance may take up such dog and remove it or
have it impounded.
(1970 Code §6-4-3-12)
5-4D-3: DEFECATION BY DOGS ON PRIVATE PROPERTY:
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or possessor to permit a dog to walk or
defecate upon private property without the consent of the occupant thereof.
(1970 Code §6-4-3-7)
5-4D-4: DESTRUCTION OF PRIVATE PROPERTY BY DOG:
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or possessor of any dog to permit such
dog to damage or destroy any personal property of another person.
(1970 Code §6-4-3-8)
5-4D-5: RESTRICTION OF ANIMALS FROM PUBLIC PLACES:
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or possessor of any animal to permit such
animal to enter any religious premises, public hall, bank building, automobile
gasoline station, public garage or any place where food or beverage is sold or
served during such time as these establishments are open for use to the public
or persons entitled to use the same; provided however, that the owner of any of
the above establishments may permit a watch dog to remain therein if such dog
is held and restrained in such a way that such dog cannot injure any patron or
come in contact with any food. This Section does not apply to seeing eye
trained dogs.
(1970 Code §6-4-3-9; 1995 Code)
5-4D-6: VICIOUS OR DANGEROUS ANIMALS:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided herein, no person shall permit any vicious
or dangerous animal to run at-large, nor lead any such animal with a chain,
rope, or other device, whether such animal is muzzled or unmuzzled, on any
street, avenue, lane, highway, or public place.
   B.   An animal shall be deemed to be vicious or dangerous or shall be
determined by the Chief of Police or his or her designee to be vicious or
dangerous, by utilizing the procedures and standards provided with respect to
vicious dogs.
   C.   No person shall possess any vicious or dangerous animal unless such
vicious or dangerous animal is confined in accordance with the provisions,
restrictions. and standards applicable to vicious dogs.
   D.   Vicious and dangerous animals which are not property confined, as
hereinabove provided, shall be impounded as provided for vicious dogs.
   E.   It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper, or harborer of a vicious or
dangerous animal to fail to comply with the requirements and conditions herein
contained. Any vicious or dangerous animal found to be the subject of a
violation of this chapter shall be subject to immediate seizure and
impoundment. In addition, failure to comply may result in the immediate removal
of the animal from the village of South Pekin. (1970 Code §6-4-3-14; 1995 Code;
Ord. 527, 9-14-2020)
5-4D-7: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS:
   A.   Encourage Fighting: It shall be unlawful for any person to instigate,
cause, procure or encourage any fight between animals, either in private or in
public.
   B.   Hunting Game Animals or Birds: It shall be unlawful for any person to
hunt or attempt to kill by any means any game animal or game birds within the
Village.
   C.   Cruelty: It shall be unlawful for any person to treat any animal within
the Village in any cruel manner whatsoever. (1970 Code §6-4-3-15)
   D.   Intentional Injuring of Animals: In addition to the other prohibitions
of this Article, no person shall kill or wound, or attempt to kill or wound, by
any means whatsoever, any bird or squirrel, or rob or injure the nest of such
creatures, or enter upon any private premises or public place, for the purpose
of doing any act prohibited by this Section.
(1970 Code §6-4-3-17; 1995 Code)
5-4D-8: DUTY UPON STRIKING ANIMAL WITH VEHICLE:
   It shall be unlawful for any person who kills or injures any animal while
driving a motor vehicle to leave the scene of the accident without first
stopping and rendering such assistance as is practical. Such person shall
immediately report the incident to the Police Department.
(1970 Code §6-4-3-16)
5-4D-9: DOGS CHASING VEHICLES OR BICYCLES:
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or possessing any dog to permit
such dog to chase any motor vehicle or bicycle traveling upon any public or
private street or sidewalk.
(1970 Code §6-4-3-11)
5-4D-10: PROCUREMENT OF ANIMAL WITHOUT KNOWLEDGE OF OWNER:
   It shall be unlawful for any person in any manner to procure or acquire, or
attempt to procure or acquire, or knowingly cause or aid in the procurement or
acquisition of any animal for any purpose without the consent of the owner
thereof.
(1970 Code §6-4-3-18)
5-4D-11: ABANDONING ANIMALS WITHIN VILLAGE:
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or person in control of any animal to
abandon such animal within the Village.
(1970 Code §6-4-3-19)
5-4D-12: SANITATION:
   A.   Keeping Animals in Sanitary Condition: Every owner or person in
possession of an animal shall maintain his animal in a clean and sanitary
condition. (1970 Code §6-4-3-20)
   B.   Offensive Odors: It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or permit
offensive odors to emanate from the premises where he keeps any animal. (1970
Code §6-4-3-21)
5-4D-13: FEMALE DOGS IN HEAT:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person in possession of any female dog to
permit such female dog to run at large within the Village at any time while
such dog is in heat.
   B.   In addition to any penalty for which the owner shall be liable under
subsection 5-4D-17B of this Article, such dog shall be impounded as provided in
Article C of this Chapter.
(1970 Code §6-4-3-22)
5-4D-14: USE OF ANIMALS FOR INDECENT PURPOSES:
   It shall be unlawful for any person to, in any manner, instigate, cause,
procure, participate in or assist in any indecent, lewd or immoral show, use or
exhibition of an animal.
(1970 Code §6-4-3-23)
5-4D-15: CERTAIN ANIMALS, LIVESTOCK PROHIBITED IN VILLAGE:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, use, keep or permit to be
at large within the Village any of the following animals: hens, pigeons,
horses, cattle, sheep, ponies, mules, goats, pigs, swine, hogs, pot-bellied
pigs, ducks, geese, chicken roosters, minks, skunks, foxes or any other
livestock or poultry (excepting hen chickens, which are governed by Section 5-
4E hereinafter) or any wild or vicious animal dangerous to mankind.
   B.   Any animal named above which is found at large within the Village shall
be impounded in the Tazewell County animal shelter, if possible; provided
however, that whenever any police officer believes such animal endangers any
person, such animal may be killed by said officer.
   C.   In addition to any other penalties imposed upon any person violating
this Section, such person shall also be liable for the costs of impounding or
killing such animal, if necessary.
(1970 Code §6-4-3-24; 1995 Code; amd. Ord. 486, 11-10-2014)
5-4D-16: DISEASED OR DYING ANIMALS:
   A.   Running at Large:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to allow any animal inflicted with any
contagious or infectious disease to run at large or to be exposed in any public
place whereby the health of persons or other animals may be affected, nor shall
such diseased animal be removed or shipped from the premises of the owner
thereof except under the supervision of the Health and Sanitation Officer,
Tazewell County Animal Control Officer or a licensed veterinarian.
      2.   The Health and Sanitation Officer, Tazewell County Animal Control
Officer or a licensed veterinarian shall cause such disposition of any diseased
animal and such treatment of affected premises as to prevent the communication
or spread of contagion or infection.
      3.   Whenever any animal is in any street or public place within the
Village and appears, in the estimation of any police officer or Village Health
and Sanitation Officer, Tazewell County Animal Control Officer or licensed
veterinarian to be injured or diseased beyond recovery, and is not being
attended and properly cared for by the owner or other proper person in control
thereof, and whenever such animal has not been removed to some private premises
or other place designated by such officer within one hour after being found or
left in such condition, such animal may be put to death by such officer or his
authorized agent and, unless at once removed by the owner, shall be treated as
any other dead animal found on a street or public place, as hereinafter
provided. (1970 Code §6-4-3-25; 1995 Code)
   B.   Removal Required: Any person possessing any dead animal or any animal
injured or diseased beyond recovery, which is not killed for meat or is
improper for use as meat, or which is in an offensive condition or sick with an
infectious or contagious disease, shall at once notify the Village Health and
Sanitation Officer or Tazewell County Animal Control Officer thereof, and upon
said Officer's order, such person at his own expense shall at once remove or
cause the removal of such animal. (1970 Code §6-4-3-26; 1995 Code)
   C.   Burial or Disposal of Dead Animals: It shall be unlawful for any person
to abandon, deposit or throw upon any place, street or public water, or to
offensively expose or bury anywhere within the Village, the body or any part
thereof of any dead or fatally diseased or injured animal; nor shall any person
keep any dead animal or any offensive meat, bird, fowl or fish in a place where
the same may be dangerous to the life or detrimental to the health of any
person. (1970 Code §6-4-3-27)
5-4D-17: VICIOUS DOGS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, harbor, own, or in any way possess
within the corporate limits of the Village of South Pekin a vicious dog,
subject to the following exceptions and standards:
   A.   Determination Of Vicious Dog Status:
      1.   Any individual dog which has bitten or attacked a human being or
other domestic animal either on public or private property and without
provocation shall be automatically deemed a vicious dog. Further, such dog may
be immediately impounded based on probable cause.
      2.   In the event that a law enforcement agent or animal control officer,
or the President of the Village Board has probable cause to believe that an
individual dog is a vicious dog, the Chief of Police or his or her designee may
convene a hearing for the purpose of determining whether the individual dog in
question shall be declared a vicious dog and to determine whether the dog
constitutes a significant threat to public health and safety. Prior to the
hearing, the Chief of Police or his or her designee shall conduct or shall
cause to be conducted an investigation and shall provide reasonable
notification of the hearing to the owner.
      3.   Following notice to the owner and prior to the date set for hearing,
in the event that a law enforcement agent, animal control officer, or the
President of the Village Board Administrator has probable cause to believe that
an individual dog is a vicious dog and may pose an immediate threat of serious
harm to human beings or other domestic animals, the law enforcement agent,
animal control officer, or President of the Village Board may seize and impound
the dog pending disposition of the hearing. The owner of the dog shall be
responsible for payment to the Village of South Pekin for the costs and
expenses of keeping the dog.
      4.   The hearing shall be held within no less than five (5) nor more than
ten (10) days after service of notice upon the owner of the individual dog. The
hearing shall be conducted informally and shall remain open to the public. At
the hearing, the owner shall have the opportunity to present evidence on behalf
of his dog setting forth reasons why the dog should not be declared a vicious
dog and not determined to be a significant threat to the public health and
safety if returned to its owner. The Chief of Police or his or her designee may
decide all issues for or against the owner of the dog regardless of whether the
owner appears at the hearing.
      5.   Within five (5) days after the conclusion of the hearing, the Chief
of Police or his or her designee shall make his determination of the status of
the individual dog. The owner shall then be notified in writing of the
determination by the Chief of Police or his or her designee.
   B.   Licensing Of Vicious Dogs:
      1.   No person shall possess any vicious dog for a period of more than
forty-eight (48) hours without having first obtained a license therefor from
the Village of South Pekin.
      2.   An application for a license to possess a vicious dog shall be filed
with the Village of South Pekin on a form prescribed and provided by the
Village and shall be accompanied by all of the following:
         a.   Verification of the identity of the owner and current address by
providing a photostatic copy of the owner's driver's license.
         b.   Proof of ownership of the vicious dog.
         c.   A copy of the current immunization and health record of the
vicious dog prepared by a veterinarian licensed to practice in the State of
Illinois.
         d.   A Certificate of Insurance evidencing coverage in an amount not
less than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00), insuring said person against any
claim, loss, damage, or injury to persons, domestic animals, or property
resulting from the acts, whether intentional or unintentional, of the vicious
dog.
         e.   Two (2) photographs of the vicious dog to be licensed taken not
less than one (1) month before the date of the application. One (1) photograph
shall provide a front view of the vicious dog and shall clearly show the face
and ears of the vicious dog. One (1) photograph shall show a side view of the
vicious dog.
         f.   A license fee of fifty dollars ($50.00).
         g.   Such other information as may be required by the Village of South
Pekin.
      3.   Upon receipt of an application, the Village Clerk of the Village of
South Pekin shall forward such application to the Police Department which shall
cause an inspection of the premises on which the vicious dog shall be kept to
determine that all provisions of this section relating to confinement and
posting of signs have been complied with by the applicant. Upon completion of
the inspection, the Police Department shall notify the Village Clerk, in
writing, of the results of the inspection.
      4.   Upon receipt of the results of the Police Department inspection, the
Village Clerk shall notify the applicant of the approval or denial of the
license. In the event the license is denied, the notification shall be provided
in writing and the reasons for such denial shall be stated. Upon denial, the
owner or keeper of the vicious dog shall remove the vicious dog from the
Village within forty-eight (48) hours. Upon approval, the Village Clerk shall
issue a license to the applicant.
   C.   Confinement Of Vicious Dogs: No person shall possess any vicious dog
unless the vicious dog is confined in accordance with this section.
      1.   Confinement Indoors: No vicious dog may be kept on a porch, patio or
in any part of a house or structure that would allow the vicious dog to exit
the structure on its own volition. No vicious dog shall be kept in a house or
structure when the windows are open or when screen windows or screen doors are
the only obstacle preventing the vicious dog from exiting the structure.
      2.   Confinement In An Exterior Yard: No person shall confine a vicious
dog in an exterior area unless such vicious dog is confined in a confinement
structure constructed and maintained in accordance with this chapter, except
that a vicious dog may be confined outside of a confinement structure in a
manner set forth in subsection C3 of this section.
      3.   a.   Confinement On Leash And Run Line: No person shall permit a
vicious dog to go outside a confinement structure, house or other structure
unless the vicious dog is securely restrained with a leash no longer than three
feet (3') in length and fitted with a muzzle or securely restrained on a run
line no longer than ten feet (10') in length and fitted with a muzzle. No
person shall permit a vicious dog to be kept on a leash unless a person is in
actual physical control of the leash.
         b.   The only time a vicious dog may be allowed out of the enclosure
or off the run line are if it is necessary for the owner or keeper to obtain
veterinary care for the vicious dog; or to sell or give away the vicious dog;
or to comply with the order of a court of competent jurisdiction; or to allow
the owner or keeper to walk the (3) vicious dog, provided that said vicious dog
is securely muzzled and restrained with a leash having a minimum tensile
strength of at least three hundred (300) pounds and not exceeding three feet
(3') in length, and shall be under the direct control and supervision of the
owner or keeper of the vicious dog.
   D.   Impoundment Of Vicious Dogs:
      1.   Any vicious dog which is not properly confined to a confinement
structure, on a run line, or properly secured by a leash under the owner or
keeper's control shall be impounded by the law enforcement authority having
jurisdiction in such area; provided, however, that if the Village animal
control warden or any Village police officer reasonably believes that such dog
poses an immediate threat of severe injury to any person, such officials are
authorized to kill such dog. Any vicious dog found to be running at large by
any member of the Police Department of the Village shall be presumed to be in
violation of this section and shall be subject to impoundment.
      2.   If the incident giving rise to the impoundment has resulted in an
injury to a person, upon impoundment by the Police Department, the Chief of
Police, or his designee shall notify the Rabies Control Administrator of the
county pursuant to 510 ILCS 5/13, as amended, and shall transfer control of the
vicious dog to the Administrator in accordance with 510 ILCS 5/13, as amended.
      3.   Any dog which attacks a human being or other domestic animal may be
ordered destroyed in an expeditious and humane manner, when in the Court's
judgment, such dog represents a continuing threat of serious harm to human
beings or other domestic animals. However, prior to the destruction of the dog,
control of the dog must be transferred to the Administrator pursuant to
subsection D2 of this section.
      4.   Any vicious dog which has previously been impounded for not properly
being confined or for running at large in violation of paragraph C1, C2, or C3
hereof, or which has previously bitten or attached a human being or other
domestic animal without provocation, shall be ordered destroyed in an
expeditious and humane manner upon any subsequent violations of those
subsections or upon any subsequent unprovoked attack or bite.
      5.   Any dog which attacks a human being, except a dog that bites,
attacks, or menaces a trespasser on the property of its owner, anyone
assaulting its owner, anyone who has tormented or abused it, or is a
professionally trained dog used for law enforcement or guard-duties dog, which
results in severe injury shall automatically be destroyed in an expeditious and
humane manner.
   E.   Redemption Of Impounded Vicious Dog: An owner of a vicious dog holding
a license, pursuant to this chapter, may redeem an impounded vicious dog if the
vicious dog has been impounded pursuant to subsection D of this section; and
the vicious dog has not caused severe injury to a person, subject to the
following conditions:
      1.   Proof of a valid license issued by the Village of South Pekin under
subsection B of this section; and
      2.   Payment of the cost of keeping the vicious dog during the period of
impoundment.
   F.   Sale Or Transfer Of Ownership Prohibited: No person shall sell, barter,
offer to breed or in any other way dispose of a vicious dog to any person
within the Village unless the recipient person resides permanently in the same
household and on the same premises as the registered owner of such vicious dog;
provided that the registered owner of a vicious dog may sell or otherwise
dispose of a vicious dog or the offspring of such vicious dog to persons who do
not reside within the Village of South Pekin provided they give written notice
to the person who will be receiving the vicious dog that such dog has been
deemed a vicious dog under this chapter.
   G.   Animals Born Of Vicious Dogs: All offspring born of vicious dogs
registered within the Village must be removed from the Village within six (6)
weeks of the birth of such animal.
   H.   Reporting Requirements Of License: Any person holding a license
pursuant to subsection B hereof shall report the incidence of any of the
following events:
      1.   The sale, barter, exchange, gift or death of any vicious dog shall
be reported within forty-eight (48) hours.
      2.   The escape from confinement of any vicious dog shall be reported
upon discovery of the escape.
      3.   The biting or nipping of any person or animal by a vicious dog shall
be reported upon occurrence.
      4.   The birth of any offspring of a vicious dog shall be reported within
forty-eight (48) hours of the birth of the offspring.
      5.   The permanent removal of any vicious dog from the territorial limits
of the Village shall be reported within forty-eight (48) hours of such removal
by surrender of the license of the owner to the Village Clerk.
      6.   Except as otherwise provided in this section, the report of any
incident required to be reported under this subdivision shall be made to the
Police Department of the Village.
      7.   Further, all dog owners, whether or not their dog is licensed as a
vicious dog, receiving notice or having knowledge that their dog has bitten or
attacked a human being or domestic animal without provocation shall immediately
notify the Police Department of the Village of South Pekin of said incident.
   I.   Sign Required: All person possessing a vicious dog shall display in a
prominent place on the premises where a vicious dog is to be kept a sign which
is readable by the public from a distance of not less than one hundred feet
(100') feet using the words "Beware of Dog." A similar sign shall be posted on
any confinement structure.
   J.   Fighting Prohibited: No person shall fight or bait, conspire to fight
or bait, or keep, train, or transport for the purpose of fighting or baiting,
any dog. No person shall own or harbor any dog for the purpose of dog fighting,
or train, torment, badger, bait or use any dog for the purpose of causing or
encouraging said dog to attack human beings or domestic animals without
provocation.
   K.   Revocation Of License: A license granted pursuant to this chapter shall
be automatically revoked upon the second violation by the licensee of any
provision of this chapter. In the event of a revocation of the license, the
license fee shall be retained by the Village of South Pekin and the vicious dog
must be removed from the Village within forty-eight (48) hours.
   L.   Exceptions: This chapter shall not apply to any K-9 Patrol Dogs or
Police Dogs as defined herein.
   M.   Failure To Comply: It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper or
harborer of a vicious dog registered with the Village of South Pekin to fail to
comply with the requirements and conditions set forth in this chapter. Any
vicious dog found to be the subject of a violation of this chapter shall be
subject to immediate seizure and impoundment. In addition, failure to comply
may result in the revocation of the license of such animal resulting in the
immediate removal of the animal from the Village of South Pekin. (Ord. 526, 9-
14-2020)
5-4D-18: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Liability of Owner or Keeper:
      1.   Damage to Animals: The owner or keeper of any animal shall be liable
for all damages that may occur to any person by reason of any such animal
pursuing, chasing, wounding or killing any animal belonging to such other
person; provided however, that no owner or keeper of any animal shall be liable
for any damage caused by such animal having rabies or other similar disease
unknown to such owner or keeper. (1970 Code §6-4-6-1)
      2.   Injury to Persons: If an animal without provocation attacks or
injures any person who is peaceably conducting himself in any place where he
may lawfully be, the owner or keeper of such animal shall be liable in damages
to the person so attacked or injured to the full amount of the injury
sustained. (1970 Code §6-4-6-2)
      3.   Damage to Property: The owner or keeper of any animal which damages
or destroys any public or private property shall be held liable for the full
value of the property damaged or destroyed. (1970 Code §6-4-6-3)
   B.   Penalty:
      1.   Penalty Imposed: Any person who violates, neglects or refuses to
comply with, or who resists or opposes the enforcement of any provision of this
Chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to penalty as provided in
Section
1-4-1  of this Code. (1970 Code §6-4-6-4; 1995 Code)
      2.   Separability of Penalties: The penalties provided for in this
Article shall not be construed as precluding such other or any other penalties
and costs provided elsewhere in this Chapter. (1970 Code §
ARTICLE E. CHICKENS
SECTION:
5-4E-1: Chickens Limited
5-4E-2: Definitions
5-4E-3: Permit
5-4E-4: Confinement
5-4E-5: Chicken Coops And Chicken Runs
5-4E-6: Conditions and Inspection
5-4E-7: Violations
5-4E-1: CHICKENS LIMITED:
   It is unlawful for any person to own, control, keep, maintain or harbor hen
chickens on any residential premises in the Village unless issued a permit to
do so as provided herein. In the case of rental residential property, including
multi-family residential property, written permission must be given by the
property owner for a tenant to keep or harbor chickens on said residential
premises. No permit shall be issued for the keeping or harboring of more than
four (4) hen chickens on any premises unless the property is located in an
agricultural or rural zoning district. The keeping of roosters is prohibited.
(Ord. 486, 11-10-2014)
5-4E-2: DEFINITIONS:
AT LARGE: Shall be intended to mean a chicken out of its chicken run, off the
premises or not under the custody and control of the owner.
CHICKEN: Means a female chicken or hen.
CHICKEN COOP: Means a structure providing housing for chickens made of wood or
other similar materials that provides shelter from the elements.
CHICKEN RUN: Means a fenced outside yard for the keeping and exercising of
chickens.
OWNER: Shall mean the resident, property owner, custodian or keeper of any
chicken.
PREMISES: Means any platter lot or group of contiguous lots, parcels or tracts
of land.
(Ord. 486, 11-10-2014)
5-4E-3: PERMIT:
   No person shall maintain a chicken coop and/or chicken run unless granted a
permit by the Village. The permit shall be subject to all terms and conditions
of this Section and any additional conditions deemed necessary by the Village
to protect the public health, safety and welfare. The necessary permit may be
obtained from the Village's office. Included with the information required
prior to issuance of the permit must be a scaled diagram that indicates the
location of any chicken coop and run, and lines, A permit for the keeping of
chickens may be revoked or suspended by the Village Board for any violation of
this Section following written notice and a public hearing. An annual fee of
thirty dollars ($30.00) will be charged for each permit which shall expire on
December 31, of each year.
(Ord. 486, 11-10-2014)
5-4E-4: CONFINEMENT:
   Every person who owns, controls, keeps, maintains or harbors hen chickens
must keep them confined on the premises at all times in a chicken coop or
chicken run while in the Village. Any coop and run shall be screened with a
solid fence or landscaped buffer with minimum height of four feet (4'). Any
coop and run shall be at least twenty five feet (25') from any residential
structure or any other premises on any adjacent lots.
(Ord. 486, 11-10-2014)
5-4E-5: CHICKEN COOPS AND CHICKEN RUNS:
   A.   All chicken coops and runs must be located within the rear yard subject
to the required setbacks for the principal building and at least twenty five
feet (25') from any dwelling or any other premises on any adjacent lots. The
poultry must be provided with a covered, predator-resistant poultry house that
is properly vented, designed to be easily accessed, cleaned and maintained, and
must consist of at least four (4) square feet per chicken in size, must not
exceed ten (10) square feet per chicken in size and must not exceed six feet
(6') in total height. Attached fenced-in chicken runs must not exceed twenty
(20) square feet per chicken and fencing must not exceed six feet (6') in total
height. Chicken runs may be enclosed with wood and/or woven wire materials, and
must allow chickens to contact the ground. Chicken feed must be kept in metal,
predator proof containers. Chicken manure shall not be placed in yard compost
piles.
   B.   Chicken coops must either be:
      1.   Elevated with a clear open space of a least twenty four inches (24")
between the ground surface and framing/floor of the coop; or
      2.   The coop floor, foundation and footings must be constructed using
rodent resistant construction.
   C.   Chicken coops are not allowed to be located in any part of a home and/
or garage.
   D.   Chickens must be secured in a chicken coop from sunset to sunrise each
day.
(Ord. 486, 11-10-2014)
5-4E-6: CONDITIONS AND INSPECTION:
   No person who owns, controls, keeps, maintains or harbors hen chickens shall
permit the premises where the hen chickens are kept to be or remain in an
unhealthy, unsanitary or noxious condition or to permit the premises to be in
such condition that noxious odors are carried to adjacent public or private
property. Any chicken coop and chicken run authorized by permit under this
Section may be inspected at any reasonable time by the Village Police, Village
Health and Sanitation Officer, and/or Tazewell County Animal Control Officer or
other agent of the Village. Slaughter and breeding of chickens on any premises
within the Village is prohibited.
(Ord. 486, 11-10-2014)
5-4E-7: VIOLATIONS:
   Any person who owns, controls, keeps, maintains or harbors hen chickens in
the Village limits of South Pekin without obtaining or maintaining a current
permit or after a permit has been suspended or revoked by Board action shall be
subject to fines as set forth in Code Section
1-4-1.
(Ord. 486, 11-10-2014)
CHAPTER 5
MINORS
SECTION:
5-5-1: Curfew
5-5-2: Liquor Related Offenses
5-5-3: Firearms, Weapons And Air Rifles; Restrictions
5-5-1: CURFEW:
   A.   Age And Hour Restrictions: It is unlawful for a person less than
seventeen (17) years of age to be present at or upon any public assembly,
building, place, street or highway at the following times unless accompanied
and supervised by a parent, legal guardian or other responsible companion at
least eighteen (18) years of age approved by a parent or legal guardian or
unless engaged in a business or occupation which the laws of this state
authorize a person less than seventeen (17) years of age to perform:
   Between one minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00)
A.M. Saturday;
   Between one minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00)
A.M. Sunday; and
   Between eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on Sunday to Thursday, inclusive, and
six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on the following day.
   B.   Parental Responsibility: It is unlawful for a parent, legal guardian or
other person to knowingly permit a person in his custody or control to violate
subsection A of this section.
   C.   Penalty: Any person convicted of a violation of any provision of this
section shall be guilty of a petty offense and shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
(Ord. 312, 11-7-1983; amd. 1995 Code)
5-5-2: LIQUOR RELATED OFFENSES:
   A.   Sale To Minors Prohibited:
      1.   Sale Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person, after
purchasing or otherwise obtaining alcoholic liquor, to sell, give or deliver
such alcoholic liquor to another person under twenty one (21) years of age,
except in the performance of a religious ceremony or service.
      2.   Penalty: A violation of this subsection A shall be punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1970 Code §6-2-4-10; amd. 1995 Code)
   B.   Possession By Minor Prohibited:
      1.   Purchase Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to whom the
sale, gift or delivery of alcoholic liquor is prohibited by this section to
purchase or accept a gift of alcoholic liquor or to have alcoholic liquor in
his possession.
      2.   Liquor In Vehicle: The presence in a vehicle other than a public
omnibus of any alcoholic liquor shall be prima facie evidence that it is in the
possession of, and is being carried by, all persons occupying such vehicle at
the time at which such alcoholic liquor is found, except under the following
circumstances:
         a.   If such liquor is found on the person of one of the occupants
therein; or
         b.   If such vehicle contains at least one occupant over twenty one
(21) years of age.
      3.   Penalty: A violation of this subsection B shall be punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1970 Code §6-2-4-11; amd. 1995 Code)
   C.   Consumption By Minors Prohibited:
      1.   Consumption Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person under
twenty one (21) years of age to consume alcoholic liquor.
      2.   Penalty: A violation of this subsection C shall be punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1970 Code §6-2-4-12; amd. 1995 Code)
   D.   Exception: Nothing in subsections B and C of this section shall be
deemed to prohibit the possession, dispensing or consumption by a minor of
alcoholic liquor in the performance of a religious service or ceremony, or the
consumption by a minor under the direct supervision and approval of the parents
or legal guardian of such minor in the privacy of a home. (1970 Code §6-2-4-13)
   E.   Use Of Forged Identification Card To Obtain Liquor Prohibited:
      1.   Identification Card Defined: For the purposes of this section, an
"identification card" is defined as any document issued by a public officer in
the performance of his official duties which on its face purports to identify
the name and age of the bearer.
      2.   Display Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to display
an identification card that:
         a.   Is altered or defaced in any manner; or
         b.   Is false or forged; or
         c.   Is the identification card of another; or
         d.   Was obtained by means of false information;
   to induce another to sell, give or deliver alcoholic liquor to the bearer.
      3.   A violation of this subsection D shall be punishable as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code.
(1970 Code §6-2-4-14; amd. 1995 Code)
5-5-3: FIREARMS, WEAPONS AND AIR RIFLES; RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Firearms And Weapons:
      1.   Sale Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to sell to any
minor person any firearm, bludgeon, blackjack, slingshot, sand club, sandbag,
metal knuckles, dagger, dirk, billy, dangerous knife, stiletto or any knife
commonly referred to as a switchblade, which has a blade that opens
automatically by hand pressure applied to a button, spring or other device in
the handle of the knife.
      2.   Affirmative Defense: It shall be an affirmative defense for any
person having sold such weapon that:
         a.   The minor procured the sale by use of false or forged
identification cards; and
         b.   He did not know, and could not reasonably have known, of the
falsity or forgery; and
         c.   He exercised reasonable diligence to determine the veracity of
the representation.
      3.   Penalty: A violation of this subsection A shall be punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
(1970 Code §6-2-4-15; amd. 1995 Code)
   B.   Air Rifles:
      1.   Sale Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, lend,
rent, give or otherwise transfer any "air rifle" to a person under thirteen
(13) years of age except where the relationship of a parent-child, guardian-
ward or adult instructor-pupil exists between such person and the person under
thirteen (13) years of age.
      2.   Affirmative Defense: It shall be an affirmative defense for any
person having sold such weapon that:
         a.   The minor procured the sale by use of false or forged
identification cards; and
         b.   He did not know, and could not reasonably have known, of the
falsity or forgery; and
         c.   He exercised reasonable diligence to determine the veracity of
the representation.
      3.   Lawful Possession: It is lawful for any person under seventeen (17)
years of age to have in his possession any air rifle if it is:
         a.   Kept within his house of residence or other private enclosure;
         b.   Used by the person under seventeen (17) years of age and he is a
duly enrolled member of any club, team or society organized for educational
purposes and maintaining as part of its facilities or having written permission
to use an indoor or outdoor rifle range under the supervision, guidance and
instruction of a responsible adult and then only if said air rifle is actually
being used in connection with the activities of said club, team or society
under the supervision of a responsible adult; or
         c.   Used in or on any private grounds or residence under
circumstances when such air rifle is fired, discharged or operated in such a
manner as not to endanger persons or property and then only if it is used in
such manner as to prevent the projectile from passing over any grounds or space
outside the limits of such grounds or residence.
      4.   Carrying Rifle Unloaded: It is unlawful for any person, whether
minor or not, to carry any air rifle within the village unless such rifle is
unloaded.
      5.   Discharge Restricted: It is unlawful for any person, whether minor
or not, to discharge an air rifle within the village except on a safely
constructed target range. (1970 Code §6-2-4-16)
CHAPTER 6
FAIR HOUSING
SECTION:
5-6-1: Purpose and Declaration of Policy
5-6-2: Definitions
5-6-3: Prohibited Acts
5-6-4: Review Complaints; Remedial Actions
5-6-5: Closed Meetings; Conduct of Hearings
5-6-6: Penalty
5-6-1: PURPOSE AND DECLARATION OF POLICY:
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the Village, in the exercise of
its police and regulatory power for the protection of the public and in the
interest of health, welfare and safety of the public, to assure equal
opportunity to all persons in their right to acquire or seek to acquire housing
facilities regardless of race, color, creed, religion, sex or national origin
and to thereby prohibit discrimination in housing on the basis of race, color,
creed, religion, sex or national origin. (Ord. 286, 10-27-80)
5-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
   COMMISSION: The Village of South Pekin Fair Housing Commission.
   DWELLING: See Housing.
   HOUSING: Any building or structure, or portion thereof, within the Village
which is used or occupied as the home, residence or living quarters for one or
more individuals, groups or families.
   LEASE: Includes sublease, assignment and rent (or rental), and includes any
contract to do any of the foregoing.
   LENDING INSTITUTION: Any bank, insurance company, savings and loan
association or other person in the business of buying or selling loans or
instruments for the payment of money which are secured by title to or a
security interest in real estate.
   NATIONAL ORIGIN: Includes the national origin of an ancestor.
   OWNER: Any person who holds legal or equitable title to, or owns any
beneficial interest in, any dwelling or housing, or who holds legal or
equitable title to shares of, or holds any beneficial interest in, any real
estate cooperative which owns any dwelling or housing.
   PURCHASE: Includes any contract to purchase.
   REAL ESTATE AGENT: Any real estate broker, any real estate salesman, and any
other person who, as employee or agent or otherwise, engages in the sale,
lease, management or operation of any dwelling or housing.
   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTION: The purchase, sale, exchange or lease of any
dwelling or housing, or an option to do any of the foregoing.
   SALE: Includes any contract to sell or exchange or to convey, transfer or
assign legal or equitable title to, or a beneficial interest in, real estate.
   VILLAGE OF SOUTH PEKIN: The corporate body of government.
(Ord. 286, 10-27-80)*
5-6-3: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Prohibitions: This Chapter prohibits the following acts, if they are
based on race, color, creed, religion, sex or national origin:
      1.   Refusing to sell or rent to, or deal or negotiate with any person.
      2.   Discriminating in terms of conditions for buying or renting housing.
      3.   Discriminating by advertising that housing is available to persons
of a certain race, color, creed, religion, sex or national origin.
      4.   Denying that housing is available for inspection, sale or rent when
it is really available.
      5.   "Blockbusting" for profit, i.e., persuading owners to sell or rent
housing by telling them that minority groups are moving into the neighborhood.
      6.   Denying or making different terms or conditions for home loans by
commercial lenders such as banks, savings and loan associations and insurance
companies.
      7.   Denying to anyone the use of or participation in any real estate
services, such as brokers, organizations, multiple listing services or other
facilities relating to the selling or renting of housing.
   B.   Coverage, Real Estate Agents or Brokers: This Section shall apply
respectively to every real estate agent who, within the Village, performs any
function such as real estate agent, but does not maintain an office or place of
doing business within the Village, as well as to every real estate agent and
lending institution who maintains an office or place of doing business within
the Village; provided, however, that the provisions of this Chapter shall not
be so construed as to prohibit a real estate broker or real estate agent, on
behalf of the owner, from inquiring into and reporting upon qualifications of
any prospective buyer or tenant with respect to limitations or exclusions other
than those of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, creed or ancestry.
   C.   Unlawful Housing Practices: It shall be an unlawful housing practice
and a violation of this Chapter for any person:
      1.   To aid, abet, incite or coerce a person to engage in unlawful
housing practice; or
      2.   Wilfully to interfere with the performance of a duty or the exercise
of a power by the Fair Housing Commission or one of its members or
representatives; or
      3.   Wilfully to obstruct or prevent a person from complying with the
provisions of this Chapter or an order issued thereunder.
(Ord. 286, 10-27-80)
5-6-4: REVIEW COMPLAINTS; REMEDIAL ACTIONS:
   The Fair Housing Commission shall have and exercise, with respect to all
dwellings and housing, and with respect to all persons subject to this Chapter,
the power to:
   A.   Review all complaints of discrimination.
   B.   Act to eliminate unlawful housing practices through procedures
established herein.
   C.   Make recommendations to the Village Board with respect to possible
discriminating actions by real estate brokers regarding fair housing. Such
alleged actions shall be reported to the proper State authorities for possible
proceedings against the real estate broker.
   D.   Recommend to the Village Board, upon the conclusion of proceedings held
under this Chapter, that the Board direct the Village Attorney to petition or
institute proceedings with the Illinois Department of Registration and
Education for the purpose of causing the Department to revoke, suspend or
refuse to renew the license granted by such Department to any real estate
broker or real estate salesman found to have violated any provision of this
Chapter.
(Ord. 286, 10-27-80)
5-6-5: CLOSED MEETINGS; CONDUCT OF HEARINGS:
   The Fair Housing Commission or any other administrative agency created by
the Village, for the purpose of conducting hearings upon complaints of
discrimination pursuant to this Chapter, may hold closed meetings for the
purpose of conciliating such complaints of discrimination and such meetings
shall not be subject to the provisions of "An Act in Relation to Meetings"
approved July 11, 1957, as amended 1 . Provided however, that no final action
for the imposition or recommendation of a penalty by such Commission or
administrative agencies upon such complaint or complaints shall be taken except
at a meeting of the Commission or administrative agency open to the public.
(Ord. 286, 10-27-80)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
5-6-6: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this Chapter, upon conviction thereof,
shall be subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code.
(Ord. 286, 10-27-80; 1995 Code)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Illinois Vehicle Code Adopted by Reference
6-1-2: Speed Limits
6-1-3: Trains Obstructing Street Crossings
6-1-4: Towing or Pushing Vehicles
6-1-5: Vehicle Seizure And Impoundment
6-1-1: ILLINOIS VEHICLE CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
   Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, provisions and
sections of the Illinois Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/1-100, et seq.), as amended,
are hereby adopted by the Village. Any and all violations thereof shall be
considered violations of this Title, and each such violation shall subject the
violator thereof to penalty provisions under this Title if proceeded hereunder.
(1995 Code)
6-1-2: SPEED LIMITS:
   The speed limit on all streets within the Village is hereby established at
twenty (20) miles per hour unless otherwise posted.
(Ord. 265, 4-16-79)
6-1-3: TRAINS OBSTRUCTING STREET CROSSINGS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for a railroad corporation, through its engineers
or conductors or other employees or agents, to prevent any train, railroad car
or engine to obstruct public travel at a railroad highway or public street
grade crossing for a period in excess of ten (10) minutes, except where such
train, railroad car or engine cannot be moved by reason of circumstances over
which the railroad corporation has no control.
   B.   Any railroad corporation violating this Section shall be fined in the
following amounts, plus court costs and attorney fees, for obstructing street
crossings for the following durations:
   Duration (Minutes)               Amount of Fine
   Exceeds 10 but not more than 15         Not less than nor more
than   $200.00
                                       500.00
   Exceeds 15 but not more than 20   $                     500.00
   Exceeds 20 but not more than 25                        700.00
   Exceeds 25 but not more than 30                        900.00
   Exceeds 30 but not more than 35                        1,000.00
   Exceeds 35                                 1,000.00
    plus, for each 5 minutes in excess of 35                  500.00
(Ord. 294, 4-6-81)
6-1-4: TOWING OR PUSHING VEHICLES:
   A.   Drawbar or Towing Connection Requirements:
      1.   When one vehicle is towing another, the drawbar or other connection
shall be of sufficient strength to pull all the weight towed thereby, and the
drawbar or other connection shall not exceed fifteen feet (15') from one
vehicle to the other, except for the connection between any two (2) vehicles
transporting poles, pipes, machinery or other objects of a structural nature
which cannot readily be dismembered.
      2.   Outside a business, residential or suburban district, no vehicle
other than a pole trailer or a semi-trailer which is being towed by a truck
trailer and is connected by the means of a fifth wheel shall be towed on a
roadway except by a drawbar and such vehicle so towed shall, in addition, be
coupled with two (2) cables or safety chains to the towing vehicle. Such chains
or cables shall be of sufficient size and strength to prevent the towed vehicle
from parting from the drawing vehicle in case the drawbar should break or
become disengaged.
   B.   Display of Yellow Flag: When one vehicle is towing another and the
connection consists of a chain, rope or cable, there shall be displayed upon
such connection a yellow flag or cloth not less than sixteen inches (16")
square.
   C.   Pushing Other Vehicle: No person shall push a vehicle with another
vehicle upon any public way for a distance greater than six hundred feet
(600').
   D.   Display of Red Light: Every disabled vehicle being pushed or towed on
any public way between the hour of sunset and the hour of sunrise shall display
a red light plainly visible from a distance of at least five hundred feet
(500') to the sides and rear thereof. Said red light shall be in addition to
any other lights required by any law or ordinance.
   E.   Speed Restricted: No person shall drive any vehicle pushing or towing a
disabled vehicle at a rate of speed greater than is reasonable and proper
having regard to the traffic and the use of the way or so as to endanger life
or limb or injure the property of any person.
(1970 Code §9-1-4-46)
6-1-5: VEHICLE SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Violations Authorizing Seizure: Except as provided in subsection B of
this section, a motor vehicle operated with the permission, express or implied,
of the owner of record that is used in connection with the following
violations, shall be subject to seizure and impoundment by the Village of South
Pekin, and the owner of record of said vehicle shall be liable to the Village
of South Pekin for an administrative penalty in the amount of five hundred
dollars ($500.00) in addition to any towing and storage fees.
      1.   Driving while a driver license, permit, or privilege to operate a
motor vehicle is suspended. or revoked pursuant to 625 ILCS 5/6-603, except
that vehicle shall not be subjected to seizure or impoundment if the suspension
is for an unpaid citation (parking or moving) or due to failure to comply with
emission testing.
      2.   Driving under the influence of alcohol, another drug, an
intoxicating compound or compounds, or any combination thereof, in violation of
625 ILCS 5/11-501(a).
      3.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle by a person against whom a
warrant has been issued by a Circuit Court in Illinois for failing to answer
charges that the driver violated 625 ILCS 5/6-101, 5/6-303, or 5/11-501.
      4.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle with an expired valid driver
license, in violation of 625 ILCS 5/6-101, if the period of expiration is
greater than one year.
      5.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle without ever having been issued
a driver's license or permit, in violation of 625 ILCS 5/6-1-1 or operating a
motor vehicle without ever having been issued a driver license or permit due to
a person's age.
      6.   Reckless driving pursuant to 625 ILCS 5/11-503 while the vehicle is
part of a funeral procession or in a manner that interferes with a funeral
procession.
      7.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense in violation of Section 24-1 (720 I LCS 5/24-1)
(unlawful use of weapons), 24-1.5 (720 ILCS 5/24-1.5) (reckless discharge of a
firearm), or 24-3.1 (720 ILCS 5/3.1) (unlawful possession of firearms and
firearm ammunition) of the Criminal Code of 1961 or the Criminal Code of 2012
(720 ILCS5/1-1 et seq.).
      8.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense for which a motor vehicle may be seized and
forfeited pursuant to 720 ILCS 5/36-1.
      9.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, a felony or in violation of the Cannabis Control Act (720
ILCS 550/1 et seq.).
      10.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission or, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense in violation of the Illinois Controlled
Substances Act (720 ILCS 570/100 et seq.).
      11.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense in violation of Article 16 (720 ILCS 5/16-0.1 et
seq.) (theft and related offenses) or 16A (retail theft) of the Criminal Code
of 1961 or the Criminal Code of 2012 (720 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.).
      12.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle while soliciting, possessing,
or attempting to solicit or possess cannabis or a controlled substance, as
defined by the Cannabis Control Act (720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.) or the Illinois
Controlled Substances Act (720 ILCS 750/100 et seq.); provided, however, that
no vehicle shall be subject to impound or forfeiture solely for the possession
of cannabis or cannabis paraphernalia by persons twenty one (21) years of age
or older in accordance with the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (410 ILCS 705/
1-1 et seq.) or by a registered qualifying patient or registered designated
caregiver as authorized by the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program
Act (410 ILCS 130/1 et seq.).
      13.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, any other misdemeanor or felony offense in violation of the
Criminal Code of 1961 or the Criminal Code of 2012 (720 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.).
      14.   Any violations of the Street Parking Ordinance section
6-2-4.
   B.   General Regulations:
      1.   This section shall not replace or otherwise abrogate any existing
State or Federal laws or Village ordinance pertaining to vehicle seizure and
impoundment, and these penalties shall be in addition to any penalties that may
be assessed by a court for any criminal charges.
      2.   This section shall not apply if the vehicle used in the violation
was stolen at the time the vehicle was impounded, and the theft was reported to
the appropriate police authorities within twenty four (24) hours after the
theft was discovered.
      3.   Fees for towing and storage of a vehicle under this section shall be
those approved by the Chief of Police for all towers authorized to tow for the
Police Department.
   C.   Notice: Whenever a Police Officer has probable cause to impound a motor
vehicle as provided in this Section, the Police Officer shall provide for the
towing of said vehicle to an authorized facility, and notify any person
identifying himself as the owner or lessee of the vehicle or any person who is
found to be in control of the vehicle at the time of the alleged violation, of
the fact of the seizure and of the vehicle and of owner's right to request a
preliminary vehicle impoundment hearing to be conducted under this Section.
Said vehicle shall be impounded pending the completion of the hearings provided
for in subsection D of this section, unless the owner, lessee, or a lien holder
of record of the vehicle posts with the Village a cash bond in the amount of
five hundred dollars ($500.00) and pays the towing and storage charges.
   D.   Preliminary Hearing: If the owner of record of a vehicle seized
pursuant to this section desires to appeal the seizure, said owner must make a
request for said hearing within twenty four (24) hours of the seizure. Said
request shall be in writing and filed with the chief of police or his designee
who shall conduct such preliminary hearing within twenty four (24) hours after
receipt of the request excluding Saturdays, Sundays, or Village holidays. All
interested persons shall be given a reasonable opportunity to be heard at the
preliminary vehicle impoundment hearing. The formal rules of evidence will not
apply at the hearing and hearsay evidence shall be admissible only if it is the
type commonly relied upon by reasonably prudent persons in the conduct of their
affairs. If, after the hearing, the Chief of Police or his designee determines
there is probable cause to believe that the vehicle is subject to seizure and
impoundment pursuant to this section, he shall order the continued impoundment
of the vehicle as provided in this section, unless the owner of the vehicle
posts with the Village a cash bond in the amount of five hundred dollars
($500.00) and pays the tower any applicable towing and storage fees. If the
Chief of Police or his designee determines that there is no such probable
cause, the vehicle will be returned without penalty or other fees.
   E.   Hearing: Within ten (10) days after a vehicle is seized and impounded
pursuant to this Section, the Village shall notify by personal service or
first-class mail, the registered owner, lessee, and any lienholder of record of
the date, time, and location of an administrative hearing that will be
conducted, pursuant to this section. The owner will appear at the hearing and
enter a plea of guilty or not guilty. If a plea of guilty is entered, the case
will be disposed of at that time. If the owner pleads not guilty, a final
hearing shall be scheduled and held, unless continued by order of the Hearing
Officer, no later than forty five (45) days after the date of mailing the
notice of hearing. All interested persons shall be given a reasonable
opportunity to be heard at the hearing. The hearing shall be conducted by a
Hearing Officer who is an attorney licensed to practice law in the State for a
minimum of three (3)years. At any time prior to the hearing date, the Hearing
Officer may, at the request of either party, direct secure by subpoena both the
attendance and testimony of witnesses the production of relevant books and
papers. The hearing shall be recorded, and formal rules of evidence will not
apply at the hearing, and hearsay evidence shall be admissible only if it is
the type commonly relied upon by reasonably prudent persons in the conduct of
their affairs. Persons appearing at the hearing may be represented by counsel
at their expense. If, after the hearing, the Hearing Officer determines by a
preponderance of evidence that the vehicle was used in connection with a
violation set forth in this section, the Hearing Officer shall enter an a
written order finding the owner of record of the vehicle civilly liable to the
Village for an administrative penalty in an amount not to exceed five hundred
dollars ($500.00) and requiring the vehicle to continue to be impounded until
the owner pays the administrative penalty to the Village plus fees to the tower
for the towing and storage of the vehicle . If the owner of record fails to
appear at the hearing, the Hearing Officer shall enter a written default order
in favor of the Village. If the Hearing Officer finds that no such violation
occurred, the Hearing Officer shall enter a written order directing the
immediate return of the owner's vehicle or cash bond without fees. If the
Hearing Officer finds that the Village exceeded its authority under this
section, the Village shall be liable to the registered owner or lessee of the
vehicle for the cost of storage fees and reasonable attorney's fees. The
Hearing Officer's decision shall be final and subject to review under the
provisions of the Administrative Review Law (735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.).
   F.   Administrative Penalty: If an administrative penalty is imposed
pursuant to this section, such penalty shall constitute a debt due and owing to
the Village. If a cash bond has been posted pursuant to this section, the bond
shall be applied to the penalty. If a vehicle has been impounded when such a
penalty is imposed, the Village may seek to obtain a judgment on the debt and
enforce such judgment against the vehicle as provided by law. Except as
provided otherwise in this section, a vehicle shall continue to be impounded
until the penalty is paid to the Village and any applicable towing and storage
fees, are paid to the tower, in which case possession of the vehicle shall be
given to any person who is legally entitled to possess the vehicle, or the
vehicle is sold or otherwise disposed of to satisfy a judgment to enforce a
lien as provided by law. If the administrative penalty and applicable fees are
not paid within thirty five (35) days after an administrative penalty is
imposed against an owner of record who defaults by failing to appear at the
hearing, the vehicle shall be deemed abandoned and shall be disposed of in the
manner provided by law for the disposition of unclaimed vehicles. In all other
cases, if the administrative penalty and applicable fees are not paid within
thirty five (35) days after the expiration of time at which administrative
review of the Hearing Officer's determination may be sought, or within thirty
five (35) days after an action seeking administrative review has been resolved
in favor of the Village, whichever is applicable, the vehicle shall be deemed
abandoned and shall be disposed of in the manner provided by law for the
disposition of abandoned vehicles under the Illinois Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/
1-100 et seq.).
   G.   Vehicle Possession: Except as otherwise specifically provided by law,
no owner, lien holder, or other person shall be legally entitled to take
possession of a vehicle impounded under this section until the administrative
penalty and fees applicable under this section have been paid. However,
whenever a person with a lien of record against an impounded vehicle has
commenced foreclosure proceedings, possession of the vehicle shall be given to
that person if he agrees in writing to refund to the Village the amount of the
net proceeds of any foreclosure sale, less any amounts required to pay all lien
holders of record, not to exceed the administrative penalty, plus the
applicable fees.
   H.   "Owner of record" Defined: For purposes of this section, the term
"owner of record" of a vehicle is the record title holder as registered with
the Secretary of State, State of Illinois. (Ord. 533, - -2021; amd. Ord. 553,
4-15-2024)
CHAPTER 2
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Snow Removal
6-2-2: Handicapped Parking
6-2-3: Abandoned Vehicles
6-2-3-1: Abandonment of Vehicles Prohibited
6-2-3-2: Removal and Sale Authorized
6-2-4: Illegal Parking
6-2-4-1: Parking Of Trucks Restricted
6-2-4-2: Schedule Of Fines And Penalties
6-2-1: SNOW REMOVAL:
   A.   Parking after Snowfall: It shall be unlawful for any person to park or
remain parked on any Village street after a snowfall of two inches (2") to
reasonably give notice of the necessity for removal of snow from the Village
streets.
(1970 Code §9-1-5-19; amd. Ord. 275, 11-5-79; 1995 Code)
   B.   Parking on Alternate Sides of Streets: On the first day of the herein
designated snowfall, parking of vehicles will be prohibited on the south side
of all east and west streets, and on the west side of all north and south
streets. On the following day, parking of vehicles will be prohibited on the
north side of all east and west streets and on the east side of all north and
south streets.
   C.   Two Inch Snowfall: For the purpose of this Section, on the first
snowfall from which is received at least two inches (2") of snow and more is
predicted, or when the National Weather Service predicts a snowfall of two
inches (2") or more, prima facie evidence shall exist to enforce the provision
of this Section.
(Ord. 275, 11-5-79)
   D.   Duration of Restriction: The prohibition on parking under this Section
shall remain in effect for a twelve (12) hour period commencing at the end of
the snowfall or until the streets are cleared, whichever occurs first.
(1970 Code §9-1-5-19)
6-2-2: HANDICAPPED PARKING:
   A.   Prohibition: It is hereby prohibited to park any motor vehicle which is
not bearing registration plates or decals issued to a handicapped person, as
defined by section 5/1-159.1 of the Illinois Vehicle Code 1 , pursuant to
sections 5/3-616 or 5/11-1301.2 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, or to a disabled
veteran pursuant to section 5/3-609 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, as evidence
that the vehicle is operated by or for a handicapped person or disabled
veteran, in any parking place, including any private or public off-street
parking facility, specifically reserved, by the posting of an official sign as
designated under section 5/11-301 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, for motor
vehicles bearing such registration plates.
   B.   Penalty: Any person found guilty of violating the provisions of this
Section shall be fined seventy five dollars ($75.00) in addition to any costs
or charges connected with the removal or storage of any motor vehicle
authorized under section 5/11-1301.3 of the Illinois Vehicle Code. (Ord. 342,
2-5-90; 1995 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 625 ILCS.
6-2-3: ABANDONED VEHICLES 2 :
 
Notes
2 2. See also Section
  4-3-10 of this Code.
6-2-3-1: ABANDONMENT OF VEHICLES PROHIBITED:
   A.   Abandoned Vehicles: No person shall abandon any vehicle within the
Village and no person shall leave any vehicle at any place within the Village
for such time and under such circumstances as to cause such vehicle reasonably
to appear to have been abandoned.
   B.   Leaving of Wrecked, Nonoperating Vehicles on Street: No person shall
leave any partially dismantled, nonoperating, wrecked or junked vehicle on any
street or highway in the Village.
   C.   Inoperable Vehicles Declared to be a Nuisance: Inoperable motor
vehicles, as defined herein, whether on public or private property, are hereby
declared to be a nuisance.
   D.   Disposal of Inoperable Vehicles: All persons are required to dispose of
any inoperable motor vehicle under their control upon written notice received
from the Village Board of Trustees or from the Chief of Police or any member of
his Department designated by him commanding such disposition of said inoperable
motor vehicle. (1970 Code §9-1-5-13)
   E.   Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this Section
6-2-3-1 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code.
(1970 Code §9-1-5-14; 1995 Code)
6-2-3-2: REMOVAL AND SALE AUTHORIZED:
   A.   Towing Authorized:
      1.   When an abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or other
vehicle comes into the temporary possession or custody of a person in this
Village, not the owner of the vehicle, such person shall immediately notify the
Municipal Police Department when the vehicle is within the corporate limits of
the Municipality. Upon the receipt of such notification, the Chief of Police
shall authorize a towing service to remove and take possession of the
abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or other vehicle. The towing
service will safely keep the towed vehicle and its contents, maintain a record
of the tow until the vehicle is claimed by the owner or any other person
legally entitled to possession thereof, or until it is disposed of as provided
in this Section.
      2.   When a motor vehicle or other vehicle is abandoned on a highway in
the Village ten (10) hours or more, its removal by a towing service may be
authorized by order of the Chief of Police.
   B.   Traffic Hazard, Immediate Removal: When an abandoned, unattended,
wrecked, burned or partially dismantled motor vehicle or other vehicle is
creating a traffic hazard because of its position in relation to the highway or
its physical appearance is causing the impeding of traffic, its immediate
removal from the highway by a towing service may be authorized by order of the
Chief of Police.
   C.   Owner Responsible for Towing Costs: When a vehicle removed from either
public or private property is authorized by order of the Chief of Police, the
owner of the vehicle will be responsible for all towing costs.
   D.   Maintain Record of Towed Vehicles: When a motor vehicle or other
vehicle is authorized to be towed away, the Police Department shall keep and
maintain a record of the vehicle towed, listing the color, year of manufacture,
manufacturer's trade name, manufacturer's series name, body style, vehicle
identification number and license plate year and number displayed on the
vehicle. The record shall also include the date and hour of tow, location towed
from, location towed to, reason for towing and the name of the officer
authorizing the tow.
   E.   Owner Unknown:
      1.   When the Village Police Department does not know the identity of the
registered owner or other legally entitled person, they will cause the motor
vehicle registration records of the State of Illinois to be searched by a
directed communication to the Secretary of State for the purpose of obtaining
the required ownership information.
      2.   The Police Department will cause the stolen motor vehicle files of
the Illinois State Police to be searched by a directed communication to the
Illinois State Police for stolen or wanted information on the vehicle. When the
Illinois State Police files are searched with negative results, the information
contained in the National Crime Information Center (NCIC) files will be
searched by the Illinois State Police. The information determined from these
record searches will be used by the Police Department in sending a notification
by certified mail to the owner or legally entitled person advising where the
vehicle is held, requesting a disposition be made and setting forth public sale
information.
   F.   Notify State to Identify Owner: When the registered owner or other
person legally entitled to the possession of a motor vehicle or other vehicle
cannot be identified from the registration files of this State or from the
registration files of a foreign state, if applicable, the Police Department
shall notify the Illinois State Police for the purpose of identifying the
vehicle's owner or other person legally entitled to the possession of the
vehicle. The information obtained by the Illinois State Police will be
immediately forwarded to the law enforcement agency having custody of the
vehicle for notification of owner.
   G.   Reclamation by Owner: Any time before a motor vehicle or other vehicle
is sold at public sale or disposed of as provided herein, the owner or other
person legally entitled to its possession may reclaim the vehicle by presenting
to the Police Department proof of ownership or proof of the right to possession
of the vehicle. No vehicle shall be released to the owner or other person under
this Section until all towing and storage charges have been paid.
   H.   Sale of Unclaimed Vehicles; Notice to Owner:
      1.   Whenever an abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or
other vehicle, seven (7) years of age or new, remains unclaimed by the
registered owner or other person legally entitled to its possession, for a
period of thirty (30) days after notice has been given as provided herein, the
Police Department having possession of the vehicle shall cause it to be sold at
public sale to the highest bidder. Notice of the time and place of the sale
shall be posted in a conspicuous place for at least ten (10) days prior to the
sale on the premises where the vehicle has been impounded. At least ten (10)
days prior to the sale, the Police Department shall cause a notice of the time
and place of the sale to be sent by certified mail to the registered owner or
other person known by the Police Department or towing service to be legally
entitled to the possession of the vehicle. Such notice shall contain a complete
description of the vehicle to be sold and what steps must be taken by any
legally entitled person to reclaim the vehicle.
      2.   In those instances where the certified notification specified herein
has been returned by the postal authorities to the Police Department due to the
addressee having moved, or being unknown at the address obtained from the
registration records of this State, the sending of a second certified notice
will not be required.
      3.   When the identity of the registered owner or other person legally
entitled to the possession of an abandoned, lost or unclaimed vehicle of seven
(7) years of age or newer cannot be determined by any means provided for in
this Section, the vehicle may be sold as provided herein or disposed of in the
manner authorized by the ordinance without notice to the registered owner or
other person legally entitled to the possession of the vehicle.
   I.   Disposal of Vehicle as Junk: When an abandoned vehicle of more than
seven (7) years of age is impounded as specified by this Section, it will be
kept in custody for a minimum of ten (10) days for the purpose of determining
ownership, the contacting of the registered owner by the U.S. mail, public
service or in person for a determination of disposition; and an examination of
the Illinois State Police Motor Vehicle files for theft and wanted information.
At the expiration of the ten (10) day period, without the benefit of
disposition information being received from the registered owner, the Chief of
Police will authorize the disposal of the vehicle as junk only.
   J.   Antique Vehicles Excluded: A motor vehicle or other vehicles classified
as an antique vehicle is excluded from this Section.
   K.   Record of Sale or Disposal: When a motor vehicle or other vehicle in
the custody of the Police Department is reclaimed by the registered owner or
other legally entitled person, or when the vehicle is sold at public sale or
otherwise disposed of as provided in this Section, a report of the transaction
will be maintained by the Police Department for a period of one year from the
date of the sale or disposal.
   L.   Disposition of Proceeds: When a vehicle located within the corporate
limits of this Municipality is authorized to be towed away by the Chief of
Police and disposed of as set forth in this Section, the proceeds of the public
sale or disposition after the deduction of towing, storage and processing
charges shall be deposited in the Village Treasury.
   M.   Nonliability: Any police officer, towing service owner, operator or
employee shall not be held to answer or be liable for damages in any action
brought by the registered owner, former registered owner or his legal
representative, or any other person legally entitled to the possession of a
motor vehicle or other vehicle when the vehicle was processed and sold or
disposed of as provided by this Section.
(1970 Code §9-1-5-14; 1995 Code)
6-2-4: ILLEGAL PARKING:
In addition to the restricted parking areas in this title, except when
necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in compliance with law or
the directions of a Police Officer or official traffic control device, no
person shall:
   A.   Stop, stand, or park a vehicle:
      1.   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street;
      2.   On a sidewalk;
      3.   Within an intersection;
      4.   On a crosswalk;
      5.   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty feet
(30') of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone,
unless a different length is indicated by signs or markings;
      6.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      7.   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure or within a underpass;
      8.   On any railroad tracks:
      9.   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping;
      10.   On any controlled-access highway;
      11.   In the area between roadways of a divided highway, including
crossovers;
      12.   On any Village roadway or alley.
   B.   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except momentarily to
pick up or discharge passengers:
      1.   In front of a public or private driveway;
      2.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant;
      3.   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at any intersection;
      4.   Within thirty feet (30') upon the approach to any flashing signal,
yield sign or traffic-control signal located at the e side of a roadway;
      5.   Within ten feet (10') of the driveway entrance to any fire station;
within seventy five feet (75') of such entrance when properly signposted;
      6.   At any place where official signs prohibit standing or parking;
      7.   Within fifteen feet (15') on either side of a curbside residential
mailbox from Monday through Saturday eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to five o'clock
(5:00) P.M. when such parking actually interferes with the delivery of mail.
   C.   Park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading merchandise or
passengers:
      1.   Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      2.   At any place where official signs prohibit parking. (Ord. 552, 4-15-
2024)
6-2-4-1: PARKING OF TRUCKS RESTRICTED:
   A.   Except in areas designated by the Village as special event parking, no
person shall stand or park any truck, maintenance repair vehicles, emergency
vehicles, road tractor, semitrailer, trailer, house trailer, motor home or bus
on any street in a residential district for a longer period than is necessary
for the reasonably expeditious loading or unloading of such vehicles without a
Village Permit, except:
      1.   Emergency and rescue vehicles;
      2.   Village vehicles conducting official business; and
      3.   Public utility service vehicles while undertaking utility
improvement or repair services. (Ord. 552, 4-15-2024)
6-2-4-2: SCHEDULE OF FINES AND PENALTIES:
   A.   The violation of any provision of this title, as amended, restricting,
or regulating the standing or parking of vehicles or the condition or use of
equipment on a vehicle and the violation of any provision of the Illinois
Compiled Statutes governing the standing or parking of vehicles or the
condition or use of equipment on a vehicle adopted by reference in this title
shall be an offense punishable by a fine in accordance with the following
schedule:
   B.   Fine Payment Schedule:
      1.   Except as here in below specifically provided, the penalty for
violations of any provision of this subdivision shall be as follows:
         a.   Twenty five dollars ($25.00) per day.
         b.   Twenty five dollars ($25.00) for each subsequent violation to a
maximum of two hundred dollars ($200.00).
   The penalty for violations of handicapped parking zones, fire hydrant zones
and fire lane zones shall be as follows:
         a.   Three hundred dollars ($300.00).
         b.   An early paid discount of fifty dollars ($50.00) shall apply if
paid within ten (10) days.
      2.   The fines and penalties herein set forth shall be uniformly applied
for each violation of any applicable Municipal ordinance.
      3.   The Village adopts by reference all current and future local
standing, parking or condition of vehicle ordinances, and those provisions of
the Illinois Complied Statues governing the standing, parking, or condition of
vehicles, for its enforcement and adjudication within the geographical
boundaries of the Municipality and in those areas subject to off-street parking
agreements. (Ord. 552, 4-15-2024)
CHAPTER 3
TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
SECTION:
6-3-1: Stop Streets
6-3-2: Yield Right-of-Way Streets
6-3-3: No Parking Areas
6-3-1: STOP STREETS:
   The following streets are hereby designated as authorized stop streets and
signal streets:
   ONE-WAY STOP STREETS:
   A.   East of Railroad:
   On Elm at Main Street.
   On Maple at Main Street
   On Maloney Street at 5th Street.
   On Taylor Street at 5th Street.
   On Vaupel Street at 5th Street.
   On 1st Street at Main Street.
   On 2nd Street at Main Street.
   On 3rd Street at Main Street.
   On 4th Street at Main Street.
   On 5th Street at Main Street.
   B.   West of Railroad:
   On Belsley Street at Main Street.
   On Birkett Street at Main Street.
   On Meyers Street at Main Street.
   On Minch Street at Main Street.
   On Ripper Street at Main Street.
   On St. Mark Drive at James Street.
   On St. Mark Drive at Main Street. (1970 Code §9-2-1; 1995 Code; Ord. 521, 7-
13-2020)
6-3-2: YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY STREETS:
   The following streets are hereby designated as authorized yield right-of-way
streets:
   A.   East of Railroad:
      On Maloney Street at 1st Street (traffic heading east on Maloney yields
to traffic turning right off 1st Street onto Maloney and left off Maloney onto
1st Street).
      On Taylor Street at 1st Street, 2nd Street, 3rd Street and 4th Street.
      On Vaupel Street at 1st Street, 2nd Street, 3rd Street and 4th Street.
      On 2nd Street at Maloney Street.
      On 3rd Street at Maloney Street.
      On 4th Street at Maloney Street.
   B.   West of Railroad:
      1.   Generally:
         On Athey Street at Minch Street, Belsley Street, Birkett Street,
Meyers Street and Ripper Street.
         On Belsley Street at Harbberts Street.
         On Birkett Street at Harbberts Street.
         On Minch Street at Harbberts Street (traffic heading north on Minch
Street yields to traffic turning left from Harbberts Street onto Minch Street,
traffic turning right off Minch Street onto Harbberts Street, and traffic
heading south on Minch Street).
         On Ripper Street at Harbberts Street (traffic heading north on Ripper
Street yields to traffic turning left off Ripper Street onto Harbberts Street
and right off Harbberts Street onto Ripper Street).
         On Sprau Street at Minch Street, Belsley Street, Birkett Street,
Meyers Street and Ripper Street.
(1970 Code §9-2-1; 1995 Code)
      2.   Cherryle Estates:
         On Allen going onto St. Marks.
         On Bryan going onto James.
         On Bryan going onto Rose.
         On Kevin Court going onto Bryan.
         On Rose going onto St. Anthoney.
         On Rose going onto St. Marks, eastbound.
         On Rose going onto St. Marks, westbound.
         On St. Anthoney heading south at James.
         On St. Anthoney heading south at Rose.
(1995 Code)
6-3-3: NO-PARKING AREAS:
   No person shall park a vehicle, except when necessary to avoid conflict with
other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
traffic- control device, on any of the following streets or parts of streets:
   Along the west side of Belsley Street between Main Street and Sprau Street.
   Along the east side of Elm Street between Point Pleasant Drive and Main
Street.
   Along the north and south sides of West Main Street from St. Mark Drive west
to Illinois Route 29.
   Along the south side of Main Street from St. Mark Drive east to the west
side of the Union Pacific Railroad tracks.
   Along the west side of Maple Street between Main Street and Point Pleasant
Drive.
   Along the north side of Point Pleasant Drive between Maple Street and Elm
Street.
   Along the south side of Sprau Street between Minch Street and Belsley
Street.
(Ord. 378, 8-5-1996)
CHAPTER 4
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
6-4-1: Arrests and Prosecutions
6-4-2: Penalties Generally
6-4-3: Parking Violations, Fines
6-4-1: ARRESTS AND PROSECUTIONS:
   A.   Police Department; Arrests: The Police Department shall patrol the
public highways and streets of the Village and make arrests for violations of
this Title.
   B.   Village Attorney; Prosecute Violators: The Village Attorney, or any
attorney at law duly appointed by the Board of Trustees to assist him, shall
prosecute the violators of this Title.
(1970 Code §9-1-11-1)
6-4-2: PENALTIES GENERALLY:
   Every person convicted for a violation of any provision of this Title for
which another penalty is not provided shall for a first conviction under this
Title be punished by a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more
than two hundred dollars ($200.00); for a second such conviction under this
Title within one year thereafter, such person shall be punished by a fine of
not less than seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor more than three hundred dollars
($300.00); and for a third or subsequent conviction within one year after the
first such conviction, such person shall be punished by a fine of not less than
one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than six hundred dollars ($600.00);
provided, however, that parking violations and fines shall be as established in
Section
6-4-3 of this Chapter.
(Ord. 261, 3-19-79; 1995 Code)
6-4-3: PARKING VIOLATIONS, FINES:
   A.   Payment of Fines: Any person accused of a violation of a provision of
this Title restricting the length of time for parking in a designated public
area or on a Village street, or for other violations of parking regulations as
set forth in Chapter 2 and/or Section
6-3-3 of this Title, may settle and compromise the claim against him or her for
such illegal parking by paying to the Village an amount in the sum set forth in
the following schedule, if such payment is made within twenty four (24) hours
of the time such alleged offense was committed:
      Violation                        Fine   
      1.   On a sidewalk                  $20.00
      2.   In front of a public or private driveway         10.00
      3.   Within an intersection               10.00
      4.   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant            75.00
      5.   On a crosswalk                  10.00
      6.   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at any intersection   10.00
      7.   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing
         beacon, stop sign or traffic-control signal
         located at the side of the roadway            10.00
      8.   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or
         within 30 feet of points on the curb immediately
         opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless the
         Village indicates a different length by signs or
         markings                     40.00
      9.   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad
         grade crossing                  10.00
      10.   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any
         fire station and on the side of the street opposite
         the entrance to any fire station within 75 feet of
         said entrance when properly sign-posted      10.00
      11.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or
         obstruction when such parking would obstruct
         traffic                        10.00
      12.   On the roadway side of any vehicle parked at the
         edge or curb of a street               10.00
      13.   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon
         a highway or within a highway tunnel         10.00
      14.   At any place where official signs prohibit parking   10.00
      15.   Within any designated bus zone, where such zone
         is marked by signals or pavement markings      10.00
      16.   In an alley within 20 feet of the inner sidewalk
         line projected across such alley            10.00
      17.   Under the lowest portion of any fire escape      10.00
      18.   Upon a railroad track or between any railroad
         track and a line parallel with and 10 feet
         distant from the outer rail thereof            10.00
      19.   Upon any parkway except in case of emergency   10.00
      20.   Within 20 feet of any alley entrance or exit      10.00
   B.   Disposition of Monies Received: Payments made pursuant to subsection A
of this Section shall be made at the Village police station, and a receipt
shall be issued for all monies so received. Such monies shall be turned over to
the Village Treasurer.
   C.   Exception: The members of the Police Department are hereby authorized
to refrain from instituting a prosecution for the alleged offenses compromised
and settled pursuant to subsection A hereof; provided, however, that nothing in
said subsection A of this Section shall be deemed to apply to any person:
      1.   Parking a vehicle so as to obstruct the entrance or exit of any
place where Police or Fire Department apparatus or other emergency equipment is
kept or housed; or
      2.   Parking a vehicle on a private parking lot in violation of Village
regulations; or
      3.   Parking a vehicle in such a way so to reduce traffic on an arterial
street to one-way traffic only; or
      4.   Who, upon the request of any member of the Police or Fire
Department, refuses to move a vehicle illegally parked.
(Ord. 261, 3-19-79; 1995 Code)
CHAPTER 5
GOLF CARTS AND UTILITY VEHICLES ON VILLAGE STREETS
SECTION:
6-5-1: Generally
6-5-2: Definitions
6-5-3: Requirements
6-5-4: Permits
6-5-5: Violation
6-5-6: Impoundment
6-5-1: GENERALLY:
Golf carts and utility vehicles specifically defined and qualified herein shall
be allowed on Village streets under the conditions as stated herein. (Ord. 535,
7-12-2021)
6-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
 
                               A "Golf Cart", as defined herein, means a
GOLF CART:                     vehicle that is originally designed and
                               manufactured for operation on a golf course for
                               sporting purposes.
                               A self-propelled, left hand steered,
                               electronically or gasoline powered four (4)
                               wheeled motor vehicle which conforms to the
UTILITY-TERRAIN VEHICLE (UTV): federal regulations under Title 49 C.F.R. part
                               571.500. Vehicles classified as "ATV's", (All
                               Terrain Vehicles), or dune buggies are not
                               eligible to be licensed.
VILLAGE STREETS:               Any streets within the boundaries of the
                               Village. (Ord. 535, 7-12-2021)
 
6-5-3: REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All persons wishing to operate a golf cart or UTV on the Village
streets must ensure compliance with the following requirements:
      1.   Proof of current liability insurance.
      2.   Must be certified with the Village and have the vehicles certified
with the Village by inspection by a designated representative.
      3.   Must display Village sticker on the rear of the vehicle and which
must be displayed on the "slow moving" emblem located at the rear of the golf
cart or UTV at all times.
      4.   Must have a current, valid Illinois driver's license.
      5.   Golf carts and UTV's must be equipped with:
         a.   Brakes and brake lights;
         b.   Turn signals;
         c.   A steering wheel apparatus;
         d.   Tires;
         e.   Side by side seating;
         f.   Seat belts;
         g.   Approved "Slow Moving Vehicle" emblem on the rear of the vehicle
(625 ILCS 5/12-709);
         h.   Headlight that emits a white light visible from a distance of
five hundred feet (500') to the front which must illuminate when in operation;
         i.   Tail lamp that emits a red light visible from at least one
hundred feet (100') from the rear which must be illuminated when in operation;
         j.   Any additional requirements which may be amended to 65 ILCS 5/11-
1428 or the Illinois Motor Vehicle Code.
      6.   Must obey all traffic laws of the State of Illinois;
      7.   Must be sixteen (16) years of age;
      8.   Must be operated only on the Village streets, except where
prohibited;
      9.   Must not be operated in excess of posted speed limit and,
regardless, may not exceed thirty (30) miles per hour;
      10.   A person operating or who is in actual physical control of a golf
cart or UTV as described herein on a roadway while under the influence is
subject to Section 11-500 through 11-502 of the Illinois Compiled Statutes (625
ILCS 5/11500 - 11-502);
      11.   Golf carts and UTV's shall not be operated on sidewalks or in
Village parks other than parking areas except when authorized by the Mayor or
Chief of Police for special events.
   B.   Golf carts and UTV's may not be operated on streets and highways and
roads under the jurisdiction of the Illinois Department of Transportation
(Illinois Route 29).
   C.   Each golf cart or UTV may transport only as many individuals as is the
lesser of the number of seats or as its manufacturer designates. No individuals
may ride on any other portion of the golf cart or UTV.
   D.   Golf carts and UTV's are only allowed to park in handicapped parking
spaces if the driver or at least one passenger has a valid handicapped parking
sticker. (Ord. 535, 7-12-2021)
6-5-4: PERMITS:
   A.   No person shall operate a qualified golf cart or UTV without first
obtaining a permit from the Police Department as provided herein. Permits shall
be granted for a period of only one year beginning September 1 of each year.
The Police Department or designated Village personnel may issue such a permit
for any date approved of and designated by the Village board. The cost of the
permit is twenty-five dollars ($25.00). Such fee will be waived for any
applicants who have a disabled parking designation issued by the State of
Illinois. Insurance coverage is to be verified to be in effect by the Police
Department when obtaining and renewing a permit. Every application for a permit
shall be made on a form supplied by the Village and shall contain the following
information:
      1.   Name and address of applicant.
      2.   Date of birth of applicant.
      3.   Verification of valid driver's license and driver's license number.
      4.   The serial number, make, model and description of golf cart.
      5.   Name of liability insurance carrier.
      6.   Signed Waiver of Liability by applicant releasing the Village and
agreeing to indemnify and hold the Village harmless from any and all future
claims resulting from the operation of their golf carts or UTV's on Village
streets.
      7.   Photocopy of applicable liability insurance coverage and
specifically for the vehicle to be operated pursuant to the permit.
      8.   Such other information as the village may require.
      9.   No permit shall be granted unless the following conditions are met:
   The vehicle must be inspected by the designated representative to ensure
that the vehicle is safe to operate on Village streets and is in compliance
with this Article and with the State of Illinois Motor Vehicle Code.
   B.   A physically handicapped applicant must submit a certificate signed by
the physician, certifying that the applicant is able to safely operate a
qualified golf cart or UTV on Village streets.
   C.   Required permit application is completed and filed with the Village
office along with evidence of insurance in compliance with the provisions of
the Illinois Statutes regarding minimum liability insurance and the required
twenty-five dollar ($25.00) permit fee. (Ord. 535, 7-12-2021)
6-5-5: VIOLATION:
The Village may suspend or revoke a permit granted hereunder upon a finding
that the holder thereof has violated any provisions of this Article or there is
evidence that the permittee cannot safely operate a qualified golf cart or UTV
on the designated roadways. Any failure of an individual to abide by this
chapter or otherwise secure a permit provided herein when operating a golf cart
upon the streets of the Village shall subject the violator to a fine of one
hundred dollars ($100.00). (Ord. 535, 7-12-2021)
6-5-6: IMPOUNDMENT:
Golf carts and UTV's shall be subject to impoundment to the same extent as
vehicles as set forth in Chapter
6-1-5  of the South Pekin Village Code. (Ord. 535, 7-12-2021)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Supervision
7-1-2: Street and Sidewalk Construction; Paving
7-1-3: Injury to Pavements
7-1-4: Repairs
7-1-5: Report Defects
7-1-6: Obstructions
7-1-7: Vision Clearance at Corners
7-1-8: Defective or Dangerous Sidewalks
7-1-9: Snow and Ice Removal from Sidewalks
7-1-10: Alleys and Gutters Kept Clean
7-1-11: Spitting on Sidewalks
7-1-12: Cellar Doors, Openings in Sidewalks
7-1-13: Barricades and Lights
7-1-14: Encroachments
7-1-15: Deposits on Streets and Sidewalks
7-1-16: Obstructing Drains
7-1-17: Maintaining Poles and Wires
7-1-18: Gas Pump Prohibited
7-1-19: Playing Games Restricted
7-1-1: SUPERVISION:
   All public streets, alleys, sidewalks and other public ways in the Village
shall be under the supervision of the Superintendent of Public Works. He shall
have supervision over all work thereon, and the cleaning thereof, and shall be
charged with the enforcement of all provisions relating to such public places.
(1970 Code §8-1-1)
7-1-2: STREET AND SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION; PAVING:
   A.   Pavement Construction; Permit and Fee: It shall be unlawful to
construct or lay any pavement on any public street, sidewalk, alley or other
public way, or to repair the same without first having secured a permit
therefor. Applications for such permits shall be made to the Clerk and shall
state the location of the work, its nature, the extent thereof, and the person
who is to do the actual work. No such permit shall be issued except on order of
the Board of Trustees. The fee for all such permits shall be one dollar
($1.00). (1970 Code §§8-1-2, 8-1-3)
   B.   Bond Required: Each applicant shall file a bond in the amount of fifty
thousand dollars ($50,000.00), with security to be approved by the Board,
conditioned to indemnify the Village for any loss or damage resulting from the
work undertaken or the manner of doing the same. (1970 Code §8-1-4; 1995 Code)
   C.   Specifications: All street and sidewalk pavements shall be made in
conformity with specifications and grades laid down or approved from time to
time by the Board. (1970 Code §8-1-5)
7-1-3: INJURY TO PAVEMENTS:
   A.   New Pavements: It shall be unlawful to walk upon or drive any vehicle
or animal upon, or injure any newly laid street or sidewalk pavement while the
same is guarded by a warning sign or barricade or to knowingly injure any soft
newly made pavement. (1970 Code §8-1-6)
   B.   Existing Pavements: It shall be unlawful to injure any sidewalk, street
or alley pavement. (1970 Code §8-1-21)
7-1-4: REPAIRS:
   All public street, alley and sidewalk pavements shall be in good repair.
Such repair work, whether done by the Village or by the abutting owner, shall
be under the supervision of the Superintendent of Public Works. (1970 Code §8-
1-7)
7-1-5: REPORT DEFECTS:
   It shall be the duty of every Village officer or employee becoming cognizant
of any defect in any street, alley or sidewalk, or any obstruction thereof, to
report the same to the Superintendent of Public Works as soon as possible.
(1970 Code §8-1-8)
7-1-6: OBSTRUCTIONS:
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, create or maintain any
obstruction of any street, alley, sidewalk or other public way, except as may
be specifically authorized by ordinance or by the Chief of Police. (1970 Code
§8-1-9)
7-1-7: VISION CLEARANCE AT CORNERS:
   It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain or permit to reconstruct any
fence or other structure, or any bushes or other plants, on a corner lot either
way from fifty feet (50') of the corner which obstructs the view, at a height
of more than five feet (5') above the level of the adjacent street pavement.
(1970 Code §8-1-10; 1995 Code)
7-1-8: DEFECTIVE OR DANGEROUS SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Nuisance Declared: Every sidewalk within the Village which shall, from
breakage therein, natural wear or age, become so worn or out of repair as to
endanger the safety of persons passing over the same is hereby declared to be a
nuisance; and any person who shall hereafter suffer or permit such nuisance to
exist in front of or adjoining premises owned, occupied or controlled by him
shall be guilty of a violation of this Chapter. (1970 Code §8-1-11)
   B.   Abatement:
      1.   It shall be the duty of any owner, occupant or person in control of
any lot or premises abutting upon or adjacent to any sidewalk wherein exist any
holes, loose planks or other defects, or when the same is deemed to be a
nuisance, to repair such defects and abate such nuisance without delay.
      2.   Whenever any owner is in default of the duty imposed by subsection
B1 of this Section, it shall be the duty of the Superintendent of Public Works
to repair such defects or abate such nuisance; and the Board of Trustees may,
by ordinance, provide for pavement of the whole or any part thereof, and defray
the cost thereof by special taxation of the lots or parcels of land adjoining
such sidewalk. (1970 Code §8-1-12)
7-1-9: SNOW AND ICE REMOVAL FROM SIDEWALKS:
   Every owner or occupant of any dwelling house or other building, or
proprietor or lessee of any enclosed lot or premises, and every person having
the charge or control of any church, hall or public building within the Village
shall, during the winter season whenever there is a fall of snow, and by ten
o'clock (10:00) A.M. on every morning thereafter, clear the sidewalks in front
of or adjoining such house, building or premises from snow and ice, and keep
the same conveniently free therefrom. In case the snow and ice are so congealed
as not to be removed without difficulty or injury to the pavement, such person
shall strew the same with ashes, sand, salt or sawdust; and shall in addition
at all times keep such sidewalks clear and free from dirt, filth, weeds or
other obstructions so as to allow pedestrians the safe and unobstructed use of
the same; and every owner, occupant or other person aforesaid who shall permit
or allow such sidewalks to be or remain covered with snow or other
obstructions, contrary to the provisions of this Section, shall be deemed
guilty of maintaining a nuisance; provided however, that no person shall be
obliged to clear any such sidewalk on Sunday or during the continuance of any
snow storm. (1970 Code §8-1-13)
7-1-10: ALLEYS AND GUTTERS KEPT CLEAN:
   It shall be the duty of every person owning, occupying or in control of any
lot or parcel of land adjoining any public or private alley within the Village
to keep the same cleaned and in an unoffensive condition, and also to keep the
gutter in front of such premises free from filth or other offensive matter that
may prevent the free flow of water therein. (1970 Code §8-1-14)
7-1-11: SPITTING ON SIDEWALKS:
   It shall be unlawful for any person to spit upon any public sidewalk within
the Village. (1970 Code §8-1-15)
7-1-12: CELLAR DOORS, OPENINGS IN SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Covering Required: Every cellar door, basement entrance or other like
aperture or opening over any vault, cistern and every well, ditch or other like
pit or hole on or adjoining any sidewalk within the Village shall be covered
with a substantial grate or plate, and the construction of all such vaults
under the public ways shall be subject to the direction and supervision of the
Superintendent of Public Works.
   B.   Leaving Cover Open: It shall be unlawful for any person to leave open
or permit to be left open any such grate or plate over any cellar, vault, etc.,
without securing or protecting the same, so as to endanger the safety of
persons or animals passing thereupon.
   C.   Construction; Permit Required: Such grates or plates as provided for in
subsection A must be made of steel or iron having a rough surface and rabbeted
into or made flush with the sidewalk. No portion or feature of such cover shall
project above or form a depression below the finished surface of the sidewalk
in which such cover is placed. Such covers shall be capable of supporting a
load of not less than three hundred (300) pounds per square foot of area.
Provided, that no sidewalk to accommodate cellars or vaults beneath shall be
constructed without a permit therefor issued by the Board of Trustees, and all
such work shall be performed to the satisfaction of the Superintendent of
Public Works and the Village Engineer. (1970 Code §8-1-16; 1995 Code)
7-1-13: BARRICADES AND LIGHTS:
   A.   Required: Any person laying or repairing any pavement on a street,
sidewalk or other public place or making any excavation in any such place shall
maintain suitable barricades to prevent injury to any person or vehicle by
reason of the work. Such barricades shall be protected by a light at nighttime.
(1970 Code §8-1-17)
   B.   Disturbing Barricades: It shall be unlawful to disturb or interfere
with any barricade or lights lawfully placed to protect or mark any new
pavement or excavation or opening in any public street, alley or sidewalk.
(1970 Code §8-1-18)
7-1-14: ENCROACHMENTS:
   It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain any building or structure which
encroaches upon any public street or property. (1970 Code §8-1-20)
7-1-15: DEPOSITS ON STREETS AND SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Streets:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to deposit on any street or alley any material
which may be harmful to the pavement thereof or any waste material, or any
glass or other articles which may do injury to any person, animal or property.
      2.   Any such material shall be guarded by lights if the same remains
upon any street after nighttime. (1970 Code §8-1-22; 1995 Code)
   B.   Sidewalks:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to deposit on any public sidewalk any material
which may be harmful to the pavement thereof, or any waste material which might
cause injury to persons, animals or property.
      2.   Merchandise or other articles may be deposited on sidewalks
preparatory to delivery; provided, that the useable width of the walk is not
thereby reduced to less than four feet (4') at that point; and provided, that
no such article shall remain on such walk for more than one-half (1/2) hour.
      3.   Any such article shall be guarded by lights if the same is upon any
sidewalk after nighttime. (1970 Code §8-1-23)
7-1-16: OBSTRUCTING DRAINS:
   It shall be unlawful to obstruct any drain in any public street or alley.
(1970 Code §8-1-24)
7-1-17: MAINTAINING POLES AND WIRES:
   It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain any poles or wires on or over any
public street, alley or other public way without having first secured
permission from the Board of Trustees. (1970 Code §8-1-25)
7-1-18: GAS PUMP PROHIBITED:
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or erect any pump or tank in any public
street, alley or sidewalk. (1970 Code §8-1-26)
7-1-19: PLAYING GAMES RESTRICTED:
   It shall be unlawful to play any games upon any street, alley or sidewalk,
where such games cause unnecessary noise or interfere with traffic or
pedestrians.
(1970 Code §8-1-32)
CHAPTER 2
EXCAVATIONS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Permit Required; Restoration
7-2-2: Bond Required
7-2-3: Record of Excavations
7-2-4: Water Connections
7-2-1: PERMIT REQUIRED; RESTORATION:
   A.   Permit and Application: It shall be unlawful to make any excavations in
or tunnel under any public street, alley or sidewalk or other public place in
the Village without having first secured a permit therefor. Applications for
such permits shall be made to the Superintendent of Public Works, and shall
specify the intended location and the purpose of the excavation.
   B.   Restoration of Surface: Any person making any such excavation shall
refill the same properly and shall restore the surface to its condition before
excavation was made, as soon as possible. (1970 Code §8-1-27)
7-2-2: BOND REQUIRED:
   Each applicant for excavation permit shall file a bond in the amount of
fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00), with security to be approved by the
Superintendent, conditioned to indemnify the Village for any loss or damage
resulting from the work undertaken or the manner in doing the same. (1970 Code
§8-1-28; 1995 Code)
7-2-3: RECORD OF EXCAVATIONS:
   The Superintendent of Public Works shall keep a record in a book for that
purpose, giving the date when, by whom an excavation or tunnel was made, and
connection made with water mains or public sewer, when completed, the date of
inspection of connection made and approval by the Water and Sewer Inspector,
and the date when the street, alley or sidewalk was restored and opened for
public travel. (1970 Code §8-1-30)
7-2-4: WATER CONNECTIONS:
   All connections made to the public water system shall be made in the
presence of the Water and Sewer Inspector, who shall see that the connection is
made in the proper manner and after the same has been completed, if properly
made, shall inspect and approve the same and thereafter the same shall be
covered and the street restored to its original condition. (1970 Code §8-1-29;
1995 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DRIVEWAY CONSTRUCTION
SECTION:
7-3-1: Permit Required; Fee
7-3-2: Grade Surface
7-3-3: Construction Standards
7-3-4: Curb Removal; Permit and Fee
7-3-5: Repair of Driveways
7-3-1: PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE:
   A.   Permit, Application and Fee: No person shall construct a driveway for
vehicles or animals across any sidewalk in the Village without obtaining a
permit therefor. Applications for such permits shall be made to the Clerk and
shall be accompanied by the fee required, which construction permit fee shall
be five dollars ($5.00).
   B.   Commercial Use: No permit for the construction of a driveway for
commercial use, or the habitual use of any other than the owner or occupant of
the premises served, shall be issued except upon the order of the Board of
Trustees.
(1970 Code §§8-2-1, 8-2-2; 1995 Code)
7-3-2: GRADE SURFACE:
   No driveway shall be so constructed or graded as to leave a steep, sharp
depression or other obstruction in the sidewalk. The grade shall be as nearly
as possible the same as that of the adjoining sidewalk. It shall be unlawful to
have the surface finish of any driveway where the same crosses the sidewalk
constructed of such material as to render it slippery or hazardous for
pedestrians, or to have the grade of such portion vary from the grade of the
sidewalk, or be other than level. (1970 Code §8-2-3)
7-3-3: CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
   A.   All driveways leading from the street to the garages or parking areas
must be dust free, or of blacktop or concrete construction.
   B.   Where Village curbs are removed for purposes of making driveway
entrance, the curb and gutter must be removed as far away from the driveway
entrance as the nearest contraction or expansion joint, or a sawed joint, and
then replaced so as to insure a smoothly joining entrance.
   C.   The radius of the return of the driveway must be five feet (5'). (1970
Code §8-2-4)
7-3-4: CURB REMOVAL; PERMIT AND FEE:
   No Village curb can be removed without first obtaining a curb removal permit
from the Superintendent of Public Works. The fee shall be five dollars ($5.00).
(1970 Code §8-2-4; 1995 Code)
7-3-5: REPAIR OF DRIVEWAYS:
   It shall be the duty of every person maintaining a driveway to keep the same
in good repair where it crosses the sidewalk and free from obstruction and
openings. (1970 Code §8-2-5)
CHAPTER 4
FENCES
SECTION:
7-4-1: Permit Required; Fee
7-4-2: Barbed Wire and Electric Fences
7-4-3: Construction and Location Requirements
7-4-4: Swimming Pool Fencing Regulations
7-4-1: PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE:
   No fence shall be constructed within the corporate limits of the
Municipality without first obtaining a permit for such purpose from the Village
and payment of a fee of five dollars ($5.00).
(Ord. 311, 8-8-83; 1995 Code)
7-4-2: BARBED WIRE AND ELECTRIC FENCES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to maintain or construct any fence, in whole or in
part, of barbed wire, or with any material designed to cause harm or injury to
persons.
   B.   In commercial installations, two (2) strands of barbed wire may be used
atop a chained link fence eight feet (8') in height.
   C.   The use of any electrified fence is prohibited.
(Ord. 311, 8-8-83)
7-4-3: CONSTRUCTION AND LOCATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Height Restriction: No fence shall be constructed or maintained within
the corporate limits of the Municipality more than six feet (6') in height,
except in special cases where a special use permit has been approved.
   B.   Consent of Adjacent Property Owners: A fence may be constructed on the
property line, with the consent, in writing, of the adjacent property owners,
except as set forth in subsection E of this Section. If approval of adjacent
property owners is not received, the property owner must observe a one foot
(1') setback from the property line or have obtained a special use permit.
Applications for special use permits shall be judged individually.
   C.   Side and Back Yards: For purposes of this Chapter, fencing for side and
back yards shall terminate parallel to the front of the existing residence.
   D.   Front Yards: Maximum four foot (4') front yard fencing is allowed with
approval of adjacent property owners, and a special use permit must be
approved.
   E.   Residential Properties, Setback: Fencing for residential properties
shall observe a setback of one foot (1') from all property lines when those
lines are contiguous with public property, e.g., streets, alleys, parks,
parkways, etc.
   F.   Unusual Circumstances; Special Use Permit: In any circumstances not
covered by the above subsections, a special use permit must be applied for.
(Ord. 311, 8-8-83)
7-4-4: SWIMMING POOL FENCING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Definitions:
   FAMILY POOL: A swimming pool or wading pool used or intended to be used
solely by the owner, operator or lessee thereof and his family and by friends
invited to use it without payment of any fee.
   SWIMMING POOL/WADING POOL: A body of water in an artificial or semi-
artificial receptacle or other container intended to be used for public, semi-
public or private swimming by adults or children or both adults and children,
and also portable or temporary type pools or plastic, rubberized cloth or
similar materials, installed whether above or below ground elevation over
thirty six inches (36") in length.
   B.   Private Pools: Private pools shall be permitted as an accessory use,
provided they meet the following requirements:
      1.   No swimming pool shall be located on an easement.
      2.   For the protection of the general public, all swimming pools shall
have a surrounding protective barrier to be not less than forty eight inches
(48") above ground level with this barrier or fence to be not less than thirty
six inches (36") from the swimming pool itself. The fence must be of chain link
or wire material with the opening in the fence not to exceed three inches (3").
Also the fence may be a wooden type privacy fence.
      3.   Pools that have surrounding decks with attached fences with the deck
width not less than six inches (6") from the surface of the pool and which can
be secured from access when not in use are exempt from having a fence around
the pool.
   C.   Existing Pools, Compliance:
      1.   Any person owning a swimming pool without a surrounding protective
barrier (fence) in existence at the time of the effective date of this Section
shall have ninety (90) days to meet the requirements set in this Section.
      2.   Any person owning a swimming pool that has a surrounding protective
barrier (fence) but such fence does not meet the requirements of this Section
shall have ninety (90) days to meet such requirements.
   D.   Penalty: Any person violating the provisions of this Section shall be
subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code.
(Ord. 335, 7-3-89; 1995 Code)
CHAPTER 5
TREES AND SHRUBS
SECTION:
7-5-1: Planting Prohibited
7-5-2: Attaching Items to Trees or Shrubs
7-5-3: Trimming Dangerous Trees
7-5-4: Excavations; Injury to Tree Roots
7-5-5: Dutch Elm Disease
7-5-6: Noxious Weeds; Poison Ivy
7-5-1: PLANTING PROHIBITED:
   It shall be unlawful to plant any tree or bush in any public place, street
or parkway within the Village, including those portions of streets or roadways
not used for traffic purposes and lying between the adjacent property line and
the curb line. (1970 Code §8-3-1)
7-5-2: ATTACHING ITEMS TO TREES OR SHRUBS:
   A.   Advertisements or Notices: It shall be unlawful to attach any sign,
advertisement or notice to any tree or shrub now growing in any such public
place, street or parkway. (1970 Code §8-3-2)
   B.   Wires: It shall be unlawful to attach any wire or rope to any tree or
shrub in any public street, parkway or other public place without the
permission of the Board of Trustees. Any person who maintains poles and wires
in the streets, alleys or other public places shall, in the absence of
provisions in the franchise concerning the subject, keep such wires and poles
free from and away from any trees and shrubs in such places so far as may be
possible, and shall keep all such trees and shrubs near such wires and poles
properly trimmed, subject to the supervision of the Superintendent of Public
Works, so that no injury shall be done either to the poles or wires or to the
shrubs and trees by their contact. (1970 Code §8-3-4)
7-5-3: TRIMMING DANGEROUS TREES:
   A.   Any tree or shrub which overhangs any sidewalk, street or other public
place in the Village in such a way as to impede or interfere with traffic or
travel shall be trimmed by the owner of the abutting premises or of the
premises on which such tree or shrub grows so that the obstruction shall cease.
   B.   Any tree or limb of a tree which has become likely to fall on or across
any public way shall be removed by the owner of the premises on which such tree
grows or stands.
   C.   The Superintendent of Public Works may trim any such tree or shrub or
remove any such tree or branch thereof so that the obstruction or danger to
traffic or passage shall be done away with. (1970 Code §8-3-3)
7-5-4: EXCAVATIONS; INJURY TO TREE ROOTS:
   In making excavations in streets or other public places, proper care shall
be taken to avoid injury to the roots of any tree or shrub, wherever possible.
(1970 Code §8-3-5)
7-5-5: DUTCH ELM DISEASE:
   A.   Nuisance Declared: Trees of all species and varieties of elms, zelkeva
and planera affected with the fungus Ceratostomella ulmi, as determined by
laboratory analysis, are hereby declared to be public nuisances.
   B.   Preserving Nuisance Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person
owning property whereon a public nuisance as described above is situated to
possess, keep or preserve such nuisance.
   C.   Notice to Abate: The President shall give to the owner of premises
where a public nuisance described in this Section is found written notice of
the existence of such nuisance, requiring the removal and burning of the same
within thirty (30) days following such notice, such removal and burning to be
done under the direction and supervision of the Superintendent of Public Works.
(1970 Code §8-3-6)
7-5-6: NOXIOUS WEEDS; POISON IVY:
   A.   Notice to Remove: No owner, lessee, occupant or agent, servant or
employee of such owner, lessee or occupant, being in control of any lot, piece
or parcel of land within the Village shall knowingly allow, permit or maintain
on any such lot, piece or parcel of land any growth of poison ivy or other
noxious weed or plant, whereby the health of the public or any person lawfully
upon or passing by such lot, piece or parcel of land may be endangered, under a
penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code for each day such poison ivy or other noxious weed aforesaid
shall be allowed or permitted to be or remain growing upon any such lot, piece
or parcel of land after notice by the Health and Sanitation Officer to such
owner, lessee or occupant, or to such agent, servant or employee to remove,
eradicate or destroy the same.
   B.   Removal by Village; Costs a Lien: Whenever the owner or person in
control of any such premises fails to remove or destroy such poison ivy, etc.,
within a period of five (5) days after receipt of notice to so remove, the
Health and Sanitation Officer shall cause such poison ivy, etc., to be
destroyed, and any expense incurred by the Village in so doing, in the amount
of fifty dollars ($50.00) per hour, one hour minimum charge, shall be a lien
upon the real estate affected, superior to all other liens and encumbrances,
except tax liens.
(1970 Code §8-3-7; 1995 Code)
CHAPTER 6
WATER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-6-1: Department Established; Employees
7-6-2: Application For Water; Deposit
7-6-3: Connection Required
7-6-4: Water Rates
7-6-5: Rendition Of Bills; Delinquency
7-6-6: Meters
7-6-7: Rules And Regulations
7-6-8: Village Not Liable For Damage Or Injury
7-6-9: Obstructing Access Prohibited
7-6-10: Unauthorized Turn On Or Use Prohibited
7-6-11: Right Of Access
7-6-12: Connection To Separate Premises
7-6-13: Water For Building Or Construction Purposes; Permit
7-6-14: Suspension Of Water For Fountains, Lawn Sprinkling
7-6-15: Tampering With Fixtures, Appurtenances
7-6-16: Unlawful Use Of Water
7-6-17: Turning Off Water For Violation Or Nonpayment; Costs
7-6-18: Cross Connection Control
7-6-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED; EMPLOYEES:
   There is hereby established an executive department of the village to be
known as the waterworks department, and there shall be placed in charge of the
department the superintendent of public works who may appoint an employee to
serve as superintendent of water. The superintendent shall perform duties under
the direction of the superintendent of public works and the president and the
board of trustees and shall post bond and receive such compensation as the
board of trustees from time to time determines.
(1970 Code §8-5-1; amd. 1995 Code)
7-6-2: APPLICATION FOR WATER; DEPOSIT:
   No water shall be turned on for use on or in any premises until an
application therefor in writing has been made for that purpose and filed with
the clerk of the village, stating the purpose for which the water is to be
used. The applicant for water shall deposit fifty dollars ($50.00) before any
water is turned on. Such deposit shall be held by the village as security for
the payment of water used by the applicant and may be so applied when any
default is made in payment of a water bill. The water deposit shall be refunded
to the applicant at such time as when the applicant shall have paid his water
charges within the time stated on the billing for twenty four (24) consecutive
months.
(1970 Code §8-5-2; amd. Ord. 228, 12-19-1973; Ord. 264, 4-16-1979; Ord. 453,
11-10-2008)
7-6-3: CONNECTION REQUIRED:
   A.   Connection When Water Available: The owner of all houses, buildings or
other properties used for human occupancy, employment, business, recreation or
other purpose within the purview, abutting on any street, alley or right of way
in which there is now located or may in the future be located a water main
facility belonging to the village, is hereby required to connect to such water
main in accordance with the provisions of this code, within one year of either
the passage hereof or the date when such public water main facility is
available for use to such properties mentioned, whichever last occurs, and
thereafter all properties shall be immediately connected with said water main
facility; provided, however, that said water main is available within two
hundred feet (200') of the property line of such property. (1970 Code §8-5-19)
   B.   No Charge For New Main Connections: No charge will be made for the
connection of new mains to the existing municipal water distribution system.
(Ord. 259, 3-19-1979)
7-6-4: WATER RATES:
   A.   Rates Established:
 
For the first 3,000 gallons per month   
 May 1, 2009 – 2010                 $14.50
For the next 2,000 gallons per month   1.20 per 1,000
For the next 1,500 gallons per month   1.15 per 1,000
Over 6,500 gallons per month           1.05 per 1,000
 
(Ord. 447, 3-5-2007)
   B.   Debt Service Charge: In addition to the user water rate charges, there
is hereby established effective April 1, 2010, a debt service charge of ten
dollars ($10.00) for each connection to the water facility.
   All revenues and money derived from the debt service charge shall be
deposited in a debt service charge account, and held by the village treasurer
separate and apart from other village funds. The funds shall be used only for
the purposes of repayment of debts due and owing to state or federal agencies
for loans acquired for waterworks improvements.
   The IEPA and/or USEPA or its authorized representative shall have access to
any books, documents, paper and records of the village which are applicable to
the village's system of user charges for the purpose of making audit,
examination, excerpts and transcriptions thereof to ensure compliance with the
terms of the special and general conditions to any state grant, and/or loan
agreement and rules of any state loan. (Ord. 459, 3-8-2010)
   C.   Free Service For Senior Citizens:
      1.   As of February 6, 2001, water service shall be provided free of
charge to those residents of the village who are sixty five (65) years of age
or older, and whose total fixed monthly income is one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) or less. (Ord. 411, 3-5-2001; amd. Ord. 459, 3-8-2010)
      2.   Water will be provided free of charge up to, but not in excess of,
three thousand (3,000) gallons per month. Those persons who qualify will be
responsible to pay for water used in excess of three thousand (3,000) gallons
per month at the applicable rate. (Res. 257, 5-4-1979; amd. 1995 Code; Ord.
459, 3-8-2010)
   D.   Village Authority To Change Rates: The village reserves the right to
make such reasonable changes in rates and in conditions herein established and
to establish further rules and regulations from time to time as may be found
expeditious or necessary. (1970 Code §8-5-9; amd. Ord. 459, 3-8-2010)
   E.   Responsibility For Payment: Responsibility for payment for water
consumed prior to the date of service termination or account transfer shall be
with the property owners as well as the user. (Ord. 423, 9-8-2003; amd. Ord.
459, 3-8-2010)
7-6-5: RENDITION OF BILLS; DELINQUENCY:
   Bills for water service shall be rendered monthly and shall be delinquent
fifteen (15) days after their rendition, and in the event of failure to pay the
bills within said fifteen (15) day period, an additional charge of ten percent
(10%) shall be added to the bill.
(Ord. 360, 4-6-1992)
7-6-6: METERS:
   A.   Meters Required: All water consumers supplied by the village shall be
supplied through meters only and shall pay for the water at the rates and in
the manner hereinafter specified. (1970 Code §8-5-5)
   B.   Placement: Water meters shall be placed so that they are readily
accessible to repair, replacement and reading, said placement being subject to
inspection by the building inspector. (Ord. 259, 3-19-1979)
   C.   Faulty Meters: Whenever any meter, by reason of its being out of
repair, or for any cause fails promptly to register the water passing through
the same, the consumer shall be charged at the rate shown of the corresponding
time of the previous year under like conditions. If no record of the previous
year exists, then it shall be the duty of the superintendent of water to
estimate or determine so far as he can the amount of water consumed during the
time such meter fails to operate, and the consumer shall pay the amount so
estimated. (1970 Code §8-5-6)
   D.   Meter For Multiple Dwellings: In all cases where one service pipe
supplies two (2) or more separate consumers in a building, one meter may be
placed at the service connection for either or all of the said consumers and
the water rent, as registered by such meters, shall be charged to and be
payable by the owner of such premises or building. (1970 Code §8-5-16)
7-6-7: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   The following rules and regulations for plumbers and consumers of water are
hereby adopted and established:
   A.   Application For Service: No water shall be furnished or supplied to any
consumer for any purpose whatever until such consumer shall make application
therefor. Such application shall state the location of the premises to be
served and the use to which the water will be put.
   B.   Permit Required: No water consumer may supply water to other families
or allow them to take water, except for use on the premises and for the purpose
specified in the application, nor after water is introduced into any building
or upon any premises shall any person make or employ any other person to make
any tap or connection with the work upon the premises for alterations, repairs,
extensions or attachments without a written permit therefor to be issued by the
superintendent of water.
   C.   Village Right To Shut Off Water; Nonliability: The village reserves the
right to shut off water at any time in the mains for the purpose of repairing,
cleaning, making connections with or extensions to same, or for the
concentrating of water in any part of the village in case of fire; and for
restricting the use of the water in case of deficiency in supply. No claim
shall be made against the village by reason of breaking of any service pipe or
service cock or damage arising from shutting off of water for repairing, laying
or relaying mains, hydrants or other connections or repairing any part of the
water system, or from failure of the water supply or by increasing the water
pressure at any time, or from concentration or restricted use of water as
above. (1970 Code §8-5-12)
7-6-8: VILLAGE NOT LIABLE FOR DAMAGE OR INJURY:
   All connections and water applied for hereunder, and all the water used
hereunder, shall be upon the express condition that the village shall not be
liable, nor shall any claim be made against it for damages or injury caused by
reason of the breaking of any main, branches, service pipes, apparatus or
appurtenances connected with said system or plant, or any part or portion of
said plant, or for any interruption of the supply by reason of the breakage of
machinery or by reason of stoppage, alterations, extensions or renewals. (1970
Code §8-5-7)
7-6-9: OBSTRUCTING ACCESS PROHIBITED:
   No person shall in any manner obstruct the access to any stop cock, hydrant
or valve or any public faucet or opening for taking water in any street, alley,
public ground or place connected with or part of said water system, nor pile or
place any lumber, brick or building material or other article, thing or
hindrance whatsoever within twelve feet (12') of the same, or so as to in any
manner hinder, delay or obstruct the members of the fire department to reach
the same. It shall be unlawful for any person in any manner to interfere with
or obstruct the flow, retention, storage or authorized use of water in the
water system, reservoir or plant, or any part thereof, or to injure, deface,
remove or displace any water main, hydrant, service pipe, water meter, shut-off
box, public fountain, valve, engine or building connected with said water
system or plant or to cause, suffer or permit any of said things to be done.
(1970 Code §8-5-3)
7-6-10: UNAUTHORIZED TURN-ON OR USE PROHIBITED:
   No person not duly authorized shall turn the water on at any fire hydrant or
service cock or use water therefrom when so turned on, and the person so using
or wasting water in such unlawful manner shall be liable to pay for the same.
(1970 Code §8-5-4)
7-6-11: RIGHT OF ACCESS:
Employees of the department shall have ready access to the premises, place or
building where service is supplied for the purpose of inspecting and testing
any part of the system. In the event that access to a remote meter reader
becomes impaired for any reason including, without limitation, the growth or
placement of vegetation, the placement of fencing, the construction of an
addition or the presences of pets, the Village may in its discretion, relocate
the remote reader to a location deemed by the Village to be reasonably and
efficiently accessible. The Owner of the property shall cooperate with the
relocation and shall provide access to the premises to the extent reasonably
necessary to facilitate such relocation. It shall be unlawful for any person to
interfere with, prevent or obstruct any employee or agent of the Village in the
performance of his or her duty. In addition, in the event of impaired access to
any premises for purposes of this section, the Village may, after not less than
ten (10) days' prior written notice mailed to the person to whom the water
service for such premises is owned, interrupt water service to such premises
until representatives of the Village have been provided with the access
necessary to allow completion of any inspection or testing or relocation of a
meter or remote meter reader. (1970 Code §8-5-8; amd. Ord. 512, 11-11-2019)
7-6-12: CONNECTION TO SEPARATE PREMISES:
   No owner or plumber shall be permitted to conduct water pipes into any two
(2) distinct premises or tenements unless separate and distinct stopcocks shall
be placed on the outside of such premises along the sidewalk opposite the same,
nor shall any pipe be allowed to cross lots or buildings to adjoining premises.
(1970 Code §8-5-14)
7-6-13: WATER FOR BUILDING OR CONSTRUCTION PURPOSES; PERMIT:
   Persons desiring to use village water for building or construction purposes
shall make application therefor in writing and file the same in the office of
the clerk on a form provided for that purpose. Upon a permit being granted,
which permit shall be issued in writing and signed by the superintendent of
water, the service pipe shall be carried at the expense of the applicant to the
inside of the curb line, where a service cock and meter shall be placed, with
pipe leading to the surface, and a faucet placed at the end thereof above said
surface. When the building or construction work is completed, the faucet and
meter shall be removed and the water shut off, unless permanent connection
hereunder is made. Charge for the use and connecting of meters shall be as
prescribed hereafter by the president and board of trustees. (1970 Code §8-5-
11)
7-6-14: SUSPENSION OF WATER FOR FOUNTAINS, LAWN SPRINKLING:
   The right is reserved to suspend the use of lawn fountains and hose for
sprinkling lawns and gardens whenever, in the opinion of the president and
board of trustees, the public exigencies require. (1970 Code §8-5-15)
7-6-15: TAMPERING WITH FIXTURES, APPURTENANCES:
   It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper with, change or alter any
water meter, valve, pipe, fire hydrant, meter box or any apparatus in
connection with the waterworks system in the village at any time; provided,
however, that this section shall not apply to the installing, repairing,
altering or changing of the private plumbing system or fixtures installed
privately on private property, and also shall not apply to pipes leading from
property lines to meter boxes, and it shall be unlawful for any person to turn
on any water valve, meter or water connection for the purposes of obtaining
water service to his property or the property of any other person. (1970 Code
§8-5-17)
7-6-16: UNLAWFUL USE OF WATER:
   It shall be unlawful for any person to receive and obtain water service on
or for his property or on or for property under his control until said water
has been turned on by the proper official, employee or officer of the Village.
(1970 Code §8-5-18)
7-6-17: TURNING OFF WATER FOR VIOLATION OR NONPAYMENT; COSTS:
   A.   For the violation of any of the foregoing rules and/or for the
nonpayment of water bills, the Village reserves the right to turn off the water
ten (10) days after official notice of delinquency has been issued, and to
charge a fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) for shutting off such delinquent water
service during normal working hours (8:00 A.M. to 3:30 P.M. weekdays) and to
forfeit any payments made. No water service which has been shut off due to
violation of any rules or nonpayment will be restored after normal working
hours, and on weekends or holidays.
      1.   The reconnection fee after shut off due to payment delinquency for
reconnection of water service during working hours is seventy-five dollars
($75.00).
      2.   The reconnection fee after shut off due to payment delinquency for
reconnection of water service during weekends, holidays and after normal
working hours on weekdays is one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00).
   B.   After the water has been turned off from any service pipe on account of
nonpayment of water bills or violation of the rules hereof, the same shall not
be turned on again until all delinquent bills and penalties are paid, together
with the expense of turning off and on such meter, which shall be the sum
mentioned above.
   C.   No water shall be furnished to any person who is indebted to the
Village on account of water consumed, material or repairs. An additional
penalty as provided by Section 1-4-1 of this Code will be assessed on any
person tampering with, removing or breaking any shut-off seal placed by the
Village.
(Ord. 402, 3-6-2000; amd. Ord. 496, 2-8-2016)
7-6-18: CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL:
   A.   Notice To Customer To Install Backflow Prevention Device: If in
accordance with the Illinois Plumbing Code or in the judgment of the
Superintendent of Water, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary
for the safety of the public water supply system, the Superintendent of Water
will give notice to the water customer to install such an approved device
immediately. The water customer shall, at his own expense, install such an
approved device at a location and in a manner in accordance with the Illinois
Plumbing Code and all applicable local regulations, and shall have inspections
and tests made of such approved devices as required by the Illinois Plumbing
Code and local regulations.
   B.   Approval Of Water Supply: No person shall establish or permit to be
established or maintain or permit to be maintained by connection whereby a
private, auxiliary or emergency water supply other than the regular public
water supply of the Village enters the supply or distribution system of said
Municipality, unless such private, auxiliary or emergency water supply and the
method of connection and use of such supply shall have been approved by the
Superintendent of Water and the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   C.   Surveys And Investigations: It shall be the duty of the Superintendent
of Water to cause surveys and investigations to be made of industrial and other
properties served by the public water supply to determine whether actual or
potential hazards to the public water supply may exist. Such surveys and
investigations shall be made a matter of public record and shall be repeated at
least every two (2) years or as often as the Superintendent of Water shall deem
necessary. Records of such surveys shall be maintained and available for review
for a period of at least five (5) years.
   D.   Right Of Entry For Inspection: The approved cross-connection control
device inspector shall have the right to enter at any reasonable time any
property served by a connection to the public water supply or distribution
system of South Pekin for the purpose of verifying the presence or absence of
cross-connections, and the Water Superintendent or his authorized agent shall
have the right to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a
connection to the public water supply or distribution system of South Pekin for
the purpose of verifying the information submitted by the customer regarding
the required cross-connection control inspection. On demand, the owner, lessee
or occupants of any property so served shall furnish to the Superintendent of
Water any information which he may request regarding the piping system or water
use on such property. The refusal of such information, when demanded, shall,
within the discretion of the Superintendent of Water, be deemed evidence of the
presence of improper connections as provided in this Section.
   E.   Discontinue Service For Violation: The Superintendent of Water is
hereby authorized and directed to discontinue, after reasonable notice to the
occupant thereof, the water service to any property wherein any connections in
violation of the provisions of this Section is known to exist, and to take such
other precautionary measures as he may deem necessary to eliminate any danger
of contamination of the public water supply distribution mains. Water
eliminated or corrected in compliance with the provisions of this Section, and
until a reconnection fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) is paid to the Village.
Immediate disconnection with verbal notice shall be enforced when the
Superintendent of Water is assured that imminent danger of harmful
contamination of the public water supply system exists. Such action shall be
followed by written notification of the cause of disconnection.
   F.   Responsibility For Cost Of Cleanup: The consumer responsible for back
siphoned material or contamination through backflow, if contamination of the
potable water supply system occurs through an illegal cross-connection or an
improperly installed, maintained or repaired device, or a device which has been
bypassed, must bear the cost of cleanup of the potable water supply system.
(Ord. 347, 7-2-1990, eff. 7-2-1990; amd. 1995 Code)
CHAPTER 7
WASTE WATER SERVICE CHARGES
SECTION:
7-7-1: Definitions
7-7-2: General Provisions
7-7-3: Access To Records
7-7-4: Basis For Service Charges
7-7-5: Measurement Of Flow
7-7-6: Waste Water Service Charges
7-7-7: Computation Of Waste Water Service Charge
7-7-8: Appeals
7-7-9: Effective Date Of Rates
7-7-10: Penalty
7-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of terms used
in this Chapter shall be as follows:
Clarification of word usage: "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissible.
ADMINISTRATOR: The Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
APPROVING AUTHORITY: The Superintendent of the Department of Water and
Sanitation.
BOD (Denoting Biochemical Oxygen Demand): The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standards laboratory
procedure in five (5) days at twenty degrees centigrade (20°C), expressed in
milligrams per liter.
BASIC USER CHARGE: The basic assessment levied on all users of the public sewer
system.
BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest piping of a drainage system which
receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes inside the
walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer or other approved
point of discharge, beginning five feet (5') (1.5 meters) outside the inner
face of the building wall.
BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT CHARGE: A charge levied on users to improve, extend or
reconstruct the sewage treatment works.
COMBINED SEWER: A sewer which is designed and intended to receive waste water,
storm, surface and ground water drainage.
CONTROL MANHOLE: A structure located on a site from which industrial wastes are
discharged. Where feasible, the manhole shall have an interior drop. The
purpose of a "control manhole" is to provide access for the Village,
representative to sample and/or measure discharges.
DEBT SERVICE CHARGE: The amount to be paid each billing period for payment of
interest, principal and coverage of loan, bond, etc., outstanding.
DIRECTOR: The Director of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
EASEMENT: An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by others.
EFFLUENT CRITERIA: Are defined in any applicable "NPDES permit".
FEDERAL ACT: The Federal Clean Water Act (33 USC 466 et seq.) as amended, (Pub.
L. 95-217).
FEDERAL GRANT: The U.S. Government participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by Title II - Grants for
Construction of Treatment Works of the Act and implementing regulations.
FLOATABLE OIL: Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from waste water by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A waste water shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the waste water does not interfere with the collection
system.
GARBAGE: Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking,
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of food.
INDUSTRIAL WASTE: Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance discharged, permitted
to flow or escaping from any industrial, manufacturing, commercial or business
establishment or process or from the development, recovery or processing of any
natural resource as distinct from sanitary sewage.
LOCAL CAPITAL COST CHARGE: Charges for costs other than the operation,
maintenance and replacement costs, i.e., debt service and capital improvement
costs.
MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY: An industrial user of the publicly owned treatment
works that: a) has a flow of fifty thousand (50,000) gallons or more per
average work day; or b) has a flow greater than ten percent (10%) of the flow
carried by the Municipal system receiving the waste; or c) has in its waste, a
toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in standards issued under section
307(a) of the Federal Act; or d) is found by the permit issuant authority, in
connection with the issuance of the NPDES permit to the publicly owned
treatment works receiving the waste, to have significant impact, either singly
or in combination with other contributing industries, on that treatment works
or upon the quality of effluent from that treatment works.
MILLIGRAMS PER LITER: A unit of the concentration of water or waste water
constituent. It is 0.001 grams of the constituent in one thousand milliliters
(1,000 ml) of water. It has replaced the unit formerly used commonly, parts per
million, to which it is approximately equivalent, in reporting the results of
water and waste water analysis.
NPDES PERMIT: Any permit or equivalent document or requirements issued by the
Administrator, or, where appropriated by the Director, after enactment of the
Federal Clean Water Act to regulate the discharge of pollutants pursuant to
section 402 of the Federal Act.
NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other body
of surface or ground water.
ppm: Parts per million by weight.
PERSON: Any and all persons, natural or artificial including any individual,
firm, company, municipal, or private corporation, association, society,
institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
pH: The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen-ion concentration
expressed by one of the procedures outlined in the IEPA Division of
Laboratories Manual of Laboratory Methods.
POPULATION EQUIVALENT: A term used to evaluate the impact of industrial or
other waste on a treatment works or stream. One population equivalent is one
hundred (100) gallons of sewage per day, containing 0.17 pounds of BOD and 0.20
pounds of suspended solids.
PRETREATMENT: The treatment of waste waters from sources before introduction
into the waste water treatment works.
PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") (1.27 centimeters)
in any dimension.
PUBLIC SEWER: A sewer provided by or subject to the jurisdiction of the
Village. It shall also include sewers within or outside the Village boundaries
that serve one or more persons and ultimately discharge into the Village
sanitary (or combined sewer system), even though those sewers may not have been
constructed with Village funds.
REPLACEMENT: Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment, accessories,
or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the treatment
works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works were
designed and constructed. The term "operation and maintenance" includes
replacement.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer that conveys sewage or industrial wastes or a
combination of both, and into which storm, surface, and ground waters or
polluted industrial wastes are not intentionally admitted.
SEWAGE: Is used interchangeably with "waste water".
SEWER: A pipe or conduit for conveying sewage or any other waste liquids,
including storm, surface and ground water drainage.
SEWERAGE: The system of sewers and appurtenances for the collection,
transportation and pumping of sewage.
SEWERAGE FUND: The principal accounting designation for all revenues received
in the operation of the sewerage system.
SLUG: Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in concentration
of any given constituent or in quantity of low exceeds for any period of
duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes more than five (5) times the average
twenty four (24) hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
STATE ACT: The Illinois Anti-Pollution Bond Act of 1970.
STATE GRANT: The State of Illinois participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by the Illinois Anti-Pollution
Bond Act and for making such grants as filed with the Secretary of State of the
State of Illinois.
STORM SEWER: A sewer that carries storm, surface and ground water drainage but
excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted cooling water.
STORM WATER RUNOFF: That portion of the precipitation that is drained into the
sewers.
SURCHARGE: The assessment in addition to the basic user charge and debt service
charge which is levied on those persons whose wastes are greater in strength
than the concentration values established in chapter 00, article III.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS): Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or industrial waste, and which are removable by a
laboratory filtration device. Quantitative determination of suspended solids
shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in the IEPA Division of
Laboratories Manual of Laboratory Methods.
UNPOLLUTED WATER: Water quality equal to or better than the effluent criteria
in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water quality
standards and would not be benefited by discharge to the sanitary sewers and
waste water treatment facilities provided.
USEFUL LIFE: The estimated period during which the collection system and/or
treatment works will be operated.
USER CHARGE: A charge levied on users of treatment works for the cost of
operation, maintenance and replacement.
USER CLASS: The type of user "residential", "institutional/governmental",
"commercial", or "industrial" as defined herein.
   Commercial User: Shall include transit lodging, retail and wholesale
establishments or places engaged in selling merchandise, or rendering services.
   Industrial Users: Shall include establishments engaged in manufacturing
activities involving the mechanical or chemical transformation of materials of
substance into products.
   Institutional/Governmental User: Shall include schools, churches, penal
institutions, and users associated with Federal, State, and local governments.
   Residential User: All dwelling units such as houses, mobile homes,
apartments, permanent multi-family dwellings.
VILLAGE: The Village of South Pekin.
WASTE WATER: The spent water of a community. From this standpoint of course, it
may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions, together with any
ground water, surface water, and storm water that may be present.
WASTE WATER FACILITIES: The structures, equipment, and processes required to
collect, carry away, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and transport
effluent to a watercourse.
WASTE WATER SERVICE CHARGE: The charge per quarter or month levied on all users
of the waste water facilities. The service charge shall be computed as outlined
in chapter 00, article II and shall consist of the total or the basic user
charge, the local capital cost and a surcharge, if applicable.
WASTE WATER TREATMENT WORKS: An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating waste water, industrial wastes, and sludge. Sometimes used as
synonymous with "waste treatment plant" or "waste water treatment plant" or
"pollution control plant".
WATER QUALITY STANDARDS: Are defined in the Water Pollution Regulations of
Illinois.
WATERCOURSE: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or
intermittently.
(Ord. 389, 9-8-1997)
7-7-2: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Bills: Said rates or charges for service shall be payable monthly or
quarterly depending on the classification of service for which bills are
rendered. The owner of the premises, the occupant thereof and the user of the
service shall be jointly and severally liable to pay for the service to such
premises and the service is furnished to the premises by the Village only upon
the condition that the owner of the premises, occupant and user of the services
are jointly and severally liable therefor to the Village.
   Bills for sewer service shall be sent out by the Village Treasurer on the
first day of the month or quarter succeeding the period for which the service
is billed.
   All sewer bills are due and payable ten (10) days after being sent out. A
penalty of fifteen percent (15%) shall be added to all bills not paid by the
thirtieth day after they have been rendered.
   B.   Delinquent Bills: If the charges for such services are not paid within
forty five (45) days or forty five (45) days herein above mentioned after the
rendition of the bill for such services, such services shall be discontinued
without further notice and shall not be reinstated until all claims are
settled.
   C.   Lien-Notice Of Delinquency: Whenever a bill for sewer service remains
unpaid for sixty (60) days for monthly service or sixty (60) for quarterly
service after it has been rendered, the Village Treasurer shall file with the
County Recorder of Deeds a statement of lien claim. This statement shall
contain the legal description of the premises served, the amount of the unpaid
bill, and a notice that the Village claims a lien for this amount as well as
for all charges subsequent to the period covered by the bill.
   If the user whose bill is unpaid is not the owner of the premises and the
Village Treasurer has notice of this, notice shall be mailed to the owner of
the premises if his address be known to the Treasurer, whenever such bill
remains unpaid for the period forty five (45) days for a monthly bill or one
hundred five (105) days for a quarterly bill after it has been rendered.
   The failure of the Village Treasurer to record such lien or to mail such
notice or the failure of the owner to receive such notice shall not affect the
right to foreclose the lien for unpaid bills as mentioned in the foregoing
Section.
   D.   Foreclosure Of Lien: Property subject to a lien for unpaid charges
shall be sold for nonpayment of the same, and the proceeds of the sale shall be
applied to pay the charges, after deducting costs, as is the case in the
foreclosure of statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be by bill-in equity in
the name of the Village. The Village Attorney is hereby authorized and directed
to institute such proceedings in the name of the Village in any court having
jurisdiction over such matters against any property for which the bill has
remained unpaid forty five (45) days in the case of a quarterly bill after it
has been rendered.
   E.   Revenues: All revenues and monies derived from the operation of the
sewerage system shall be deposited in the sewerage account of the Sewerage
Fund. All such revenues and monies shall be held by the Village Treasurer
separate and apart from his private funds and separate and apart from all other
funds of the Village and all of said sum, without any deductions whatever,
shall be delivered to the Village Treasurer not more than ten (10) days after
receipt of the same, or at such more frequent intervals as may from time to
time be directed by the President and Village Board.
   The Village Treasurer shall receive all such revenues from the sewerage
system and all other funds and monies incident to the operation of such system
as the same may be delivered to him and deposit the same in the account of the
fund designated as the "Sewerage Fund of the Village".
   Said Treasurer shall administer such Fund in every respect in the manner
provided by statute of the "Revised Cities and Villages Act", effective January
1942.
   F.   Accounts: The Village Treasurer shall establish a proper system and
accounts and shall keep proper books, records, and accounts in which complete
and correct entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the sewerage
system, and at regular annual intervals he shall cause to be made an audit by
an independent auditing concern of the books to show the receipts and
disbursements of the sewerage system.
   In addition to the customary operating statements, the annual audit report
shall also reflect the revenues and operating expenses of the waste water
facilities, including a replacement cost, to indicate that sewer service
charges under the waste cost recovery system do in fact meet these regulations.
In this regard, the financial information to be shown in the audit report shall
include the following:
      1.   Flow data showing total gallons received at the waste water plant
for the current fiscal year.
      2.   Billing data to show total number of gallons billed per fiscal year.
      3.   Debt service for the next succeeding fiscal year.
      4.   Number of users connected to the system.
      5.   Number on nonmetered users.
      6.   A list of users discharging nondomestic and industrial wastes and
volume of waste discharged.
(Ord. 389, 9-8-1997)
7-7-3: ACCESS TO RECORDS:
   The IEPA, USEPA or its authorized representative all have access to any
books, documents, papers and records of the Village which are applicable to the
Village system or user charges for the purpose of making audit, examination,
excerpts and transcriptions thereof to ensure compliance with the terms of the
special and general conditions to any State grant, Federal regulations and
conditions of the Federal grant, loan agreement and rules of any State loan.
(Ord. 389, 9-8-1997)
7-7-4: BASIS FOR SERVICE CHARGES:
   The waste water service charge for the use of and for service supplied by
the waste water facilities of the Village shall consist of a basic user charge,
a debt service charge, a capital improvement charge and applicable surcharges.
   A.   Basic User Charge:
      1.   The basic user charge is levied on all users to recover the
operation, maintenance plus replacement (O, M & R) costs and shall be based on
water usage as recorded by water meters or sewage meters for wastes having the
following normal domestic concentrations:
         a.   A five (5) day, twenty degree centigrade (20°C) biochemical
oxygen demand (BOD) of two hundred milligrams per liter (200 mg/l).
         b.   A suspended solids content of two hundred forty milligrams per
liter (240 mg/l).
      2.   The basic user charge shall be computed as follows:
         a.   Estimate the annual waste water volume, pounds of BOD and pounds
of SS to be treated.
         b.   Estimate the projected annual revenue required to operate and
maintain the waste water facilities, including a replacement fund for the year,
for all works categories.
         c.   Proportion the estimated O, M & R costs to each user class by
volume, BOD and SS.
         d.   Proportion the estimated O, M & R costs to waste water facility
categories by volume, BOD and SS.
         e.   Compute costs per one thousand (1,000) gallons for normal
domestic strength sewage. (Ord. 389, 9-8-1997)
   B.   Debt Service Charge: The debt service charge is computed by
apportioning the annual debt service as a charge per one thousand (1,000)
gallons.
   C.   Capital Improvement Charge: The capital improvement charge is levied on
users to provide for capital improvements, extensions or reconstruction of the
sewage treatment works. The capital improvement charge is computed by
apportioning the annual amount to be accrued as a charge per one thousand
(1,000) gallons.
   D.   Surcharge: A surcharge will be levied to all users whose waters exceed
the normal domestic concentrations of BOD (200 mg/l) and SS (240 mg/l). The
surcharge will be based on water usage as recorded by water meters or sewage
meters for all wastes which exceed the two hundred milligrams per liter (200
mg/l) and two hundred forty milligrams per liter (240 mg/l) concentrations for
BOD and SS respectively.
   The concentration of wastes used for computing surcharges shall be
established by waste sampling. Waste sampling shall be performed as often as
may be deemed necessary by the Superintendent and shall be binding as a basis
for surcharges.
   E.   Review: The adequacy of the waste water service charge shall be
reviewed, not less often than annually, by certified public accountants for the
Village in their annual audit report. The waste water service charge shall be
revised periodically to reflect a change in local capital costs or O, M & R
costs.
   F.   Notification: The users of the waste water treatment services will be
notified annually, in conjunction with a regular bill, of the rate and that
portion of the user charges which are attributable to the waste water
operation, maintenance and replacement.
(Ord. 405, 6-30-2000)
7-7-5: MEASUREMENT OF FLOW:
   The volume of flow used for computing basic user charges and surcharges
shall be the metered water consumption read to the lowest even increments of
five hundred (500) gallons.
   A.   If the person discharging wastes into the public sewers procures any
part, or all, of his water from sources other than the public waterworks
system, all or part of which is discharged into the public sewers, the person
shall install and maintain, at his expense, water meters of a type approved by
the Superintendent for the purpose of determining the volume of water obtained
from these other sources.
   B.   Devices for measuring the volume of waste discharged may be required by
the superintendent if these volumes cannot otherwise be determined from the
metered water consumption records.
   C.   Metering devices for determining the volume of waste shall be
installed, owned, and maintained by the person. Following approval and
installation, such meters may not be removed, unless service is canceled,
without the consent of the superintendent.
(Ord. 405, 6-30-2000)
7-7-6: WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGES:
   A.   Basic User Charge: There shall be and there is hereby established a
basic user charge of two dollars ninety five cents ($2.95) per one thousand
(1,000) gallons of metered water consumption to be applied to all users to
recover O,M&R costs.
   B.   Debt Service Charge: There shall be and there is hereby established a
debt service charge of eighteen dollars ($18.00) to each user of the wastewater
facility.
   C.   Capital Improvement Charge: There shall be and there is hereby
established a capital improvement charge of fifty cents ($0.50) per one
thousand (1,000) gallons to each user of the wastewater facility.
   D.   Flat Rate: All nonmetered users of the wastewater facilities shall pay
a flat rate of thirty two dollars thirty eight cents ($32.38) per month. The
flat rate charge consists of twelve dollars thirty eight cents ($12.38) for
O,M&R costs, eighteen dollars ($18.00) for debt service costs and two dollars
($2.00) for capital improvement costs. The flat rate charge will allow a
maximum of four thousand (4,000) gallons per month. In the event use of the
wastewater facilities is determined by the superintendent to be in excess of
four thousand (4,000) gallons per month, the superintendent may require such
flat rate users to install metering devices on the water supply or sewer main
to measure the amount of service supplied.
   E.   Surcharge Rates: The rates of surcharges for BOD and SS shall be as
follows:
      Per pound of BOD      $0.38
      Per pound of SS      0.32
   F.   Reduced Rates For Low Income Senior Citizens And Churches: Those
residents of the village who are sixty five (65) years of age or older, and
whose total household monthly income is one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or
less, and churches, shall not be charged the basic user charge or the capital
improvement charge for the first three thousand (3,000) gallons per month, but
shall be charged the debt service charge. Those persons who qualify will be
responsible to pay all charges for sewer services in excess of three thousand
(3,000) gallons per month at the applicable rate.
   G.   Commercial/Industrial Rates: Any nonresidential user who uses in excess
of ten thousand (10,000) gallons per month shall receive a ten percent (10%)
reduction in the basic user charge and capital improvement charge for each one
thousand (1,000) gallons over ten thousand (10,000) gallons used. (Ord. 416, 3-
11-2002)
   H.   Responsibility For Payment: Responsibility for payment for wastewater
service charges incurred prior to the date of service termination or account
transfer shall be with the property owners as well as the user.
(Ord. 423, 9-8-2003)
7-7-7: COMPUTATION OF WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE:
   The wastewater service charge shall be computed by the following formula:
         CW = CD + Vu/1000 (CU + CC) + CS
   Where   CW   =   Amount of wastewater service charge ($) per billing period
      CC   =   Capital improvement charge (see subsection
7-7-6C of this chapter)
      CD   =   Debt service charge
      Vu   =   Wastewater volume for the billing period
      CU   =   Basic user charge for operation, maintenance and replacement
(see subsection
7-7-6A of this chapter)
      CS   =   Surcharges, if applicable (see subsection
7-7-6E of this chapter)
   All charges herein shall be retroactive to first billings for sewer usage.
(Ord. 416, 3-11-2002)
7-7-8: APPEALS:
   The method for computation of rates and service charges established for user
charges in sections
7-7-4 through
7-7-7 of this chapter shall be made available to a user within ten (10) days of
receipt of a written request for such. Any disagreement over the method used or
in the computations thereof shall be remedied by the village board within forty
five (45) days after notification of a formal written appeal outlining the
discrepancies.
(Ord. 389, 9-8-1997)
7-7-9: EFFECTIVE DATE OF RATES:
   The rates and service charges established for user charges in sections
7-7-4 through
7-7-7 of this chapter shall be effective as of the next fiscal year beginning
1998 and on bills to be rendered for the next succeeding month being February
for monthly users and on bills to be rendered for the next succeeding quarter
being April for quarterly users.
(Ord. 389, 9-8-1997)
7-7-10: PENALTY:
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provisions of this chapter
shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each offense.
(Ord. 389, 9-8-1997)
CHAPTER 8
PUBLIC SEWERS
SECTION:
7-8-1: Use Of Public Sewers Required
7-8-2: Private Sewage Disposal
7-8-3: Building Sewers And Connections
7-8-4: Use Of The Public Sewers
7-8-5: Protection Of Sewage Works From Damage
7-8-6: Powers And Authority Of Inspectors
7-8-7: Penalties
7-8-1: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
Village or in any area under the jurisdiction of said Village, any human or
animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
Village, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said Village, any sewage or
other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this Chapter.
   C.   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   D.   The owner of all the houses, buildings, or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes situated within the
Village and abutting on any street, alley, or right of way in which there is
now located or may in the future be located any public sanitary (or combined)
sewer of the Village, is hereby required at his expense to install suitable
toilet facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the
proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter, within
ninety (90) days after date of official notice to do so, provided that said
public sewer is within one hundred feet (100') (33 meters) of the property
line.
(Ord. 388, 9-8-1997)
7-8-2: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
   A.   Where a public sanitary (or combined) sewer is not available under the
provisions of subsection
7-8-1D of this Chapter the building sewer shall be connected to a private
sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this Section.
   B.   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal system
the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the Superintendent. The
application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by the Village,
which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications and other
information as deemed necessary by the Superintendent. A permit and inspection
fee of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) shall be paid to the Village at the
time the application is filed.
   C.   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
Superintendent. He shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any
underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within forty
eight (48) hours of the receipt of written notice by the Superintendent.
   D.   The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the State of Illinois Private
Sewage Disposal Licensing Act and Code and with the State of Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency. No permit shall be issued for any private
sewage disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where
the area of the lot is less than twenty one thousand seven hundred eighty
(21,780) square feet.
   No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any natural
outlet.
   E.   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system, as provided in subsection
7-8-1D of this chapter, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer
in compliance with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar
private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable
material.
   F.   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, and at no expense to the village.
   G.   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the county health
department.
   H.   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to said sewer within sixty (60) days and the private sewage disposal
system shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank-run gravel or
dirt.
(Ord. 388, 9-8-1997)
7-8-3: BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with, or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the superintendent. (Ord. 388, 9-
8-1997)
      1.   Additional Requirements:
         a.   Contractors:
            (1)   All individuals or entities contracted by village homeowners
for the purpose of constructing, altering or repairing of any sewer line in the
village of South Pekin shall register as a sewer contractor with the village.
This shall include all individuals or entities who are contracted by homeowners
for the installation of lateral lines from homeowner's house to the main
village installed sewer lines.
            (2)   Any registrant shall complete and sign an application for
sewer contractor registration form and checklist, copies of which are on file
in the office of the village clerk. The applicant shall comply with those
provisions as set forth in said registration and checklist forms.
            (3)   Failure of the sewer contractor to comply with the terms of
the registration and checklist forms on file in the office of the village clerk
can result in the homeowner not being allowed to connect to the villagewide
sewer system until all requirements of the provisions of the said registration
and checklist have been fully complied with by the homeowner. Failure of any
sewer contractor to complete and comply with the terms and provisions of this
subsection A1a and said checklist can result in the village seeking an
injunction against the sewer contractor preventing further work in the village
until compliance is made.
            (4)   No lateral connections shall be made to the villagewide
system until final approval by the village.
            (5)   In addition to the above, any violation of this subsection
A1a shall subject the violator to penalties and sanctions pursuant to section
1-4-1 of this code.
(Ord. 407, 9-11-2000)
         b.   Inspection And Fee:
            (1)   Every person or entity that desires or is required to connect
to the village sewer system shall have their connections examined by the sewer
inspector. No connection shall be allowed until same is approved by the sewer
inspector.
            (2)   Each resident or entity inspected by said sewer inspector
shall pay a fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) per inspection, to be paid
prior to each inspection required. Any person who is in violation of the terms
of this subsection A1b shall be immediately disconnected from the villagewide
sewer system and water supply until compliance is made with this subsection
A1b, and in addition may be fined in accordance with section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 408, 10-9-2000)
   B.   All disposal by any person into the sewer system is unlawful except
those discharges in compliance with federal standards promulgated pursuant to
the federal act and more stringent state and local standards.
   C.   There shall be two (2) classes of building sewer permits: 1) for
residential waste water service, and 2) to commercial, institutional/
governmental or industrial waste water service. In either case, the owner or
his agent shall make application on a special form furnished by the village.
   D.   The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications, or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of
the superintendent. A permit and inspection fee of one hundred fifty dollars
($150.00) for a residential or commercial building sewer permit shall be paid
to the village at the time the application is filed. The industry, as a
condition of permit authorization, must provide information describing its
waste water constituents, characteristics, and type of activity.
   E.   A building sewer permit will only be issued and a sewer connection
shall only be allowed if it can be demonstrated that the downstream sewerage
facilities, including sewers, pump stations and waste water treatment
facilities, have sufficient reserve capacity to adequately and efficiently
handle the additional anticipated waste load.
   F.   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
village from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned
by the installation of the building sewer.
   G.   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except that where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the
building sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and
the whole considered as one building sewer.
   H.   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the superintendent, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
   I.   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
village. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
"American Society Of Testing Materials, Water Pollution Control Federation
Manual Of Practice No. 9", and "Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer
Main Construction In Illinois" shall apply.
   J.   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the first floor. In all buildings in which any building
drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage
carried by such building drain shall be lifted by a means which is approved in
accordance with subsection B of this section, and discharged to the building
sewer.
   K.   No person(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or ground
water to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly
or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   L.   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code, or other
applicable rules and regulations of the Village, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the American Society of Testing Materials, Water
Pollution Control Federation Manual of Practice No. 9, and Standard
Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois. All such
connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any deviation from the
prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the Superintendent
before installation.
   M.   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection
to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the
Superintendent or his representative.
   N.   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the Village.
(Ord. 388, 9-8-1997)
7-8-4: USE OF THE PUBLIC SEWERS:
   A.   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any storm water,
surface water, ground water roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water, or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   B.   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the Superintendent. Industrial cooling water
or unpolluted process waters may be discharged on approval of the
Superintendent, to a storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural outlet.
   C.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      1.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas.
      2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids,
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant.
      3.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the sewage works.
      4.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole
or ground by garbage grinders.
   D.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the Superintendent that such wastes can harm either the sewers
sewage treatment process or equipment; have an adverse effect on the receiving
stream; or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or constitute a
nuisance. In forming his opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the
Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of
subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of
the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage
treatment plant, and maximum limits established by regulatory agencies. The
substances prohibited are:
      1.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (65°C).
      2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous materials; or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred milligrams per liter
(100 mg/l) or containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at
temperatures between thirty two (32) and one hundred fifty degrees Fahrenheit
(150°F) (0 and 65°C).
      3.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths (3/
4) horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Superintendent.
      4.   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes,
or concentrated plating solution whether neutralized or not.
      5.   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, or
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the Superintendent for such materials.
      6.   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor-
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary after treatment of the composite
sewage, to meet the requirements of the State, Federal, or other public
agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
      7.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable State or Federal regulations.
      8.   Any wastes or waters having a pH in excess of 9.5.
      9.   Any mercury or any of its compounds in excess of 0.0005 mg/l as Hg
at any time except as permitted by the Superintendent in compliance with
applicable State and Federal regulations.
      10.   Any cyanide at any time except as permitted by the Superintendent
in compliance with applicable State and Federal regulations.
      11.   Materials which exert or cause:
         a.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, fuller's earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate);
         b.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         c.   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works;
         d.   Unusual volume of flow or concentrations of wastes constituting
"slugs" as defined herein.
      12.   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters.
   E.   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be discharged
to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in subsection D of this Section, and/or which are in
violation of the standards for pretreatment provided in 40 CFR 403, June 26,
1978, and any amendments thereto, and which in the judgment of the
Superintendent may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes,
equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or
constitute a public nuisance, the Superintendent may:
      1.   Reject the wastes;
      2.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewers;
      3.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      4.   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges, under the provisions
of subsection K of this Section.
   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste
flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject
to the review and approval of the Superintendent, and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances, and laws.
   F.   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Superintendent they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes,
sand, or other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be of a type and capacity approved by the Superintendent, and shall be located
as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
   G.   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided,
they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation
by the owner at his expense.
   H.   Each industry shall be required to install a control manhole and, when
required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his expense, and
shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
   I.   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall provide laboratory measurements, tests, and analyses of
waters and wastes to illustrate compliance with this Chapter and any special
conditions for discharge established by the Village or regulatory agencies
having jurisdiction over the discharge.
   The number, type, and frequency of laboratory analyses to be performed by
the owner shall be as stipulated by the Village, but no less than once per year
the industry must supply a complete analysis of the constituents of the waste
water discharge to assure that compliance with the Federal, State, and local
standards are being met. The owner shall report the results of measurements and
laboratory analyses to the Village at such times and in such a manner as
prescribed by the Village. The owner shall bear the expense of all
measurements, analyses, and reporting required by the Village. At such times as
deemed necessary the Village reserves the right to take measurements and
samples for analysis by an outside laboratory service.
   J.   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this Chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of IEPA Division of Laboratories Manual of
Laboratory Methods, and shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or
upon suitable samples taken at said control manhole. In the event that no
special manhole has been required the control manhole shall be considered to be
the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the
building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily
accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works
and to determine the existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. The
particular analyses involved will determine whether a twenty four (24) hour
composite of all outfalls of a premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample
or samples should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids
analyses are obtained from twenty four (24) hour composites of all outfalls,
whereas pHs are determined from periodic grab samples.
   K.   No statement contained in this Section shall be construed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangement between the Village and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the Village for treatment, subject to payment therefor, in
accordance with chapter 00, article I, by the industrial concern provided such
payments are in accordance with Federal and State guidelines for user charge
system.
(Ord. 388, 9-8-1997)
7-8-5: PROTECTION OF SEWAGE WORKS FROM DAMAGE:
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, wilfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or equipment which
is a part of the sewage works. Any person violating this provision shall be
subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct.
(Ord. 388, 9-8-1997)
7-8-6: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS:
   A.   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the Village,
the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, and the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be
permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, and testing in accordance with the provisions of this
Chapter. The Superintendent or his representative shall have no authority to
inquire into any processes, including metallurgical, chemical, oil refining,
ceramic, paper, or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing
on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterway or facilities for
waste treatment.
   B.   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in subsection A of this Section, the Superintendent or duly authorized
employees of the Village, the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, and the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency shall observe all safety rules applicable
to the premises established by the company and the company shall be held
harmless for injury or death to the Village employees and the Village shall
indemnify the company against liability claims and demands for personal injury
or property damage asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging
and sampling operating, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure
of the company to maintain conditions as required in subsection 7-8-4I of this
Chapter.
   C.   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the Village
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the Village holds a duly negotiated easement
for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 388, 9-8-1997)
7-8-7: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person found to be violating any provision of this Chapter except
Section
7-8-5 of this Chapter shall be served by the Village with written notice
stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for
the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of
time stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations. The Village may
revoke any permit for sewage disposal as a result of any violation of any
provision of this Chapter.
   B.   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in subsection A of this Section, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor,
and on conviction thereof shall be fined in the amount not exceeding five
hundred dollars ($500.00) for each violation. Each day in which any such
violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
   C.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this Chapter shall become
liable to the Village by reasons of such violation.
(Ord. 388, 9-8-1997)
TITLE 8
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
8-1-1: Adoption Of Building Code
8-1-2: Amendments To BOCA Code; Fees
8-1-3: Building Permits
8-1-1: ADOPTION OF BUILDING CODE:
   There is hereby adopted for the purpose of establishing rules and
regulations for the construction, alteration, removal, demolition, equipment,
use and occupancy, location and maintenance of buildings and structures that
certain building code known as BOCA (Building Officials and Code
Administrators), most current edition and any amendments thereto, of which not
less than three (3) copies have been and now are filed in the office of the
village clerk, and the same is hereby adopted and incorporated as fully
controlling in the construction of all buildings and other structures.
Provided, however, that in the event the provisions of BOCA are in conflict
with state law, this code, or ordinances of the village, then such state law,
this code or village ordinances shall prevail.
(Ord. 270A, 12-3-1979; amd. 1995 Code)
8-1-2: AMENDMENTS TO BOCA CODE; FEES:
   The building code of the village relating to building fees contained in the
most current edition of the BOCA basic building code is hereby amended as
follows: (Ord. 292, 2-16-1981; amd. 1995 Code)
   FEE SCHEDULE: A fee for each building permit shall be paid in accordance
with the following schedule:
$ 0.00 to           500.00       $ 10.00
501.00 to           5,000.00     20.00
5,001.00 to         10,000.00    35.00
10,001.00 to        20,000.00    55.00
20,001.00 to        30,000.00    75.00
30,001.00 to        40,000.00    95.00
40,001.00 to        50,000.00    115.00
50,001.00 to        60,000.00    135.00
60,001.00 to        70,000.00    155.00
70,001.00 to        80,000.00    175.00
80,001.00 to        90,000.00    195.00
90,001.00 to        100,000.00   215.00
100,001.00 to       1,000,000.00 215.00
1,000,001.00 and up             2,015.00
Plus $2.00 per each $1,000.00 over $100,000.00
Plus $1.00 per each $1,000.00 over $1,000,001.00
 
   Building fees are based on the completed value of the structure as stated by
the applicant, subject to review by the building department. Residence values
shall be determined on the basis of $60.00 to $80.00 per square foot depending
on the type of construction. Garages, attached or detached, shall be valued on
the basis of $8.00 to $10.50 per square foot.
   Commercial and/or industrial building fees shall be based on actual contract
price or the stated value of the completed structure, subject to review by the
building department.
   All applications for residential permits are to be accompanied by plat plan,
basement plan, floor plan, two elevations, and one cross section.
   All applications for commercial and/or industrial permits are to be
accompanied by drawings and specifications bearing the seal of an architect or
engineer licensed to practice in the state of Illinois.
   DEMOLITION is hereby amended as follows:
   DEMOLITION: The fee for a permit for the demolition of a building or
structure shall be at the rate of $.02 per square foot for single story
buildings; $.04 per square foot for two story buildings; $.06 per square foot
for all buildings in excess of two stories; provided, however, that a minimum
fee of $20.00 shall be charged for a demolition permit.
(Ord. 433, 5-9-2005)
8-1-3: BUILDING PERMITS:
   Building permits will be issued as the provisions of title 9, "Zoning
Regulations", of this code prescribe.
(1970 Code §4-1-2)
CHAPTER 2
HOUSING CODE
SECTION:
8-2-1: Adoption of Housing Code
8-2-1: ADOPTION OF HOUSING CODE:
   There is hereby adopted for the purpose of establishing rules and
regulations for the construction, alteration, removal, demolition, equipment,
use and occupancy, location and maintenance of buildings and structures, that
certain Housing Code known as the Uniform Housing Code, copyrighted by the
International Conference of Building Officials, most current edition thereof
and any amendments thereto, of which not less than three (3) copies have been
and now are filed in the office of the Village Clerk, and the same is hereby
adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein and the
provisions thereof shall be controlling in the construction of all buildings
and other structures. Provided, however, that in the event the provisions of
the Uniform Housing Code are in conflict with State law, this Code, or
ordinances of the Village, then such State law, this Code or ordinances of the
Village shall prevail.
(1970 Code §4-2-1; 1995 Code)
CHAPTER 3
ELECTRICAL CODE
SECTION:
8-3-1: Adoption of Electrical Code
8-3-1: ADOPTION OF ELECTRICAL CODE:
   All electric wiring, installation of electrical fixtures, apparatus or
electrical appliances for furnishing light, heat or power, or other electrical
work introduced into or placed in or upon, or in any way connected to, any
building or structure within the limits of the Village shall be in conformity
with the provisions set forth in the National Electrical Code, most current
edition, recommended by the American Insurance Association for electrical
wiring and apparatus, and any amendments thereto, which is hereby adopted and
incorporated as a part of this Code as fully as if set out at length herein,
three (3) copies of said Electrical Code shall at all times be on file in the
office of the Village Clerk. Provided, however, that in the event the
provisions of the National Electrical Code are in conflict with State law, this
Code or ordinances of the Village, then such State law, this Code or ordinances
of the Village shall prevail.
(1970 Code §4-3-1; 1995 Code)
CHAPTER 4
PLUMBING CODE
SECTION:
8-4-1: Adoption of Plumbing Code
8-4-2: Plumbing Inspector
8-4-3: Issuance of Plumbing Permits; Fee
8-4-1: ADOPTION OF PLUMBING CODE:
   There is hereby adopted for the purpose of establishing minimum standards of
design, materials and workmanship for all plumbing hereafter installed, altered
or repaired and to establish methods of procedure within the limit of the
Village that certain plumbing code known as the Illinois State Plumbing Code
published by the Illinois Department of Health being the most current edition
thereof and any amendments thereto, the whole thereof, which not less than
three (3) copies have been and now are filed in the office of the Village
Clerk, and the same are hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out
at length herein, and from the date on which this Chapter shall take effect the
provisions thereof shall be controlling in the installation, alteration or
repairing of plumbing.
(Ord. 283, 9-8-80; 1995 Code)
8-4-2: PLUMBING INSPECTOR:
   The Village Board shall appoint a Plumbing Inspector who shall be a licensed
plumber in accordance with the "Illinois Plumbing License Law" 1 .
(Ord. 283, 9-8-80; 1995 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 225 ILCS 320/1 et seq.
8-4-3: ISSUANCE OF PLUMBING PERMITS; FEE:
   The Village Clerk shall have the right to issue plumbing permits. The owner-
builder will be responsible for inspection fee, which applies to new
construction only. There shall be no fee for plumbing permits.
(Ord. 283, 9-8-80; 1995 Code)
CHAPTER 5
FIRE PREVENTION CODE
SECTION:
8-5-1: Adoption Of Fire Prevention Code
8-5-1: ADOPTION OF FIRE PREVENTION CODE:
   There is hereby adopted for the purpose of prescribing regulations governing
conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or explosion, that certain
code known as NFPA "National Fire Protection Association" 101, life safety
code, 2000 edition, most current abbreviated edition, recommended by the
National Fire Protection Association, and any amendments thereto, which code is
on file in the office of the village clerk and the same is hereby adopted and
incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein, and the provisions
thereof shall be controlling within the limits of the village. Provided,
however, that in the event any of the provisions of such fire prevention code
are in conflict with state law, this code or other ordinances of the village,
then such state law, other provision of this code or ordinances of the village
shall prevail.
(Ord. 434, 5-9-2005)
CHAPTER 6
SIGNS AND AWNINGS
SECTION:
8-6-1: Permit Requirements
8-6-2: Bond or Insurance
8-6-3: Construction Specifications
8-6-4: Periodic Inspections
8-6-1: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required; Issuance: No person shall erect or maintain any sign,
signboard or rigid canopy or awning over any street, alley, sidewalk or other
public way in the Village without first obtaining a permit therefor as is
herein provided. Permits for such signs, signboards, rigid canopies or awnings
shall be issued by the Clerk. (1970 Code §4-5-1)
   B.   Temporary Permits: Temporary permits may be issued for the maintenance
of a temporary sign or canopy for a short time, but nothing herein contained
shall be construed so as to waive the requirements for indemnity contained in
Section 8-6-2 of this Chapter. (1970 Code §4-5-3)
   C.   Permit Period: The period for permits required by this Chapter shall be
the same as for the general license year 1 .
(1970 Code §4-5-5)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  3-1-5 of this Code.
8-6-2: BOND OR INSURANCE:
   Each person maintaining such a sign or canopy shall file with the Clerk a
bond or indemnity policy in the sum of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00),
conditioned to indemnify the Village for any loss or damage or liability that
may result from the construction or maintenance of such sign or canopy. Such
bond or policy shall have such sureties as may be required by the Board.
Provided, however, that if at the time of issuing a permit the applicant
exhibits to the Clerk an owner's, landlord's and tenant's public liability
insurance policy issued by an insurance company approved by the Board, insuring
the applicant against loss or liability occasioned by such sign or canopy, in
the sum of fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00) for injury to any one person,
and thirty thousand dollars ($30,000.00) for injury to more than one person,
and five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) for injury to property, which policy will
be in effect for the license period, and which policy by endorsement by the
insurance company has been extended to include the Village's loss or liability,
then the bond or indemnity policy may be waived.
(1970 Code §4-5-2; 1995 Code)
8-6-3: CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Securely Fastened: All signs, awnings and canopies extending over any
sidewalk, street, alley or other public place must be securely fastened and
constructed so that there will be no danger of the same being dislodged by
ordinary winds or falling from any other cause. (1970 Code §4-5-4)
   B.   Height Above Walk: The lowest part of such sign or canopy, or of any
nonrigid awning or support thereof which extends over any public way shall be
at least seven feet (7') above the level of the walk or public way over which
it extends; but no such sign, canopy or awning shall be maintained over any
public way used by vehicles if any part of it or of its support is less than
fifteen feet (15') above the level of such public way, nor shall any such sign
extend more than six feet (6') outside the property line. (1970 Code §4-5-6)
8-6-4: PERIODIC INSPECTIONS:
   It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector to inspect once each year,
every sign, canopy or awning which extends over any sidewalk, street, alley or
other public way.
(1970 Code §4-5-7; 1995 Code)
CHAPTER 7
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
SECTION:
8-7-1: Compliance with Regulations
8-7-2: Demolition or Repair; Lien
8-7-1: COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS:
   In accordance with 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-31-2, if the Building
Inspector determines, upon due investigation, that any building or structure
located within the Village fails to conform to the minimum standards of health
and safety as set forth in this Title, and the owner of such building or
structure fails, after due notice, to cause such property so to conform, the
Village may make application to any court of competent jurisdiction for an
injunction requiring compliance with the applicable sections of this Title or
for such other order as the court may deem necessary or appropriate to secure
such compliance.
(1970 Code §4-6-2)
8-7-2: DEMOLITION OR REPAIR; LIEN:
   The Village may demolish, repair or cause the demolition or repair of
dangerous and unsafe buildings or uncompleted or abandoned buildings in
accordance with 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-31-1. The cost of such
demolition or repair is recoverable from the owner of such real estate and is a
lien therein, which is a lien superior to all prior existing liens except
taxes; provided, that within sixty (60) days after such repair or demolition,
notice of the lien is filed in the office of the County Recorder of Deeds.
(1970 Code §4-6-1; 1995 Code)
TITLE 9
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE, PURPOSE AND SCOPE
SECTION:
9-1-1: Title
9-1-2: Purpose
9-1-3: Scope
9-1-1: TITLE:
   This Title shall be known and may be cited as the SOUTH PEKIN ZONING
ORDINANCE.
(1970 Code §10-1-1)
9-1-2: PURPOSE:
   This Title is adopted for the following purposes:
   A.   Securing adequate light, pure air and safety from fire and other
dangers.
   B.   Conserving the taxable value of lands and buildings throughout the
Municipality.
   C.   Lessening or avoiding congestion in the public streets.
   D.   Promoting the public health, safety, comfort, morals and welfare.
(1970 Code §10-1-2)
9-1-3: SCOPE:
   This Title establishes, regulates, prohibits or eliminates the following
properties and activities:
   A.   Height and bulk of buildings.
   B.   Setback lines along streets and water channels.
   C.   Intensity of use of lot areas and determination of the areas of open
spaces within and surrounding buildings.
   D.   Location of trades and industries and of buildings designed for
specific industrial, business, residential and other uses.
   E.   Division of the entire Municipality into zoning districts hereby deemed
best to achieve any or all of the above purposes.
   F.   Standards for buildings and other structures.
   G.   Prohibition of uses, buildings or structures incompatible with the
character of any zoning district.
   H.   Prevention of additions, alterations or remodeling of existing
buildings or structures in any way as to avoid compliance with this Title.
   I.   Use of property on the basis of family relationship is hereby defined
as one or more persons each related to the other by blood, marriage or adoption
and maintaining a common household.
   J.   Elimination gradually of existing uses, buildings or structures which
are incompatible with the character of the zoning district in which they are
located.
(1970 Code §10-1-3)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Interpretation of Certain Terms
9-2-2: Definitions
9-2-1: INTERPRETATION OF CERTAIN TERMS:
For the purpose of this Title, certain terms and words used herein shall be
interpreted or defined as follows:
   A.   Words used in the present tense include the future tense.
   B.   The singular number includes the plural.
   C.   The word "person" includes a corporation as well as an individual.
   D.   The word "building" shall include the word structure.
   E.   The word "shall" is always mandatory and not directory.
(1970 Code §10-2-1)
9-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and terms shall have the meanings herein ascribed to them
unless the context makes such meaning repugnant thereto:
ALLEY: A public or private thoroughfare which affords only a secondary means of
access to the property abutting thereon.
APARTMENT: A room or suite of rooms in a multiple- or two-family dwelling, or
where more than one unit is established above nonresidential uses, intended or
designed for use as a residence by a single family.
APARTMENT HOUSE: See Dwelling, Multiple.
BASEMENT: A story having part but not more than one-half (1/2) of its height
below grade. A basement shall not be counted as a story for the purpose of
height regulation.
BOARDING HOUSE: A building other than a hotel where, for compensation, meals
and lodging are provided for three (3) but not more than twelve (12) persons.
BUILDING: Any structure designed or intended for the support, enclosure,
shelter or protection of persons, animals, chattels or property. When a
structure is divided into separate parts by unpierced walls extending from the
ground, each part is deemed a separate building.
BUILDING, FRONT LINE: The line of that face of the building nearest the front
line of the lot. This face includes sun parlors and covered porches whether
enclosed or unenclosed but does not include steps.
BUILDING, HEIGHT OF: The vertical distance from the grade to the highest point
of the coping of a flat roof or to the deck line of a mansard roof, or to the
mean height level between eaves and ridge for gable, hip and gambrel roofs.
CELLAR: A story having more than one-half (1/2) of its height below grade. A
cellar is not included in computing the number of stories for the purpose of
height measurement.
COVERAGE: That percentage of the plot or lot area covered by the building area.
DISTRICT: A section or sections of the Village for which the regulations
governing the use of buildings and premises, the height of buildings, the size
of yards and intensity of use are uniform.
DWELLING: Any building or portion thereof, but not a mobile home which is
designed and used exclusively for residential purposes.
DWELLING DISTRICT: Every district specified in this Title, except the B-
1 Business and Commercial District, I-1 Industrial District (Light) and I-
2 Industrial District (Heavy) is designated as dwelling district.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE: A building designed for or occupied exclusively by two (2)
or more families.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A building designed for or occupied exclusively by one
family.
FAMILY: One or more persons occupying a premises and living as a single
housekeeping unit, whether or not related to each other by birth, adoption or
marriage, but no unrelated group shall consist of more than five (5) persons as
distinguished from a group occupying a boarding house, lodging house or hotel,
as defined herein.
FILLING STATION: Any building or premises used for the dispensing, sale or
offering for sale at retail of any automobile fuels or oils. When the
dispensing, sale or offering for sale is incidental to the conduct of a public
garage, the premises shall be classified as a public garage.
FRONTAGE: All property on one side of a street between two (2) intersecting
streets (crossing or terminating), measured along the line of the street, or if
the street is a dead end street, then all of the property abutting on one side
between an intersecting street and the dead end of the street.
GARAGE, CLASS I: An accessory building housing motor-driven vehicles which are
the property of and for the private use of the occupants of the lot on which
the private garage is located, not more than one of the vehicles being a
commercial vehicle of not more than three (3) tons' capacity.
GARAGE, CLASS II: Any building or premises used for the housing only of motor-
driven vehicles other than trucks and commercial vehicles, pursuant to previous
arrangements and not to transients and at which automobile fuels and oils are
not sold and motor-driven vehicles are not equipped, repaired, hired or sold.
GARAGE, CLASS III: Any building or premises used for the housing, hiring,
storing, equipping or repairing of motor-driven trucks, commercial or other
vehicles owned, leased or operated by the occupant of the premises in the
conduct of or as accessory to a business or occupation.
GARAGE, CLASS IV: Any building or premises, except those as a private or
storage garage, used for equipping, repairing, hiring, selling or storing
motor- driven vehicles.
GRADE:
   A.   For buildings having walls adjoining more than one street, the average
of the established elevation of the sidewalk at the centers of all walls
adjoining the street.
   B.   For buildings having no wall adjoining the street, the average level of
the finished surface of the ground adjacent to the exterior walls of the
building.
   Any wall approximately parallel to and not more than twenty feet (20') from
the street is to be considered as adjoining the street.
HOME OCCUPATION: Any occupation or profession carried on by a member of the
immediate family residing on the premises, in connection with which there is
used a sign other than a nameplate not more than one square foot in area,
except as provided in this Title, or no display that will indicate from the
exterior that the building is being utilized in whole or in part for any
purpose other than that of a dwelling. There is no commodity sold upon the
premises; no person is employed there other than a member of the immediate
family residing on the premises; and no mechanical equipment is used except
such as is permissible for purely domestic or household purposes, and no
excessive pedestrian or vehicular traffic is generated.
HOTEL: A building in which lodging is provided and offered to the public for
compensation, and which is open to transient guests, in contradistinction to a
boarding house or lodging house.
INSTITUTION: A building occupied by a nonprofit corporation or a nonprofit
organization for public use.
LODGING HOUSE: A building or place where lodging is provided (or which is
equipped regularly to provide lodging) by pre-arrangement for definite periods
for compensation for three (3) or more but not exceeding twelve (12)
individuals, not open to transient guests, in contradistinction to hotels open
to transients.
LOT: A parcel of land occupied or intended for occupancy by use permitted in
this Title, including one main building together with its accessory building,
the open spaces and parking spaces required by this Title, and having its
principal frontage upon a street or upon an officially approved place. The
minimum width shall be not less than fifty feet (50') wide, nor shall it have a
minimum area of less than four thousand (4,000) square feet.
LOT, CORNER: A lot abutting upon two (2) or more streets at their intersection.
A building on a lot, corner, shall have a front yard, side yard and rear yard
as determined by the location of the building on the lot.
LOT, DEPTH OF: The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot
lines.
LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE: A lot having a frontage on two (2) nonintersecting
streets, as distinguished from a corner lot.
LOT OF RECORD: A lot which is a part of a subdivision, the map of which has
been recorded in the office of the Recorder of Deeds, or a parcel of land the
deed to which was recorded in the office of the Recorder of Deeds prior to the
date of the adoption of this Title.
MANUFACTURING or INDUSTRY: Any use in which the major activity is the
treatment, processing, rebuilding, repairing or wholesale storage of material,
products or items, and where the finished product is not acquired by the
ultimate user on the premises, as distinguished from a retail use where the
treatment, processing, repairing or storage is secondary to the sale, exchange
or repairing of materials or products on the premises.
MOBILE HOME: A structure other than a modular home, designed for permanent
habitation and so constructed as to permit its transport on wheels, temporarily
or permanently attached to its frame, from the place of its construction to the
location or subsequent locations, at which it is intended to be a permanent
habitation and designed to permit the occupancy thereof as a dwelling place for
one or more persons. The term "mobile home" shall include manufactured homes
constructed after June 30, 1976, in accordance with the Federal National
Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974. Such mobile
homes, by law, have affixed to them a red metal label prescribed by the United
States Department of Housing and Urban Development.
MOBILE HOME PARK: A tract of land or two (2) or more contiguous tracts of land
upon which contain sites with the necessary utilities for five (5) or more
independent mobile homes for permanent habitation either free of charge or for
revenue purposes and shall include any building, structure, vehicle or
enclosure used or intended for use as a part of the equipment of such mobile
home park. Separate ownership of contiguous tracts of land shall not preclude
the tracts of land from mobile home parks if they are maintained and operated
jointly. Neither an immobilized mobile home nor a motorized recreational
vehicle shall be construed as being a part of a mobile home park.
MODULAR HOME: A factory-built home which is subject to regulation by the
Illinois Department of Public Health. By law a modular home must have affixed
to it a yellow seal in the shape of the State of Illinois on the electrical
panel box or a similar seal of the State of Indiana. A modular home on a
permanent perimeter foundation extending below the frost depth qualifies as a
single-family structure in any zone in which single-family structures are
allowed.
NONCONFORMING USE: Any building or land lawfully occupied by the use at the
time of passage of the original Zoning Ordinance or any amendment thereto,
which does not conform after the passage of this Title or amendment thereto
with the use regulations of the district in which it is situated.
PARKING SPACE: A durable surfaced area, enclosed in the main building, in an
accessory building, or unenclosed; and if the space is unenclosed, comprising
an area of not less than one hundred forty (140) square feet, exclusive of a
durable surfaced driveway connecting the parking space with a street or alley
and permitting satisfactory ingress and egress of an automobile.
PLACE: An open, unoccupied space other than a street or alley permanently
reserved as the principal means of access to abutting property.
ROOMING HOUSE: See Lodging House.
SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS: Shops wherein the major activities are the repair and
maintenance of wearing apparel, sporting goods and articles for the use in the
home, including household appliances.
STREET: All property dedicated or intended for public or private street,
highway, freeway or roadway purposes or subject to easements therefor.
STREET LINE: A dividing line between a lot, tract or parcel of land and a
contiguous street.
STORY: That portion of a building, other than a cellar or basement included
between the surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next above it, or
if there be no floor above it, then the space between the floor and the ceiling
next above it.
STORY, HALF: A space under a sloping roof which has the line of intersection of
roof decking and wall space not more than three feet (3') above the top floor
level and in which space not more than sixty percent (60%) of the floor area is
finished for use.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS: Any change in the supporting members of a building,
such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams or girders, or any
substantial change in the roof or in the exterior walls.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires permanent
location on the ground or attached to something having a permanent location on
the ground, including but without limiting the generality of the foregoing,
advertising signs, billboards, backstops for tennis courts and pergolas.
TOURIST or TRAILER CAMP: An area containing one or more structures designed or
intended to be used as temporary living facilities of two (2) or more families,
and intended primarily for automobile transients or providing spaces where two
(2) or more tents or auto-trailers can be or are intended to be parked.
TRAILER: Any structure used for living, sleeping, business or storage purposes,
having no foundation other than wheels, blocks, skids, jacks, horses or
skirtings, and which is, has been or reasonably can be equipped with wheels or
other devices for transporting the structure from place to place, whether by
motive power or other means. The term "trailer" shall include camp car, camper
and house car.
YARD: An open space on the same lot with a building, occupied and unobstructed
by any portion of a structure from the ground upward, except as otherwise
provided herein. In measuring a yard for the purpose of determining the width
of a side yard, or the depth of a rear yard, the mean horizontal distance
between the lot line and main building shall be used.
   Front Yard: A yard extending across the front of a lot between the side yard
lines, and being the minimum horizontal distance between the street line and
the main building or any projection thereto other than the projection of the
usual steps.
   Rear Yard: A yard extending across the rear of a lot, measured between the
side lot lines and being the minimum horizontal distance between the rear lot
line and rear of the main building or any projections other than steps. On
corner lots, the rear yard shall be considered as parallel to the street upon
which the lot has its least dimension. On both corner lots and interior lots,
the rear yard shall in all cases be at the opposite end of the lot from the
front yard.
   Side Yard: The yard between the main building and the side line of the lot,
and extending from the front lot line to the rear yard line.
(1970 Code §10-2-1; 1995 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DISTRICTS AND MAP; GENERAL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-3-1: Use Districts Established
9-3-2: Zoning District Map
9-3-3: Boundaries of Districts
9-3-4: Newly Annexed Property
9-3-5: Vacated Property
9-3-6: General Regulations for Buildings and Lots
9-3-1: USE DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
   In order to classify, regulate and restrict the locations of trades,
industries and the location of buildings designed for specific uses, to
regulate and limit the height and bulk of buildings hereafter erected or
structurally altered, to regulate and determine the intensity of use of the lot
areas, and to regulate and determine the areas of yards, courts and other open
spaces within and surrounding such buildings, the Village is hereby divided
into districts, of which there shall be four (4) in number, known as:
   R-1 Single-Family Residential
   R-2 Multiple-Family Residential
   B-1 Commercial
      a.   Central District
      b.   Other District
   I-1 Industrial
(1970 Code §10-3-1)
9-3-2: ZONING DISTRICT MAP:
   The boundaries of the districts hereinabove set forth shall be known and
designated as the "District Map". The District Map and all notations,
references and other information shown thereon are hereby made a part of this
Title and shall have the same force and effect as if said District Map and all
the notations, references and other information shown thereon were all fully
set forth or described herein, the original of which is properly attested to
and is on file with the Village Clerk.
(1970 Code §10-3-2)
9-3-3: BOUNDARIES OF DISTRICTS:
   Where uncertainty may exist with respect to the boundaries of the various
districts as shown on the District Map hereby adopted, the following rules
shall apply:
   A.   The district boundaries are either streets or alleys unless otherwise
shown, and where the districts designated on the District Map are bounded
approximately by the street or alley lines, the street or alley shall be
construed to be the boundary of the district.
   B.   Where district boundaries are not otherwise indicated and where the
property has been or may hereafter be divided into blocks and lots, the
district boundaries shall be construed to be the lot lines, and where the
districts designated on the District Map are bounded approximately by lot
lines, the lot lines shall be construed to be the boundary of the districts
unless the boundaries are otherwise indicated on said Map.
   C.   In unsubdivided property, the district boundary lines on the District
Map shall be determined by use of the scale appearing on said District Map.
(1970 Code §10-3-3)
9-3-4: NEWLY ANNEXED PROPERTY:
   Any and all property which may hereafter be annexed to the Village shall,
prior to the election at which the question of such annexation is to be
submitted to the citizens of the Village, be studied by the Zoning Commission
and tentatively classified into one or more of the several districts. Such
property, when such annexation shall become final, shall be added to the
district as designated by the Commission. Within six (6) months of the date of
such annexation, the Zoning Commission shall call a public hearing for the
purpose of zoning such annexed property, and within thirty (30) days after such
hearing, shall recommend to the Village Board that this Title be amended so as
to classify such property in accordance with such recommendations. All property
annexed to the Village shall be classified as R-1 District until this
classification is changed by amendment to this Title.
(1970 Code §10-3-4)
9-3-5: VACATED PROPERTY:
   Whenever any street, alley or other public way is vacated, the zoning
district adjoining each side of such street, alley or public way shall be
automatically extended to the center of such vacation, and all areas included
in the vacation shall then and henceforth be subject to all appropriate
regulations of the extended districts.
(1970 Code §10-3-5)
9-3-6: GENERAL REGULATIONS FOR BUILDINGS AND LOTS:
   Except as hereinafter provided:
   A.   No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed or
structurally altered, nor shall any building or land be used except for the
purpose permitted in the district in which the building or land is located.
   B.   No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed or
structurally altered to exceed the height limit herein established for the
district in which the building is located.
   C.   No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed or
structurally altered except in conformity with the area regulations of the
district in which such building is located.
   D.   The minimum yards and other open spaces, including lot area per family,
required by this Title for each and every building existing at the time of the
effective date hereof, or for any building hereafter erected shall not be
encroached upon or considered as yard or open space requirements for any other
building.
   E.   Every building hereafter erected or structurally altered shall be
located on a lot as herein defined and in no case shall there be more than one
main building on one lot unless otherwise provided in this Title.
(1970 Code §10-3-6)
CHAPTER 4
R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-4-1: Use Regulations
9-4-2: Permitted Uses
9-4-3: Area Regulations
9-4-1: USE REGULATIONS:
   The regulations set forth herein, or set forth elsewhere in this Title when
referred to in this Chapter, are the district regulations in the R-1 Single-
Family Dwelling District.
(1970 Code §10-4-1)
9-4-2: PERMITTED USES:
   A building or premises shall be used only for the following purposes:
   Churches.
   Class I garages.
   Home occupations as defined in Section
9-2-2 of this Title.
   Parks and playgrounds.
   Single-family dwellings.
(1970 Code §10-4-2)
9-4-3: AREA REGULATIONS:
   A.   Setback: All buildings shall be erected so as to conform to the
established setback line on the block or street.
   B.   Yards:
      1.   Front Yard: The front yard shall be determined by the setback. If
there is no established setback line, then twenty five feet (25').
      2.   Side Yards:
         a.   Except as may be hereinafter provided, there shall be a side yard
on each side of the building having a width of not less than five feet (5'),
except that a detached garage or other outbuilding located sixty feet (60') or
more from the front property line may be located within two feet (2') of the
side lot line.
         b.   Uncovered porches or terraces may, however, be built and
maintained within any part of such free and open spaces so long as they do not
encroach within three feet (3') of a lot dimension line.
      3.   Rear Yard: The rear yard shall consist of twenty percent (20%) of
the area of the lot.
   C.   Height: No building in the R-1 District shall exceed thirty five feet
(35'). (1970 Code §10-4-3)
   D.   Driveways: Each lot on which a building is erected for use as a
dwelling shall have a driveway constructed of concrete, a minimum of ten feet
(10') wide, four inches (4") thick and twenty five feet (25') long. An entrance
culvert fifteen inches (15") in diameter extending a minimum of two feet (2')
on each side of the driveway shall be provided where the driveway intersects
with the public street.
   E.   Garbage Can Placement for Pickup; Diagram: Each lot shall have on a
front corner, a concrete pad, a minimum of three feet by four feet (3' x 4'),
four inches (4") thick, placed as is in the accompanying diagram, for the
placing of garbage cans for garbage pickup.
(Ord. 262, 3-19-79)
CHAPTER 5
R-2 MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-5-1: Purpose
9-5-2: Permitted Uses
9-5-3: Area Regulations
9-5-4: Parking Regulations
9-5-1: PURPOSE:
   The purpose of the R-2 District is to accommodate a variety of types of
housing at a higher density than R-1 and to assure that areas which develop at
such higher density will be well located in relation to Village utilities,
commercial areas, schools, etc.
(1970 Code §10-5-1)
9-5-2: PERMITTED USES:
   Any use permitted in an R-1 District.
   Multiple-family dwellings with a minimum of six hundred (600) square feet
per family unit and a variance allowance of two percent (2%) thereof exclusive
of one story open porches and garages.
   Rooming and boarding houses.
(1970 Code §10-5-2)
9-5-3: AREA REGULATIONS:
   A.   Setback: Same as R-1 District.
   B.   Yards:
      Front Yard: Same as R-1 District.
      Side Yard: Same as R-1 District.
      Back Yard: Same as R-1 District.
(1970 Code §10-5-3)
9-5-4: PARKING REGULATIONS:
   Off-street parking shall be provided at the rate of one and one-half (1 1/2)
spaces for each dwelling unit.
(1970 Code §10-5-4)
CHAPTER 6
B-1 BUSINESS AND COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-6-1: Use Regulations
9-6-2: Permitted Uses
9-6-3: Parking Regulations
9-6-4: Height Regulations
9-6-1: USE REGULATIONS:
   The regulations set forth in this Chapter or set forth elsewhere in this
Title, when referred to in this Chapter, are the regulations in the B-
1 Business and Commercial District, B-1-a and B-1-b.
(1970 Code §10-6-1)
9-6-2: PERMITTED USES:
   A.   Business Uses: A building or premises in the Commercial District may be
used for the following purposes:
   Bakery.
   Bank.
   Barber shop or beauty shop.
   Business or commercial school, or dancing academy.
   Catering establishment.
   Class III and IV garages.
   Clinics (medical-dental).
   Clubs and lodges.
   Dyeing and cleaning works using a fluid whose base is of a material other
than petroleum or any of its derivatives.
   Electric or repair shop.
   Filling stations.
   Hospitals and clinics for animals but not open kennels.
   Hospitals, sanitariums, rest homes and similar uses.
   Hotel or motel.
   Laundry.
   Lumber yard (with solid enclosure).
   Messenger and telegraph service station.
   Offices.
   Painting and decorating shop.
   Photograph gallery.
   Plumbing shop.
   Professional offices and medical clinics.
   Recreation or amusement center.
   Restaurant.
   Sales or showroom.
   Service establishments.
   Shoe repair shops.
   Store or shop for the conduct of retail business.
   Store for the collection and distribution of laundry and dry cleaning.
   Tailor shop.
   Theater, except open-air drive-in theaters; provided, however, that no
theater shall be erected or reconstructed unless there is provided on the lot
or within three hundred feet (300') thereof, parking space to accommodate one
automobile for every five (5) seats in the theater.
   Tinsmithing and machine shops.
   Tire repair shop.
   Undertaking establishment.
   Used car sales or storage lots but excluding the salvage of automobiles or
of parts thereof.
   Woodworking.
   B.   Noxious or Offensive Businesses Prohibited: It is understood that the
above designated business establishments or any other establishments approved
for commercial operation within the Village limits shall in no manner be of
such nature to be noxious or offensive to the residents of adjacent areas.
Complaints of such nature may be made either to the Village Board or directly
to the Zoning Board of Appeals.
(1970 Code §10-6-2; 1995 Code)
9-6-3: PARKING REGULATIONS:
      There shall be no off-street parking requirements in the B-1-a District.
In the B-1-b District, off-street parking space shall be provided at the rate
of one space for each four hundred (400) square feet of floor area in the
building which is used for commercial or business purpose.
(1970 Code §10-6-3)
9-6-4: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
   No building shall exceed two and one-half (21/2) stories or thirty five feet
(35') in height in the B-1 District.
(1970 Code §10-6-4)
CHAPTER 7
I-1 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-7-1: Use Regulations
9-7-2: Permitted Uses
9-7-3: Parking Regulations
9-7-4: Height Regulations
9-7-1: USE REGULATIONS:
   The regulations set forth in this Chapter or set forth elsewhere in this
Title when referred to herein are the district regulations in the I-
1 Industrial District.
(1970 Code §10-7-1)
9-7-2: PERMITTED USES:
   A building or premises shall be used only for the following purposes:
   Any use permitted in the B-1 Business and Commercial District.
   Blacksmith shop.
   Bottling works.
   Coal yards.
   Dyeing and cleaning establishments.
   Industrial and manufacturing plants, where the operations are conducted in
one or more buildings and not more than ten percent (10%) of the tract is used
for open storage of products, materials or equipment.
   Lumber or building materials yard.
   Milk distribution station.
   Painting plants.
   Public utility substations and facilities.
   Warehouses and storage plants.
   Wholesale establishments.
   Wholesale storage of oil, gasoline or other petroleum products.
(1970 Code §10-7-2)
9-7-3: PARKING REGULATIONS:
   Parking space shall be provided on the lot or in a building on the lot
adequate to accommodate the cars of the employees of any of the uses permitted
in this District as well as the trucks and other vehicles owned by or in
custody of the establishment.
(1970 Code §10-7-3)
9-7-4: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
   No building shall exceed three (3) stories or forty five feet (45') in
height in the I-1 District.
(1970 Code §10-7-4)
CHAPTER 8
NONCONFORMING USES; SPECIAL PERMITS
SECTION:
9-8-1: Nonconforming Uses; Continuance, Removal
9-8-2: Special Permits
9-8-1: NONCONFORMING USES; CONTINUANCE, REMOVAL:
   A.   The lawful uses of land for storage purposes, where such use is not an
adjunct of any structure, and for advertising signs and billboards which do not
conform to the provisions of this Title, shall be discontinued within five (5)
years from the date of adoption hereof.
   B.   The lawful use of a building existing at the time of the adoption of
this Title may be continued, subject to the provisions hereof, although such
use does not conform with the provisions hereof. If no structural alterations
are made, a nonconforming use may be changed to another nonconforming use of
the same or more restricted classifications. The foregoing provisions shall
also apply to nonconforming uses in districts hereafter changed. Whenever a
nonconforming use of a building has been changed to a more restricted use or to
a conforming use, such use shall not hereafter be changed to a less restricted
use.
   C.   No building which has been damaged by fire, explosion, act of God or
the public enemy, to the extent of more than fifty percent (50%) of its current
fair market value, shall be restored except in conformity with the regulations
of this Title.
   D.   In the event that a nonconforming use of any building or premises is
discontinued or its normal operation stopped for a period of one year, the use
of the same shall thereafter conform to the regulations of the district in
which it is located.
   E.   The nonconforming structure that was erected, converted or structurally
altered in violation of the provisions of this Title shall be validated by the
adoption of this title or amending provision may be ordered removed or
corrected by the proper officials at any time.
   F.   Except as hereafter provided, all nonconforming commercial or
industrial buildings located within any dwelling district shall be removed or
converted and the building thereafter devoted to a use permitted in the
district in accordance with the following schedule:
      1.   In the case of buildings erected before January 1, 1925, on or
before January 1, 1975.
      2.   In the case of buildings erected between January 1, 1925, and
January, 1940, on or before January 1, 1980.
      3.   In the case of buildings erected between January 1, 1940, and
January 1, 1945, on or before January 1, 1985.
      4.   In the case of buildings erected since January 1, 1945, within forty
(40) years from the date of issue of a building permit therefor.
(1970 Code §10-8-1)
9-8-2: SPECIAL PERMITS:
   A.   Issuance of Permits for Certain Businesses; Hearing: The Board of
Trustees may, by special permit after public hearing held by the Board of
Appeals and notice as provided in Section 9-9-5 of this Title, and subject to
such protective restrictions as it may deem necessary, authorize the location,
extension or structural alteration of any of the following buildings or uses,
or an increase in their height, in the district from which they are prohibited
or limited by this Title; provided, that such buildings or uses will not have
any serious and depreciating effect upon the value of the surrounding property:
   Any public building erected and used by any department of a municipal,
county, state or Federal government.
   Cemetery or mausoleum.
   Extraction of sand, gravel and other raw materials.
   Greenhouses.
   Hotels where the primary purposes is to provide seasonal or year around
living facilities, but only when they are located on large tracts and would not
adversely affect surrounding residential developments.
   Nurseries and truck gardens.
   Parking lots on land not more than three hundred feet (300') from the
boundary of any commercial, business or industrial district under such
conditions as will protect the character of surrounding property.
   Radio or TV towers and radio broadcasting stations.
   Any use which is generally similar to the uses permitted in the district in
which such proposed use is sought to be located by special permit which
conforms to the regulations for such districts.
   B.   Report to Board of Trustees: Before issuance of any special permit for
any of the above buildings or uses, the Board of Appeals shall report to the
Board of Trustees regarding the public hearing thereon and also upon the effect
of such proposed building or use upon the character of the neighborhood,
traffic conditions, public utility facilities, and other matters pertaining to
the public health, public safety or general welfare. No action shall be taken
upon any application for the proposed building or use above referred to until
and unless the report of the Board of Appeals has been filed, but such report
shall be made within sixty (60) days after the matter has been referred to said
Board of Appeals by the Village Board. If the Board of Appeals recommends
against the issuance of the special permits, it may be issued only by an
affirmative two- thirds (2/3) vote of the voting members of the Village Board.
(1970 Code §10-8-2)
CHAPTER 9
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
9-9-1: Enforcement
9-9-2: Amendments; Hearing, Frontage Consents
9-9-3: Variances
9-9-4: Permits, Certificates and Fees
9-9-5: Applications; Hearing Notice and Filing Fee
9-9-6: Interpretation
9-9-7: Violation; Penalty
9-9-1: ENFORCEMENT:
   This Title shall be enforced by the Zoning Enforcing Officer who shall be
appointed by the President of the Village Board by and with the consent of the
Board. No building permit or certificate of occupancy shall be issued by him
except where the provisions of this Title shall have been complied with.
(1970 Code §10-11-1)
9-9-2: AMENDMENTS; HEARING, FRONTAGE CONSENTS:
   The Board of Trustees may from time to time on its own motion or on petition
after report by the Plan Commission, and after public hearing and public notice
of such hearing, as provided in Section 9-9-5 of this Chapter, supplement or
change the ordinance, regulations and districts herein or subsequently
established. In case of written protest against any proposed amendments signed
by the owners of twenty percent (20%) of frontage proposed to be altered, or by
the owners of twenty percent (20%) of the frontage directly opposite the
frontage proposed to be altered as to such regulations or district, filed with
the Clerk, such amendment shall not be passed except by the favorable vote of
two-thirds (2/3) of all of the members of the Board of Trustees.
(1970 Code §10-9-1)
9-9-3: VARIANCES:
   The Board of Appeals may grant variances in accordance with Section
2-2-3 of this Code.
(1970 Code §10-9-2)
9-9-4: PERMITS, CERTIFICATES AND FEES:
   It shall be unlawful to establish any use of a building, structure or land,
either by itself or in addition to another use, or to erect a new building or
structure or part thereof, or to rebuild, structurally alter, add to or
relocate any building or structure, or part thereof, without obtaining a permit
from the Zoning Enforcing Officer in accordance with the following regulations:
   A.   Building Permits; Fees:
      1.   Application for permits shall be filed in written form with the
Enforcing Officer, shall state the legal description of the property, the name
and address of the owner, the applicant and the contractor, the estimated
costs, and shall describe the uses to be established or expanded and shall give
such information as may be required by this Title for its proper enforcement.
      2.   All applications shall be accompanied by a dimensioned drawing of
the building plot showing the location of buildings and structures, lot areas
to be used and auto parking areas.
      3.   Each permit issued for a main building shall also cover any
accessory structures or buildings constructed at the same time on the same
premises, and such permit shall be posted in plain sight on the premises for
which it is issued, until completion of construction or occupancy.
      4.   Any work or change in use authorized by permit but not substantially
started within ninety (90) days shall be revoked by the Enforcing Officer when
he shall find from personal inspection or from competent evidence that the
rules and regulations under which it has been issued are being violated.
      5.   All applications and a copy of all permits issued shall be
systematically filed and kept by the Enforcing Officer in his office for ready
reference. (1970 Code §10-11-2)
      6.   To partially defray the expenses for inspecting the plans of
property and inspecting said property, a fee shall be charged by the Village
for the issuance of each permit, and the Zoning Enforcement Officer is hereby
authorized and directed to collect such fee and to remit all said fees
collected by him to the Village monthly, such fees to be as follows:
         Cost of Improvement         Fee
   $   0.00 to $   20,000.00      $ 20.00
      20,001.00 to   30,000.00      30.00
      30,001.00 to   40,000.00      40.00
      40,001.00 to   50,000.00      50.00
      50,001.00 to   60,000.00      60.00
      60,001.00 to   70,000.00      70.00
      70,001.00 to    80,000.00      80.00
      80,001.00 to    90,000.00      90.00
      90,001.00 to    100,000.00      100.00
      100,001.00 to 110,000.00      110.00
      110,001.00 to 120,000.00      120.00
      120,001.00 to 130,000.00      130.00
      130,001.00 to 140,000.00      140.00
      140,001.00 to 150,000.00      150.00
      150,001.00 to 160,000.00      160.00
      160,001.00 to 170,000.00      170.00
      170,001.00 to 180,000.00      180.00
      180,001.00 to 190,000.00      190.00
      190,001.00 to 200,000.00      200.00
      Fees shall be based upon the fair market value of the completed
improvement. (Ord. 262, 3-19-79)
      7.   Any person who begins work on any parcel of property, with the
intent to construct a building thereon, without having first obtained the
required permits, shall be required to obtain the permits applicable, the fee
for which shall be one and one-half (1 1/2) times the cost had the permits been
obtained prior to the starting date of the work performed. No further work
shall be performed on said property until all necessary fees are paid and
permits issued. (Ord. 289, 12-1-80)
   B.   Certificates of Occupancy:
      1.   No land shall be occupied or used and no building hereafter erected,
altered or extended shall be used or changed in use until a certificate of
occupancy shall have been issued by the Zoning Enforcement Officer.
      2.   All certificates of occupancy shall be applied for coincident with
the application for a building permit, and said certificate shall be issued
within three (3) days after the erection or alteration shall have been
approved.
      3.   Certificates of occupancy for the use of vacant land shall be
applied for before any such land shall be occupied or used, and a certificate
of occupancy shall be issued within three (3) days after the application has
been made, provided such use is in conformity with the provisions of this
Title.
      4.   The Zoning Enforcing Officer shall maintain a record of all
certificates and copies shall be furnished upon request to any person having a
proprietary or tenancy interest in the building affected.
      5.   No permit for excavation for, or the erection or alteration or
repairs to, any building shall be issued until an application has been made for
a certificate of occupancy. (1970 Code §10-11-2)
   C.   Certification for Habitation; Permit and Fee: It shall be unlawful to
permit a building to be inhabited until all utilities are connected thereto and
a permit for habitation obtained from the Building Inspector. The Village Clerk
shall collect a fee of ten dollars ($10.00) for each such permit issued.
(Ord. 262, 3-19-79; 1995 Code)
9-9-5: APPLICATIONS; HEARING NOTICE AND FILING FEE:
   A.   Applications for Special Uses, Variances and Amendments: All
applications for special uses, variances and amendments shall be in writing,
stating in a clear, concise manner, the relief requested. All applications
shall be filed with the Village Clerk. (1970 Code §10-10-1)
   B.   Notice of Hearing: Notice by the applicant of the hearing on special
permits, variances and amendments shall be given as follows:
      1.   Publication: The applicant shall cause a notice of time, place and
purpose of such hearing to be published in a newspaper of general circulation
within the Village not more than thirty (30) days nor less than fifteen (15)
days in advance of such hearing. Such notice shall contain both legal
description and the street address of the property which is the subject of the
hearing, the nature of the hearing, and the name of the applicant.
      2.   The applicant shall also cause a like notice in writing to be
delivered personally or sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, to
the persons to whom the current real estate tax bills are sent as shown on the
record of the local real estate tax collector and to all persons residing on or
in possession of the premises lying within three hundred feet (300') of the
property lines of the parcel which is the subject of the hearing. (1970 Code
§10-10-2)
   C.   Filing Fee: A fee of forty dollars ($40.00) shall be charged for the
filing of applications for special uses, variances and amendments. In addition,
the applicant shall pay all costs of publication and other notice. (1970 Code
§10-10-3; 1995 Code)
9-9-6: INTERPRETATION:
   A.   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this Title
shall be held to be minimum requirements, adopted for the promotion of the
public health, morals, safety and the general welfare. Wherever the
requirements of any other lawfully adopted rules, regulations or ordinances
shall apply, the most restrictive or that imposing the higher standards shall
govern.
   B.   It is not intended by this Title to repeal, abrogate, annul or in any
way impair or interfere with private restrictions placed upon property by
covenant, deed or other private agreement, or with restrictive covenants
running with the land. Where this Title imposes a greater restriction upon
land, buildings or structures than is imposed or required by such existing
provisions of law, ordinance, contract or deed, the provisions of this Title
shall control.
(1970 Code §10-12-1)
9-9-7: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply
with or who resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of this Title
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in
Section
1-4-1 of this Code.
   B.   In case any building or structure is erected, constructed,
reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted or maintained or any building,
structure or land is used in violation of this Title, the proper authorities of
the Village, in addition to other remedies, may institute any appropriate
action or proceedings to prevent such unlawful erection, maintenance or uses;
to restrain, correct or abate such violation; to prevent the occupancy of said
building, structure or land; or to prevent any illegal act, conduct, business
or use in or about such premises.
(Ord. 290, 12-1-80; 1995 Code)
TITLE 10
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE, PURPOSE AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Title
10-1-2: Purpose
10-1-3: Jurisdiction
10-1-4: Rules of Construction, Certain Terms
10-1-5: Definitions
10-1-1: TITLE:
   This Chapter may be known, cited and referred to as the SOUTH PEKIN ILLINOIS
SUBDIVISION CODE.
(Ord. 234, 10-23-74, eff. 11-6-74)
10-1-2: PURPOSE:
   This Chapter, which is a part of the Comprehensive Plan of the Village, is
adopted to promote and protect the public health, safety, morals, comfort,
convenience and general welfare of the people; to protect the character and
maintain the stability of the Village and contiguous unincorporated territory;
to assure the orderly development of the Village, and to establish reasonable
standards of design and procedure for subdivision and for resubdivision of land
within the Village and contiguous unincorporated territory.
(Ord. 234, 10-23-74, eff. 11-6-74)
10-1-3: JURISDICTION:
   These regulations shall be applicable to all subdivisions and resubdivision
of land within the corporate limits of the Village and contiguous
unincorporated territory not more than one and one-half (1 1/2) miles beyond
the corporate limits of the Village.
(Ord. 234, 10-23-74, eff. 11-6-74)
10-1-4: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION, CERTAIN TERMS:
   A.   Words used in the present tense shall include the future, words used in
the singular number shall include the plural number, and the plural the
singular.
   B.   The word "shall" is mandatory and not discretionary.
   C.   The word "may" is permissive.
   D.   The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter.
   E.   Whenever a word or term defined herein appears in the text of this
Chapter, its meaning shall be construed as set forth in the definition thereof
and any word appearing in parenthesis directly thereafter shall be construed in
the same manner.
(Ord. 234, 10-23-74, eff. 11-6-74)
10-1-5: DEFINITIONS:
   ALLEY: A public right of way primarily designed to serve as access to the
side or rear of those properties whose principal frontage is on some other
street.
   BLOCK: A tract of land bounded by streets or by a combination of streets,
public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights of way, bulkhead lines or shorelines,
waterways or boundary lines of the corporate limits of the Village.
   BOARD: The Board of Trustees of the Village of South Pekin, Illinois.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: Collectively those documents and ordinances of the
Village relating to zoning, major street planning and land development.
   CUL-DE-SAC (DEAD END STREET): A local residential street with only one
outlet and having an appropriate terminal for the safe and convenient reversal
of traffic movement.
   EASEMENT: A grant by a property owner of the use of land for a specific
purpose.
   FINAL PLAT: The map or plan of record of a subdivision, and any accompanying
material as described in Chapter 6 of this Title.
   FLOOD PLAIN: That area which would be inundated by storm water runoff
equivalent to that which would occur with a rainfall of fifty (50) year
frequency after total development of the watershed.
   FRONTAGE: The length of the front property lines of the lot, lots or tract
of land abutting a public street, road, highway or rural right of way.
   GRADE: The slope of a road, street or other public way, specified in percent
and shown on street profile plans as required herein.
   GRADE, LANDING: The grade required on streets entering major thoroughfares
at points of intersection, as specified herein.
   IMPROVEMENT, PUBLIC: Any sanitary sewer, storm sewer, drainage ditch, water
main, roadway, parkway, sidewalk, planting strip, off-street parking area or
other facility for which South Pekin may ultimately assume the responsibility
for maintenance and operation.
   LOT: A portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land intended for
transfer of ownership or for building development.
   OWNER: Any person, group of persons, firm or firms, corporation or
corporations or any other legal entity having legal title to the land sought to
be subdivided under this Chapter.
   PARKWAY: An unpaved strip of land situated within the public right of way of
a street.
   RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a road,
sidewalk, railroad, electric transmission line, oil or gas pipeline, water
main, sanitary or storm sewer, or for other special uses. The usage of the term
"right of way" for land platting purposes shall mean that every right of way
hereafter established and shown on a final record plat is to be separate and
distinct from the lots or parcels adjoining such right of way, and not included
within the dimensions or areas of such lots or parcels. Rights of way intended
for streets, sidewalks, water mains, sanitary sewers, storm sewers or any other
uses involving future maintenance by a public agency shall be dedicated to
public use by the maker of the plat on which such right of way is established.
   SERVICE DRIVE (ACCESS STREET): A public street, generally paralleling and
contiguous to a main traveled way, primarily designed to promote safety by
eliminating promiscuous ingress and egress to the right of way, and providing
safe and orderly points of access at fairly uniformly spaced intervals.
   SIDEWALK: That portion of a public right of way, paved or otherwise
surfaced, intended for pedestrian use only.
   STREET (ROADWAY): The paved portion of a public or private right of way
which affords a primary means of vehicular access to abutting properties and
protection from through traffic.
   STREET, MARGINAL ACCESS: A minor street which is parallel to and adjacent to
a major street, and which provides access to abutting properties and protection
from through traffic.
   STREET, MINOR: A street of limited continuity used primarily for access to
abutting properties and local needs of a neighborhood.
   STREET WIDTH: The shortest distance between the outer parallel limits of the
paved portion and gravel apron of a street.
   SUBDIVIDER (DEVELOPER): Any person or corporation or duly authorized agent
of the landowner who undertakes the subdivision of land as defined herein.
   SUBDIVISION: A division of a lot, tract or parcel of land into two (2) or
more lots, or other divisions of land, for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, of a) transfer of ownership, b) building development, or c)
redevelopment, including all changes in street or lot lines; provided, however,
that divisions of land for agricultural purposes, in parcels of five (5) acres
or more not involving any new street or easement of access, shall be exempted,
and the transactions described in section 1(b) of "An Act to Revise the Law in
Relation to Plats 1 " shall also be exempted.
   VILLAGE: The Village of South Pekin, Illinois.
(Ord. 234, 10-23-74, eff. 11-6-74)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 765 ILCS 205/1.
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Interpretation
10-2-2: Separability
10-2-3: Suitability of Land for Subdivision
10-2-4: Connection to City Utilities
10-2-5: Flood Plain Areas
10-2-6: Public Lands
10-2-7: Acquisition of Land for Public Use
10-2-8: Vacation of Plats and Streets
10-2-9: Administration
10-2-10: Enforcement
10-2-11: Invalid Plats
10-2-12: Unlawful Division
10-2-13: Engineering and Inspection
10-2-14: Variations
10-2-15: Procedure
10-2-16: Penalty
10-2-1: INTERPRETATION:
   A.   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this Chapter
shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public
health, safety, morals and general welfare.
   B.   Where the conditions imposed by any provisions of this Chapter upon the
subdivision of land are either more restrictive or less restrictive than any
other applicable law, ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation of any kind,
the regulations which are more restrictive and impose higher standards or
requirements shall govern.
   C.   This Chapter is not intended to abrogate any easement, covenant or any
other private agreement; provided, that where the regulations of this Chapter
are more restrictive or impose higher standards or regulations than such
easements, covenants or other private agreements, the requirements of this
Chapter shall govern.
   D.   No subdivision of land which was not lawfully existing at the time of
the adoption of this Chapter shall become or be made lawful solely by reason of
the adoption of this Chapter, and to the extent and in any manner that said
subdivision of land is in conflict with the requirements of this Chapter, said
subdivision of land remains unlawful hereunder.
   E.   Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be deemed to be a consent,
license or permit to use or subdivide land.
   F.   The provisions of this Chapter are accumulative and additional
limitations upon all other laws and ordinances heretofore passed or which may
be passed hereafter, covering any subject matter in this Chapter.
(Ord. 234, 10-23-74, eff. 11-6-74)
10-2-2: SEPARABILITY:
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Village that the several
provisions of this Chapter be separable in accordance with the following:
   A.   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge any provision of
this Chapter to be invalid, such judgment shall not affect any other provision
of this Chapter not specifically included in said judgment.
   B.   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge invalid the
application of any provision of this Chapter to a particular subdivision of
land, such judgment shall not affect the application of said provision to any
other subdivision of land not specifically included in said judgment.
(Ord. 234, 10-23-74, eff. 11-6-74)
10-2-3: SUITABILITY OF LAND FOR SUBDIVISION:
   A.   Land subject to flooding and land deemed to be topographically
unsuitable shall not be subdivided for residential purposes, nor for such other
uses as may increase danger to health, life or property or aggravate erosion or
flood hazard.
   B.   The Board shall not approve the subdivision of land if, in the opinion
of the Village Engineer and upon adequate investigation conducted by the Board,
it is determined that subdivision and development of the site as proposed would
be detrimental to the best interests of the public.
   C.   In no case shall the development of a subdivision change the direction
of surface water runoff from the subdivided land onto lower lands, nor shall
such development cause an increase in the amount or rate of such runoff. In no
case shall the development of a subdivision impede the flow of surface water
runoff from higher adjoining lands onto the subdivided land.
   D.   Similarly, no developer of an individual lot within the subdivision
shall cause a change in direction, or an increase in the amount or rate, of
surface water runoff from said lot onto lower lots either in the subdivision or
elsewhere. And no individual lot development shall impede the flow of surface
water runoff from higher adjoining lots. Rather, said developer is responsible
for grading, filling and foliating his lot to prevent such an occurrence.
   E.   Violation of subsections C or D shall vest any injured party with a
cause of action against the violator for an injunction and/or money damages as
a Circuit Court may decide. The measure of said damages shall be the cost of
restoring the injured party's property to its original condition.
   F.   No subdivision developer or individual lot owner within a subdivision
shall allow the erosion of soil onto lower properties. Violation of this
subsection shall vest any injured party with a cause of action against the
violator for an injunction and/or money damages as a Circuit Court may decide.
The measure of said damages shall be the cost of restoring the injured party's
property to its original condition.
(Ord. 234, 10-23-74, eff. 11-6-74)
10-2-4: CONNECTION TO CITY UTILITIES:
   Sanitary sewers and water supply mains, as required under Sections
10-4-2 and
10-4-3 of this Title, shall not be tied into or connected to storm, sanitary
and water supply systems of the Village unless the subdivision shall have been
annexed to or is a part of the Village.
(Ord. 234, 10-23-74, eff. 11-6-74)
10-2-5: FLOOD PLAIN AREAS:
   A.   The Village Board may, when it deems necessary for the health, comfort,
safety or general welfare of the present or future population of the area and
necessary to the conservation of water, drainage sources and sanitary
facilities, prohibit subdivision of any portion of the property which lies
within the flood plain of any stream or drainage course.
   B.   The areas referred to in subsection A above shall be preserved from any
and all destruction or damage by clearing, grading or dumping of earth, waste
material or stumps during the course of adjacent building or development
operations.
   C.   Where a development is traversed by a stream or drainage course,
sufficient right of way adjacent to and including such topographic feature
shall be dedicated for public use to allow for proper maintenance. Such
dedication shall include a strip of land at least fifteen feet (15') in width
on both sides of the defined stream or drainage course. All data required of
such topographic feature shall be provided by the subdivider.
(Ord. 234, 10-23-74, eff. 11-6-74)
10-2-6: PUBLIC LANDS:
   A.   Whenever a proposed subdivision contains a land area of six (6) acres
or more, the subdivider may be required to dedicate a reasonable area therein
for public use as park, recreation, school or other public purpose sites. Such
area so dedicated shall be in addition to all dedications for streets and
thoroughfares. In determining the area to be so dedicated for public use, the
Board shall give due consideration to present and anticipated population
density within such subdivision and to present and future requirements for such
public needs; provided, however, that no subdivider shall be required to
dedicate public land for the aforesaid purposes in excess of seven percent (7%)
of the total land area within the subdivision.
   B.   Whenever a tract of land to be subdivided includes a proposed site for
a park, playground, school or other public use, such site shall be suitably
incorporated by the developer into his subdivision plan after proper
determination as to its necessity by the Board and the appropriate public
agency involved in the use.
(Ord. 234, 10-23-74, eff. 11-6-74)
10-2-7: ACQUISITION OF LAND FOR PUBLIC USE:
   A.   Any land to be acquired under Section
10-2-6 of this Chapter shall be so acquired within one year of submission of
the subdivider's preliminary plan.
   B.   The Board shall consider all tentative subdivision plans and adopted or
proposed studies related thereto to determine the need for acquisition for
public use of any of the land included in the tentative subdivision plan.
   C.   The Board shall refer the plan to the public agency concerned with
acquisition for its consideration and report. The Board may propose alternate
areas for such acquisition and shall allow said public agency thirty (30) days
for reply. The agency's recommendation, if affirmative, shall include a map
showing the boundaries and area of the parcel to be acquired and an estimate of
the time required to complete the acquisition.
   D.   Upon receipt of an affirmative report, the Board shall notify the
property owner and shall designate on the tentative plan and final subdivision
plat that area proposed to be acquired by the public agency involved.
(Ord. 234, 10-23-74, eff. 11-6-74)
10-2-8: VACATION OF PLATS AND STREETS:
   A.   In cases where an application is made to the Board to vacate any
subdivision, or part thereof, prior to the sale of any lot in the subdivision,
the Board may, by ordinance, order the vacation of all or part of the said
subdivision. When lots have been sold, the plat may be vacated, providing all
the owners of lots in said plat join in the execution of said application.
   B.   In cases where an application is made to the Board to vacate any
street, alley or public place, the Board may in such cases order the street,
alley or public place, or part thereof, vacated and receive from the owner or
owners of property abutting on such street, alley or public place or part
thereof so vacated, compensation in an amount which, in the judgment of such
Board, shall be equal to the benefits which will accrue to the owner or owners
of such abutting property by reason of such vacation; provided, that such order
of vacation shall be passed by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds (2/
3) of the members of the Board.
   C.   In all cases where application for vacation of any subdivision street,
alley or public place, or part thereof, is made to said Board, such application
shall be referred to the Village Attorney, who shall make an investigation of
the premises described in such application. The said Attorney shall make a
search to determine whether title is in the applicant's name and determine
whether any lots in the subdivision have been sold.
(Ord. 234, 10-23-74, eff. 11-6-74)
10-2-9: ADMINISTRATION:
   Three (3) offices of the government of the Village are concerned with the
administration of this Chapter:
   A.   Village Clerk: The Village Clerk shall be the enforcing officer of this
Chapter and it shall be his duty to enforce the provisions hereof. The Clerk
may call upon any department or official of the Village to furnish him with
such information and assistance as he may deem necessary to effect the proper
enforcement of this Chapter, and it shall be the duty of such department or
official to furnish such information and assistance whenever required. In the
furtherance of such authority, the Clerk shall:
      1.   Maintain permanent and current records of this Chapter, including
amendments thereto;
      2.   Receive and file all subdivision applications, tentative plans and
supporting data;
      3.   Forward copies of the tentative plan to the Board for its
recommendations and approval or rejection;
      4.   Receive and file all final record plats;
      5.   Forward to the Board all final plats; and
      6.   Make all other determinations required of him by the regulations
contained herein.
   B.   Village Engineer: The Village Engineer is hereby vested with the duty
and responsibility of reviewing all engineering plans and specifications
concerning required public improvements and submitting recommendations thereon
to the Board of Trustees. He shall also make all other determinations required
of him by the regulations contained herein.
   C.   Board of Trustees: The Board of Trustees is vested with the following
responsibilities in regard to subdivision control:
      1.   Approval or disapproval of all preliminary subdivision plans;
      2.   Approval or disapproval of all final plats;
      3.   Amend the regulations of this Chapter when it is found necessary and
desirable, as hereinafter provided;
      4.   Institute appropriate proceedings to enforce the provisions of this
Chapter;
      5.   Approve or disapprove intended dedications and, by ordinance,
declare public reservations of land;
      6.   Order the vacation of a street, alley or other public place and fix
compensation therefor;
      7.   Act upon variation requests; and
      8.   Make all other determinations required of the Board by the
regulations contained herein.
(Ord. 234, 10-23-74, eff. 11-6-74)
10-2-10: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   No owner or agent of the owner of any parcel of land located in a
proposed subdivision shall transfer or sell such parcel before a plat of said
subdivision has been approved by the Board of Trustees and filed with the
Tazewell County Recorder of Deeds.
   B.   The subdivision of any lot or any parcel of land by the use of metes
and bounds description with the intent of evading this Chapter, for the purpose
of sale, transfer or lease shall be subject to all of the requirements and
regulations contained in this Chapter.
   C.   No building permit shall be issued for the construction of any building
located on a lot or plot subdivided or sold in violation of the requirements
and regulations of this Chapter.
   D.   No plat or subdivision shall be approved which does not comply with all
applicable provisions of this Chapter.
(Ord. 234, 10-23-74, eff. 11-6-74)
10-2-11: INVALID PLATS:
   No plat of any subdivision shall be valid nor entitled to record unless and
until the same has been approved by the Board of Trustees in accordance with
the procedure hereinafter provided, and no plat of a subdivision shall be
approved without compliance with the standards of design and specifications for
improvement required as hereinafter set forth.
(Ord. 234, 10-23-74, eff. 11-6-74)
10-2-12: UNLAWFUL DIVISION:
   From and after the effective date of this Chapter, no lot or tract of land
located within the Village or within the area of jurisdiction of the Village
shall be divided or redivided in any manner into two (2) or more lesser tracts
for building site purposes, without subdividing or resubdividing and platting
such tract in the manner provided by the statutes of the State of Illinois and
this Chapter.
(Ord. 234, 10-23-74, eff. 11-6-74)
10-2-13: ENGINEERING AND INSPECTION:
   A.   Plans and specifications for public sidewalk, sanitary sewer, water
main, storm sewer, streets, curb and gutter, street lighting facilities and
appurtenance thereto and any other public improvement shall be submitted to the
Village Engineer for review and approval before final disposition has been made
of the subdivision plat.
   B.   Fees required for the inspection of any public improvement shall be
borne by the subdivider.
   C.   All engineering plans, specifications and construction contracts shall
be subject to the approval of the Village Engineer. (Ord. 234, 10-23-74, eff.
11-6-74)
   D.   All public improvements are subject to final approval of the Village
Engineer. (Ord. 262, 3-19-79)
10-2-14: VARIATIONS:
   A.   Hardships: Where the Board finds that extraordinary hardships or
particular difficulties may result from strict compliance with these
regulations, it may allow variations or exceptions to the regulations so that
substantial justice may be done and the public interest secured; provided, that
such variation or exception shall not have the effect of nullifying the intent
and purpose of this Chapter; and further provided, the Board shall not allow
variations or exceptions to the regulations of this Chapter unless it shall
make findings based upon the evidence presented in each specific case that:
      1.   Because of the particular physical surroundings, shape or
topographical conditions of the specific property involved, a particular
hardship to the owner would result, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience,
if the strict letter of the regulations were carried out;
      2.   The conditions upon which the request for a variation is based are
unique to the property for which the variation is sought and are not
applicable, generally, to other property;
      3.   The purpose of the variation is not based exclusively upon a desire
to make more money out of the property; and
      4.   The granting of the variation will not be detrimental to public
health, safety or general welfare or injurious to other property or
improvements in the neighborhood in which the property is located.
   B.   Conditions: In its recommendations on variations and exceptions, the
Board may require such conditions as will, in its judgment, substantially
secure the objectives of the standards or requirements so varied or modified.
(Ord. 234, 10-23-74, eff. 11-6-74)
10-2-15: PROCEDURE:
   A.   A subdivider, before proceeding with the formal procedure outlined in
this Chapter, is urged to ascertain the problems and requirements affecting the
subdivision of his property. This may best be accomplished by a meeting with
the Village Clerk and Village Engineer to determine general compliance and
understanding of all related Village requirements.
   B.   In order to provide any orderly basis for the processing of subdivision
plans prior to approval, the Board of Trustees shall consider such plans in two
(2) stages, as follows:
      1.   Preliminary plan to be submitted with application for preliminary
approval.
      2.   Final plat for recordation of all or part of a subdivision to be
submitted with the required supporting data and documents together with
application for final approval.
   The formal, step-by-step procedure for approval of preliminary plans and
final record plats is established in Section
10-5-1 of this Title.
   C.   The Board, in the examination of subdivision plats for approval, will
take into consideration the requirements of the community and the best use of
the land being subdivided. Particular attention will be given to width and
location of streets, suitable sanitary utilities, surface drainage, lot sizes
and arrangements as well as local requirements for parks, streets, schools,
recreation sites and/or other public uses.
   D.   The Board shall not approve any plat of subdivision of land which does
not make adequate provision for storm or flood water runoff channels, basins or
sewers.
   E.   In all subdivisions, due regard shall be given to the preservation of
natural features such as large trees, watercourses, historical and similar
features.
   F.   Where a residential subdivision adjoins a railroad right of way, a
waterway, an industrial area, a business area or other land use which would
have a depreciating effect on the residential use of the property, a buffer
planting strip five feet (5') in width and suitably planted to form a screen
and/or fence may be required by the Board.
   G.   In cases of preliminary plans for parts of tracts, where it appears
necessary to the Board for the satisfactory over-all development of an area, an
owner may be required to prepare a plan of utilities and streets for his entire
tract based upon proper topographic surveys before approval of any portion of
such plan is rendered.
   H.   A subdivider may avail himself of the opportunity to obtain the
determinations of the Board in regard to a central platting feature affecting
his property prior to the preparation of detailed plans.
(Ord. 234, 10-23-74, eff. 11-6-74)
10-2-16: PENALTY:
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be
subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code.
(Ord. 234, 10-23-74, eff. 11-6-74; 1995 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
10-3-1: Minimum Standards
10-3-2: Streets
10-3-3: Intersections
10-3-4: Street Names
10-3-5: Easements
10-3-6: Alleys
10-3-7: Block Standards
10-3-8: Lot Standards
10-3-1: MINIMUM STANDARDS:
   The following requirements are hereby established as the minimum standards
of subdivision design of public improvements required to be constructed or
installed therein.
(Ord. 234, 10-23-74, eff. 11-6-74)
10-3-2: STREETS:
   A.   A public street or streets shall be provided to afford convenient
access to all property within the subdivision. No private street, right of way
or thoroughfare shall be permitted.
   B.   The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade and location of all
streets shall be considered in relation to existing and planned streets;
reasonable circulation of traffic within the development; topographical
conditions; runoff of storm water; public convenience and safety; and in their
appropriate relationship to uses in the area to be served.
   C.   Minor streets shall be so aligned that their use by through traffic
shall be discouraged.
   D.   Where, in the opinion of the Board, it is desirable to provide for
street access to adjoining property, the proposed streets shall be extended by
dedication to the boundary of such property.
   E.   The minimum width of right of way on any classification of street shall
be fifty four feet (54'). The minimum width of pavement in residential areas
shall be twenty feet (20'), with a six inch (6") deep gravel apron of eight
feet (8') in width on each side of the pavement. The minimum width of pavement
in a B-3 business area shall be forty feet (40'). Such pavement shall have an
eight inch (8") gravel base covered with an A-3 surface.
   F.   When any subdivision or part of a subdivision is adjacent to only one
side of an existing right of way, which is less than the required width, the
subdivider shall dedicate additional right of way to meet the requirement in
accordance with this regulation.
   G.   In general, the minimum right of way of a cul-de-sac street shall be
fifty feet (50') with a minimum diameter of turnaround at the property line of
one hundred feet (100'), and an outside roadway diameter of eighty feet (80').
The length of a cul-de-sac street shall not exceed six hundred feet (600').
Each cul-de-sac street, however, shall be considered by the Board on its
individual merit. Pavement width, length and desirability shall be subject to
the recommendation of the Board.
   H.   Where deemed necessary, the Board may require access streets to service
areas fronting on major streets.
   I.   Curves in streets shall be permitted, provided a curve is inserted with
a radius of three hundred feet (300') for major streets and one hundred fifty
feet (150') for minor streets for all deflection in horizontal center lines in
excess of ten degrees (10°).
   J.   Drainage gradients of streets shall be five-tenths percent (0.5%) where
possible and in no case less than four-tenths percent (0.4%). Street grades
shall not exceed five percent (5%) on major streets nor seven percent (7%) on
minor streets. Street grades shall be such as to provide natural surface
drainage of storm water regardless of the presence of storm sewer facilities.
The intent of this requirement is to avoid depressions greater than one foot
(1') in depth along any given street profile which will flood in flash storms
for which available drainage is inadequate. (Ord. 234, 10-23-74, eff. 11-6-74)
   K.   All lots shall be provided with entrance culverts at least fifteen
inches (15") in diameter, extending a minimum of two feet (2') on each side of
the driveway. Culverts shall be of reinforced concrete or standard culvert
pipe. Each street intersection shall have culverts of at least fifteen inches
(15") in diameter, extending a minimum of two feet (2') on each side of the
roadway. (Ord. 262, 3-19-79)
10-3-3: INTERSECTIONS:
   A.   Layout:
      1.   Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as possible
at right angles. A proposed intersection of two (2) new streets at an angle of
less than eighty five degrees (85°) shall not be approved. The intersection of
more than two (2) streets shall be avoided unless specific conditions of design
dictate otherwise.
      2.   Right of way and pavement widths shall be as follows:
         Right of Way      Pavement Width   6" Gravel Apron
Residential      54 feet      20 feet      8 feet on each side of pavement
Business      54 feet      40 feet      None
   B.   New Intersections: Proposed new intersections along one side of an
existing road or street shall, wherever practicable, coincide with any existing
intersections on the opposite side of such road or street. Street jogs with
center line offsets of less than one hundred fifty feet (150') shall not be
permitted, except where the intersected street has separate dual drives without
median breaks at either intersection.
   C.   Visibility; Traffic Hazards: Where any street intersection will involve
banks or existing vegetation inside any lot corner that would create a traffic
hazard by limiting visibility, the developer shall cut ground and/or
vegetation, including trees, in connection with the grading of the public right
of way to the extent deemed necessary to provide adequate sight distance.
(Ord. 234, 10-23-74, eff. 11-6-74)
10-3-4: STREET NAMES:
   Proposed streets which are obviously in alignment or continuation of
existing streets already named shall bear the name of such existing streets. In
no case shall the name for proposed streets duplicate existing street, road,
boulevard, drive, place or court or an abbreviation thereof. Street names shall
be approved by the Board.
(Ord. 234, 10-23-74, eff. 11-6-74)
10-3-5: EASEMENTS:
   Where no alleys are provided, there shall be dedicated easements of not less
than ten feet (10') in width for poles and wires and not less than twenty feet
(20') in width for underground conduits, storm and sanitary sewers, gas, water
or other utility pipes or lines. Such easements shall be established along the
rear of each lot and along side lot lines where necessary to provide a proper
continuity for such utilities from lot to lot and from block to block. No
structures shall be constructed upon the easements. Additional easements shall
be provided for utilities and other public services and requirements in order
to provide proper operation and maintenance of said facilities.
(Ord. 234, 10-23-74, eff. 11-6-74)
10-3-6: ALLEYS:
   Alleys shall not be permitted in residential areas. Alleys shall be provided
in commercial and industrial districts except that the Board may waive this
requirement if alternative provision is made for service access. The right-of-
way width of an alley shall be twenty feet (20'). Dead-end alleys shall not be
permitted.
(Ord. 234, 10-23-74, eff. 11-6-74)
10-3-7: BLOCK STANDARDS:
   In general, blocks shall not exceed one thousand three hundred feet (1,300')
in length between street center lines with a practical maximum being one
thousand two hundred feet (1,200'). Blocks shall not be less than two hundred
forty feet (240') in width. Block lengths and widths shall be coordinated with
the development of the land and shall be provided in a manner that will allow
proper traffic flow and pedestrian area.
(Ord. 234, 10-23-74, eff. 11-6-74)
10-3-8: LOT STANDARDS:
   A.   Insofar as practical, side lot lines shall be at right angles to
straight street lines or radial to curved street lines.
   B.   Residential lots on a cul-de-sac shall have a width not less than
thirty feet (30') at the street property line.
   C.   Residential lots located outside of the Village limits and not served
by public sewer and water systems shall not be less than one acre in size and
shall otherwise conform in all respects to the Tazewell County Zoning
Ordinance, as amended.
   D.   No lot shall be less than one hundred ten feet (110') in depth.
Interior lots shall have no less than seventy five feet (76') of frontage. In
no case shall an interior lot contain less than eight thousand two hundred
fifty (8,250) square feet of land. Corner lots shall have no less than ninety
feet (90') of frontage. In no case shall a corner lot contain less than nine
thousand nine hundred (9,900) square feet of land.
   E.   The minimum depth of building setback lines from the street shall be
not less than thirty feet (30').
(Ord. 234, 10-23-74, eff. 11-6-74)
CHAPTER 4
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
10-4-1: Compliance Required
10-4-2: Sewers
10-4-3: Water Supply
10-4-4: House Services
10-4-5: Street Improvements
10-4-6: Sidewalks (Pedestrian Ways)
10-4-7: Street Lighting
10-4-8: Name Signs
10-4-9: Trees (Planting)
10-4-10: Public Utilities
10-4-11: Use of Existing Streets
10-4-12: Monuments
10-4-13: Costs Borne by Subdivider
10-4-14: Increased Facilities
10-4-15: Inspection
10-4-16: Acceptance of Public Improvements
10-4-17: Guarantee of Improvement Completion; Surety Bond
10-4-18: Building for Habitation
10-4-1: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
   No final plat shall be approved by the Board of Trustees until the Village
Engineer has certified that the plans and specifications for the proposed
public improvements meet the minimum requirements of the Village, County, State
and other authorities having jurisdiction, and that improvements comply with
the following provisions of this Chapter.
(Ord. 234, 10-23-74, eff. 11-6-74)
10-4-2: SEWERS:
   Sanitary sewer lines, including sewer stub terminals to the property line of
each lot, shall be installed to serve all properties in the subdivision in
accordance with standards of the State of Illinois Sanitary Water Board, this
Chapter, and the Village Engineer when sanitary sewer system is provided by the
Village or other public authority.
(Ord. 234, 10-23-74, eff. 11-6-74)
10-4-3: WATER SUPPLY:
   A.   Water distribution facilities, including cast iron or plastic supply
mains of not less than six inches (6") in diameter, cast iron fittings, valves
and water stub terminals to the property line of each lot shall be installed to
serve all properties within the subdivision. The size of the supply mains shall
not be less than six inches (6") and may be increased if the Village Engineer
determines that the water pressure is not sufficient for firefighting purposes.
(Ord. 237, 6-16-75)
   B.   The water supply system shall be designed in accordance with the
requirements of the State Sanitary Water Board and shall be constructed with
the approval of the Village Engineer and Board of Trustees.
   C.   Where a water main is located under the traveled portion of a right of
way, it shall be surrounded by a gravel-filled trench.
   D.   Fire hydrants shall contain their own valve system and shall be located
along each right of way at intervals of no more than five hundred feet (500')
and hydrants will also be located at the closed end of each cul-de-sac.
Further, a hydrant shall be provided at all dead-ends of future main extensions
for the purpose of flushing the mains.
   E.   The water pressure of such hydrants shall test at twice the level of
operating pressure. (Ord. 234, 10-23-74, eff. 11-6-74)
   F.   All water mains shall be buried to a minimum depth of five feet (5').
(Ord. 262, 3-19-79)
10-4-4: HOUSE SERVICES:
   A.   1. House services shall be constructed to connect with the utility
service mains constructed within any public street or easement to serve each
adjoining lot, tract or building site; such house services shall extend from
the main to not less than two feet (2') beyond the easement line or within five
feet (5') of the property line if the main is in or on a public street. (Ord.
234, 10-23-74, eff. 11-6-74)
      2.   Each house shall have its own connection to the utility service
main. House service pipes shall be a minimum of three-fourths inch (3/4")
diameter of metal pipe, except that multiple-family dwellings shall have a
water service pipe which shall be one inch (1") minimum diameter and shall be
metal. All service pipes shall be buried to a minimum depth of five feet (5').
(Ord. 262, 3-19-79)
   B.   All such house services connected with utility mains constructed within
any street or easement shall be located at the approximate center line of each
lot, and no deviation shall be made from this requirement except upon prior
approval of the Superintendent of Public Works.
   C.   Upon completion of the construction in place of all such house service
connections, an accurate map or maps showing the exact location of all such
mains, together with manholes, shut-off valves, house service connections and
other similar facilities being a part thereof, shall be filed by the subdivider
in the office of the Village Clerk and Village Engineer. (Ord. 234, 10-23-74,
eff. 11-6-74)
   D.   Curb cocks shall be placed at the outside edge of the sidewalk.
   E.   Each dwelling unit shall have a water meter, with a remote readout
placed on the outside wall of the building. (Ord. 262, 3-19-79)
10-4-5: STREET IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   The full width of the public right of way shall be graded, including
the subgrade of the areas to be paved. All stumps, trees that cannot be saved,
boulders and similar items shall be removed.
   B.   All streets shall be improved with pavements to an overall width in
accordance with the minimum dimensions as set forth in Chapter 3 of this Title
(8" gravel plus A-3 surface).
   C.   All streets shall be improved to the specification of the Department of
Transportation and the Building Division of Highways, State of Illinois, where
applicable.
   D.   All block corners shall have radii of not less than twenty feet (20').
Where an angle of intersection of less than ninety degrees (90°), curb radii
shall be increased as the Board shall require.
   E.   All parkways within the dedicated street area shall be graded in an
approved manner.
(Ord. 234, 10-23-74, eff. 11-6-74; 1995 Code)
10-4-6: SIDEWALKS (PEDESTRIAN WAYS):
   Concrete sidewalks shall be provided alongside streets of all subdivisions.
All sidewalks shall be four feet (4') in width and shall be installed in
accordance with Village specifications. In residential neighborhoods sidewalks
may be in the street right of way or on individual properties. All residential
sidewalks shall be at least five feet (5') from the outer gravel line.
Sidewalks for business areas will be six feet (6') wide and shall be in the
street right of way. Upon the completion and sale of seventy five percent (75%)
of a subdivision block, sidewalks must be installed for that block.
(Ord. 234, 10-23-74, eff. 11-6-74)
10-4-7: STREET LIGHTING:
   Street light poles shall be of wood, treated to be rot and termite
resistant. Lighting fixtures and poles shall be new. If concrete or steel poles
are used, such poles shall meet the specifications of the Village Engineer.
(Ord. 262, 3-19-79)
10-4-8: NAME SIGNS:
   Street name signs shall be placed at all street intersections within or
abutting the subdivision. Such signs shall be of a type approved by the Village
and shall be placed in accordance with standards of the Village.
(Ord. 234, 10-23-74, eff. 11-6-74)
10-4-9: TREES (PLANTING):
   Trees and plants in accordance with Village specifications shall be planted
along all streets at a time designated by the Village Board.
(Ord. 234, 10-23-74, eff. 11-6-74)
10-4-10: PUBLIC UTILITIES:
   A.   Where telephone, electric and gas service lines are installed, conduits
or cables shall be placed within easements or dedicated public ways in a manner
which will not conflict with other underground services. Further, aboveground
structures identified with said underground facilities shall be located so as
not to be unsightly or hazardous to the public.
   B.   All drainage and utility installations which traverse privately-owned
property shall be protected by easements.
(Ord. 234, 10-23-74, eff. 11-6-74; amd. Ord. 462, 3-19-79)
10-4-11: USE OF EXISTING STREETS:
   The Board shall designate the streets to be used for access to the
subdivision by all equipment and trucks engaged in the construction of all
public improvements, utility services and buildings.
(Ord. 234, 10-23-74, eff. 11-6-74)
10-4-12: MONUMENTS:
   Metal monuments three-fourths inch (3/4") in diameter and three feet (3') in
length shall be placed in the ground at all lot corners, intersections of
streets, intersections of streets and alleys with platted boundary lines and at
all points on street, alley and boundary lines where there is a change in
direction or curvature. All Federal, State, County, local or other bench marks,
monuments or triangulation stations in or adjacent to the development shall be
presumed in precise position. All monuments shall be properly set in the ground
before the streets and alleys are accepted by the Village.
(Ord. 234, 10-23-74, eff. 11-6-74)
10-4-13: COSTS BORNE BY SUBDIVIDER:
   The costs of installation of all utilities required by State standards shall
be borne by the subdivider.
(Ord. 234, 10-23-74, eff. 11-6-74)
10-4-14: INCREASED FACILITIES:
   Where sanitary sewer, storm sewer or water facilities are made larger than
is immediately required to serve the land described in the final plat, due to
the necessity of serving adjacent and/or presently vacant property as it shall
be developed in the future by others, the subdivider shall be reimbursed for
such additional costs on the following terms and conditions:
   A.   The Village Engineer shall determine the cost of such storm sewer,
sanitary sewer and/or water facilities as are required to serve only the
immediate needs of the property described in the plat. The Engineer will also
determine the cost of such facilities actually required to serve the plat in
question and the adjacent land when developed.
   B.   The difference in cost in the above determinations shall be paid to the
original developer by the developers of adjacent properties. At the time the
adjacent properties are submitted for subdivision, the Engineer shall apportion
the benefit received by the adjacent property developer by reason of the
increased facilities. The adjacent property developer shall pay the sum of
money equal to his proportionate share of the cost of the increased facilities.
   C.   The Village may, as determined by the Board of Trustees, act as the
collecting agent in regard to increased facility sharing. In such cases, an
administrative handling charge of five percent (5%) shall be applied to the
adjacent developer's share and retained by the Village. Upon receipt of such
proportionate share payment by the adjacent property developer, the Village
shall reimburse the developer who originally installed the increased
facilities.
(Ord. 234, 10-23-74, eff. 11-6-74)
10-4-15: INSPECTION:
   All required public improvements to be installed under the provisions of
this Chapter shall be supervised and inspected during the course of
construction by the Village Engineer and/or other qualified and authorized
employees of the Village. The subdivider shall bear the costs of all such
inspections. Final acceptance by the Village will be contingent on the
subdivider's consulting engineer certifying in writing that this subdividing
and improvements have been constructed in accordance with plans, specifications
and Village ordinances and final approval by the Village Engineer, in writing.
(Ord. 234, 10-23-74, eff. 11-6-74)
10-4-16: ACCEPTANCE OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
   Where the plat of a subdivision contains improvements (including public
streets and easements) to be dedicated to the Village, approval by the Board of
Trustees of the final plat shall not constitute an acceptance by the Village of
such improvements, notwithstanding the act of any officer, agent or employee of
the Village. The acceptance of all public improvements shall be made only by
the adoption of a resolution by the Board of Trustees after there has been
filed with the Village Clerk a certification by the Village Engineer stating
that the individual public improvements required to be constructed or installed
have been fully completed, and that the inspected construction or installation
thereof has been approved by him. Such certification by the Engineer shall be
made upon satisfactory completion of all, or individual, public improvements
constructed and installed in accordance with applicable plans and
specifications. The sub-grade, base course and surface course of a street,
alley or parking area shall be collectively considered as a single, or
individual, public improvement. Acceptance of an individual public improvement
shall constitute release of the applicable portion of the performance surety.
(Ord. 234, 10-23-74, eff. 11-6-74)
10-4-17: GUARANTEE OF IMPROVEMENT COMPLETION; SURETY BOND:
   The Village shall require that an appropriate and adequate surety bond be
provided by the subdivider to insure the construction of required improvements
in a satisfactory manner and within a reasonable time as specified from time to
time by the Board of Trustees, but if a time limit is not so established by the
Board of Trustees, then such improvements shall be completed within two (2)
years of the date of approval of the final plans of such improvements.
Extensions of such time limit may be granted by the Board of Trustees from time
to time upon such conditions and for such periods of time as deemed reasonable
and necessary in the public interest. The bond shall be payable to the Village
in a sum at least equal to the cost of construction of the improvements as
estimated by the Village Engineer, and it shall be in a form, with surety and
conditions, approved by the Village Attorney. Such a bond will not be required
for part of a subdivision located outside the Village limits if a similar
performance guarantee has been provided to Tazewell County.
(Ord. 291, 12-2-80)
10-4-18: BUILDING FOR HABITATION:
   No building for habitation shall be erected on any lot or parcel of land
within the Village and no building permit shall be issued with respect thereto
unless a highway, road, street and public right of way for public service
facilities, water mains and sanitary sewers are provided to serve said lot or
parcel of land in the manner and in accordance with the public improvement
design standards and standard specifications set forth in this Chapter, except
that building permits may be issued for habitable construction on all existing
private roads when such permit is accompanied by properly recorded easements in
lieu of public right-of- way dedication.
(Ord. 234, 10-23-74, eff. 11-6-74)
CHAPTER 5
PRELIMINARY PLAN
SECTION:
10-5-1: Submission
10-5-2: Specifications
10-5-3: Proposed Plan
10-5-4: Filing Fee
10-5-5: Board of Trustees, Action
10-5-1: SUBMISSION:
   Every proposed subdivision or resubdivision of land shall be submitted to
the Village Clerk for transmittal to the Board for approval in the form of a
tentative plan prior to the submission of a final record plat. The preliminary
plan is not intended to be a final record plat and must be prepared in such
form as not to be confused with a final record plat. Its purpose is to show
graphically all facts needed to enable the Board and other public bodies to
determine whether the proposed development of the land in question is
satisfactory from the standpoint of the public interest. The preliminary plan
shall be prepared by a qualified technician, trained and experienced in the
layout of subdivisions.
(Ord. 234, 10-23-74, eff. 11-6-74)
10-5-2: SPECIFICATIONS:
   The following graphic and descriptive items are normally required to be
shown on the preliminary plan and the accompanying application for approval.
The lack of information supplied by the applicant shall be cause for
disapproval of the preliminary plan.
   A.   Application: Written application by the subdivider shall accompany each
preliminary subdivision plan, and contain the following information:
      1.   Name for File Identification: The proposed development shall be
given a name for identification purposes, such name being unique to the South
Pekin area to avoid duplication and confusion with previously recorded plats.
      2.   Location and Description of Property: Location of property by
township, section number, subdivision (with block and lot numbers), place or
locality name as applicable shall be specified, and in case of unsubdivided
properties, location on roads by which property is reached, such as "On south
side of Washington Avenue, .25 miles westerly from its intersection with
Oakwood".
      3.   Basic Facts and Proposals Pertaining to the Property:
         a.   Size of tract in acres or of existing lots, if any, in square
feet.
         b.   Existing zoning classification of property under the City or
Tazewell County Zoning Ordinance and any rezoning proposed to be requested.
         c.   Number of lots proposed in subdivision.
         d.   Area of lots proposed; minimum, average and maximum.
         e.   Any other proposals, such as parcels of land intended to be
dedicated, conveyed or reserved for public use, and the conditions proposed for
such disposal and use.
      4.   Information as to Ownership:
         a.   Name, address and telephone number of the legal owner or agent of
property and statement of last instrument conveying title to each parcel or
property involved in the proposed subdivision, giving grantor, grantee, date
and land records involved.
         b.   Display of any existing legal rights of way or easements
affecting the property.
         c.   Listing of any existing covenants on the property, if any.
         d.   Name, address and telephone number of engineer, surveyor and/or
technician responsible for surveys and for subdivision design shown on
preliminary plan as submitted.
   B.   The Drawing:
      1.   Three (3) prints or copies of the preliminary subdivision plan
should be prepared and submitted to the Village Clerk. If the proposed
subdivision lies wholly or partly outside the corporate limits, four (4) copies
of the proposed plan shall also be filed with the Board of Supervisors of
Tazewell County.
      2.   The preliminary plan shall be drawn at a scale suitable to the
project involved. For the average development, a scale of one hundred feet to
the inch (1'' = 100') is preferable. For very small areas a larger scale should
be used. Northpoint and date shall also be shown.
      3.   Each separate sheet shall be titled according to its subject matter
and identified with the development. Any other appropriate identification of
the land, scale, contour intervals, north arrow, date of preparation, etc.
shall be included.
      4.   The source and accuracy of the boundary outline and all data shown
on the preliminary plan shall be certified by a qualified registered
professional engineer or registered land surveyor in the State of Illinois.
      5.   A vicinity sketch or small scale key map of the area surrounding the
property to be developed shall be included.
   C.   Existing Features:
      1.   Every preliminary plan shall show clearly the extent and condition
of the property which is proposed to be subdivided, together with sufficient
information with respect to existing conditions in adjoining properties which
will enable proper determinations to be made as to the suitability of the
proposed subdivision.
      2.   The boundary of the property shall be shown by bold lines. The
bearing and distance of each course in the boundary outline shall be provided.
      3.   The true relationship between the boundary of the property and the
right of way existing road upon which it may border, together with the location
of existing improvements in such right of way shall also be provided.
   D.   Additional Information:
      1.   The location and name of all adjacent subdivisions, if any, and
names of owners of adjacent unsubdivided property.
      2.   The location, name and present width of right of way and paving or
improved surfacing for all adjacent roads, streets and alleys, including those
intersecting any road or street that bounds the property.
      3.   Identification by block and lot number of recorded lots or parcels
immediately adjoining the subject property.
      4.   The location, width and type of use of any existing roads, rights of
way, easements or other special purpose areas within the property, or
immediately adjacent thereto, together with the location of any towers, poles,
other structures in connection with electrical transmission lines.
      5.   Approximate location of any existing underground utilities, such as
sewers, water mains, storm drains, gas or oil transmission lines, etc., within
the property or immediately adjacent thereto, with approximate pipe sizes and
direction of slope.
      6.   Existing topography with contour intervals of not greater than two
feet (2'), together with drainage channels, streams, springs, swamps, flood
zones, rock outcrops, buildings, wooded areas, or other features likely to
affect the plan. The source and accuracy of the topographic details shown on
the plan shall be in terms of U.S.G.S. data and field survey.
      7.   Contours may be omitted from plans of small subdivisions or
resubdivisions which do not involve the opening of new streets; provided
however, that in any such case the Board may require in lieu thereof spot
elevations at the corners of each proposed lot.
(Ord. 234, 10-23-74, eff. 11-6-74)
10-5-3: PROPOSED PLAN:
   The preliminary plan shall show, superimposed upon the drawing of the
property outlines and its existing features, a graphic representation of the
subdivision, resubdivision or development which is being proposed for approval.
The items to be shown, as applicable in each case, include the following:
   A.   Street Layout:
      1.   The right-of-way lines of all proposed streets, alleys, sidewalks or
other rights of way to be dedicated for public use, including the widths
thereof and the proposed use of special rights of way.
      2.   Where the subdivision borders on an existing road or street which
will require widening, the same is to be indicated by a new right-of-way line
appropriately located to meet such requirements.
      3.   Any existing streets which are proposed to be abandoned shall be
shown in shaded pattern, or otherwise distinctly indicated.
   B.   Street Grades: Each preliminary plan which includes proposed new
streets, or new development along an existing road or street for which there is
no established grade shall, in all cases, show proposed grades in the streets
together with drainage arrows indicating direction of slope and elevations of
intersections.
   C.   Lot and Block Layout:
      1.   Layout showing proposed lot lines, scaled dimensions of lots,
building restriction lines and any easement required. In resubdivisions, the
existing lot lines shall be shown by dashed lines and dotted lot numbers.
      2.   Lots and blocks shall be numbered so as to avoid duplication.
   D.   Sites for Public Use: All sites proposed for schools, parks,
playgrounds, water reservoirs or other public uses shall be so identified with
scaled dimensions and approximate areas.
   E.   Sites for Other than Single-Family Dwellings:
      1.   All sites proposed for uses other than single-family dwellings, such
as churches, public utilities, shopping centers, multiple-family dwellings,
general business or manufacturing, shall be so indicated with scaled dimensions
and area for each such site; provided, that the proposed use is in accordance
with the uses for which the property is actually zoned.
      2.   When the property is included in more than one zoning
classification, the lines showing the limits of each zoning classification
shall be clearly indicated.
      3.   A preliminary plan, or portion of such a plan, showing a proposed
subdivision, resubdivision or a development intended for a use other than that
permitted by the existing zoning classification may be conditionally approved
subject to the rezoning of the property to the proper classification for such
intended use in accord with the applicable Zoning Ordinance 1 .
      4.   In the case of a preliminary plan showing a proposed single-family
residential development for a portion of a property with the remainder held for
future development, possibly with the intention of applying for more intensive
zoning at a later date, it is required that the street and block pattern for
which approval is requested be extended in light dashed lines over the areas
intended for future development in such a way as to indicate that such areas
set aside can be satisfactorily subdivided for single-family residential use if
the future rezoning is not accomplished.
      5.   For any lots proposed for multiple-family dwellings, the following
items shall be shown:
         a.   Approximate location and shape of each structure.
         b.   Total number of dwelling units on each separate lot or parcel.
         c.   Gross and net residential acreage and density.
         d.   Parking areas to be provided on each lot with number of spaces on
each.
(Ord. 234, 10-23-74, eff. 11-6-74)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 9 of this Code.
10-5-4: FILING FEE:
   A filing fee shall be paid to the Village at the time the preliminary plan
is filed for approval. The fee shall be assessed in accordance with the
following rates:
   1 to 25 lots         $100.00
   26 to 50 lots         200.00
   51 to 100 lots      300.00
   More than 100 lots      400.00
   (Ord. 234, 10-23-74, eff. 11-6-74)
10-5-5: BOARD OF TRUSTEES, ACTION:
   A.   Consideration of Proposed Plan: The Board shall, after receiving the
preliminary plan, consider the proposed plan of subdivision as represented by
such supporting documents, and shall thereupon, within sixty (60) days, approve
or disapprove of same. If the proposed plan of subdivision is not satisfactory,
the Board may permit the subdivider to make the changes and additions required
by the Board to meet the requirements of this Chapter before final action.
   B.   Approval or Disapproval of Plan: After the Board has satisfied itself
that the preliminary plan is substantially in accordance with the requirements
set forth in this Chapter, it shall then approve the preliminary plan, give
conditional approval or reject it, as the case may be. If given conditional
approval or rejected by the Board, a written statement as to the reason for not
granting approval shall be transmitted to the subdivider.
      1.   Upon rejection of the preliminary plan, the plan shall be returned
to the subdivider; such transmittal may include a written statement setting
forth the reasons for said disapproval. If the proposed plan of subdivision as
shown by said preliminary plan is approved by the Board, the original plan and
one print or copy of the plan shall be endorsed as follows:
      This proposed plan of subdivision and accompanying documents has received
preliminary approval by the Board of Trustees of the Village of South Pekin and
said Board is now ready to receive the final plat for consideration.
      Dated                                                            
         BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE
         VILLAGE OF SOUTH PEKIN
      By                                                                 
         PRESIDENT OF THE VILLAGE BOARD
      2.   The original of the preliminary plan so endorsed shall remain on
file with the Village Clerk, and a copy of the plan so endorsed shall be
returned to the subdivider.
      3.   If the proposed subdivision should lie wholly or partly outside the
corporate limits of the Village, the Board's action on the preliminary plat
shall not be final until the Board of Supervisors of Tazewell County has
approved it.
   C.   Authority to Proceed with Final Plat: Receipt by the subdivider of the
copy of the preliminary plan together with the approval of the Village Board
and County, when required, shall constitute authority for the subdivider to
proceed with final plans and specifications for the installation of the
required improvements and preparation of the final plat. Prior to the
construction of any of the required improvements, the subdivider shall submit
such final plans and specifications to the Village Engineer. If the Village
Engineer shall find such plans and specifications to be in accordance with
applicable policies and standards of the Village and this Chapter, he shall
authorize construction and determine the amount of bond if required as provided
for in Section
10-4-17 of this Title. Following the approval of the Village Engineer,
construction may be started, or the bond filed, if required, or an assessment
provided.
(Ord. 234, 10-23-74, eff. 11-6-74)
CHAPTER 6
FINAL PLAT
SECTION:
10-6-1: Submission
10-6-2: Requirements
10-6-3: Specifications
10-6-4: Recording
10-6-1: SUBMISSION:
   After approval by the Village Board and County (when required) of the
preliminary plan, the subdivider shall, within twelve (12) months thereafter,
submit the final plat or section thereof, to the Village Clerk for transmittal
to the Board, together with one Van Dyke or sepia print and three (3) prints or
copies. If desired, the subdivider may submit a final plat constituting only
that portion of the approved preliminary plan which he proposed to record and
develop at the time, provided such portion conform in all respects to all
matters and things included in the preliminary plan insofar as they appertain
to the portion of the entire subdivision which is desired to be developed at
one time.
(Ord. 234, 10-23-74, eff. 11-6-74)
10-6-2: REQUIREMENTS:
   The final plat of a subdivision shall not be approved unless:
   A.   The subdivider agrees with the Village Board that the Village, under
the Local Improvement Act 1 , may construct improvements and assess to the cost
thereof against the property benefited, or
   B.   The improvements have been installed properly as determined by the
written statement from the Village Engineer or a satisfactory guarantee of
improved completion has been made according to Section
10-4-17 of this Title.
(Ord. 234, 10-23-74, eff. 11-6-74)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 65 ILCS 5/9-2-1 et seq.
10-6-3: SPECIFICATIONS:
   The final plat shall be clearly and legibly drawn upon dimensionally
stabilized material. The final plat and accompanying application for approval
shall contain the following graphic and descriptive items. The lack of
information under any item specified herein, or improper information supplied
by the applicant, may be cited by the Board as cause for disapproval of a final
plat.
   A.   Application for Approval: Written application by the subdivider for
approval shall accompany each final plat and contain the following information:
   Verification and/or correction of all information provided with the
preliminary plan of the proposed subdivision.
   B.   The Drawing:
      1.   The final plat of subdivision shall be drawn to a scale of not less
than one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100') and shall include all
pertinent information as was shown and required on the preliminary plat. The
final plat shall be drawn on one or more sheets whose maximum dimensions shall
not exceed twenty four inches by thirty six inches (24" x 36"). If more than
two (2) sheets are required, an index sheet of the same dimensions shall be
filed showing the entire subdivision on one sheet and the component areas shown
on the other sheet or sheets. Linear dimensions are to be given on the final
plat to the nearest one one-hundredth of a foot (1/100').
      2.   All boundaries, street lines and lot lines, plus any other lines
pertinent to the plat, except contour lines, shall be neatly and clearly shown,
together with sufficient data, accurately calculated, so that each line and
property corner may be located and reproduced upon the ground.
      3.   Other information to be shown on plat:
         a.   Location of all survey monuments and their descriptions.
         b.   Private restrictions and trusteeships and their periods of
existence. Should these restrictions or trusteeships be of such length as to
make their lettering on the plat impracticable and, thus necessitate the
preparation of a separate instrument, reference to such instrument shall be
made on the plat.
         c.   Calculations showing the error of closure, which error shall, in
no case, be greater than one in five thousand (5,000).
         d.   If parks or open spaces are dedicated to the public use in
subdivisions located outside of the corporate limits of the Village, the owner
(s) of the subdivision will, by covenant, provide for the maintenance of the
park or open spaces until such time as the subdivision is annexed by the
Village.
   C.   Street Profile Plan: Street profile plans for each new street in the
proposed subdivision shall be submitted to the Village Engineer for approval
along with the final subdivision plat. In cases where the grades of the streets
involved are already established, or in cases of small subdivisions or
resubdivisions, such street profile plans may not be required as determined by
the Village Engineer.
   D.   Statement of Tax Status:
      1.   The final plat shall have a statement thereon signed by the County
Clerk showing that he finds no delinquent general taxes, unpaid current general
taxes, delinquent special assessment taxes against land shown thereon.
      2.   The following certification by the Village Clerk shall also appear
on the plat:
   I hereby certify that there are no delinquent special assessments or unpaid
current special assessments on the above described property.
   Dated    
      
                  Village Clerk
   E.   Certification by Surveyor and Owner:
      1.   Properly executed certification by the surveyor of the property
shown on the plat is required in substantial conformance with typical examples
as follows:
   Surveyor's Certification:
   I hereby certify that the plat shown hereon is correct; that it is a
subdivision of (part of or all of) the lands conveyed by (insert name of former
owner) to (insert name of present owner) by deed dated               , and
recorded with the County Recorder of Deeds, Tazewell County, Illinois; and that
stones, marked thus: "+", and iron pipe, marked thus: "0", will be placed in
the ground as indicated hereon, in accordance with provisions of applicable
ordinances of the Village of South Pekin, Illinois, after the streets are
graded and paved or within eighteen (18) months after recordation of this plat,
whichever shall occur first. The total area included on this plat is         
acres and the area dedicated to roads and streets is         acres,
   Dated                           (Signature)
               Registered Land Surveyor
               Illinois No.                
   If the subdivision involves more than one conveyance to the markers of the
plat, each such conveyance shall be cited and the quantity of land included on
the plat out of each conveyance shall be stated in the certification. If the
plat includes a resubdivision of any part of a subdivision previously recorded,
the certification shall so state, giving the lot, block or other description
and the previous plat reference.
      2.   Owner's Certification:
   We,                          and                          , his wife, owners
of the property shown and described hereon, hereby adopt this plat of
subdivision; establish the minimum building restriction lines; dedicate the
roads, streets, alleys, walks and other areas indicated thereon to public use;
and establish standard slope easements as required by the Subdivision Code, in
addition to any other easements shown thereon.
   There are no suits, actions at law, easements, restrictive covenants or
rights of way affecting the property included in this plat of subdivision,
except the following:
    (if none so state)   
   and all parties in interest thereto have hereunto affixed their signatures,
indicating their assent to this plat or subdivision.
   Witnessed:         Date:    
                                    LS    
                                    LS    
   We assent to this plat of subdivision.
   Witnessed:         Date:    
                                    LS    
                                    LS    
   F.   Official Approval: When and if the Board of Trustees is satisfied with
the final plat and with all improvements, deposits of money therefor,
agreements, conditions and documents pertaining to the subdivision, the Board
shall, by resolution, approve said plat and authorize and direct the President
of the Board of Trustees and Clerk to sign the plat for and in the name of the
Village of South Pekin and attach thereto the Corporate Seal, in the following
form:
   APPROVED BY THE VILLAGE OF SOUTH PEKIN, ILLINOIS this         day of
                 , A.D., 19   .
                                           
   PRESIDENT OF THE CLERK
   BOARD OF TRUSTEES
(Ord. 234, 10-23-74, eff. 11-6-74)
10-6-4: RECORDING:
   The Village Clerk shall retain such final plat, so approved, and shall cause
such plat to be recorded in the office of the Recorder of Deeds of Tazewell
County, Illinois, only upon satisfactory completion by the subdivider of all
administrative details required by this Chapter. Said final plat, after
recording shall remain on file in the office of the Clerk. Copies of the final
plat, as recorded by the Clerk, shall be delivered to the subdivider.
(Ord. 234, 10-23-74, eff. 11-6-74)
TITLE 11
STORMWATER
CHAPTER 1
NONSTORMWATER DISCHARGES
SECTION:
11-1-1: Purpose; Intent
11-1-2: Definitions
11-1-3: Applicability
11-1-4: Responsibility For Administration
11-1-5: Severability
11-1-6: Ultimate Responsibility
11-1-7: Discharge Prohibitions
11-1-8: Suspension Of MS4 Access
11-1-9: Industrial Or Construction Activity Discharges
11-1-10: Monitoring Of Discharges
11-1-11: Requirement To Prevent, Control, And Reduce Stormwater Pollutants By
The Use Of Best Management Practices
11-1-12: Watercourse Protection
11-1-13: Notification Of Spills
11-1-14: Enforcement
11-1-15: Appeal Of Notice Of Violation
11-1-16: Enforcement Measures After Appeal
11-1-17: Cost Of Abatement Of The Violation
11-1-18: Injunctive Relief
11-1-19: Compensatory Action
11-1-20: Violations Deemed A Public Nuisance
11-1-21: Criminal Prosecution
11-1-22: Remedies Not Exclusive
11-1-1: PURPOSE; INTENT:
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the health, safety, and
general welfare of the citizens of the village of South Pekin through the
regulation of nonstormwater discharges to the storm drainage system to the
maximum extent practicable as required by federal and state law. This chapter
establishes methods for controlling the introduction of pollutants into the
municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4) in order to comply with
requirements of the national pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES)
permit process. The objectives of this chapter are:
   A.   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the municipal separate
storm sewer system (MS4) by stormwater discharges by any user.
   B.   To prohibit illicit connections and discharges to the municipal
separate storm sewer system.
   C.   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection, surveillance
and monitoring procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 440, 6-12-2006)
11-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following shall mean:
AUTHORIZED ENFORCEMENT AGENCY: Employees or designees of the director of the
municipal agency designated to enforce this chapter.
BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs): Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, general good housekeeping practices, pollution prevention and
educational practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices
to prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants directly or indirectly to
stormwater, receiving waters, or stormwater conveyance systems. BMPs also
include treatment practices, operating procedures, and practices to control
site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or water disposal, or drainage from raw
materials storage.
CLEAN WATER ACT: The federal water pollution control act (33 USC section 1251
et seq.), and any subsequent amendments thereto.
CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY: Activities subject to NPDES construction permits.
Currently these include construction projects resulting in land disturbance of
five (5) acres or more. Beginning in March 2003, NPDES stormwater phase II
permits will be required for construction projects resulting in land
disturbance of one acre or more. Such activities include, but are not limited
to, clearing and grubbing, grading, excavating, and demolition.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Any material, including any substance, waste, or
combination thereof, which because of its quantity, concentration, or physical,
chemical, or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute
to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety,
property, or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported,
disposed of, or otherwise managed.
ILLEGAL DISCHARGE: Any direct or indirect nonstormwater discharge to the storm
drain system, except as exempted in section 11-1-7 of this chapter.
ILLICIT CONNECTIONS: An illicit connection is defined as either of the
following:
   A.   Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface, which
allows an illegal discharge to enter the storm drain system including, but not
limited to, any conveyances which allow any nonstormwater discharge including
sewage, process wastewater, and wash water to enter the storm drain system and
any connections to the storm drain system from indoor drains and sinks,
regardless of whether said drain or connection had been previously allowed,
permitted, or approved by an authorized enforcement agency, or
   B.   Any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial land
use to the storm drain system which has not been documented in plans, maps, or
equivalent records and approved by an authorized enforcement agency.
INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY: Activities subject to NPDES industrial permits as defined
in 40 CFR, section 122.26 (b)(14).
NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) STORMWATER DISCHARGE
PERMIT: A permit issued by EPA (or by a state under authority delegated
pursuant to 33 USC section 1342(b)) that authorizes the discharge of pollutants
to waters of the United States, whether the permit is applicable on an
individual, group, or general areawide basis.
NONSTORMWATER DISCHARGE: Any discharge to the storm drain system that is not
composed entirely of stormwater.
PERSON: Any individual, association, organization, partnership, firm,
corporation or other entity recognized by law and acting as either the owner or
as the owner's agent.
POLLUTANT: Anything which causes or contributes to pollution. Pollutants may
include, but are not limited to: paints, varnishes, and solvents; oil and other
automotive fluids; nonhazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes;
refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter, or other discarded or abandoned objects,
ordnances, and accumulations, so that same may cause or contribute to
pollution; floatables; pesticides, herbicides, and fertilizers; hazardous
substances and wastes; sewage, fecal coliform and pathogens; dissolved and
particulate metals; animal wastes; wastes and residues that result from
constructing a building or structure; and noxious or offensive matter of any
kind.
PREMISES: Any building, lot, parcel of land, or portion of land whether
improved or unimproved including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEM: Publicly owned facilities by which stormwater is
collected and/or conveyed, including, but not limited to, any roads with
drainage systems, municipal streets, gutters, curbs, inlets, piped storm
drains, pumping facilities, retention and detention basins, natural and
humanmade or altered drainage channels, reservoirs, and other drainage
structures.
STORMWATER: Any surface flow, runoff, and drainage consisting entirely of water
from any form of natural precipitation, and resulting from such precipitation.
STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN: A document which describes the best
management practices and activities to be implemented by a person or business
to identify sources of pollution or contamination at a site and the actions to
eliminate or reduce pollutant discharges to stormwater, stormwater conveyance
systems, and/or receiving waters to the maximum extent practicable.
WASTEWATER: Any water or other liquid, other than uncontaminated stormwater,
discharged from a facility.
(Ord. 440, 6-12-2006)
11-1-3: APPLICABILITY:
   This chapter shall apply to all water entering the storm drain system
generated on any developed and undeveloped lands unless explicitly exempted by
an authorized enforcement agency.
(Ord. 440, 6-12-2006)
11-1-4: RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION:
   The discharge control administrator shall administer, implement, and enforce
the provisions of this chapter. Any powers granted or duties imposed upon the
authorized enforcement agency may be delegated in writing by the director of
the authorized enforcement agency to persons or entities acting in the
beneficial interest of or in the employ of the agency.
(Ord. 440, 6-12-2006)
11-1-5: SEVERABILITY:
   The provisions of this chapter are hereby declared to be severable. If any
provision, clause, sentence, or paragraph of this chapter or the application
thereof to any person, establishment, or circumstances shall be held invalid,
such invalidity shall not affect the other provisions or application of this
chapter.
(Ord. 440, 6-12-2006)
11-1-6: ULTIMATE RESPONSIBILITY:
   The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this chapter are
minimum standards; therefore this chapter does not intend nor imply that
compliance by any person will ensure that there will be no contamination,
pollution, nor unauthorized discharge of pollutants.
(Ord. 440, 6-12-2006)
11-1-7: DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Prohibition Of Illegal Discharges: No person shall discharge or cause
to be discharged into the municipal storm drain system or watercourses any
materials, including, but not limited to, pollutants or waters containing any
pollutants that cause or contribute to a violation of applicable water quality
standards, other than stormwater.
   The commencement, conduct or continuance of any illegal discharge to the
storm drain system is prohibited except as described as follows:
      1.   The following discharges are exempt from discharge prohibitions
established by this chapter: water line flushing or other potable water
sources, landscape irrigation or lawn watering, diverted stream flows, rising
groundwater, groundwater infiltration to storm drains, uncontaminated pumped
groundwater, foundation or footing drains (not including active groundwater
dewatering systems), crawl space pumps, air conditioning condensation, springs,
noncommercial washing of vehicles, natural riparian habitat or wetland flows,
swimming pools (if dechlorinated - typically less than 1 ppm chlorine),
firefighting activities, and any other water source not containing pollutants.
      2.   Discharges specified in writing by the authorized enforcement agency
as being necessary to protect public health and safety.
      3.   Dye testing is an allowable discharge, but requires a verbal
notification to the authorized enforcement agency prior to the time of the
test.
      4.   The prohibition shall not apply to any nonstormwater discharge
permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver, or waste discharge order issued to the
discharger and administered under the authority of the federal environmental
protection agency, provided that the discharger is in full compliance with all
requirements of the permit, waiver, or order and other applicable laws and
regulations, and provided that written approval has been granted for any
discharge to the storm drain system.
   B.   Prohibition Of Illicit Connections:
      1.   The construction, use, maintenance or continued existence of illicit
connections to the storm drain system is prohibited.
      2.   This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection.
      3.   A person is considered to be in violation of this chapter if the
person connects a line conveying sewage to the MS4, or allows such a connection
to continue.
(Ord. 440, 6-12-2006)
11-1-8: SUSPENSION OF MS4 ACCESS:
   A.   Suspension Due To Illicit Discharges In Emergency Situations: The
discharge control administrator may, without prior notice, suspend MS4
discharge access to a person when such suspension is necessary to stop an
actual or threatened discharge which presents or may present imminent and
substantial danger to the environment, or to the health or welfare of persons,
or to the MS4 or waters of the United States. If the violator fails to comply
with a suspension order issued in an emergency, the authorized enforcement
agency may take such steps as deemed necessary to prevent or minimize damage to
the MS4 or waters of the United States, or to minimize danger to persons.
   B.   Suspension Due To The Detection Of Illicit Discharge: Any person
discharging to the MS4 in violation of this chapter may have their MS4 access
terminated if such termination would abate or reduce an illicit discharge. The
authorized enforcement agency will notify a violator of the proposed
termination of its MS4 access. The violator may petition the authorized
enforcement agency for a reconsideration and hearing.
   A person commits an offense if the person reinstates MS4 access to premises
terminated pursuant to this section, without the prior approval of the
authorized enforcement agency.
(Ord. 440, 6-12-2006)
11-1-9: INDUSTRIAL OR CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY DISCHARGES:
   Any person subject to an industrial or construction activity NPDES
stormwater discharge permit shall comply with all provisions of such permit.
Proof of compliance with said permit may be required in a form acceptable to
the discharge control administrator prior to the allowing of discharges to the
MS4.
(Ord. 440, 6-12-2006)
11-1-10: MONITORING OF DISCHARGES:
   A.   Applicability: This section applies to all facilities that have
stormwater discharges associated with industrial activity, including
construction activity.
   B.   Access To Facilities:
      1.   The discharge control administrator shall be permitted to enter and
inspect facilities subject to regulation under this chapter as often as may be
necessary to determine compliance with this chapter. If a discharger has
security measures in force which require proper identification and clearance
before entry into its premises, the discharger shall make the necessary
arrangements to allow access to representatives of the authorized enforcement
agency.
      2.   Facility operators shall allow the discharge control administrator
ready access to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection,
sampling, examination and copying of records that must be kept under the
conditions of an NPDES permit to discharge stormwater, and the performance of
any additional duties as defined by state and federal law.
      3.   The discharge control administrator shall have the right to set up
on any permitted facility such devices as are necessary in the opinion of the
authorized enforcement agency to conduct monitoring and/or sampling of the
facility's stormwater discharge.
      4.   The discharge control administrator has the right to require the
discharger to install monitoring equipment as necessary. The facility's
sampling and monitoring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe
and proper operating condition by the discharger at its own expense. All
devices used to measure stormwater flow and quality shall be calibrated to
ensure their accuracy.
      5.   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to
the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
operator at the written or oral request of the discharge control administrator
and shall not be replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by
the operator.
      6.   Unreasonable delays in allowing the discharge control administrator
access to a permitted facility is a violation of a stormwater discharge permit
and of this chapter. A person who is the operator of a facility with an NPDES
permit to discharge stormwater associated with industrial activity commits an
offense if the person denies the authorized enforcement agency reasonable
access to the permitted facility for the purpose of conducting any activity
authorized or required by this chapter.
      7.   If the discharge control administrator has been refused access to
any part of the premises from which stormwater is discharged, and he/she is
able to demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of
this chapter, or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a
routine inspection and sampling program designed to verify compliance with this
chapter or any order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health,
safety, and welfare of the community, then the authorized enforcement agency
may seek issuance of a search warrant from any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 440, 6-12-2006)
11-1-11: REQUIREMENT TO PREVENT, CONTROL, AND REDUCE STORMWATER POLLUTANTS BY
THE USE OF BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES:
   The discharge control administrator will adopt requirements identifying best
management practices for any activity, operation, or facility which may cause
or contribute to pollution or contamination of stormwater, the storm drain
system, or waters of the U.S. The owner or operator of a commercial or
industrial establishment shall provide, at their own expense, reasonable
protection from accidental discharge of prohibited materials or other wastes
into the municipal storm drain system or watercourses through the use of these
structural and nonstructural BMPs. Further, any person responsible for a
property or premises, which is, or may be, the source of an illicit discharge,
may be required to implement, at said person's expense, additional structural
and nonstructural BMPs to prevent the further discharge of pollutants to the
municipal separate storm sewer system. Compliance with all terms and conditions
of a valid NPDES permit authorizing the discharge of stormwater associated with
industrial activity, to the extent practicable, shall be deemed compliance with
the provisions of this section. These BMPs shall be part of a stormwater
pollution prevention plan (SWPP) as necessary for compliance with requirements
of the NPDES permit.
(Ord. 440, 6-12-2006)
11-1-12: WATERCOURSE PROTECTION:
   Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or such
person's lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse within
the property free of trash, debris, excessive vegetation, and other obstacles
that would pollute, contaminate, or significantly retard the flow of water
through the watercourse. In addition, the owner or lessee shall maintain
existing privately owned structures within or adjacent to a watercourse, so
that such structures will not become a hazard to the use, function, or physical
integrity of the watercourse.
(Ord. 440, 6-12-2006)
11-1-13: NOTIFICATION OF SPILLS:
   Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person responsible
for a facility or operation, or responsible for emergency response for a
facility or operation has information of any known or suspected release of
materials which are resulting or may result in illegal discharges or pollutants
discharging into stormwater, the storm drain system, or waters of the U.S. said
person shall take all necessary steps to ensure the discovery, containment, and
cleanup of such release. In the event of such a release of hazardous materials
said person shall immediately notify emergency response agencies of the
occurrence via emergency dispatch services. In the event of a release of
nonhazardous materials, said person shall notify the authorized enforcement
agency in person or by phone or facsimile no later than the next business day.
Notifications in person or by phone shall be confirmed by written notice
addressed and mailed to the village of South Pekin within three (3) business
days of the phone notice. If the discharge of prohibited materials emanates
from a commercial or industrial establishment, the owner or operator of such
establishment shall also retain an on site written record of the discharge and
the actions taken to prevent its recurrence. Such records shall be retained for
at least three (3) years.
(Ord. 440, 6-12-2006)
11-1-14: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Notice Of Violation: Whenever the discharge control administrator finds
that a person has violated a prohibition or failed to meet a requirement of
this chapter, the authorized enforcement agency may order compliance by written
notice of violation to the responsible person. Such notice may require without
limitation:
      1.   The performance of monitoring, analyses, and reporting;
      2.   The elimination of illicit connections or discharges;
      3.   That violating discharges, practices, or operations shall cease and
desist;
      4.   The abatement or remediation of stormwater pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
      5.   Payment of a fine to cover administrative and remediation costs; and
      6.   The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs.
   If abatement of a violation and/or restoration of affected property is
required, the notice shall set forth a deadline within which such remediation
or restoration must be completed. Said notice shall further advise that, should
the violator fail to remediate or restore within the established deadline, the
work will be done by a designated governmental agency or a contractor and the
expense thereof shall be charged to the violator.
(Ord. 440, 6-12-2006)
11-1-15: APPEAL OF NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
   Any person receiving a notice of violation may appeal the determination of
the authorized enforcement agency. The notice of appeal must be received within
seven (7) days from the date of the notice of violation. Hearing on the appeal
before the appropriate authority or his/her designee shall take place within
fifteen (15) days from the date of receipt of the notice of appeal. The
decision of the municipal authority or their designee shall be final.
(Ord. 440, 6-12-2006)
11-1-16: ENFORCEMENT MEASURES AFTER APPEAL:
   If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the requirements set
forth in the notice of violation, or, in the event of an appeal, within three
(3) days of the decision of the municipal authority upholding the decision of
the authorized enforcement agency, then representatives of the authorized
enforcement agency shall enter upon the subject private property and are
authorized to take any and all measures necessary to abate the violation and/or
restore the property. It shall be unlawful for any person, owner, agent or
person in possession of any premises to refuse to allow the government agency
or designated contractor to enter upon the premises for the purposes set forth
above.
(Ord. 440, 6-12-2006)
11-1-17: COST OF ABATEMENT OF THE VIOLATION:
   Within thirty (30) days after abatement of the violation, the owner of the
property will be notified of the cost of abatement, including administrative
costs. The property owner may file a written protest objecting to the amount of
the assessment within seven (7) days. If the amount due is not paid within a
timely manner as determined by the decision of the municipal authority or by
the expiration of the time in which to file an appeal, the charges shall become
a special assessment against the property and shall constitute a lien on the
property for the amount of the assessment.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall become
liable to the village by reason of such violation. The liability shall be paid
in not more than twelve (12) equal payments. Interest at the rate of nine
percent (9%) per annum shall be assessed on the balance beginning on the first
day following discovery of the violation.
(Ord. 440, 6-12-2006)
11-1-18: INJUNCTIVE RELIEF:
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision or fail to
comply with any of the requirements of this chapter. If a person has violated
or continues to violate the provisions of this chapter, the authorized
enforcement agency may petition for a preliminary or permanent injunction
restraining the person from activities which would create further violations or
compelling the person to perform abatement or remediation of the violation.
(Ord. 440, 6-12-2006)
11-1-19: COMPENSATORY ACTION:
   In lieu of enforcement proceedings, penalties, and remedies authorized by
this chapter, the authorized enforcement agency may impose upon a violator
alternative compensatory actions, such as storm drain stenciling, attendance at
compliance workshops, creek cleanup, etc.
(Ord. 440, 6-12-2006)
11-1-20: VIOLATIONS DEEMED A PUBLIC NUISANCE:
   In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided, any
condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter is a threat to public health, safety, and welfare, and is declared
and deemed a nuisance, and may be summarily abated or restored at the
violator's expense, and/or a civil action to abate, enjoin, or otherwise compel
the cessation of such nuisance may be taken.
(Ord. 440, 6-12-2006)
11-1-21: CRIMINAL PROSECUTION:
   Any person that has violated or continues to violate this chapter shall be
liable to criminal prosecution to the fullest extent of the law, and shall be
subject to a criminal penalty of five hundred dollars ($500.00) per violation
per day and/or imprisonment for a period of time not to exceed one hundred
eighty (180) days.
   The authorized enforcement agency may recover all attorney fees, court costs
and other expenses associated with enforcement of this chapter, including
sampling and monitoring expenses.
(Ord. 440, 6-12-2006)
11-1-22: REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE:
   The remedies listed in this chapter are not exclusive of any other remedies
available under any applicable federal, state or local law and it is within the
discretion of the authorized enforcement agency to seek cumulative remedies.
(Ord. 440, 6-12-2006)
CHAPTER 2
EROSION, SEDIMENT AND STORMWATER CONTROL
SECTION:
11-2-1: Definitions
11-2-2: Prohibition
11-2-3: Standards For Design And Maintenance Of Control Measures For Soil
Erosion, Sediment And Stormwater
11-2-4: Maintenance Of Control Measures
11-2-5: Erosion And Sediment Control Permits
11-2-6: Enforcement And Stop Work Order Fee
11-2-7: Penalty
11-2-8: Appeals To Village Board
11-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following words, terms and phrases
shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this section, unless
the context clearly indicates otherwise:
   CONTROL MEASURE: Any temporary or permanent measure to control erosion,
sediment and stormwater runoff.
   DISTURBED AREA: Any area of land on which the ground surface will be
affected or altered by any land disturbing activity.
   EROSION CONTROL ADMINISTRATOR: The person appointed by the village to
administer this chapter.
   5-YEAR FREQUENCY STORM EVENT: The storm event rainfall depth during a twenty
four (24) hour period which is exceeded, on the average, once every five (5)
years.
   LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITY: Any change in land, which may result in soil
erosion from water or wind and the movement of sediments into state or county
waters or onto lands in the county, or a change in the amount and/or intensity
of stormwater runoff, including, but not limited to, the covering with an
impervious surface, stockpiling, clearing, grading, excavating, rehabilitating,
transporting, depositing or filling of land.
   PERIMETER CONTROL: Any control measure installed between the down slope side
of the disturbed area and the property line and/or between the down slope side
of the disturbed area and any area of concentrated flow.
   PERMIT SITE: The lot or parcel for which an erosion and sediment control
permit is issued.
   STANDARDS: The Illinois environmental protection agency's "Illinois Urban
Manual, A Technical Manual Designed For Urban Ecosystem Protection And
Enhancement" published in 1995 and "Illinois Procedures And Standards For Urban
Soil Erosion And Sedimentation Control" published in 1988 by the urban
committee of the Association Of Illinois Soil And Water Conservation Districts
now in effect, or as hereafter amended, which is incorporated by reference
herein as "standards".
   VILLAGE: Village of South Pekin.
(Ord. 441, 6-12-2006)
11-2-2: PROHIBITION:
   No person shall engage in any land disturbing activity on property within
the village unless an erosion and sediment control permit has been issued for
such land disturbing activity, except as follows:
   A.   Land disturbing activities (other than the construction of new single-
or two-family dwellings) for which the disturbed area is less than five
thousand (5,000) square feet;
   B.   Activities associated with the preparation and tilling of land for the
purposes of growing crops, or raising livestock, which may include, but are not
limited to, the construction of conservation measures, plowing, disking and
cultivating; or
   C.   Routine maintenance of roads, accessways and utility lines.
(Ord. 441, 6-12-2006)
11-2-3: STANDARDS FOR DESIGN AND MAINTENANCE OF CONTROL MEASURES FOR SOIL
EROSION, SEDIMENT AND STORMWATER:
   A.   Erosion And Sediment Control Measures: All control measures required
under this chapter shall conform to the standards now in effect or as hereafter
amended. All control measures installed shall be sufficient to prevent sediment
from leaving the permit site during a 5-year frequency storm event. When
sediment does leave the permit site, the owner, developer or contractor shall
remove the sediment by the end of the workday. For example, installing a rock
construction drive or cleaning tires could be used to minimize tracking of
sediment onto public roads.
(Ord. 441, 6-12-2006)
11-2-4: MAINTENANCE OF CONTROL MEASURES:
   A.   Erosion, Sediment, And Temporary Stormwater Control Measures: Control
measures shall be constructed and functional prior to initiating any land
disturbing activity. Control measures are to be maintained so they are
operating effectively until permanent ground surface protection is established
in a manner specified in the applicable permit issued pursuant to this chapter.
   Control measures (including, but not limited to, perimeter controls) shall
remain in place until the ground is stabilized with permanent ground cover. The
intent of this chapter is to keep the sites protected at all times until the
ground is permanently stabilized. When temporary control measures need to be
removed in order to establish permanent ground cover, the temporary control
measures may be removed if one of the conditions listed below will be met. In
no way does adhering to one of the conditions below relieve the owner of
responsibility to clean up or repair any damages caused from sediment or
stormwater runoff leaving the permit site.
      1.   Permanent ground cover shall be established with pavement, aggregate
or sod within three (3) days of the removal of sediment barriers.
      2.   Permanent vegetation shall be established by seeding with anchored
mulch within three (3) days of removal of sediment barriers during the spring
or fall seeding periods. However, on project areas with slopes not exceeding
five percent (5%), permanent vegetation shall be established by seeding within
three (3) days of the removal of sediment barriers during the spring or fall
seeding periods. Summer seeding is acceptable on project areas which shall be
watered. This does not apply to concentrated flow areas.
   B.   Additional Control Measures: The erosion control administrator may
require additional control measures pursuant to the standards at any time if
determined as such after any site inspection.
(Ord. 441, 6-12-2006)
11-2-5: EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PERMITS:
   Before commencing land disturbing activity not exempted under section
11-2-2 of this chapter, the owner of the land, or his representative, shall be
required to file an application for an erosion and sediment control permit.
   A.   Application: The applicant shall file the application with the village
on forms provided by the village. The fee for an application shall be one
hundred twenty five dollars ($125.00) for each permit. However, no fee shall be
required for any project which is agricultural, or initiated by a local unit of
government. There shall be no refund of any fees paid and no application shall
be accepted for filing unless the fee has been paid in full.
   B.   Application Review: Review of an erosion and sediment control permit
application shall be limited to verifying that the required information and
permit fee have been provided and that it meets the standards. The erosion
control administrator shall approve or deny the application within five (5)
working days of the filing of a completed application. If the permit is denied,
it shall be returned to the applicant with a written explanation of its denial.
The application shall be deemed approved if no response is made within the time
frames provided above.
   C.   Duration: The erosion and sediment control permit shall be issued for a
period not exceeding two (2) years.
   D.   Content Of Erosion And Sediment Control Permit: The erosion and
sediment control permit shall, by this reference, contain the following general
conditions (whether or not these conditions are stated in the permit itself):
      1.   That written approval be obtained from the erosion control
administrator prior to making any modification to the erosion and sediment
control plan set forth in the application; and
      2.   That all control measures identified in the application shall be
installed; and
      3.   That all control measures shall be maintained during the
construction; and
      4.   Such other conditions as the erosion control administrator deems
appropriate to ensure compliance with the specific requirements and intent of
this chapter.
(Ord. 441, 6-12-2006)
11-2-6: ENFORCEMENT AND STOP WORK ORDER FEE:
   This chapter shall be administered and enforced by the erosion control
administrator, who shall make or cause to be made, periodic inspections of all
work authorized by permits issued in accordance with this chapter to ensure
that said construction is in compliance with the provisions of the same; he
shall make or cause to be made, investigations of violations of this chapter
and shall cause any violations to be corrected.
   Any permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall be revoked by the erosion
control administrator when he finds from personal inspection or from competent
evidence that the rules, regulations or standards under which said permit was
issued are being violated. To defray costs of administering stop work orders
posted by the erosion control administrator as a result of a violation of any
of the terms of this chapter, a fee of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) plus
ten dollars ($10.00) per day that violation exists per stop work order will be
charged.
(Ord. 441, 6-12-2006)
11-2-7: PENALTY:
   The violation of any of the terms of this chapter shall constitute an
offense punishable by a fine not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than
five hundred dollars ($500.00), with each day the violation remains uncorrected
constituting a separate offense. Such fine is in addition to any other remedy
provided by law.
(Ord. 441, 6-12-2006)
11-2-8: APPEALS TO VILLAGE BOARD:
   Any person directly aggrieved by any decision, order, requirement or
determination of the erosion control administrator made pursuant to this
chapter shall have the right to appeal such action to the village board. Such
appeal shall be made within thirty five (35) days from the date of the action
appealed from, shall be filed in writing, and shall include a short, concise
statement of why the action is being appealed. The fee for such an appeal shall
be forty five dollars ($45.00) payable to the village and is due with the
appeal. In addition, the person filing the appeal shall pay all required
publication costs associated with the appeal.
   Upon receipt of a notice of appeal the village shall put the appeal on the
agenda for the next village board meeting. The village board may affirm, modify
or reverse any appealed action.
(Ord. 441, 6-12-2006)
CHAPTER 3
STORMWATER RETENTION REQUIREMENTS FOR THE IMPROVEMENT
OF LANDS FOR NEW CONSTRUCTION
SECTION:
11-3-1: Responsibility; New Development
11-3-2: Responsibility; New Construction
11-3-3: Requirements
11-3-4: Facilities
11-3-5: Maintenance Of Facilities
11-3-6: Inspections
11-3-7: Written Approval From Village Engineer
11-3-8: Violation; Penalty
11-3-1: RESPONSIBILITY; NEW DEVELOPMENT:
   It shall be the responsibility of the owner, his agent or his contractor to
assure that any new development of previously undeveloped land and any
improvement of land shall meet all stormwater retention requirements as set
forth in section
11-3-3 of this chapter. "New development" does not include the building of one
individual residential house. (Ord. 443, 6-19-2006)
11-3-2: RESPONSIBILITY; NEW CONSTRUCTION:
   In particular, but not by way of limitation, it shall be the responsibility
of the owner, his agent or his contractor to assure that any new construction
and any improvement of land shall meet all stormwater retention requirements as
set forth in section
11-3-3 of this chapter.
(Ord. 443, 6-19-2006)
11-3-3: REQUIREMENTS:
   Stormwater retention requirements shall be established by the village
engineer based on the rational method for estimating peak runoff rate for a
specified design storm. The allowable runoff rate before development, Qa, and
the peak runoff rate after development, Qp, shall be determined. The required
storage volume shall be the difference in runoff rates (Qp - Qa) times the
duration of the design storm. The owner, his agent, or his contractor shall
propose a stormwater retention facility which provides the required storage
volume and which restricts the rate of stormwater discharge from the allowable
runoff rate, Qa. Developments which are larger, complex or extra sensitive to
drainage considerations may require more sophisticated analysis. The
municipality maintains the right to determine adequacy of stormwater detention.
METHOD OF COMPUTING STORMWATER RETENTION AND ALLOWABLE DISCHARGE RATE
Rational method:
Q  = C.I.A.
Q  = Resultant runoff rate in cubic feet per second (c.f.s.)
C  = Coefficient of runoff:
      before development (agriculture) = 0.25
      grass = .30
      rooftops and paved areas = .95
      r-1 residential = 0.50
I  = Intensity of rainfall = 4"/hr. for 15-min. duration for design storm
A  = Area in acres
1.  Determine area of entire site (in acres), A
2.  Determine area of paved ground and rooftops (in acres), A1
3.  Determine area of grass (in acres), A2
4.  Determine allowable runoff rate, Qa, as follows:
    
   Qa = 0.35 x 4 x A (c.f.s.)
    
5.  To find if retention is needed, compute the following:
    
   A. Q1 = .95 x 4 x A1
    
   B. Q2 = .30 x 4 x A2
    
   C. Qp = Q1 ÷ Q2 (Runoff rate after development) c.f.s.
    
   If Qp is greater than Qa, retention is required.
    
6.  Determine required retention: volume, V, as follows:
    
   V = (Qp - Qa) x 15 minutes x 60 seconds/minute (cubic feet)
 
(Ord. 443, 6-19-2006)
11-3-4: FACILITIES:
   All stormwater retention facilities or devices shall be designed in a manner
to minimize the need for maintenance and reduce the chance of failure.
Stormwater easements and covenants shall be provided by the property owner for
access for facility inspection and maintenance. All final design of facilities
shall be approved by the village engineer prior to building permits being
issued.
(Ord. 443, 6-19-2006)
11-3-5: MAINTENANCE OF FACILITIES:
   All stormwater facilities shall be routinely maintained according to IEPA
requirements, and as provided in the permit. The person(s) or organization(s)
responsible for the maintenance of the facilities shall be designated in the
plan, and shall either be the property owner or a homeowners' association. With
regard to nonroutine maintenance (such as infrequent but expensive activities
as pond dredging or major repairs to the facilities), the same shall be
performed on an as need basis based on information gathered during regular
inspections by landowner and/or the village at the cost to the landowner or
homeowners' association. If either routine or nonroutine maintenance is not
completed in a timely manner by the landowner or homeowners' association then
the same may be completed by the village at the owner's expense.
(Ord. 443, 6-19-2006)
11-3-6: INSPECTIONS:
   The person(s) or organization(s) responsible for maintenance shall inspect
stormwater facilities on a regular basis, as outlined in the plan, but not less
than one time per year. Authorized village representatives may enter at
reasonable times to conduct on site inspections or maintenance. Landowners and/
or organization(s) responsible for said inspections shall file with the village
inspection and maintenance reports at least one time per year.
(Ord. 443, 6-19-2006)
11-3-7: WRITTEN APPROVAL FROM VILLAGE ENGINEER:
   It shall be the responsibility of the owner to obtain from the village
engineer prior to the construction of a new development or improvement of land
use written approval certifying that the stormwater retention facility meets
requirements. No building permit shall issue for construction of any
improvement of land for new construction until such certification has been
obtained from the village engineer.
(Ord. 443, 6-19-2006)
11-3-8: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   The violation of any of the terms of this chapter shall constitute an
offense punishable by a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00), with each day the violation remains
uncorrected constituting a separate offense. Such fine is in addition to any
other remedy provided by law.
(Ord. 443, 6-19-2006)
 
